@@394146

EVEN FOR THOSE who think they know it , Jesuit education can show some surprising faces . This is certainly the case throughout Latin America , where the recent history , if conflictive , has also been innovative . Some attention has focused on Jesuit university ministry there ( see AM. , 5/20 ) , but the story of the lower grades is even more interesting . One place to begin the story is a quarter century ago , with the hard question the Jesuits in Mexico posed to themselves  --  and were far from unanimous in answering . It had to do with their banner school , La Patria , in Mexico City . They said to themselves : " Here we have this prestigious school in our capital , a training ground for distinguished citizens over the years , and what good has it ever done our country ? Look at the mess we are in , the glaring class distinctions , the low level of education , the miserable lot of the poor . Why do n't we just close it and with the proceeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And that is what they did . Despite the shrinking of their capital through inflation and devaluations , they have struggled along with projects of popular education , especially in the states of Veracruz and Chiapas . ( Radio Huayacocotla in Veracruz , one of Mexico 's few educational stations , was recently shut down by the Government , no doubt for broadcasting in the Otomie and Nahuatl languages on sensitive topics of indigenous concern . ) The Mexican Jesuits continued to administer five other schools , though for some years their younger members showed reluctance to take part in them . Their soul struggle and determination to effect social change had an impact on the Jesuits ' 32nd General Congregation in 1974  --  specifically , on its red-letter chapter , " Our Mission Today : The Service of Faith and the Promotion of Justice . " Jesuits in other countries responded to the same crisis not by such a drastic signal to the country but by a new emphasis on justice and social change , as in the Colegio San Calixto , La Paz , Bolivia , or the Externado @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heated interaction with parents ( and criticism from the diocesan newspaper editor in San Salvador , one Father Oscar Romero ) . But it produced a genuine change of face . A few of the old city-center schools have seen their demographics change , as the affluent shifted to the outskirts of the city . The Jesuits have sometimes met this altered population with a sliding scale for tuition , as well as by creating newer schools in the new areas  --  which has led to a doubling of Jesuit presence in Santiago , Chile , for instance , and in La Paz . More interesting yet , many schools opened evening divisions for working children , for instance San Ignacio in Medellin , Colombia , and the Liceo Javier in Guatemala City . In Latin America , as a general rule , an elementary school is part of the Jesuit colegio . This is judged the only way to assure an adequate formation for those completing basico ( grades pre-kindergarten to five or six ) . In Peru , says a Jesuit educator , 90 percent of children nationwide start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Kinder through rhetoric " was the structure of La Patria in Mexico , as it still is of the other Mexican schools and of most colegios farther south . Even while adapting their network of schools , a question has nagged at Jesuits in Latin America  --  as it has at Salesians , Claretians , Teresian sisters , Franciscans , Maryknollers : Who will attend to the masses , the children woefully neglected ? Even today , in El Salvador for instance , perhaps a third of the children go without schooling . In Nicaragua the Ministry of Education admits that each year a quarter of all children are out of the system . Add to that a high rate of truancy , dropouts , repetition of grades and inadequate preparation of teachers ( what is called empirismo , their informal rather than formal training ) . In Bolivia 40 percent of school-age children , up to a million , have to go without school . Father Velaz 's Bright Idea Effective remedies and movements can have almost accidental origins . In the middle 1950 's , a Jesuit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his weekends visiting the shanty areas with his students to do some informal tutoring . He found the results to be depressingly meager . One day , as he celebrated a first Communion in a mason 's home there , the man offered his house for a school , even though it meant compressing his family into a smaller space . Father Velaz , an expansive and persuasive Spaniard , found teachers and some financing and began . Soon he had other centers opened . His idea was , " Where the pavement ends , that 's where our schools begin . " Father Velaz was convinced that school should be a place of sports , music , dance , theater , growing things and useful arts . His foundations in Venezuela mirrored this outlook . The idea spread like wildfire into other countries , tended and propagated by the inventive good humor of Velaz himself . Heart trouble slowed him eventually , but even after his death the pot kept boiling . Today over half a million children in 12 countries are wearing , or sporting on their book bags @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children hand-in-hand , with the words Fe y Alegria ( Faith and Joy ) . Some thought this an abstract name , at first , but Father Velaz , the founder , persisted . For some examples of what Fe y Alegria has achieved consider the following . In the zone just outside Leon , Nicaragua , is the Centro Ner , a scattering of 11 Fe y Alegria schools , most of them elementary , although two have a secondary component . As reported by the new national director , the Rev. Angel Maria Pedrosa , they have opened to the community in remarkable ways , including child care , a clinic , even normal-school formation of local teachers . The school system , and the Sisters of the Assumption active in it , have even fostered a communal bank and a processor to extract cotton fiber from yucca ; they have pushed for electrification in the area and are acting in a religious role as ministers of the word . In Peru Fe y Alegria is just now committing itself to improve rural education . " We 're looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " says the Rev. Jesus Herrero , the national director . Isolated rural schools have just one teacher , or at most two or three . These teachers ; poorly trained and low paid , miss their classes half the time . " We would like to set up support centers with a team that can go help the teachers , systematize what they are doing , introduce bilingual education among the Quechua speakers and respond to the concrete educational needs of the region . We can perhaps raise a bit of money to fix up the little schools and get some simple housing for them . " The secondary schools of Fe y Alegria in Peru , coeducational and free , have made technical education obligatory in the form of workshops and apprenticeship programs . Only about 10 percent of these graduates will go on to college . In a country or high unemployment , young people without work are ready recruits for the revolutionaries of the Sendero Luminoso , the ruthless Shining Path , so they need a gainful occupation . Fe y Alegria in Bolivia . Commentators remark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities and organization from country to country . The director in Bolivia , however , the Rev. Gabriel Codina , insists that all the regions are bound together by una mistica , a mystique . An international observer , Fernando Reimers of the Harvard Institute for International Development , remarked that these schools always give a little " plus . " In Bolivia , where teachers " salaries are meager and resources such as books are minimal , the enthusiasm and satisfaction of Fe y Alegria teachers counts for a lot . This country , whose health and education languish below all others in the hemisphere except Haiti , maintains 280 centers of Fe y Alegria , with 4,500 teachers and roughly 90,000 students , 3 percent of the total school population . Through less formal activities and radio programs broadcast from Santa Cruz , the number of beneficiaries doubles . Fe y Alegria in Bolivia led the way for other countries by achieving a formal agreement with the Government guaranteeing payment of all teachers ' salaries . This makes Fe y Alegria a " public school under private responsibility , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alegria freedom of choice in school administrators . As to hiring teachers , it finds its hands tied but hopes that the educational reform being introduced by the Ministry of Education ( under incitement from the World Bank ) will give it more leeway . The national teachers ' union was on parade against the reform and blocked streets the day Father Codina drove me to the airport ; it is a force to be reckoned with . Fe y Alegria has always had a special concern for teachers . At one time , 1972-77 , it ran teacher improvement seminars nationwide , reaching a third of the country 's teachers . In the 1970 's it was strong on " Personalized Education , " an approach of Paulo Freire 's , which had teachers draw on the environment of the individual learner . This era was marked , toward the end , by a dictatorship in Bolivia . Fe y Alegria took a questioning stance , intent on a liberating education and on participation by the community rather than conformity to educational edicts . This stance was welcome to many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " became the guiding theory , an outlook owing much to Jean Piaget , the Swiss psychologist , geared to helping the student grow in his or her intended direction . It has been in a way more difficult , in a more democratic but also neoliberal age , to keep from being blase about the poverty all around . The Rev. Ever Rojas , sub-director of Fe y Alegria in Bolivia , remarked on the difficulty of doing two things at the same time for teachers , improving their qualifications ( capacitacion ) as well as their motivation . " When you want to do something new , " he said , " you have to find a person who believes in it . One such teacher will perhaps create a whole climate . " Fe y Alegria never initiates a center ; that holds true in every country . It waits for a pressing invitation from some local community . In Bolivia it has many more invitations than it can accept . The community is expected to acquire and donate property , perhaps make the adobe bricks , volunteer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ searching , generally abroad , for agencies to fund material for construction . Intermond , Caritas and Misereor have been generous to this end and have also helped cover administrative expenses of Fe y Alegria . I visited two Fe y Alegria schools on the rapidly filling plain ( elev. 14,000 ft. ) above the city of La Paz , Bolivia . Colegio Santa Maria de los Angeles , under the administration of religious sisters , carries on a middle and a high school in the morning for 750 pupils , and an elementary school , or basico , for roughly the same number in the afternoon . In the other more recent center , Escuela Luis Espinal , classes were going on as men of the community added a second story to a classroom unit and Aymara mothers in the traditional bowler hats and thick skirts , with striped shawls , hovered about their young . During its 25th-year evaluation , when Fe y Alegria of Bolivia drew up its new Marco de Referencia , or working plan , it gave special attention to non-formal education . To meet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational nongovernmental organizations to sponsor an arrangement called in the Quechua language Yachay Wasi ( " house of knowledge " ) . The Yachay Wasi is a supervised boarding community for children who come to a central school from afar . It emphasizes habits of study and collaboration and even a little farm work , and engages the parents in supplying food and keeping close . In Bolivia female illiteracy is high and cultural expectations have been sharply distinct for men and women . " To be born a girl in the countryside is to be condemned to ignorance , " Father Codina wrote in 1993 . The Bolivian Government has just created an agency for the well-being of women . Luis Carrasco , director of educational services , says that Fe y Alegria too has gotten the message , benefiting from Government support . Its venture into non-formal education translates into the sponsorship of many women 's groups , with a broad range of objectives : basic computation and reading , organization for earning some money , self-expression and self-appreciation . The Catholic Component . Fe y Alegria is openly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It has working agreements with 35 religious orders and congregations ; over 200 men and women religious ( more than the total engaged in private Catholic schools ) play key roles . Religious congregations , according to Father Codina , have thus rediscovered their charism of educational service and attention to the poor . Their specific traditions and spirit will mark the schools they direct . Still , as the Rev. Peter-Hans Kolvenbach , the superior general of the Jesuits , has pointed out , the Society of Jesus " maintains the final responsibility for the movement " and strives to communicate its spirituality and educational philosophy all along the way . Fe y Alegria in Bolivia identified " Faith and Life " as one of four areas for emphasis as part of curriculum renewal . This calls for religion classes by qualified teachers in all schools and grades , but also a whole range of experiences lived through together  --  such as days and half-days of recollection , theater , song , fiestas and regional gatherings . The older students even make a retreat of some kind and sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school construction . Fe y Alegria directs a teachers ' colloquium , available to all Bolivian teachers , that emphasizes religious commitment and a pastoral role in schools . For its own network of schools and centers , it has a detailed pastoral plan . " Most of our pastoral work is carried on through laity , " says the national director of Fe y Alegria 's pastoral department , Ricardo Mino , himself a layman . When first approached about this , says Mino , " they are stand-offish , thinking this is only for clergy . Eventually they become strongly committed , giving a lot of time and warmth of concern . It 's a beautiful thing to see . They become more sensitive to the students . " Education is more a matter of process than of sudden results , says Father Rojas . " It is not a matter of one or two years . But when a child can put up a hand and express himself publicly and properly , can read well or put something in writing or take notes , then our work has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is not to deny that other modes of education are worth the trouble . Wherever wisdom can be induced , a community of learning formed , values imparted and horizons broadened , the work of the teacher is priceless . Still , with Fe y Alegria concentrating on the needy and on the basics , there is something infectious about this shared project , this way of displaying God 's love . The crucial input and initiatives of the Jesuit leadership team have an astonishing multiplier effect . Conclusion . In Mexico , to conclude where this account began , a strictly secular principle of public education leaves no opening for Fe y Alegria . Nonetheless the Jesuit schools in Leon , Tampico , Guadalajara , Torreon and Puebla are actively implementing " Our Mission Today " ( just reaffirmed and explicitated in the Jesuits ' 34th General Congregation ) and are now sparking the enthusiasm of younger Jesuits . Among these measures are scholarships to needy students , social service projects and a commitment to foster Christian Life Communities ( recognizing their potential for spiritual formation and community action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and expressed warm approval of all the above phenomena in its section " Secondary , Primary and Non-Formal Education . " Faith and joy is definitely a theme these days in the schools . JAMES S. TORRENTS , S.J. , is an associate editor of AMERICA . <p>                     