@@396715

OF ALL THE FUTILE AND DESTRUCTIVE EMOTIONS TO WHICH HUMAN BEINGS ARE PREY , PERHAPS THE MOST UNIVERSAL IS RESENTMENT . SURELY THERE CAN BE FEW PEOPLE WHO HAVE NOT WASTED MANY HOURS OR EVEN YEARS OF THEIR LIFE DWELLING ON THE WRONGS SUPPOSEDLY DONE TO THEM . IN MY EXPERIENCE , PEOPLE GENERALLY SPEND RATHER LESS TIME DWELLING ON THE WRONGS THEY HAVE DONE TO OTHERS . SINCE WE LIVE IN A WORLD OF PERPETUAL INJUSTICE , EVERYONE SUPPOSES HE OR SHE HAS REAL CAUSE TO FEEL RESENTFUL . BUT THE RESENTMENT WE FEEL IS BY NO MEANS PROPORTIONAL TO ITS ALLEGED CAUSE . Even people who , by all standards , have led extremely privileged lives full of opportunity manage somehow to resent , often very forcefully . They compare their lives not with those hundreds of millions of people less fortunate than themselves , but with an impossible ideal or with the very few who are even better off than they . No one , after all , is so fortunate that he or she does not know of someone even more fortunate . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war or other calamities are often singularly free of resentment . This is further proof , if any were needed , that this most destructive of emotions is more dependent upon inner need than upon outer circumstances . Considering the importance of resentment in our lives , and the damage it does , it receives scant attention from psychiatrists and psychologists . Resentment is a great rationalizer : it presents us with selected versions of our own past , so that we do not recognize our own mistakes and avoid the necessity to make painful choices . Personal resentment has played an important part in recent history . Hitler , Mussolini , and Stalin lived and breathed it . Men who become dictators never forget the trivial slights experienced in their youth and avenge themselves upon their former tormentors when they achieve power . One of the first of the hundreds of thousands of deaths for which the Ethiopian dictator Mengistu was responsible was that of the man who had refused him a scholarship to the United States . The dictator of Equatorial Guinea , Macias Nguema , who killed or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population , was so uncertain of his own educational accomplishments that he took anyone who wore glasses or possessed a page of printed matter as an intellectual and had him killed . These examples could , alas , be multiplied many times . I recently attended a rally in Naples addressed by Mussolini 's granddaughter , Allessandra . There were only about 500 people , but even this small number managed to raise a frighteningly deep-throated chant of " Duce ! Duce ! Duce ! " ( to the accompaniment of the fascist salute ) in the courtyard of the castle in which the rally took place . La Mussolini , who is glamorous in an overblown way , was clearly bored by the whole proceedings , except when it was her turn to speak . To an observer , it was transparently obvious that she cared as much for her supporters , and in approximately the same way , as a poultry farmer for his chickens . Any promise she made them was self-evidently false and worthless . As I looked around me , at the faces contorted by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of these latter-day Fascisti were lame ( like Goebbels ) or otherwise impaired , small and mean men who were searching for an enemy whom they could blame for their dissatisfaction . Most resentment , however , does not result in political action and remains fixed at a purely personal level . Among my patients , it is clear that this emotion fulfills an important function : to disguise from themselves the extent to which their own decisions and conduct have been responsible for their unhappiness . People prefer the role of immaculate victim of circumstance to that of principal author of their own misery . Parents are perhaps the most common object of resentment , the people who are most frequently blamed for all our failings and failures alike . How many times have I heard a patient recite a litany of complaint about his mother or his father , about how one or the other of them , or both , destroyed his self-respect , or prevented him from achieving anything worthwhile by undermining his confidence ! ( In my youth , I too played this game . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who made any allowance whatsoever for the upbringing his parents received in their turn . Original sin was committed not by Adam and Eve , but by our own parents , who sprang into the world fully formed . Their faults , unlike ours , derive from a pure ill-will , rather than a faulty childhood . There is a kind of sour pleasure or even a bitter happiness in such resentment , whatever the object it happens to attach itself to . With many people it becomes almost a vocation or a way of life . They revolve the injustices from which they believe they have suffered around in their heads almost like a mantra . They find the repetition reassuring : for something that is untrue attains an aura of truth if it is repeated often enough . So what exactly are the rewards of resentment ? It is always a relief to know that the reason we have failed in life is not because we lack the talent , energy , or determination to succeed , but because of a factor that is beyond our control and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with moral failings . Blame does not attach to us , therefore , and we are able to preserve our image of ourselves as essentially and fundamentally good , whatever our actual behavior . Any good that we do is a true reflection of our character ; any a reflection of our upbringing . To be the victim of injustice allows us to despise others while others despise us . They may look down upon us for our failure , but to be a failure in an unjust world is surely no failing . On the contrary , it is a sign of moral superiority . For to be a success in such a world requires a degree of insensitivity and indifference to the fate of others : in short , a kind of sociopathy . Moreover , if the world is unjustly stacked against us , any effort on our part to improve our situation is futile . This is upsetting in a way , but at least it absolves us from the painful necessity to change . It insulates us from the possibility of a failure that we must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same while calling down anathema on a cruel world . And such denunciation has always been highly enjoyable . There is one further advantage of believing oneself to be the victim of circumstance . Our supposed victimhood assures us of our own importance . In this century of horrors , of the First World War and the Armenian massacre , of the Stalinist terror and the Holocaust , of the Great Leap Forward and the Khmer Rouge ( to name but a few ) , it somehow seems insensitive not to have participated in the suffering . To admit that our life has been one of comfort and ease is to lay us open to the charge of triviality and complacency . It is often supposed that only victims have something really important to say to a world in which Auschwitz could happen . Since we all believe that we have something important to say , it follows that we must be victims . Hence our need to magnify the wrongs done to us , and to make them appear insurmountable . Time and time again in clinical practice encounter a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complained of , a situation that he or she ascribes to the malevolence of others . Any suggestion , practical or therapeutic , is met at once with a torrent of objections and an attitude almost of fear . For if the situation were to improve as a result of the patient 's own efforts , his or her past assumption of pure victimhood would have been shown to be false and self-serving . And to give up a whole philosophy of life is never easy , especially if it entails the realization that years of one 's life have been wasted . Indeed , it may on occasion be cruel to take away people 's illusion that they have been badly treated and that such treatment is the root cause of their unhappiness and failure . For if resentment lasts long enough , the possibility of change really is destroyed and no longer exists . Since one can offer nothing better in exchange , it is sometimes kinder to leave the patient with his or her bitter illusions intact . Criminals are great resenters . Their skins are paper-thin where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it is a question of the harm they have done to others . Explaining their actions  --  snatching a purse from a passerby , breaking into someone 's house , even stabbing someone to death  --  they at once resort to tales of wretched childhood , of violent and neglectful parents , and so forth . Whether this is post-facto rationalization of their actions , or the true motive lying behind them , is beside the point ; their resentment is an obstacle to change . And when I ask them " What is the actual connection between your hated father and the person you robbed ? " I am trying to start the process of illusion stripping . For resentment is not only blind but blinding . <p>                     