@@428842

Astronomers stand at the gateway to worlds beyond our own . // IT 'S BEEN A BANNER YEAR for astronomy . Observatories worldwide are providing a daily stream of newsworthy images depicting everything from nearby comets to galaxies at the edge of the visible universe . However , the greatest excitement may have been triggered by recent claims that planets have been found orbiting stars other than our Sun . The first of these - a massive object in a tight orbit around the star known as 51 Pegasi - was unveiled by a pair of Swiss astronomers last fall ( January issue , page 38 ) . An American team has followed up with companions to three other Sun-like stars ( April issue , page 11 ; July issue , page 11 ) . These discoveries claimed the covers of major newsweeklies and have dramatically altered our view of the universe we live in . The enthusiasm with which these revelations have been received has naturally been rewarding to those of us who practice science for a living . But are the enigmatic entities really planetary systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become accepted by the press , both popular and scientific ? As someone who has long advocated studying other planetary systems in order to understand how our own came to be , I find such interpretations a bit hasty . So this article will explore the reasons for taking a somewhat more open view of the subject . A PLANET HUNTER 'S PRIMER Speculation about worlds beyond the Earth is as old as recorded history . The " discovery " of our own planetary system can be traced to Copernicus , who suggested that the Earth was not the center of the universe . The invention of the telescope heralded a deeper scrutiny of the heavens that led to a complete planetary census of our own solar system , culminating with Clyde Tombaugh 's discovery of Pluto in 1930 . This set the stage for the search for other planetary systems . The various methods used in that search so far can be categorized as either direct or indirect . The former require us to actually detect radiation from a planet , whereas the latter depend on our observing some effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaches have borne fruit within the last few years . The most commonly used indirect methods are astrometry , or positional measurement , and radial-velocity monitoring , wherein stars ' motions are tracked spectroscopically . Both exploit the fact that if a star has a companion , then star and companion orbit their shared center of mass , or barycenter . For example , if you removed all the planets but Jupiter from our solar system , the center of mass would lie just beyond the Sun 's visible surface on the line connecting the two bodies . An observer looking down on the orbital plane would see the Sun follow a tight circular path , termed its reflex motion . Just how large an angle this path subtends would depend on the observer 's distance from the Sun . Someone located 33 light-years ( 10 parsecs ) from this simplified solar system would see the Sun trace out a circle roughly 1 milliarcsecond in diameter ( see page 22 , bottom left ) . If the Earth , not Jupiter , were the only planet , the center of mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wobble would be a mere 0.6 microarcsecond - an angle dwarfed even by what a hydrogen atom subtends when held at arm 's length ! Nevertheless , positional shifts this minuscule are detectable in principle with interferometric instruments operating above the Earth 's atmosphere . Fifty-microarcsecond astrometry , which is sufficiently precise for giant planets , should soon be available from ground-based interferometers . Now imagine looking at the hypothetical Sun-Jupiter duo from nearer the ecliptic plane , in such a way that the Sun first approaches and then recedes from you during its orbit . The Sun circles the system 's center of mass at some 13 meters per second , the speed of a leisurely drive . This induces a minuscule Doppler shift - four parts in 100 million - in the Sun 's spectral lines . ( Police radar guns , by contrast , exploit Doppler shifts at a parts-per-hundred level when clocking speeders . ) And the solar motion induced by Earth is a glacial 9 centimeters per second . Such speeds are dwarfed by convective motions within the atmospheres of the very stars we want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a myriad of complicating factors , the periodic Doppler shifts induced by a star 's planetary companions can be detected by present-day spectrometers . This is how all but a few of the objects tabulated on page 24 have been discerned . Unless the star 's reflex motion is especially eccentric , astrometry provides an unambiguous orbital velocity for a star of known distance from Earth . However , since the inclination of a star 's orbit to an observer 's line of sight is unknown , the apparent orbital velocity inferred from Doppler-shifted spectra is related to the true velocity by Vsub app = Vsub true sin i , where i is the angle between the line of sight and a line perpendicular to the planetary system 's orbital plane ( see the diagram on page 24 ) . Thus , the true reflex velocity is probably higher than what we observe , and the companion 's actual mass may exceed its inferred value . This is why the radial-velocity technique gives only a lower limit to the mass of a star 's companion . For example , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be due either to a low-mass companion whose orbital plane is seen edge on , or to a more massive companion whose orbital plane is seen nearly face on . In some cases , independent observations will offer clues to the orientation of a star 's rotation axis . If one then assumes that companions orbit that star in a plane parallel to the star 's equator , then the angle i can be constrained . However , this may not be correct in general . For example , the plane within which our own solar system 's planets move is ( on average ) tilted nearly 7deg with respect to the solar equator . Photograph While our views of other solar systems will never enjoy the detail seen in this speculative . painting , astronomers have garnered compelling evidence that planetlike bodies are orbiting other nearby stars . <p>                     