@@428958

MEDICAL PERSONNEL have long been aware of a strange form of hysteria that attacks some pilgrims to the Holy Land . " Jerusalem syndrome " manifests itself especially among American Protestants-people well grounded in the Bible-who suddenly shout prophecies or proclaim that they are Jesus , Mary Magdalene , John the Baptist or some other biblical figure . More than a hundred cases are treated each year at a government mental-health center in Jerusalem . The director of the center believes that the syndrome is triggered by the pilgrim 's encounter with a reality that is dramatically different from his or her prior image of the Holy Land . These tourists " are disappointed and frustrated , and their reaction is to try and lift their spirits by losing control . They do things they would n't do elsewhere . " Most visitors maintain their grip on reality , of course . But many deal with the dissonance between the biblical land of their imaginations and the bustling , conflict-ridden place they actually encounter by distancing themselves from the contemporary reality . Unfortunately , the standard tour to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a distance from the political , social and religious realities . It gives people almost no sense that an indigenous Christian community still flourishes in Israel , the West Bank and Gaza . Many Christian travelers never meet any of the local Christians or worship with local congregations . Often they are not even aware of the churches from their own traditions in cities like Jerusalem . The groups stay in Israeli hotels and are led by Israeli guides who have a great deal of book knowledge about Christian holy places , but regard the Christian Holy Land as a kind of theme park . Opportunities for visiting the Holy Land are plentiful , especially for pastors , who can often receive a free trip in exchange for recruiting and hosting a certain number of peo ple . Tour companies have these kinds of tour down pat : they are smoothly organized and easy to host . But in such tours the political and economic situation is presented entirely from the Israeli point of view . Tourists are told not to speak about political matters with the Palestinian shopkeepers and service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these Arab shopkeepers and bus drivers are fellow Lutherans , Catholics , Presbyterians , Quakers and Episcopalians . And since tour members are discouraged from speaking with these Arabs , Muslim and Christian alike , they learn nothing about their history or political and economic situation . THE FRUSTRATION that indigenous Christians feel with such tourism is summed up by Father Elias Chacour , a Melkite priest who has founded a high school and a college in Ibillin , near Nazareth . ' ' " You Westerners have been coming to the Holy Land for centuries to visit the shrines , the dead stones . But you do not see the living stones-the human beings who live and struggle before your eyes . I say Wake up ! ' What matters are the living stones ! " As Palestinian Christians prepare for the time when they will be free of the Israeli occupation and have some control over their own land and tourist industry , they are working on plans for a new form of Holy Land tourism . Ghassan Andoni , a Palestinian Christian who heads the recently formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop an environmentally sound tourism that would protect the character of Palestinian villages . The more than 800 small villages that dot the countryside of the West Bank were founded 500 to 800 years ago and still retain much of their ancient character . Here , Andoni says , people can experience a way of life no longer available in the Western world . Andoni proposes to build small , comfortable hotels and open good restaurants , coffee shops and museums in such villages . Tourists can then visit the Holy Land 's major religious and historical sites during the day and return to traditional village life in the evening . This kind of tourism , Andoni feels , is far better suited to this dry land of water shortages and inadequate sewage systems than is the kind of mass tourism Israel promotes . Andoni worries that the environment ca n't sustain Israel 's plans to triple the number of tourists by the year 2000-a number that would double the present population of the area . BUT ISRAEL has had almost 30 years to develop its tourist industry , and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who want to work in tourism . Since 1968 Israel has licensed only three new Palestinian guides . It has developed huge tourist hotels and transport companies , created a sophisticated marketing organization in Europe and the U.S. and put together with tour operators travel packages that are profitable and demand little effort to organize . Control of access to airports and highways has for 28 years given Israel the power to discourage Palestinians from trying to enter this lucrative tourism market . Palestinians hope that even the limited autonomy they have received under the peace process will help them break into the trade . Much of the infrastructure is already in place . Four new hotels are being built in Bethlehem . East Jerusalem has many four-star , Palestinian-owned hotels , such as the National Palace , the Ritz , the Meridian and the Ambassador . Israel has indicated some openness to recognizing Palestinian-licensed guides , and both Andoni 's group and Bethlehem University have begun tour-training programs . Many Palestinian tour agents have been in business for years and know how to arrange economical tours for Christian travelers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the 30-40 percent of visitors who have been in the Holy Land before and do n't want to repeat the alwaysthe-same packaged tour or who are sympathetic to Palestinians and interested in their culture . He is taking groups on day trips to places not on the standard itinerary , such as Hebron and Nablus . " When I first proposed going there , " he states , " people told me it was impossible . They said , There 's no organization there , no security . Tourists would feel uneasy there . ' But local people volunteered to help . Every group we have sent has been invited into people 's homes . Nothing unpleasant has ever happened . We take people to the old city and to the tomb of the patriarchs in Hebron and to the old marketplaces in Nablus . We go to the bazaar , we visit the Turkish bath , and everywhere we go we meet gentle , hospitable people . " Andoni does n't want people to hear only the Palestinian Christian point of view , either . ATG tours include meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Word of the success of the tours has spread . More than 40 groups have asked him to plan such trips . TO BREAK THE Israeli advantage in mass tourism , Andoni and other Palestinian promoters will have to establish their own network of hotels , restaurants and transportation companies so that a tour operator can set up a tour with no more than a couple of phone calls , yet have an itinerary that will do a better job of educating and challenging tourists . Such tours will have to be both smaller and more individual than today 's standard package . Andoni 's organization has begun marketing in such European countries as Holland and Sweden . He does not yet have a liaison in the U.S. , but will work directly with American groups . There are other alternatives for American Christians . Since the late ' ' 70s , the Middle East Council of Churches 's Ecumenical Travel Office ( ETO ) , located in Jerusalem , has been arranging tours and study opportunities for special groups , such as seminarians and other students . Recently the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begun to serve a wide variety of church-related groups . ETO has arranged for groups to meet with the last Samaritan Jews in the world , still living on Mt . Gerasim , and to visit more outof-the-way sites , like the old palace ruins in Sebasti , Jacob 's well , Abraham 's tomb , and the Ibrahimi mosque in Hebron . It can also arrange tours of the refugee camps in Gaza and meetings and worship with Palestinian Christians . Of growing importance for Christians seeking alternative tours are work camps . The ETO has worked with a number of denominations to set up 10- or 12-day touring and work-camp experiences . Each group takes a five- to six-day tour and then works on a project to benefit Palestinian Christians for another five to six days in Bethlehem or Ramallah or Jericho . An ETO Baptist group this summer is renovating El Khadar school , an alternative school that focuses on democracy and peace . A series of United Methodist groups have been working at the YMCA Vocational School in Jericho . ETO is not the only Christian group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action by a chance remark Bethlehem Mayor Elias Freij made about how Palestinian Christians were deeply saddened by the fact that they were too poor to host a proper celebration of Jesus ' birth in 2000 . Gehweiler has organized the Bethlehem 2000 Initiative of work-study teams with the help of the Alternative Travel Group and Bob and Peggy Hannum , formerly United Methodist liaisons in Jerusalem . For approximately $1,700 per person , groups can have a 16-day experience that includes meeting and working with ( and in some cases living and eating with ) local Christians . The groups work on a variety of projects , including a children 's center , churchrun schools , clinics , rehabilitation centers and the homes of the elderly . For those with a more political bent , the Church of the Brethren and the Mennonite churches sponsor Christian Peacemaker Teams that provide observation and mediation in areas of tension such as Hebron . Volunteers monitor human rights abuses , offer their services in conflict resolution and give public witness to peace . MANY CHURCH BODIES , including the Lutheran Church , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Methodist Church , have their own liaison in Jerusalem who can arrange a one- or two-day encounter with Palestinian Christians . John Melin , the Lutheran liaison , says that in the past much of his work consisted of arranging contacts at the last minute for church groups who happened to be in Jerusalem on a standard tour . But it was n't easy . Even if the visiting Lutheran group requested such an encounter , tour operators were often reluctant to oblige if it meant changing the already tight schedule . Melin is encouraging pastor-led tour groups to contact him well in advance and to work ahead of time with the tour operator to allow a day or two free for " Christian touring . " Working with a Presbyterian pastor , Melin recently set up a two-day trip for only $30 a day per person , including Sunday morning worship with Palestinian Christians , a follow-up dialogue , an afternoon trip to Hebron , and a second day trip to Gaza for half the group and to a Christian village in the West Bank for the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Melin reflected , " was that within a day they were thinking about the Holy Land in a whole new way . They thought that they were coming to Israel , but suddenly they realized they had come to Israel-Palestine . Even a day is worthwhile , and it does n't matter at what point of their itinerary it comes . " Melin provides this service for churches of any denomination , as do the ETO and many of the other denominational liaisons . Motives for pilgrimage are probably always mixed , and many are admirable . By visiting the Holy Land people can increase knowledge and understanding of the Bible and of the faith . Visiting Bethlehem , Nazareth and Jerusalem makes the biblical geography become real and the Bible stories come alive . Traveling with other Christians to places important to the faith strengthens the bonds between church members . Reading the Beatitudes on the Mount where Jesus spoke them , sailing on the sea of Galilee , renewing baptismal vows at the Jordan River or taking communion at the garden tomb can enliven faith and renew commitment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearts of some pilgrims are such motives as giving thanks , seeking forgiveness or preparing for death-motives congruent with the Eastern Orthodox understanding of pilgrimage as a conversion experience , ushering one into a new life . And , of course , people have a natural longing to see strange places and encounter the exotic . But since God also comes to us in and through other people , a journey to the Holy Land is not all it can and should be if it does not put the visitor in contact with the Christian communities living and worshiping there , and with the issues of justice with which they continue to struggle . <p>                     