@@345348

Few areas of science are as littered with intellectual rubbish as the study of innate mental differences between the sexes . In the 19th century , biologists held that a woman 's brain was too small for intellect but large enough for household chores . When the tiny-brain theory bit the dust ( elephants , after all , have bigger brains than men ) , scientists began a long , fruitless attempt to locate the biological basis of male superiority in various brain lobes and chromosomes . By the 1960s sociobiologists were asserting that natural selection , operating throughout the long human prehistory of hunting and gathering , had predisposed males to leadership and exploration and females to crouching around the campfire with the kids . <P> Recent studies suggest there may be some real differences after all . And why not ? We have different hormones and body parts ; it would be odd if our brains were 100% unisex . The question , as ever : What do these differences augur for our social roles , in particular the division of power and opportunity between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an answer . However human beings whiled away their first 100,000 years or so , few of us today make a living tracking down mammoths or digging up tasty roots . Much of our genetic legacy of sex differences has already been rendered moot by that uniquely human invention : technology . Military prowess no longer depends on superior musculature or those bursts of hormones that prime the body for combat at ax range . As for exploration , women  --  with their lower body weight and oxygen consumption  --  may be the more " natural " astronauts . <P> But suppose the feminists ' worst-case scenario turns out to be true , and males really are better , on average , at certain mathematical tasks . If this tempts you to shunt all the girls back to home ec , you probably need remedial work in the statistics of " averages " yourself . Just as some women are taller and stronger than some men , some are swifter at abstract algebra . Many of the pioneers in the field of X-ray crystallography  --  which involves three- dimensional visualization and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rosalind Franklin , whose work was indispensable to the discovery of the double-helical structure of DNA . <P> Then there is the problem that haunts all studies of " innate " sex differences : the possibility that the observed differences are really the result of lingering cultural factors . Girls ' academic achievement , for example , as well as apparent aptitude and self-esteem , usually takes a nose dive at puberty . Unless nature has selected for smart girls and dumb women , something is going very wrong at about the middle-school level . Part of the problem may be that males , having been the dominant sex for a few millenniums , still tend to prefer females who make them feel stronger and smarter . Any girl who is bright enough to solve a quadratic equation is smart enough to bat her eyelashes and pretend that she can't.                     