@@351887

To the Marxist historian Eugene Genovese , it is " the Question " that almost never gets asked : What did we know , and when did we know it ? In other words , when did members of the American left learn that the idealistic cause so many of them supported  --  the international communist movement  --  " broke all records for mass slaughter , piling up tens of millions of corpses in less than three-quarters of a century " ? Genovese 's succinct answer : " We knew everything essential and knew it from the beginning "  --  and therefore the left was guilty of abetting unspeakable crimes . <P> In a trenchant polemic that appears in the summer issue of the leftist quarterly Dissent ( est. circ. 10,000 ) , Genovese argues that many American radicals were , in effect , accomplices to mass murder . Many U.S. advocates of a Viet Cong victory in Vietnam , for example , have never accepted that what they considered a radical egalitarian democracy was in fact a cruel totalitarian dictatorship . Until the left is willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argues Genovese , it will have no moral credibility to attack such ongoing societal ills as racism and sexism . " The left will have to clean up its act if it wishes to survive or deserves to survive , " he contends . " We will fail if we do not re-examine our long- standing premises . " <P> Coming from , say , a neoconservative , this challenge to the left would be about as surprising as the Pope proclaiming his faith in God . But the Brooklyn-born Genovese , 64 , the distinguished scholar-in-residence at Atlanta 's University Center , has impeccable leftist credentials . Marxist theory , he readily admits , informed his landmark study of slavery in the American South , Roll , Jordan , Roll : The World the Slaves Made . Briefly a Communist Party member , he remained , by his own admission , " a supporter of the international movement and of the Soviet Union until there was nothing left to support . " Particularly shocking to Genovese was the ignominious collapse of the East German Communist Party and the disclosures that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says , " in some respects I am as much a Marxist as I ever was , " but adds , " I consider the communist movement dead and socialism finished . " <P> Genovese 's broadside , to some European intellectuals , is merely one new entry in an old and familiar debate that has been particularly vibrant in France . The 1973 publication of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn 's The Gulag Archipelago was a critical event for the French left . His searing expose of the vast Soviet prison-camp system , which sold 600,000 copies in France in less than a year , inspired a cadre of ex-radicals eventually known as " The New Philosophers " to issue its own critiques of communism . In Barbarism with a Human Face , for example , Bernard-Henri Levy demanded that French radicals confront the idea that Marxism was inherently corrupt .                     