@@414324

Inlets are complex environments . Their influence extends from a river 's lower reaches to its mouth , along adjacent shoreline , and well out into the host body of water . In extreme northern latitudes inlets produce all summer what the central United States considers springtime fishing conditions  --  concentrated numbers of fish . Even in the Lower 48 , inlets to large cold-water lakes attract and hold fish that normally summer offshore . Piers and other man-made alterations near inlets divert currents , create new bottom configurations , and affect vegetation growth  --  sometimes to the benefit of fishing , other times to its detriment . The natural outpouring of microorganisms from inlets attracts forage fish , which in turn lure game species . At least some gamefish are present in and around these fertile junctions year-round . During migratory runs of salmonids , they can literally swell with waves of incoming fish . Like saltwater versions , large freshwater inlets are constantly changing ; especially river mouths , which endure the pounding of storms , onshore winds , and powerful floodwaters . These phenomena alter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filled , emptied , bent , increased , and diminished . Not only do these changes affect where fish hold , they also shift the seams where river and lake currents meet . Seams carry drifting forage and are indicators of gamefish below . They are a type of structure in and of themselves , similar to the following inlet standbys. 1 . MAN-MADE STRUCTURE Piers , pilings , rock cribbing and riprap supports , old sunken bridges , marina constructions , dredging work , and spoil dumps attract forage , offer shelter and ambush spots , and sometimes encourage vegetation growth . Depending on the flow 's intensity , largemouth bass , smallmouth bass , or both utilize cribbing and rock riprap that support pilings and bolster piers . Deeper pilings and solid pier heads attract panfish  --  from rock bass to perch  --  which also favor irregularities in riprap and areas where rocks tumble toward the channel . Holes and humps created by dredging operations hold bass and sometimes act as way points for walleyes moving from outer weed beds to inlet mouths at night . Night-lights on docks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other predators regularly haunt the shadows . 2 . POINTS AND DEPRESSIONS Natural and man-made points act as migratory routes along which bass and walleyes cruise . Points in the main lake that extend to rock rubble , then drop into holes and deeper water , hold walleyes , especially if the point is touched by current from the inlet . Points near a river channel are good bass locations , especially when other forms of cover are present on them and when they lead either to the river channel or a distinct break into deeper water . Sand points washed by current appeal more to walleyes than bass , particularly when they 're located close to major weed beds and deeper water , which these fish utilize in summer . However , a sandbar parallel to the current flow in midstream can hold bass both up and downstream of it , if the current is n't too strong . Points created by boat-basin construction lure both large and smallmouth bass after they hunt in adjacent rock areas and along channel edges . 3 . FLATS Flats along the channel upstream @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form of stumps , rocks , vegetation , pockets , and holes exists . The shady side of such cover is most attractive to bass , which move along lips to the main channel when not hunting or when these shallows become undesirable . On swifter-running flats closer to the inlet mouth , look for smallmouth bass to hold behind stumps , logs , pilings , points , and other eddy-producing obstructions. 4 . INLET WEED BEDS Lush vegetation in eight feet or more of quiet water outside marina docks and on flats attracts pumpkinseeds , bluegills , and a host of other panfish during the summer . Largemouth bass move up into these weeds from nearby channel edges to feed early and late in the day and on into the night . 5 . WEED POINTS Throughout the summer months yellow perch utilize deep weed edges in the main lake and suspend in sparsely weeded troughs between beds . They relate to the ends of weed beds near humps in depressions and near other rocky cover that attracts smallmouths and roaming minnow schools . 6 . OUTSIDE WEED EDGES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by walleyes that move in from deeper water offshore . Casting and trolling these edges in the evening and at night are favored tactics among warm-weather walleye anglers , who take occasional smallmouths as well here . Northern pike and muskies summering in deep , cool water farther from shore also periodically cruise the outer beds and sometimes work channels in the weeds . <p>                     