@@349531

Last spring 's announcement that NASA would seek Russian help to redesign and &; build the agency 's beleaguered white elephant of a space station seemed like such a good idea it was almost shocking . One-world visions of multicultural life among the stars danced briefly in the heads of old Trekkies and space fans . The inclusion of Russia , the only other spacefaring nation , could breathe new life into the tired space-station project and indeed into the entire once great , once imagination-grabbing American space program . As it turns out , that idea was too good to be true . The new space station approved by Clinton and the Congress last month bears little evidence of that utopian dream . So far there is no mention of hooking up with the Russian Mir space station or of Mir 2 , due in 1996 . No mention of using the huge Russian Energia rocket to save billions in launch costs . If anything , the plans underscore once again the uselessness of the space station and NASA 's desperation to have something , anything , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what it looks like , smells like or feels like so long as the United States of America provides world leadership with a space station , " NASA administrator Daniel Goldin told a House committee . For the past decade , NASA has touted the space station as the necessary next step in the conquest of space , but the propensity to invest in hardware and grand engineering projects rather than ideas , as if NASA 's only constituency were the aerospace industry , has retarded rather than advanced the agency 's true mission of exploring the universe . Such genuine marvels as the Hubble Space Telescope ( which has returned spectacular results despite a slightly misshapen mirror ) , the Galileo spacecraft now on its way to Jupiter and the COBE satellite , which last year revealed details of the origin of the universe , have had to operate in the shadows , delayed and beggared by NASA 's other concerns . <P> Asked by Clinton to come up with three options reducing the cost of the space station by at least half over the next four years , NASA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came back with choices costing from $12 billion to $13 billion , ranging from a glorified shuttle hitching post to a giant can with solar-panel wings . In choosing the former option , which resembles the original Freedom , Clinton satisfied the aerospace industry and its supporters in Congress . He also placated Canada , Japan and the European Space Agency , which have been suckered into spending billions of their own on the space station and do n't want any changes . By going along to get along , however , he robbed the station of its last pretext of a scientific rationale ; on the new station , astronauts will have to live on the space shuttle and will be able to stay in orbit only 20 days  --  so much for studying the effects of long-duration weightlessness.                     