@@348540

To a seasoned skier , nothing could be more alluring than a descent into a high-country valley carpeted with fresh-fallen snow . And nothing could be more treacherous . The same pristine slopes that offer powder hounds the thrill of carving first tracks can conceal thrills of a more perilous kind : avalanches , known to mountaineers as the " white death . " Avalanches have already claimed 19 lives in the U.S. this winter . And last week five Coloradans , who lost their way in a subzero Aspen blizzard , were almost added to that number , raising awareness of the hazard . <P> " We never doubted we would make it , " declared 50-year-old Ken Torp . Along with one companion , Torp fought his way to a trading post after five days in the wilderness . " It was just a question of how ugly and how nasty and how difficult and how uncomfortable it was going to be , and how many fingers we would freeze on the way . " The three other lost skiers were found by a search party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends were tempting fate . They set out despite storm and avalanche warnings . During their sojourn , the skiers repeatedly heard the roar of snowslides letting loose . " It was sheer luck they did n't get caught in one , " says Doug Bitterman , the avalanche forecaster who posted that day 's warnings . Nearly three dozen avalanches rumbled through the area , posing an enormous risk to the rescuers . <P> For the Colorado Rockies , this has been a season of slides . So far , this winter is shaping up as a record breaker . There have already been 2,260 avalanches , some of them powerful enough to topple full-grown trees . The reason for the surge is simple : big storms have dumped record amounts of snow throughout the Mountain West . Too much snow falling in too short a period sets up the slopes for a slide . The most recent avalanches , for instance , occurred in the wake of a storm that dumped as much as 8 ft. of the white stuff . <P> Avalanche danger is highest just after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forge bonds to one another and to crystals in the existing snowpack . Typically , bonding occurs over a few days ' time . Under certain conditions , however , the crystals never bond , but remain loose like a pile of poker chips . This dangerous situation commonly occurs in Colorado , where temperatures are very cold ( snow crystals bond most readily close to their melting point ) . The shape of the crystals is important too . A layer of graupel  --  soft hailstones that behave like miniature ball bearings  --  substantially increases the avalanche hazard . In essence , graupel provides a high-speed conveyor belt for the layers of snow deposited on top . Another kind of trouble comes in the guise of sugar snow  --  coarse grains created when water vapor freezes and refreezes . In Colorado a layer of sugar snow formed early in the season , and has greatly added to the risk .                     