@@399269

/Jan 1998 I worry about the fact that most women do not get the type of care they need to prevent and treat heart disease . It has been established that in many large-scale clinical trials women have been under represented . Data on the incidence and course of heart disease have been obtained from large groups of men and then applied to women . Why ? Unfortunately , heart disease has not been regarded as a major health risk for women until recently . The fact is that cardiovascular disease is the leading killer of American women . Although most women fear breast cancer as their number one threat , death from heart disease occurs a staggering five times more often than death from breast cancer . It is estimated that 50 percent of all American women will die of cardiovascular disease such as a stroke or heart attack . Despite this high incidence of heart disease , data seem to indicate that misdiagnosis , under diagnosis and lack of effective treatment are major problems affecting women today . Recent research indicates that women differ from men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the treatment they receive for cardiovascular problems . Most cardiologists continue to treat women less effectively and aggressively than they treat men , sometimes with catastrophic results . Since World War II women began more and more to assume the additional stresses of careers , strenuous labor and raising families while working . Then society relaxed its views of women smoking and drinking and the statistics for heart disease and hypertension for women increased with each succeeding decade . For example , if a 45-year-old woman was brought to an emergency room with chest pains and a 45year-old man came in with similar complaints , most physicians would admit the male and presume he was experiencing cardiac distress but presume the woman 's problem was caused by stress and anxiety . Many physicians have been trained to regard cardiovascular disease as a low probability for women . However , in the peri-menopausal ( peri-menopause is the time before menopause when hormonal changes are occurring and menstrual periods begin to be missed . It can last through the first few years of menopause after periods stop . The age of onset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes , hot flashes and loss of bone mass. ) and postmenopausal woman , nothing is further from the truth-the number of coronary events quadruples as women approach middle age . Studies also indicate that women who are hospitalized with coronary artery disease are given fewer diagnostic and therapeutic procedures than their male peers . Women also experience higher rates of complication . Even before surgery takes place , women undergoing coronary bypass surgery may be at a disadvantage due to delayed diagnosis , causing the postoperative mortality rate for female bypass surgery patients to be almost twice that of men . Postoperatively , women also experience higher instances of congestive heart failure , psychosocial impairment and lower symptomatic relief . Because of the smaller size of their coronary vessels , women also endure more complications with coronary artery angioplasty . These are only some of the many significant clinical differences between male and female cardiac patients . In preventive cardiology , risk factor modifications also differ according to gender . Consider the following : * 1isks from diabetes are higher for women than they are for men . * 1isks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for men . * 1omen have a higher risk than men , if they have high triglycerides. * 1omen have a higher risk than men , if they have low levels of HDL . Clinical research has shown that the incidence of diabetes and its complications is much higher in women . Diabetes increases the risk of heart disease five to seven times in women , compared to only two to three times in men . This simple fact alone should raise the eyebrows of any reputable cardiologist evaluating suspected heart disease in diabetic women . ONLY YOU CAN PREVENT HEART DISEASE How can a woman prevent the onset of heart disease ? For all women proper heartsense includes reducing the risk of diabetes by increasing physical activity and maintaining ideal body weight . Recent studies report that being a mere 20 pounds overweight correlates with a two-fold increase in risk of heart disease in women . It is absolutely essential for women to understand the potentially dangerous combination of risk factors that render them vulnerable to heart disease : being slightly to severely overweight and having low HDL and high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more significant risk factor in women than in men . Among diabetics as triglyceride levels rise , cardiovascular risks increase approximately three times in men but an alarming 200 times in women . The interpretation of other cholesterol fractions also requires gender-specific consideration . Cholesterol levels have been a major issue of interest among cardiologists in treating and preventing cardiovascular disease . Much of the research has focused on high levels of LDL ( low-density lipoprotein ) as a major risk factor in coronary artery disease . LDL is a risk factor because of its tendency to become oxidized in the blood . Oxidized LDL is injurious to blood vessels ; it results in plaque formation and a narrowing of blood vessels , leading to the symptoms of heart disease , or ultimately , heart attack . From research conducted on male patients , high LDL has been proven to be a powerful risk factor for heart disease . In women , however , it appears that low levels of HDL ( high-density lipoprotein ) is a much stronger risk factor . HDL functions as a scavenger lipoprotein that helps prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physicians to know these differences concerning HDL and LDL in women . Why ? Because the cholesterollowering strategies of many medications on the market have different interactions and certainly different implications in women . Heartsense strategies in women should focus not only on lowering LDL , but also on enhancing other means of raising HDL , such as exercising and maintaining ideal body weight . HORMONE REPLACEMENT THERAPY ( HRT ) Another important risk-reducing strategy to consider is hormone replacement therapy ( HRT ) . For the first time in history , large numbers of women are living into their eighties and nineties . This means that for many , one-third to one-half of their lifetime will be spent without functioning ovaries and the hormones they produce . To take or not to take HRT may be one of the most important health care choices that women face . HRT 's long-term preventive benefits against osteoporosis and coronary artery disease must be weighed against present quality of life and the potentially-increased risk of uterine and breast cancer . One of the primary uses of HRT is to ease the physical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most physicians are aware of the most common symptoms such as hot flashes , night sweats , chills , insomnia , mood swings and irregular bleeding . As a cardiologist I see many women with the less often acknowledged " hot flash equivalents " - palpitations , dizziness and tingling or numbness in the hands or arms . All of these symptoms are manifestations of vasomotor instability triggered by declining estrogen levels . Such symptoms are not only uncomfortable , they can also be alarming . At times the anxiety these women experience from believing something is wrong with their heart is more incapacitating than the physical discomfort itself . Fortunately , hormone replacement with estrogen works quite well to alleviate these problems and most women can tolerate the hormone . My primary interest in recommending HRT centers on its cardioprotective functions . Estrogen produces favorable alterations in the cholesterol risk profile . By raising favorable HDL levels and lowering unfavorable LDL levels , estrogen decreases the possibility of cholesterol plaque depositing in blood vessels . Estrogen 's dilating effect on blood vessels also promotes optimum blood flow and stimulates the endothelial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the vessels . There is also some evidence to show that the cardioprotective effect of estrogen may be related to increased utilization of insulin , as well as improvement of the balance between blood coagulation and blood thinning . All these effects of estrogen may improve blood flow and reduce myocardial insufficiency . Finally , HRT is known to promote some beneficial antioxidant activity as well . Despite these advantages , a woman and her physician must balance the benefits of HRT with its potential risks . ALTERNATIVES TO HRT There are some women who are not sound candidates for HRT , however , who can not or will not tolerate its side effects , or who for various reasons reject HRT . What are the options for these women ? A woman may choose dietary modification , vitamin and mineral supplementation or herbal preparations to smooth the menopausal transition and pave the way for optimum health during the post-menopausal years . Phytoestrogens are compounds occurring naturally in plants . Many of these compounds come from soybeans or soy-based products . In women who prefer to avoid pharmaceutical preparations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are even good for the heart . Studies conducted in China and Japan have shown that people who consume large quantities of phytoestrogen-containing plants have a low incidence of heart attack . Soy products like miso , tofu and soymilk are traditional in the Japanese diet and Japanese women experience virtually no menopausal symptoms . Bioflavonoids , concentrated in citrus fruits ( especially in the pulp and white of the rind ) , also have estrogenic properties and have been helpful in controlling hot flashes , anxiety and mood swings in some women . PREVENTIVE STRATEGIES FOR WOMEN First of all , do n't smoke . In addition to causing heart disease and cancer , smoking is a contributing demon to the bone loss of osteoporosis . Smoking also pollutes the blood with heavy metals and toxic chemicals that raise havoc with the immune system . It contributes to many symptoms , ranging from the common cold and bronchitis to cardiac irregularities and even rare instances of sudden cardiac death . For women the major risk factors include diabetes , being overweight ( by as little as 20 pounds ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a woman has high blood pressure or smokes , the risk increases considerably and in postmenopausal women the risk becomes higher still . Eating generous amounts of fresh fruits and vegetables will provide the necessary flavonoids and carotenoids to combat cancer and heart disease and will also protect from breast cancer , according to current research . Regular daily exercise is extremely beneficial , especially for cardiovascular health . In addition to vitamins , minerals and herbs , there are other particular nutrients that protect a woman 's health . Consider coenzyme Q10 . For women it has been tremendously successful in alleviating congestive heart failure and improving the heart 's ability to contract . Work with a knowledgeable health practitioner as a partner in heartsense strategy . <p>                     