@@343057

The first word of Iraq 's peace proposal last week touched off rapturous celebrations in Baghdad , expressions of relief mixed with skepticism from allied troops and burgeoning peace hopes around the world . At the White House , however , there was surprise at the move and concern that a hastily arranged cease-fire might scuttle Washington 's goal of neutralizing the Iraqi military and toppling Saddam Hussein . By attaching impossible conditions to the proposal , Baghdad ensured that it would be rejected by the coalition and that hostilities would continue  --  for now . But Saddam may soon find it necessary , particularly after the start of a ground battle , to make a serious peace offer that Washington ca n't refuse . What then ? <P> The exact shape of a postwar scenario , of course , would depend on the details of the Iraqi proposal and of the negotiations that would follow . But it is possible to sketch the broad outlines . The most significant fact is that Iraq will emerge from battle with the menacing , bristling war machine that Saddam built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet completely tamed . The allies have seen to that from the first days of the war , knocking out Iraq 's ability , at least for the time being , to produce chemical , biological and nuclear arms and later obliterating about a third of its tanks and artillery . <P> But has Baghdad 's military been weakened enough ? Washington 's goal has never been to liquidate Iraq 's armed forces . Rather , the objective was to leave the country with enough military power to defend against hostile neighbors  --  but not so much that it could continue to threaten them . A rough gauge of where that balance lies can be found in the military muscle of Iran and Syria , the two heavies that Iraq 's forces must counterweigh . Iran commands 504,000 soldiers , 185 combat aircraft and perhaps 500 tanks . Syria has 404,000 troops , 558 combat planes and 4,000 tanks . Iraq 's losses in the current struggle have pared its hardware roughly to Syria 's level . But since a country that is only defending its territory generally needs less firepower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable trimming , say U.S. military planners . As for manpower , though it is not known exactly how many Iraqi soldiers have been killed by allied bombardments , no one believes that Saddam 's forces , once 1 million strong , have yet been drawn down to the levels of the other regional powers . <P> Consequently Iraq 's neighbors are far from ready to trust Saddam again  --  even if he withdraws completely from Kuwait . The gulf states and Saudi Arabia must find better ways of defending themselves than they had before Aug. 2 . One possibility is that they will offer Egypt financial inducements to remain in the region as a deterrent force . Cairo sent two of its crack armored divisions to Saudi Arabia and does not expect them back in the foreseeable future .                     