@@352284

Doctors are television 's perfect heroes . From Richard Boone in Medic through doctors Casey , Kildare and Welby to the bustling gang in St. Elsewhere , they have wielded their power like benevolent dictators . With a flick of the scalpel , they can make decisions of life and death , and with a consoling word reconcile people to either . They are privy to their patients ' closest secrets , deepest fears , most traumatic life moments . Dressed in white , they watch over them like angels . And when they make their bedside pronouncements , they do it from above , like God . <P> The doctors on ER , however , are somewhat different . They do n't look very glamorous , for one thing . Rushing with their gurneys through the busy Chicago emergency room where they work , they wear frazzled expressions and five- o'clock shadows . Patients come and go so quickly  --  a gunshot victim here , a drug overdose there  --  that the doctors have little time to accept congratulations , grieve over failure or make speeches about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctors are miracle workers nonetheless . ER , created by best- selling author Michael Crichton ( Jurassic Park , Disclosure ) , made its debut on NBC in mid-September with a cloudy prognosis . Hour-long TV drama had been in a long-term slump , pushed aside by the proliferating prime-time magazines . ER was scheduled , moreover , opposite the season 's one other new medical drama  --  CBS 's Chicago Hope , which boasted bigger stars ( E.G. Marshall , Mandy Patinkin ) and the kind of high-pitched melodramatics that viewers seem more comfortable with . Yet ER was instantly a huge hit . In its first five weeks , the show has drawn an average Nielsen rating of 18.3 , ranking in the top five among all prime-time series . It trounced Chicago Hope so thoroughly that the rival show had to slink away to another time slot . To be sure , ER gets a major boost from NBC 's powerful Thursday-night lineup , anchored by Seinfeld . But that did n't help a limping L.A. Law in the same time slot last season ; ER has improved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have attributed ER 's success to Americans ' current anxiety about health care . A more likely explanation is simply that it supplies something that 's been missing from TV for years . Medical dramas have long been out of fashion ; the last successful one , St. Elsewhere , was less concerned with the nuts and bolts of medical care than with often baroque interpersonal drama and nuthouse comedy . ER has rediscovered the primal appeal of the doctor show , and a new generation of viewers is eagerly watching .                     