@@410698

Deep , husky blasts on the ship 's whistle and the glistening white Island Princess of Princess Cruises slowly drifted away from the pier in Papeete , Tahiti , the largest island in French Polynesia . Ahead of me was the exciting prospect of a 14-day cruise through the South Pacific to Australia . As the ship headed out of the lagoon toward the smaller island of Moorea , I thought of explorers Wallis , Cook , Bougainville , and Bligh , whose glowing accounts of this faraway part of the world had inspired others to follow them . Indeed , the 12-mile expanse of the turquoise Sea of the Moon between Tahiti and Moorea was an unforgettable vision . Slowly drifting white and grey clouds briefly obscured Moorea 's jagged , sculptured ridges , but when the breeze chased the clouds away , I saw the needle-shaped mountain , Mou'aroa , looming over this island that was the mythical Bali Hai in the movie " South Pacific . " Volcanic slopes , ranging from dark green to chartreuse , tumbled down to crystal-clear waters . The ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Waiting on the dock for passengers was le truck , the small , quaint , open-air bus , ready to trace the 32-mile coastline . Natives handed me a fragrant frangipani blossom to wear behind my ear , while a local band softly serenaded us with soothing Polynesian melodies . Le truck slowly made its way down the narrow road . Tiny cottages were set back from the path , while along the lagoon , beneath coconut groves , hotel bungalows offered a relaxed mood for vacationers . Moorea , with its clean white beaches and calm lagoon , is a mecca for swimmers and divers . But most importantly for me , this island was a unique cultural experience in the ways of " old Tahiti . " At the Tiki Theater Village , simulating a primitive lifestyle , I could smell meat roasting over open fires . Children romped in the grass with their pet dog . I was greeted by a young Polynesian blowing a conch shell , given a glass of a sweet , exotic fruit juice , and led to a hut . A circular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stumps . Native villagers , dressed in the traditional pareus ( the colorful one-piece garment adaptable to all sexes and ages ) , demonstrated ancient skills . They stitched floral headpieces and wove baskets and disposable mats from a plentiful supply of tropical flowers and palm leaves . One matron dipped a folded white fabric into several bright dyes , creating an original multi-hued pareus . A young woman indicated the many ways this garment could be stylishly wrapped about her body . The Polynesian men , who wore the pareus only from the waist down , were barefoot and tattooed all over their legs , arms , and upper torso . They expertly cracked open coconuts by striking the hard husks against a sharp wooden form . A blade was used for grating the delicious white , moist inner core , which then was passed around in a brown half-shell . Remaining coconut fiber was salvaged for bathing purposes , used instead of soap . Also demonstrated by the men was their ancient method of tiki carving . On the bare ground in front of the open-air theater , dancers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhythms of guitars and drums . Most exciting were the daring young men who twirled flaming poles around their legs and arms with no fear of being burned . Another speedily used his bare hands and feet to climb the tallest palm tree and brought down a coconut . At Moorea 's Kia Ora Lookout , I was able to view the conical outline of Tahiti across the azure sea . Barely visible was the city of Papeete , with several glass windows glittering in the afternoon sun . The next day , Island Princess arrived at Bora Bora , part of French Polynesia . When I disembarked the ship 's tender at the village of Vaitape , my guide , who wore a floral coronet and white and blue leafy print dress , directed me to le truck . As we drove around this lush island , she pointed first to the various beach-front hotels where many Polynesians were employed . Others , she explained , worked as fishermen or were farmers on pineapple plantations . Much of the land remained uncultivated . Tropical foliage blossomed randomly on this island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stirred the delicate fronds of the tall palm trees . Most imposing were the rugged profiles of the mountains towering toward the clouds . The sky was broken by puffy clouds moving slowly overhead . Unpolluted , bleached-white beaches hugged crystaline waters of dazzling turquoise , blue , and purple . Best of all , nobody hurried , worried , or was unhappy in this don't-care , relaxed place . International guests did not mind the inconvenience of changing planes in Tahiti for the additional hour 's flight to Bora Bora 's airport , located on a motu ( islet ) out in the lagoon . A launch transported them an additional 45 minutes to their remote island resort . Historically , Bora Bora was used by the U.S. as a naval supply base during World War II . Rusting guns hidden in the greenery were the only remembrance of these fearful times . At Matira Point , the southern tip of the island , the charming thatched-roof bungalows once housed the movie crew during the filming of " Hurricane . " Tourists lazily occupy the hut-like bungalows , now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indulge their fantasies . After enjoying another Polynesian dance show and eating at a flavorsome buffet of sweet , juicy pineapple , melon , and coconut , I decided to dip my toes in the clear lagoon along the beach . Coral and mother-of-pearl shells washed around me in the gentle tide . About 30 feet from shore , a snorkler 's air intake tube projected above the water as she viewed the striped fish of mostly yellow , white , and black . I passed a topless sunbather reading in the warm sun . Other guests , more mindful of the strong tropical rays , reclined in lounges under the shade of palm trees close to their beach-front cottages . COPING WITH CYCLONES Capt . Stan Jamison of Island Princess had invited me and other guests to observe from the bridge our departure from Bora Bora . Rather ominous dark grey clouds were beginning to veil the green mountain peaks , and the wind was intensifying . I sensed from the distant white swells that poor weather conditions were approaching . As the ship cleared the reefs , a school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which already was rising and falling in the billowy sea . Ahead of us loomed two cyclones . For nearly five days , cyclones Wasa and Val invaded my voyage . Although storms can be found in any part of the world , I never expected them to disrupt the tranquility of the South Pacific . However , my shipmates and I had to cope with the unleashed fury of these revolving windstorms . I noticed that some veteran voyagers felt no discomfort . In fact , they relished the excitement , snapping photo after photo of huge waves crashing over the ship 's bow . Capt . Jamison 's primary concerns were the comfort and , above all , safety of the passengers . Of necessity , his orders to reduce speed and alter course to mitigate the impact of Wasa and Val required the elimination of visits to Pago Pago in American Samoa and Auckland , New Zealand . Despite these unfortunate circumstances , the captain did exemplify high standards of seamanship . What can a person actually do when confronted with a major storm at sea ? First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creates . How , then , do you survive the ordeal ? I found that the best way was to keep active and distracted as much as possible . When leaving your cabin , head for activities in the lounges . Other worthwhile diversions : speaking to your shipmates , looking around the gift shop , and attending organized programs and games , including the Casino . Just join in any activity , such as the fun-filled Not-So-Newlywed Game , learn new techniques of scarf-tying , participate in arts and crafts , or play Scrabble , bridge , or bingo  --  all will help to make time pass agreeably . Movies in the ship 's theater were great distractions from the unavoidable pitching of the ship during the full frenzy of the storm . My squeamish stomach during this rough weather was soothed , oddly enough , by eating ! An understanding Coral Dining Room staff pampered me with an appropriately simple diet : plain roast meats , starchy breads , pastas , clear soups , juices , tea , and Jell-O . I supplemented these with crackers and apples placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to feel better , my diet returned to more gourmet foods . In addition to eating and keeping distracted , I kept a positive spirit , saying I would survive . After nearly five days of the tempest , the skies finally brightened , the waters became smooth , and I delighted in walking again in the open air and reclining in a deck chair . Ahead was the Island Princess ' arrival in Suva , capital of Fiji . The prospect of resuming my South Seas adventure was stimulating . Situated on Viti Leva , one of the two largest islands in the Fijian archipelago , Suva was much more than palm trees and sandy beaches . It was a commercial hub where tall cranes moved containers in the port area . Not far off , the farmers market teamed with vendors selling fresh fruits , vegetables , and meats , piled on the ground instead of on stalls . The smell of fish was heavy in the air . Colonial buildings , dating back to British rule in the late 19th century , stood stately back from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotels appealed to vacationers . Unlike the natives of French Polynesia , here live two distinct races : handsome , dark-skinned Fijians with short , frizzy , black hair ; and emigres from India , who now comprise the largest population group . Today , most Fijians are peaceful , practicing Methodists . Before the arrival of missionaries , however , they were cannibals and fought fierce tribal wars . Their daily life was demonstrated at a remarkable recreation of a native village in the Orchid Island Fijian Cultural Center , seven miles outside of Suva . Shouting , " Bula ! " ( welcome ) , a chorus of barefoot native men and women greeted visitors and serenaded them with melodic folk tunes . While the men were barechested and clothed in grass skirts , the women wore pink blouses over black skirts , covered with decorative tapa cloth aprons . Tapa , or masi , is made from the pounded bark of the mulberry tree , then hand-painted with brown and black dyes into stenciled patterns . Tapa cloth is fashioned into shirts , dresses , and other wearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the village in an imposing four-sided temple , set high on a hill . Its steeply pitched roof was adorned with ropes of shells , each one representing a consumed enemy . His large bedroom , located next to the temple , contained his bed , grass skirt , conch shell , hammock , and collection of clubs . Daily activities of the village took place in the handicraft section . While the men showed their skill in opening coconuts , the women made tapa cloth and wove baskets . Also exhibited were several pitchers and pottery made from river clay and glazed with tree gum . The natural setting of Orchid Island was enhanced by tropical plants and trees . Signs at ground level identified the red or white ginger , orange and purple bird of paradise , and red anthurium flowers , as well as Tahitian chestnut and breadfruit trees . Cages held a fine collection of brightly colored exotic birds and monkeys . Visitors could have their picture taken while holding a large turtle . As I strolled the lush green lawns , I was particularly surprised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down on a tree branch in the morning sunshine . It was eating small morsels of fruit from the hand of a gamekeeper as easily as if it were a pet dog . " Do not fear the bat , " a lecturer reassured me . " In its early life , I was the " mother image " and carried it around in the pocket of my apron . " She also hand-fed several iguanas . Cannibalism humorously was depicted in one hut with the replica of a man 's head simmering in a large cauldron . Displayed on a wall were " brain smashers , " " headache removers , " and warrior clubs . Articles from old newspapers referred to ancestral gods as well as to " weather wizards , " who could predict fair weather in the rainy season , especially when British royalty were expected to visit . Bearded missionaries with somber expressions peered from yellowish clippings on bulletin boards . The history of Fiji was displayed for all to read . After a brief stop at the souvenir shop for assorted shell jewelry , shirts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roof of the " long house , " an open-sided , rectangular structure with tiered seats . Harmonious Fijian melodies were sung by a native chorus , accompanied by pleasant guitar strumming and rhythmic thumping of bamboo poles . FEARLESS FIJIAN FIREWALKERS Thrilling experiences awaited me at the Pacific Harbor Cultural Center , located in a remote area , a 50-minute drive outside of Suva . A Fijian was striking a lali , an elongated hollow tree trunk , with short thick poles . The sound of a deep-pitched boom reverberated throughout the grounds . It was a signal for visitors to follow two strolling , singing musicians . The route was charming . It skirted a Victorian marketplace consisting of boutiques and jewelry stores . Pandanus-covered wooden ramps rose upward gradually , crossing jungle-like streams and passing lovely flowering , tropical gardens , finally reaching a sheltered outdoor amphitheater . Here , spectacular scenery was the natural stage upon which I would see daring firewalkers and professional Fijian dancers . Waters cascaded down stony cliffs to create a small lake , separating the theater from a pastoral grassy hill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its steeply pitched roof . In the middle of a clearing was a dance area , and to the right was a large pile of burning logs . The chief emerged from the temple 's doorway . His warriors appeared from the dense tropical foliage . All were barefoot and dressed in yellow and black grass skirts . The chief and his party slowly marched around the burning logs . Then , heightened by loud , fierce shrieks , the young warriors deftly used thin poles and ropes to remove each smoking log and quickly carry it to the nearby cool lake . Steamy hissing left no doubt as to the heat of the fire . With the removal of the logs , white-hot stones were exposed and carefully spread out for the firewalking ceremony . Not every Fijian has the ability to walk barefoot over hot rocks . Only a select few , living on the island of Beqa off the coast of Fiji , are permitted the secret of firewalking . First honor went to the chief , who ascended to the top of the heated rocks , followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heat for a few seconds , some with outstretched hands , before continuing to walk down from the white stones . As I contemplated how anyone could endure the pain of firewalking , the Dance Theater of Fiji entered from behind the temple and gave an outstanding performance . I was excited to see ( in a lead role ) my friendly guide , Joseph , who had exchanged his navy wrapped skirt ( sulu ) and tapa shirt for a grass skirt and shell necklace . One act highlighted Joseph and an all-male chorus in a high-jumping spear dance . Another scene portrayed a raiding party approaching by boat who were seized and unceremoniously " cooked " for dinner . A third skit depicted male rivalry for the attention of a young girl . When the entertainment concluded , I was treated to a traditional afternoon " high tea " of light sandwiches and rich cakes . The restaurant had a tree-house atmosphere because it was built atop several sturdy tree trunks . Overseeing the land tours was Island Princess ' extremely informative Shipboard Shore Excursion Manager Dennis Daughters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well versed on the South Pacific , he supplemented his lectures with maps and detailed leaflets describing beaches , shopping , and restaurants at each port . While docked at Suva , the ship provided much frivolity with an island-night party on the outdoor Lido deck . As a frequent voyager , I have attended many formal parties . But this very casual event was a welcome relief from the pomp and glitter of formal occasions . No one had trouble with a dress code that suggested a costume or most colorful outfit . Pirates and Polynesian ladies blended with voyagers in T-shirts and shorts . Some wore brightly printed shirts and faded jeans . What a delightful evening ! Overhead were the ship 's decorative lights and the vast expanse of black sky studded with brilliant stars . Navigational flags fluttered in the gentle breeze , as did tall palm branches placed strategically on deck and around the outdoor pool . The ship 's Special Events Trio supplied island music for dancing and games  --  and what hilarity and conviviality ! Cruise Director Bill Allison injected doses of humor throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Imagine a single line of mature males comically interpreting the " Swan Lake " ballet ; a chorus of blindfolded travelers wiggling to the tempo of Polynesian melodies ; people bending and scrambling under an ever-lowering limbo pole ; and a long , out-of-step conga line snaking along the deck . Champagne prizes were awarded to outstanding , good-natured party-goers . On the day that Island Princess was preparing to depart from Suva , the Fijian Police Band offered a spirited recital . Dressed in navy shirts and white sulus with sawtoothed hemlines , the band played classical and popular tunes and marched in precision alongside the ship , bidding all a fond Fijian farewell . LUXURY AT SEA The South Pacific cruise continued to provide luxurious services and attractions on the way to our final and most westerly destination of Australia . Meals at sea were tempting taste treats . While I preferred a continental breakfast in the comfort of my stateroom , luncheons and dinners in the Coral Dining Room were eating events . The mood and motif effectively coordinated with the specially featured cuisine of a particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roast duckling with orange Curacao sauce from France , and veal scaloppine Marsala from Italy appeared on different theme menus . Mouth-watering dishes could be selected from an ever-changing menu : golden sauteed Great Lake whitefish Doria ; rock Cornish game hen Forestiere with wild rice ; grilled lamb cutlets with mint jelly and Balmoral potatoes ; veal saltimbocca Florentine ; coq-au-vin with mushrooms and pearl onions ; succulent roast prime ribs of beef ; tournedos of beef tenderloin Montmorency ; Hungarian goulash with spaetzle ; broiled lobster tail with rice pilaf . Of course , those watching their sodium and cholesterol intake could follow specially marked entrees , such as grilled breast of chicken Alexandra or swordfish steak , among others . I was especially fascinated by the daily varieties of innovatively prepared pastas . I could not resist sampling farfalle alle Veneta ( bow-tie pasta sauteed with leeks , green peas , and cream ) or rigatoni conca d'oro ( pasta sauteed with anchovies , cauliflower , raisins , and pine nuts ) . These were concocted on portable grills by the dining room 's section captains . Never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single dish , either at lunch or dinner . This reflects the chefs ' complete dedication to diversity in the dining passengers ' experience . For dessert , what could be more delectable than Black Forest cherry torte , souffle au Grand Marnier , cream filled puff pastry , Napoleon , chocolate mousse , nut cream roll cake , or one of the many flavored ice creams ? Near the end of the cruise , waiters dramatically marched into the darkened dining room carrying flaming baked Alaska . Another evening produced a Parade of Pineapples , with the busboys ceremoniously presenting sherbet-stuffed whole pineapples containing glowing candles . The artistry of the chefs was evident one afternoon during the Gala Buffet , set along the large windows of the Bridge Lounge to form a tranquil backdrop of the beautiful Pacific . I was amazed by several true-to-life food sculptures : a watermelon sea goddess ; King Neptune ; a cherub riding a sea horse ; a grand piano ; and a yellow ear of corn encased in green leaves . Attractively arranged turkey , roast beef , salmon , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bread were shaped in the form of anchors and chains . Platters of chicken and seafood salads rounded out the remarkable display . The dessert section was a dazzling array of luscious pastries , elegantly decorated cakes of every description , and baskets of fresh fruits . Although the buffet was a feast for the eyes as well as the palate , the Carousel Lounge 's tantalizing theatrics were equally creative and satisfying . " That 's Broadway " featured colorful excerpts from " Evita , " " 42nd Street , " " Cabaret , " and " Phantom of the Opera . " The entertainers then combined their talents for a lavish , fast-paced premiere production of " A Night on the Town , " celebrating night life in Las Vegas , New Orleans , Paris , New York , Rio , and Dallas . The Rio number was exceptionally flamboyant in costuming . Notable among other fine performers was Wayne King , whose glistening capes and jackets and vibrant piano repertoire understandably brought him fame as the Australian Liberace . Another form of musical entertainment aboard Island Princess was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flashed words onto a TV screen while playing music . Passengers could sing along on a microphone in the cozy , intimate nightclub atmosphere of the Pirate 's Cove . No other ship on which I have sailed ever provided such modern musical technology for the amusement of voyagers . After a memorable two-week odyssey of the South Pacific , the last morning of the cruise dawned dramatically . Standing on the ship 's bridge at 6:00 a.m. with other passengers invited by the Captain , I beheld a glorious view of the approach to Australia and , in the distance , the rising modern towers of Sydney . One of the advantages of a journey by ship is the opportunity of witnessing firsthand the arrival in such a beautiful harbor . As Island Princess inched closer to the metropolis , the famed opera house and " Coathanger " bridge loomed prominently against the clear sky . Here , the passengers disembarked , many flying home . Others , including myself , opted to linger a few more days . Although my seagoing holiday had ended , I was about to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In her capacity as travel writer for USA Today , the author reported on " The Temptations of Tahiti " for the May , 1992 issue . Previous assignments included the Panama Canal , Alaska , Hawaii , the Mediterranean , and other enchanting itineraries . Her next article will focus on the city of Sydney and environs as well as her brief encounter with Australia . <p>                     