@@348535

A cobweb glistening with dew seems as fragile as it is lovely . But one day soon , predicts University of Wyoming biologist Randy Lewis , man-made analogues of spider silk will be put to an astonishing variety of heavy-duty uses , from reinforcing fibers in aircraft doors to body-hugging suits for downhill skiers . Over the past four years , Lewis has played the attentive host to dozens of fist-size spiders called golden orb weavers , housing them in Plexiglas condominiums , feeding them a daily diet of flies and , every now and then , flipping them on their backs to unravel yards of gossamer thread . The ambitious goal of all this effort : to unravel the secrets of spider silk , a family of materials stronger than steel , stretchier than nylon and tougher than Kevlar , the stuff used to make bulletproof vests . <P> What gives spider silk its impressive array of qualities ? What , for that matter , lends crack resistance to horses ' hooves and adhesiveness to the secretions of mussels and barnacles ? What makes rats ' teeth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lewis and other researchers hope to usher in an exciting new era in materials science , one based not on petroleum products like nylon and plastic but on proteins synthesized by living , growing things . " Why go to an organic chemist for new materials , " asks University of Mississippi biochemist Steven Case , " when nature has already produced some beauties ? " <P> Fine-tuned by 4 billion years of evolution , protein chemistry has a lot to recommend it . To produce Kevlar , for instance , requires vats of concentrated sulfuric acid that must be maintained at high pressure . But spiders produce silk in the open air using water as a solvent . " I am absolutely fascinated , " says University of Washington materials scientist Christopher Viney , " that such an incredible material starts out as a solution in water , and all the spider does is squirt it out through a small hole . In the process , proteins that were soluble turn into insoluble fibers . Now , is n't that amazing ? " Just as amazing is Viney 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquid crystal rather like the displays on digital wristwatches . <P> Biological wizardry of a different sort is responsible for the ruggedness of abalone shells , which under high-powered microscopes resemble elaborately constructed stone walls . In this case , crystals of calcium carbonate , siphoned from seawater , serve as the stones , while a slurry of protein and complex sugars acts as the mortar between them . " The ingredients themselves are not at all impressive , " marvels Princeton University materials scientist Ilhan Aksay . " Yet the shell is as strong as the most advanced man-made ceramics . " And if a simple stone-and-mortar design can turn an intrinsically chalky substance into a tough coat of armor , exclaims Aksay , just think of what it might do for materials like aluminum oxide and silicon carbide that are heat resistant but tend to fracture easily .                     