@@397039

Mariana , a 22-year-old woman in Rio de Janeiro , discovered she was pregnant by a man she did n't love . She was not ready to raise a child . Her job paid little , and in Brazil being a single mother would stigmatize her as a " piranha , " a whore . Despite her allegiance to a conservative Protestant church , Mariana saw only one way out : abortion . In Brazil , as in many Third World countries , abortion is illegal . The only exceptions  --  cases of rape and danger to the life of the mother  --  must win court approval . Mariana turned to misoprostol , an ulcer medicine often taken by Brazilian women to provoke miscarriages and only recently used experimentally to terminate pregnancies in the U.S. Obtaining the drug on the black market , Mariana ingested it and also put some in her uterus . She hemorrhaged , but an ultrasound test showed the fetus still intact . So , like many Brazilian women , Mariana entered a clandestine clinic . There she was anesthetized , after which her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brazil is the reserve of the few women who can afford the best clinics . Shortly after the procedure in a second-rate clinic for working-class women , Mariana 's uterus became infected . She was a victim of a shadowy and lucrative industry that provides little if any postoperative care and goes unpunished for botched operations . Similar dangers abound at the hands of aborteiras , who perform abortions in people 's homes . For the many women who must opt for using a hanger , poisonous herbs or other methods of self-induced abortion , the risk of infection , injury or death increases . Of the estimated 1.5 million abortions performed annually in Brazil , as many as 42 percent result in complications , according to a recent study by the Alan Guttmacher Institute in New York . Nearly 300,000 women land in the hospital , overburdening an already dilapidated public health system , and tens of thousands more avoid or can not afford treatment . Several thousand die each year ( the illegality of abortion prohibits making an exact count ) . Mariana was one of the lucky ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mariana bore most of her ordeal alone . The father of the child , who earned about $100 a month , refused to accompany her to the clinic . To pay for the operation she borrowed from a friend . Mariana 's parents , with whom she was living , knew nothing of their potential grandchild or their daughter 's pain . Mariana hid and then destroyed the ultrasound image , the last vestige of her pregnancy . But the emotional trauma lingered . This article must also be an accomplice to Mariana 's secrecy : it conceals her real name to prevent her embarrassment and possible prosecution . Mariana 's case , like that of millions of Third World women , dramatizes the planet 's most fundamental yet most ambiguous set of challenges : confronting the issue of birth rates , the rights of the unborn , and the needs , desires and beliefs of the living . In Cairo last September the United Nations Conference on Population and Development put this biological , political and moral predicament at the top of the international agenda . The debate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we control population , and should legal and safe abortion be an option ? Should governments regulate reproductive choices ? And what role , if any , should organized religion play ? The controversy emerges together with the global women 's movement . The thousands of women who descended on Cairo , a stronghold of Islamic radicalism often inimical to feminism , battled taboos and overturned historical barriers to demand women 's rights , health care and political power . Even more than the fall of the Berlin Wall or the Rio Earth Summit , the Cairo conference heralds a new era by appealing to the equality of men and women and focusing on primordial concerns : sex , womb , and nurture . Cairo highlighted the Third World as the arena in which the abortion debate must be decided . The so-called South is not only the earth 's poorest region but also has its highest birth rates and most ingrained systems of male dominance . Change in the South is urgently needed yet difficult to achieve . But by making an unprecedented show of strength at Cairo , Third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the major powers ' continued ambivalence toward the developing world , an ambivalence reflected in apathy about the South 's crises and anger about such perceived threats as South-to-North migration . Perhaps no country better dramatizes the complexity of abortion than Brazil , where momentum has been growing for legalization but without the simplistic " prolife " and " pro-choice " categorizations that have dominated debate in the U.S. Like the abortion issue itself , Brazil is full of contradictions and ambiguities , a " country of the future " chronically held back by a legacy of slavery and social and economic inequality . With a multicultural population of 150 million and an area larger than the continental U.S. , this industrial and agricultural giant boasts a top-ten economy but has a monthly minimum wage of less than $100 . In Rio the verandas of luxury apartments face crowded slums often ablaze with gun battles between drug lords and police . In universities intellectuals tap away on notebook computers while in the streets illiterate laborers use muscle power to haul garbage carts . Last summer jets carried thousands of Brazilians to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World Cup soccer championship , while the press reported that the already high infant mortality rates rose in the northeast , the poorest region of the country . ( Brazil 's overall rate of 60 deaths per 1,000 births is six times higher than that of the U.S. and Cuba , for example . ) At the UN this past fall Brazilian diplomats campaigned for a permanent seat on the Security Council , while at home malaria , leprosy and Chagas ' disease ( a parasitic ailment that causes slow death ) still afflict hundreds of thousands of people . One Brazilian economist calls his country " Belindia "  --  a Belgium and an India rolled into one . THE CONTRADICTION between wealth and poverty is compounded by the tension between modernity and tradition . Although Brazil has rapidly traded its rural roots for urban sprawl , the people maintain a strong religiosity in the face of secular trends . Faith still burns , whether among the historically Roman Catholic majority , the syncretistic Afro-Brazilian religions , or the more recently emerging fundamentalist Protestants . Underneath a veneer of modern consumer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on virginity still determine social and sexual codes of conduct . Nevertheless , modernity has tattered many traditions by sending an increasing number of women into the job market , exposing them to new cultural models , and dramatically shrinking in half one of the world 's highest population growth rates . On average women now bear about three children ; in the 1960s the figure was six . Indeed , this slower growth , confirmed by census data released last year , means that Brazil should no longer worry population-control experts . " The discussion over birth control has become obsolete . This change occurred so rapidly that the people involved in the debate apparently did n't realize it , " Simon Schwartzman , the census bureau head , told reporters . The people adopted population control on their own , he said . However , as is true throughout Latin America , the burden of birth control has fallen on women . Female sterilization ( by tubal ligation ) tops all methods of contraception , prompting the Brazilian Congress to investigate and denounce the practice , including the involvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Condom use and vasectomies are rare . For those women who do not use birth control because of ignorance , lack of income or dislike ( on the part of men and women ) , clandestine abortion is the remaining choice . The Guttmacher report estimates that for every 100 births there are 44 abortions . Although feminists have been active in Brazil since the mid-1970s , only now is the country ready to address these issues . Like a cold splash of national consciousness-raising , the leading newsmagazine Veja hit the public last August with a special edition on women , including frank pieces on abortion and birth control . The influential daily newspaper Folha de So Paulo also sponsored debates on abortion and reported on two prominent physicians investigated by police for removing defective fetuses . As Brazil 's fledgling democracy matures , politics has begun to open to women and their issues . In October , two years after impeaching a corrupt , conservative president who flaunted his virility , Brazilians elected a liberal opponent of the generals who ruled from 1964 to 1985 . Fernando Henrique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activists and feminists . Cardoso 's wife , Ruth , an anthropologist who criticized conservatives in his 1994 coalition , may prove to be the most outspoken first lady in Brazilian history . Voters also chose their first Afro-Brazilian woman senator , Benedita da Silva . As a congresswoman and symbol of growing female electoral involvement , she spurred the sterilization investigation and has become one of the leading voices for women 's rights . While Brazil 's daughters know the moment is ripe for discussion , they recognize that the campaign to make abortion safer through decriminalization will be long and difficult . They must overcome a complex mixture of political , cultural and religious forces while keeping their focus on Brazil 's fundamental problems of poverty and inequality . Furthermore , because feminists still lack electoral clout , any drive to revise the law could easily fail . Public health administrator Ligia Mendonca believes that legalizing abortion requires exercising power and changing attitudes about women 's issues . An unsuccessful state legislative candidate on the socialist Workers ' Party ticket in the recent election , Mendonca brings to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military dictatorship . She performed plays in the slums , taught adult literacy classes based on the critical pedagogy of Brazilian educator Paulo Freire , and spent ten months in prison during a repressive sweep against the left in the early 1970s . Afterward she was blackballed from employment , and the police closed a cooperative preschool she and her husband had opened with other couples . In 1981 , as the regime began relaxing restrictions , Mendonca used her graduate degree in public health and epidemiology to enter the health secretariat of the state of Parana . There she helped organize workers " from the ambulance driver to the physician " into a 10,000-member union . AS A PUBLIC official Mendonca has focused on the problems of poor women , in particular their lack of access to health care . Although Parana , located in the wealthier southern half of Brazil , is proud of its approximation of First World living conditions , Mendonca 's research reveals that the state is no better than the rest of the country in terms of women 's health . For women of childbearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pregnancy are a major cause of death , she says . " When she becomes pregnant , a woman here has a risk of dying about ten times higher , or even more , than a woman in the U.S. We have seen this in Parana . " A recent study by the Pan American Health Organization confirms her conclusions . According to this report , pregnancy , delivery , postdelivery complications and abortion together rank among the top ten causes of death among Latin American women , taking the lives of an estimated 28,000 in 1990 . In the U.S. maternal deaths number only a fey hundred per yea the study notes . It estimates that abortion is the most common cause of maternal death in seven Latin American countries and the second most common in six others . The study stresses that the real extent of maternal mortality is unknown because of inadequate statistics . According to Mendonca , in Brazil the leading causes of maternal death are eclampsia ( convulsions during pregnancy or childbirth due to a lack of prenatal care ) , hemorrhaging during childbirth , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital infections . In all three cases the average Brazilian hospital is incapable of saving women , M endonca says . " In Parana , 90 percent of childbirths are done in a hospital , but our health system is very bad , " she says . " The doctors do n't stay at night . So if a woman comes to give birth at night , the person who attends is a hospital employee who is n't even a midwife . The doctor comes only if it 's a complicated birth . There is no doctor Or blood to take care of a hemorrhage . The majority of hospitals in Brazil do n't have a blood bank . " Women hospitalized for botched abortions face even worse conditions , Mendonca adds , because prejudiced doctors and hospital employees purposely provide poor care . Even women obtaining court-sanctioned abortions ( which man ) r doctors refuse to perform ) are badly treated by health workers . In the state capital of Curitiba middle- and upper-class women who can afford to spend $300 to $400 seek out one of three clandestine clinics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locations , reputations and even the names of their owners are open secrets among women . " I have several friends who have gone to these clinics , " Mendonca says . " Whoever has money can have an abortion with total safety . " Nevertheless , no one has dared learn how the abortion clinics are set up or where the profits go . The government has taken no action on abortion . Clinics occasionally shut down by the police simply reopen in a few weeks . " Certainly the doctor gives money to the police , " says Mendonca . " Abortion for the upper class is the logic of the Mafia , of the numbers racket , of collusion , of corruption , " argues Licia Ribeiro , a longtime Catholic activist and sociologist who is attempting to stimulate debate about abortion within Brazil 's Roman Catholic Church . Though opposed to abortion in principle , Ribeiro favors legalization because of the devastating effects of clandestine abortion on poor women . " Secrecy favors women of society 's richest sectors , who have access to better technology . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the reuse of human material . It 's difficult to know about this , because it 's illegal . " " Prolife " arguments reinforce the " industry " and heighten the danger to women because they help drive abortion underground , Ribeiro says . " When you take a prolife position , you are in collusion with those sectors in the abortion industry who are antilife , " she says . An even greater paradox is that feminists do not publicly denounce these abortion clinics despite the corruption and risks involved . " Many of us protect the clinics , because you could need them , " Mendonca says . The abortionists are aware of their own importance . Renato Cesar da Rocha , a Curitiba gynecologist who has done abortions for 45 years , gave an extraordinary interview after being brought up on charges last year . " I do abortions up to the eighth week . After that I try not to do it , because the fetus is bigger . Up to two months it has no form ; it 's just an embryo , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not fear a police investigation . " Judges , police chiefs , the wives of police chiefs and of doctors , the girlfriends of doctors all come here . Everybody comes , nuns , priests . " The greatest concern of leaders like Mendonca and Ribeiro is for the millions of poor women who must resort to riskier , often self-induced methods of abortion . Though Mendonca , a lapsed Catholic , and Ribeiro disagree on the religious implications of abortion , they share the women 's movement 's goal of social equity : higher pay for women , an end to domestic violence , a renovation of the ramshackle public health system , more responsibility on the part of physicians , better sex education and greater concern for women 's health . They also concur that decriminalizing abortion is the only way to eliminate the dangers of secrecy . " If abortion were legal , you would have a chance to talk with the woman to see if she would give up the child for adoption , " Mendonca says . " You could call in the man to participate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family planning and orienting them for the future . " Ribeiro stresses that " the defense of life is a Catholic principle , " and adds , " women are dying " from abortion . LEGALIZATION will occur , however , only if Brazilians can overcome the split between a deeply felt value for life and the harsh social reality that leads many women to abort . Ribeiro has witnessed this conflict while studying women in grass-roots church communities located in the teeming , mainly lower-class outskirts of Rio . She says women in these communities radically oppose abortion for moral and religious reasons but opt for it when poverty dictates a small family . " There are cases in which life and death are so mixed together that you can not maintain an absolute principle against abortion , " Ribeiro explains . " In some circumstances women end up choosing abortion in order to defend the life of the family . " Also , she says , " From the ethical point of view this is a very complex question . The country is very divided . If a plebiscite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would win , although the movement is growing . " As Mendonca testifies , the women 's movement must walk the delicate moral tightrope of the abortion issue . " Today there is an accumulation of discussion among women that did n't exist ten years ago , " Mendonca says . " This does not mean that the abortion question is a tranquil one . Where you have women linked enough to the church , it 's a very difficult question to discuss . " Even among the most socially conscious Catholic groups abortion is " taboo , " Mendonca says . These " progressive " Catholics define oppression only in socioeconomic terms and ignore injustice in the spheres of culture and sexuality , she observes . " The Catholic Church in general still disapproves of any sexuality whose end is not reproduction . " A similar attitude reigns in the Workers ' Party , heavily populated with leftist Catholics . The WP is radical on most issues but largely silent on abortion . " The majority of men even in progressive parties have never heard a woman speak on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general , the men of the WP are against abortion . They do n't think it is an important question . " WP feminists " are afraid of being labeled antilife , " she adds . The powerful Catholic Church is sure to throw its full weight against legalization . It is thus a strange irony that the most impassioned voices for decriminalization have emerged from the convents . Since the reforms of the Second Vatican Council ( 1962-1965 ) , many sisters have quietly abandoned the sheltered life of teaching wealthy children and cooking priests ' meals and entered the I slums and fields to bring the church closer to the poor . Along the way they have become more worldly and better educated . Moreover . in Brazil nuns outnumber priests by nearly three to one , and young women continue to flock to convents . While clerics take the credit for rejuvenating the church , the unpublicized sisters have occupied the religious trenches . They are now poised to help plan the church 's pastoral strategy , including ways to treat the social and personal wounds caused by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Sister Ivone Gebara , rocked the church by declaring in an interview in Veja that abortion should be a mother 's choice and should be legalized . Titled " Abortion Is Not a Sin , " the interview appeared just as Pope John Paul II issued his encyclical on moral theology , Veritatis Splendor ( " The Splendor of Truth " ) , which upholds the church 's opposition to artificial birth control and sustains " the universality and immutability of the moral commandments , particularly those which prohibit always and without exception intrinsically evil acts . " " The other day I aided a woman who had an abortion , and I was shocked when I saw the fetus . It 's a little baby . It 's as if we were taking away the chance of that life to flower , " Gebara told Veja 's journalists . " Abortion is violent , very violent . It is always a traumatic choice , never a happy course of action . Women only abort if obliged by circumstances . But it is a violence that exists and as such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social inequality , she added , " Brazil continually aborts its citizens , if not during the first month , then throughout their lives . " Gebara further asserted that politically " advanced " priests and nuns favor decriminalization , but admit so only in " very restricted circles . " " They are men and women tormented on account of their convictions , " she said . " That interview was like a bomb blast in Brazil , " Ribeiro recalls . The president of the National Conference of the Bishops of Brazil , Archbishop Luciano Mendes de Almeida , responded by reaffirming the church 's teaching that human life begins " from the first moment of conception . To provoke an abortion , eliminating an innocent and defenseless life , is a grave matter before God and one 's i own conscience . " Recognizing Gebara 's many years of service to the church , the archbishop urged the nun to rethink her position . THE REACTION was far stronger in Gebara 's home diocese of Recife , located in the northeast , the birthplace of Brazilian slavery and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lived and worked among the area 's poor for more than two decades . Recife 's archbishop is Dom Jose Cardoso Sobrinho , a conservative and fierce defender of papal authority who in 1985 replaced the retired Dom Helder Camara , the renowned liberationist leader whose ideas fell into disfavor during John Paul II 's well-known campaign to tame Brazilian Catholic radicalism . Dom Jose ordered Gebara to retract her statements and threatened her with punishment under canon law . When she refused , the bishop sought sanctions from the Vatican . Supported- ' by her fellow sisters , Gebara reached a compromise with the authorities in Rome , agreeing to issue a retraction in which she declared loyalty to the church but did not mention abortion . Dom Luciano , a highly accomplished Jesuit and veteran church diplomat who has kept harmony among Brazil 's 300 bishops , sent private letters to his colleagues saying that the was case closed . Dom Jose , however , disagreed and recently renewed his complaint to Rome . Cardinal Eugenio Salles , the archbishop of Rio de Janeiro and a powerful figure in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outcome . An ally of Gebara , Maria Jose Rosado Nunes , walked a similar path as a nun until she recently left the convent to fight for abortion reform . At the end of Vatican II Nunes traded her traditional habit for laywoman 's clothing and began pastoral work outside the private school run by her religious order . Later she worked in the northeast , befriending a group of prostitutes , and then moved on to the rugged Amazon frontier . taking advantage of new opportunities open to sisters , she obtained an M.A. in sociology in Sao Paulo , where she linked up with the growing feminist movement . Nunes has published a book on nuns which discusses women 's lack of power in the church , and she recently finished a Ph.D . dissertation titled " The Church , Sex , and Power " at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes in Paris . Near the end of her studies , Nunes left her order and married a former Jesuit priest , also Brazilian . She now teaches religious sociology at the Pontifical Catholic University of Sao @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1992 Nunes helped found Catolicas pelo Direito de Decidir ( Catholic Women for the Right to Decide ) , the independent Brazilian version of the U.S. group Catholics for a Free Choice , which opposes the church 's antiabortion stance . Catolicas emerged from a dialogue between feminists and female liberation theologians  --  a watershed orchestrated by Nunes and Rose Marie Muraro , a Catholic writer who pioneered modern Brazilian feminism . " The colloquy of female theologians was always with male theologians , but the women never got along well with feminists , " Nunes recalls of an earlier era . " We have created a formal seminar on theology and reproductive rights . " Although Catolicas is an ecumenical collective that includes a female Lutheran pastor , Nunes has stood out as a leading spokesperson . For Nunes the abortion issue centers on the church 's continuing incompatibility with modernity , despite Vatican II . " There are two things in modernity that can not be accepted by the church : the autonomy of the individual and democracy . It is in this context that the church can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Similarly , it can not deal successfully with issues of sexuality such as celibacy and birth control . So the church must resort to its old strategy of asserting a " monolithic " doctrine while repressing the cacophony of internal dissent on sexuality , she argues . Even in the Brazilian church , which was the most radical branch of the Catholic Church in the 1970s , post-Vatican II innovations such as liberation theology were little more than a " happy mistake " to be crushed by conservative reaction . But even during this brief " springtime " of religious renewal the Brazilian church did not budge on women 's issues . Brazil 's famed grass-roots church communities " do not treat the question of domestic violence , " Nunes says . " The church deals with the family only in a traditional way . " Faced with the church 's intransigence , Catolicas is planning an end run around the bishops in the campaign to legalize abortion . Unlike Catholics for a Free Choice , which confronts the church head-on , Catolicas will focus on the poor , who suffer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women in Brazil call themselves Catholics , but in the meantime they go against the church in their reproductive practices . Because : of this , they have strong sense of guilt , " Nunes explains . " The only legitimization they have for abortion is their poverty . We want to equip these women with a religious discourse that allows them to justify and legitimize their practices religiously . We want to stop them from feeling guilt . " MENTION NUNES to Clea Carpi da Rocha , an attorney for the federal government 's National Council for Women 's Rights , and she bristles with indignation . Though against legalization of abortion like most Brazilians , Rocha offers another example of the complexities of the issue and the impossibility of easy categorization . The daughter of an " anarchist-papist " arrested during the military regime , she shares feminist enthusiasm for women 's advancement . As the president of the local section of the Brazilian Bar Association she was the first woman to head a major organization in the state of Rio Grande do Sul . She was also state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job is to oppose gender discrimination . Rocha agrees that Brazil must improve its social services , as well as families ' ability to care for children , but she rejects the idea that social inequality justifies abortion : " There is no argument that justifies taking away a life . Life should always be preserved . If the public health network has a deficit , with long lines of parents and with appointments and medical exams backed up for three or four months , how will it be able to attend to cases of voluntary abortion ? " For Rocha the ultimate question is whether Brazil and the countries of the Southern Hemisphere will abdicate sovereignty as the planet seeks to slow the global birth rate . " The ecological discourse was already appropriated by the countries of the North when they linked together poverty , environmental degradation and the lack of resources , " Rocha says , alleging that Brazilian feminists have been coopted by international prochoice agencies that fund research on abortion . " The majority of feminists receive money from outside-from such sources as the Rockefeller Foundation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she contends . " The word " imperialism " may be worn out , but imperialism exists  --  with the the same force and violence and with the same consequences , " she continues . " The dismantling of social security and public health facilitates the entry of foreign capital . Why do you think Africa is dying of AIDS ? Look at Rwanda : a million refugees in the open air , dying of cholera , of hunger and thirst , and they throw them little sacks of food from planes . In Yugoslavia where do all of the arms come from ? Who benefits from these internal wars ? Are governments really interested in achieving peace ? It is in the interest of some that others die . And how rapid the solution was in Iraq ! " Rocha 's argument touches a deep political nerve reaching back to the 1960s , when some Brazilian intellectuals saw the arrival of the pill and private birth-control clinics  --  despite the military 's outspoken opposition  --  as a foreign attempt to control Brazil 's population . That fear re-emerged during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denies that Brazil 's pro-choice activists are ideological toadies of First World feminists . " There is no way we can blindly and uncritically support everything that comes from the UN , " she says , noting that foreigners have interfered in Brazil on both sides of the population question . She cites , for example , a Human Life International fund-raising letter that attacks the entrance of Catholics for a Free Choice into Latin America as a sinful flood of " baby killers . " " When the UN blamed population growth as generating economic and ecological problems , we disagreed . In Brazil , the radical drop in population growth in the past ten years has not caused poverty to drop . On the other hand , we can no longer maintain the anti-imperialist discourse of the 1960s , which was also an uncritical discourse . " Nunes dismisses the similar notion that middle-class activists manipulate the poor into favoring abortion . Poor women are raising reproductive issues of their own , she says . " When we defend women 's access to contraceptive methods and abortion practices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The abortion issue leads Brazil and many other countries to a political crossroads where religion and tradition collide with the women 's movement , the rich override the poor , and the North tries to guide an assertive South . with no compromise between prolife and pro-choice advocates in sight , the result could be social turmoil exploding from new demands for abortion reform and women 's rights or simply a stalemate . If the latter , many nations might find it politically expedient to profess prolific sentiments while continuing to let millions of women abort secretly in the worst of conditions . Perhaps change will come only if the world Marianas , who have risked their lives to get an abortion , speak out . Ken Serbin teaches Latin American history at the University of San Diego . He lived in Brazil from 1988 to 1991 and frequently visits that country . <p>                     