@@407090

LIKE MANY office workers across the country , Gail Nelson , a secretary in the Small Business Development Center at Salem ( Mass . ) State College , was in the habit of bringing to work an extra set of clothes to change into for the gym , the walk home , or a dinner engagement . At the end of the day , Nelson would be the last one in the office . The restroom , located a floor below , often was locked by then , so she would change behind a partition in the back of her storefront office . She sometimes used the divider to attend to other private needs as well . For example , " I recall I got a severe sunburn where I needed a prescription ointment , and I would go behind the divider and open my blouse and put it on . " What Nelson did n't know was that her activities-not just after work , but throughout the day-were being videotaped by a hidden camera . The only person who knew she was being taped was her boss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October , 1995 , stumbled on the camera , lying on a newly installed shelf near the ceiling . He pulled the tape from it and watched the video with Nelson , who was shocked to see herself changing clothes . She later learned that the college had installed the camera in June of that year . " At first , I was frantically thinking of a good reason why they would do it , " she says . " We had a work-study student in our office who had been stalked by a neighborhood person and , since we were a storefront , a public office , he would come in and harass her . So I thought , maybe that 's why the camera 's up . But then I thought , why did n't they tell me that ? What reason would be good enough not to tell me ? I concluded that there was no reason good enough not to tell me they were taping the office unless it was about me . " Nelson has been an employee of Salem State College for eight years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has filed an intention to sue the college , alleging invasion of privacy . " I think the single most important thing Congress could do is require that , if an area is under surveillance , there should be a sign , a notice . People should know , " Nelson maintains . " There are laws about how closely satellites can look at us , so everybody out on the street has better protection from surveillance by satellite than they do where they work . " " Apparently , the college thought someone was using the building after hours doing computer work or Xeroxing , " notes Jeffrey Feuer , Nelson 's attorney . " To catch this person , they began videotaping 24 hours a day . " Feuer , who has represented other victims of workplace privacy invasion , explains that companies have a greater need to control their employees today and that spying on workers is increasing . Part of that effort involves using videotapes with no sound to get around the laws restricting wiretaps and eavesdropping . " In terms of videotaping , that 's a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws on it . As long as they use video and are not capturing sound , they are not covered by the eavesdropping and wiretaps statutes . " It is not only legal loopholes that work to employers ' advantage in monitoring their workers . One of the few laws affecting workplace privacy , the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 , contains language that explicitly guarantees employers the right to listen in on workers ' telephone calls-an action that would be a crime if anyone except an employer did it . Most people assume that Federal laws protect Americans from being spied upon in the workplace . To the contrary , over the years , Congress has rejected legislation spelling out basic privacy protections for employees . In fact , in many ways , employers have leeway to scrutinize Americans routinely to an extent that even police ca n't , unless they first go to court and obtain a warrant . A 1997 survey by the American Management Association of 906 large and medium-sized companies found that 35% of the respondents occasionally used some form of electronic surveillance on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hidden video cameras , typing at computers with special software that allows supervisors to monitor everything from the number of errors made to how often breaks are taken . Their phone calls may be eavesdropped upon and their e-mail messages and the content of their computer hard-drives perused . Moreover , the scrutiny extends beyond on-the-job activities . Employees may be compelled to give urine sampies for drug screening or submit to psychological testing , and their credit histories and health records are accessible to their employers as well . " The question we ask ourselves is : How are these abuses possible ? Is n't this America ? I thought we had a right to privacy , " Lewis Maltby , director of the American Civil Liberties Union 's Workplace Rights Project , told the House Education and Labor Subcommittee on Labor-Management Relations in 1993 . " And the answer when it comes to the workplace is no , there is no right to privacy . The confusion that arises comes because when people think about the right to privacy , what they are really thinking about is the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fourth Amendment of the Bill of Rights . This right is real . It is very important . But like all constitutional rights , it only applies to the government . The Constitution and Bill of Rights simply do not apply to any private organization , including not applying to any private corporation . " When most Americans go to work in the morning , they might just as well be going to a foreign country , because they are equally beyond the reach of the Constitution in both situations . And unfortunately , Federal law does very , very little to fill this void . " The surveillance of employees is n't anything new . In the 19th century , factory owners often intruded into many aspects of their workers ' lives , even imposing upon them nightly curfews and requiring that they attend church . Ford Motor Co. , in its early years , employed a team of investigators who scrutinized employees ' homes and personal finances to determine if they were worthy of profit-sharing bonuses . In the early 20th century , management theorist Frederick Taylor 's concepts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taylor philosophy took decision-making away from workers and required management continually and systematically to measure employees ' performance-an approach which led some companies to equip typewriters with devices that measured the number of keystrokes made . " Throughout the previous century and up through the 1950s , the right of employers to inquire into any aspect of an employee 's life was virtually undisputed , " a 1987 report by the Office of Technology Assessment noted . " Employers could choose their employees in any way they wished and were quite free to say , We want only this kind of person working . ' . . . Employers compiled psychological profiles , employment histories , and other files of personal data quite unrestrainedly . " When civil libertarians exposed the government 's surveillance of citizens in the 1960s , private employers began to receive more scrutiny as well . After Congress passed the Privacy Act in 1974 to rein in data-gathering by the Federal government , it created a Privacy Protection Study Commission to determine the degree to which the private sector needed regulation , too . In 1977 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers : " The individual may be examined by the company physician , given a battery of psychological tests , interviewed extensively , and subjected to a background investigation . After hiring , the records the employer keeps about him will again expand to accommodate attendance and payroll data , records concerning various types of benefits , performance evaluations , and much other information gathering-including , we might add , medical records where the employer provides medical insurance . " The commission recommended that , before the government stepped in , companies should try self-regulation and adopt formal privacy policies . In particular , it advocated informing and gaining prior consent from employees before information was gathered about them , separating sensitive medical and health-insurance data from regular employment files , discarding old information about workers that no longer had a justifiable purpose , and curbing polygraph testing and other intimidating modes of surveillance . Some firms gave it a try . In 1976 , even before the commission 's formal recommendations were released , Equitable Life became one of the first companies to institute a privacy policy . Edward Cabot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a Labor Department hearing in 1980 that the insurance company 's trust in its employees helped build morale and motivation : " Our concern for privacy is an important element in our larger effort to develop and maintain the sort of relationship with our workers which is essential if our employees are to realize their full potential for themselves as well as for the Equitable . " For the most part , however , self-regulation failed . When the privacy commission 's chairman , David Linowes , a professor at the University of Illinois , did a follow-up study of 74 Fortune 500 companies in 1979 , he found that few had followed the commission 's advice . Three-quarters , for instance , used information from employees ' medical records in making decisions affecting their careers . Linowes cited the case of a woman who was denied a promotion after her employer learned that the woman 's mother had been treated by a psychiatrist , which the employer took as a sign that mental illness ran in the family . ( Ten years later , Linowes repeated his survey , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information in making decisions about employees , and 85% routinely shared information from personnel files with workers ' creditors . ) In 1980 , Richard Neustadt , then a White House domestic policy advisor , noted that such practices as monitoring employees ' conversations , using polygraphs and cameras on assembly lines , and denying workers access to records were common in both the manufacturing and service sectors . Nevertheless , in the decade that followed , aided by advances in computing , employers subjected employees to monitoring on an unprecedented scale . According to a 1987 report prepared for Congress by the Office of Technology Assessment ( OTA ) , 4-6,000,000 American workers were monitored at their desks by computer programs that tracked everything from the number of keyboard errors they made a day to the duration of their breaks . In addition , companies were testing employees in ways that probed not just their onthe-job performance , but their attitudes , beliefs , and activities outside the workplace . By 1987 , employers were administering nearly 2,000,000 polygraph tests a year to job applicants and employees . Some included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and union affiliations . Millions of workers were required to produce urine samples under observation for drug testing , although the tests frequently were inaccurate . ( The report also noted that some of these tests " reveal information that is not only personal , but is arguably not relevant to the employment situation . " ) At one company , management used video surveillance cameras to prevent more than one worker from going to the restroom at a time , as a way of hindering attempts to organize a union . Few safeguards In its study , the Office of Technology Assessment noted that companies generally had few safeguards to keep information gathered about employees confidential . Once negative information was gathered about a worker , it conceivably could follow that individual for the rest of his or her career . The report concluded : " The intensity and continuousness of computer-based monitoring raises questions about privacy , fairness , and quality of work life . " OTA 's 1987 report spelled out for Congress a pervasive problem that affected millions of American workers . The following year , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , organized labor , and other privacy advocates , Congress passed the Employee Polygraph Protection Act , which barred the use of lie detectors to screen new hires . Under this legislation , employers could test employees only if there was a " reasonable suspicion " of wrongdoing . Additionally , employers had to advise workers of their rights , including the right not to take a test , and employees could n't be dismissed on the basis of the results unless there was other evidence of wrongdoing as well . In 1991 , Delta Airlines hired Equifax to conduct background checks on thousands of Pan American World Airways employees who sought jobs after Delta 's takeover of that airline 's European routes . The applicants were required to sign waivers that allowed Equifax to interview friends and coworkers and probe the applicants ' personal lives . ( A friend of one applicant told Newsday that interviewers asked him not only about whether the applicant had drug , alcohol , or financial problems , but also about his sexual orientation . ) Otherwise , Congress did nothing about the issues cited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1993 estimated that 20,000,000 American workers were being monitored on the job through the computers on their desktops . In large companies , 30% of managers surveyed by the magazine admitted that they had perused employees ' computer files and e-mail communications or listened to their voice-mail messages . Just 18% of companies had a written policy regarding electronic privacy . The effect of this culture of suspicion upon its targets subsequently was documented in a 1990 study by researchers at the University of Wisconsin-Madison . They found that employees who were monitored electronically by their bosses experienced tension , anxiety , and depression to a greater degree than non-monitored workers and reported more physical ailments , such as sore wrists , back problems , and headaches . In 1991 , Cindia Cameron , an organizer for 9-to-5 , a national working women 's group , told the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee about numerous abuses that members of her organization reportedly had suffered . One woman 's boss overheard her making an appointment to interview for another job . Subsequently , he not only fired her , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her work record . A reservation clerk at an airline cursed under her breath after a difficult customer hung up . No one heard the remark except for her eavesdropping supervisor , who berated her and forced her to sign a letter documenting the incident , which then went into her personnel file . Renee Maurel , an airline reservation sales agent , described for a Senate subcommittee how sophisticated computer monitoring had changed the very nature of her work : " Monitoring became the job . How long I was on a phone call , how long between phone calls , how many minutes I was on a break or at my desk became the focus . Not wanting to be the robot I was becoming , I had to create an alter ego-another person who did the work , did what the company demanded , sat there on the assembly line . The company , delighted that we could be tracked so completely , took the monitoring capabilities to the most negative limit . I was disciplined or harassed on several occasions for non-business-related conversations that took place between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was two or more minutes late from a break . I have always felt that there was someone else in my headset , someone in my keyboard , waiting to punish me for the smallest infraction . Stress and tension brought physical ailments-eye , ear , and neck strain among the most persistent . Because the statistics were so important , that is exactly what I passed along to the customers . I would unnecessarily keep them on the phone so I could finish my typing . I would cut them short if they became too chatty . I looked forward only to my 50 minutes of break time , and then worried that I might be late getting back to my desk . Emphasis on statistics made me play games , try to outwit the monitoring devices . None of this did much to help the customer , who , of course , was being monitored also .... The customer became a statistic . " Such monitoring of employee phone calls was identified by OTA in 1987 as a particularly worrisome type of workplace surveillance . Employers argued that listening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managing them and that the ability to do it without employees ' knowledge was essential . OTA noted that one company was so obsessed with keeping surveillance surreptitious that supervisors were required to wear their headsets all day so that employees would not be able to guess whether they were listening or attending to other duties . In 1986 , AT &T; pressured the state of West Virginia to repeal a three-year-old law requiring that companies alert workers to monitoring with a beep . The telephone giant threatened to build a new credit-management center in another state if the privacy law remained in force . OTA noted that such phone monitoring " invokes feelings of invasion of privacy , even though the conversation involved is not really a private one . One operator interviewed for OTA said , When they are listening to me , I 'm very upset , because you ca n't stop it . ' The privacy aspect applies more clearly to the customer 's side of the conversation . Some people may object to third parties overhearing their conversations . " Congress has been careful over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ III of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 barred the interception of telephone calls . Even law-enforcement agencies had to obtain a judicial warrant before they could listen in . At the request of industry , however , Congress exempted switchboards and other equipment on businesses ' premises from the definition of " interception devices . " Two decades later , Congress passed the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 , which extended the anti-wiretapping ban to e-mail , voicemail , and other new technologies . In many ways a victory for privacy advocates , the law contained one subtle , but significant , defeat : It again allowed a company to intercept employees ' electronic communications as long as the interception was done " in the ordinary course of its business . " The courts have placed some restrictions on workplace eavesdropping-for example , employers may listen in to establish that an employee is making a personal call , but once that goal is accomplished , they are not supposed to listen to what that person is saying . In practice , privacy advocates say , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1991 , Sen. Paul Simon ( D.-Ill. ) sought to rectify the situation with the Privacy for Consumers and Workers Act , which would have given employees some protection from phone monitoring and other types of surveillance . Electronic monitoring of all sorts , including videotaping , would be allowed only to the extent that it was relevant to job performance , and employees would have access to the data compiled about them . Employers would have to notify workers when and how they were being monitored ; if phone monitoring was n't continuous , a beep or a flashing light would be required . Simon 's legislation and a companion bill that was introduced in the House by Rep. Pat Williams ( D.-Mont. ) were resisted vigorously by the industry . One opponent was the National Association of Manufacturers , an organization representing 12,500 American companies , whose assistant vice president , Barry Fineran , testified that " random and periodic silent monitoring is a very important management tool , " and that spying on workers helped produce productivity gains that enabled U.S. companies to keep pace with foreign competitors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let the information age pass it by , " he warned . Fineran also argued that signaling employees when they were under surveillance actually would be more stressful for them . " I am sure there are employees who are probably functioning quite well right now , and that light comes on , and they are n't going to function as well as they do right now , " he explained . " And I think that if you think it all the way through , their evaluations will probably be somewhat affected , to the detriment of those employees . " Similarly , corporate America objected to restrictions on surreptitious videotaping . Vincent Ruffolo , president of Security Companies Organized for Legislative Action , stated that " An employer would be put in the absurd position of having to advise suspected thieves when they are being monitored . " The American Insurance Society , the Risk and Insurance Management Society , and other groups lobbied against the legislation as well . They managed to get an amendment to the bill that allowed employers to conduct off-site covert surveillance of employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' compensation fraud . No help from Congress Even with such changes , business opposition was sufficiently strong to keep the bills stalled in committee . In 1993 , Simon and Williams tried again , this time making significant concessions to employers . Williams ' 1993 version of the Privacy for Consumers and Workers Act , for instance , no longer required employers to use beeps or flashing lights ; instead , it was sufficient to inform workers they were subject to electronic monitoring and to specify what type . Employers were allowed to conduct electronic surveillance without any notification if they had a " reasonable suspicion " that the employee was breaking laws or doing things harmful to the company . Surveillance in locker rooms and restrooms was barred , but with the same " reasonable suspicion " exception . In addition , companies were allowed to monitor new employees without restriction during their first 60 days on the job . Even so , the legislation again was opposed by a broad range of businesses , ranging from manufacturing and insurance to airlines and telecommunications . Household Finance Corp. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impose unrealistic , onerous , inefficient , and counterproductive measures on the modern paperless workplace . " The Security Industries Association argued that the inability to monitor employees would make brokerage companies and their customers vulnerable to fraud . Associated Builders and Contractors worried that video monitoring of strikers ' picket lines would be prohibited . The director of corporate security for FMC Corp. , James Royer , even admonished Congress that , if the bill , with its restrictions on video surveillance , were passed , " your safety , the safety of citizens entering these premises , and the assets of this government would be at risk . " Those arguments won considerable sympathy from Capitol Hill lawmakers . " The notion that electronic monitoring has become a valuable tool of management is evidenced by the diverse universe of companies that use it , " noted Rep. Marge Roukema ( R.N.J. ) , who had offered an amendment to the previous version of the bill , exempting financial institutions from regulation . ( Roukema received $250,000 in campaign conh-ibutions from banks and financial-services companies from 1988 to 1996 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " I believe the key question for discussion here is : What is the expectation of privacy in the workplace ? Given the information glut that has been produced by new technology , how far can business go to use electronic devices to improve productivity and performance quality ? What level of privacy can an employee expect when on company time , using official phones , or using company computers or cash registers ? " In the Senate , the most vigorous opponent of Simon 's bill was Strom Thurmond ( R.S.C. ) , who maintained that " businesses are finding it essential to use electronic monitoring as a means of staying competitive in the 1990s and into the next century , " and that employees " privacy " must be balanced against the need of businesses to maintain quality services in a competitive market . " Ultimately , both the Simon and Williams versions of the bill were killed in committee . Since then , no new workplace-privacy legislation has surfaced in Congress , and the surveillance of employees continues . Eighty percent of American companies test employees for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A 1996 survey of Fortune 500 companies found that 70% gave personal information about workers to credit grantors and 47% to landlords . An Arlington , Va. , company markets an artificial-intelligence software program that automatically can scan employees ' e-mail for offensive language . In place of polygraphs , businesses compel job applicants to take psychological tests that not only purport to reveal whether the person is dishonest , but give detailed scores for an array of traits , from compassion to stubbornness . ( According to a 1990 OTA report , in addition to direct questions about whether or not a person thinks stealing is wrong , such tests also contain " veiled purpose " questions such as " On the average , how often a week do you go to parties ? " or " How often do you blush ? " ) Video surveillance in restrooms and locker rooms is legal in all but three states ( although the California legislature is considering a law to bar it ) . Thanks to Congress , when millions of Americans go to work each day , they leave their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is executive director , the Center for Public Integrity , Washington , D.C. , a nonpartisan , nonprofit organization that examines public-service and ethics-related issues . // <p>                     