@@383244

SUNDAY MASS IS LIVELY and joyous at the Sunday morning gathering of the faithful at the Resurrection Chapel of the Holy Spirit Retreat House in Anchorage , Alaska . The chapel 's liturgical committee uses many of the suggestions made by Robert E. Burns in the article " We need a kick in the Mass , " in July 's The Examined Life . We 've also pioneered some innovations of our own to promote community and enliven liturgy for Sunday obligation . Coffee time after Mass frequently showcases the culinary talents of many of our members . Not only are the snacks homemade ; the food is often artistically presented . Those involved in the Sunday liturgygreeters , readers , and eucharistic ministers-wear name tags . On Father 's Day , the presider encouraged participation from the congregation during the homily . At the beginning of Mass , he announced that during the homily , fathers would be welcome to share with the community any of their thoughts and feelings about fatherhood . The presider began with his own story , followed by sharing from a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inaugurated the First Sunday of Lent 1995 , lectors are writing the general intercessions for the Prayers of the Faithful that they read each Sunday . Lectors are trained to use scripture themes from the Sunday readings , local and world events , and known needs of our community to write original petitions that truly reflect the spiritual pulse of Resurrection Chapel . Most of the improvements made in the liturgy at Resurrection Chapel were made with what we have and with a minimum of disruption . The resulting enthusiasm from the community is proof positive that just a little effort and creativity can " brighten the corners where we are . " Connie Meehleis via America Online A force to reckon with veto of the partial-birth abortion procedure by President Clinton could be a defining issue among Catholics in the November election . Instead , Castelli states that 1996 will be no different from any other election year : " there will be some Catholics for Clinton , and some Catholics for Dole . " A Catholic Campaign for America poll conducted last fall by the Tarrance Group found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than an abortion-rights candidate . I find it interesting that Jim Castelli , who serves as an advisor to the Clinton White House , so easily dismisses the impact of religious issues on politics . When election day comes , Castelli can be certain of one thing : Democrats and Republicans will once again see the impact of the Catholic vote , especially where religion and politics meet . Michael A. Ferguson , Executive Dir . Catholic Campaign for America Washington , D.C. How best to serve ? In the July photo story " The Roses of Lima " by Jim Daniels , It was unfortunate to see Jim Castelli miss the mark on the Catholic vote and the role of lay Catholics in the public-policy process in his article , " How to be P.C. ( politically Catholic ) , " in the July issue . The point is never made , much less even entertained , that Catholics will likely provide a swing vote come November . One issue that may significantly impact the 1996 elections is the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act . While Castelli mentions abortion as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the connection that the recent you chronicle the work of two Maryknoll nuns who claim to work for women 's rights . How wrong they are . They offer nothing but patronizing solicitude to the desperate young women in El Crilloma . No chance out of a degrading way of life as prostitutes , in which they are reduced to commodities to be purchased by men . No chance at a safe haven or job training or real dignity or a real future . And no mention of Jesus Christ , who came into the world to set all men and women free , and proclaimed with his every word and act the essential dignity of all as human beings . Instead , these misguided sisters are the unwitting supporters of the very patriarchy and machismo they decry . The Roses only reinforce a culture that views women as objects for men 's use . For models of setting women free from this tragic circumstance , why not profile the work of women , both religious and lay , around the world who have given women real alternatives and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Bangkok and countless others work with little fanfare to help prostitutes and others caught in the sex trade with housing , vocational training , and child care . This was not an article about any real good being done . Mary Jane Ballou via America Online A willing reader Ginny Cunningham 's article " Science has n't made it any easier to die " in the July issue is the best piece of journalism on the subject I have ever read . I was especially surprised by the Catholic Church 's official position as well : Ethical Religious Directives ( ERDs ) could serve as a morally sound , commonsense model for anyone involved in end-of-life decisions . Cunningham framed the subject with great compassion , yet it was clear and to the point . I placed a copy of her article in the envelope containing my will . Should my own death come at such a slow or painful pace , it may provide my family with some truly practical advice and comfort during a difficult time . Keep up the good work ! Robert Salen via America Online @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a terminal state of cancer . Why do we allow new technology to keep us alive when there is no future for the terminally ill ? I can see a future in the new technology for nursing homes and hospitals-to keep the patients there . To the religious fundamentalists , I ask this question , Why can I not refuse ( or use ) any technology for myself and die , helping my friends and relatives cope with long-term grief and costs , not to mention my selfish hope to die in some comfort and dignity ? We may not wish to have Dr. Kevorkian on call , but we do not have " to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous " lifeprolonging technology . George Doherty Fishers , Ind . Tried and tested just finished reading the July Sounding Board " Punishment wo n't make your kids good " by James and Mary Kenny . First , I think it is necessary to say that anyone who has raised 12 children and 40 foster children has every right to be regarded as an expert and is deserving not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I have always agreed that punishment is a poor substitute for discipline . It is often simply a way of getting even with a child , and it works only as long as we are bigger . At the same time , I believe there is a difference between punishment and consequences . Homes need clear rules if they are to function well , and breaking those rules should have built-in , logical consequences if we hope to raise responsible human beings . My husband and I have found that explaining the reason for the rules and setting up the consequences before the violation occurs can alleviate the yelling , at least to some extent . We have found that witholding love is always disastrous , even though it can produce momentary good results . All children need to know that they do not have to earn our love with good behavior . Our love , like God 's , is a given , and children often need it most at the time they are the most unlovable . If they can not count on that , it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I do not think children should be rewarded for behavior that is their duty in the family . Both rewards and praise have the possibility of becoming just as manipulative and controlling as punishment . The whole purpose of discipline is to help a child internalize behaviors and limits so that external controls are no longer necessary . Introducing additional positive external controls looks suspiciously counterproductive . Kathleen 0 . Chesto Southbury , Conn . Who 's to blame ? As a deputy probation officer for 23 years , I felt the need to respond to the article in the June issue by Jerome Miller , " Can we break free of a failed criminaljustice system ? " Institutions such as the family , church , and school have important roles and responsibilities in developing and supporting law-abiding behavior . It seems Miller has ignored the influence of these basic institutions and has confused their roles with those of the criminaljustice system . It is true that the criminal-justice system does not make good citizens , but it does support the basic institutions and roles each has of parenting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " probation officers should sit with the defense and not the prosecution " and that probation has become " an arm of the prosecution " is in direct conflict with and opposition to the California penal code . Our well-defined role as probation officers is that of " an arm of the court . " Community protection and resocialization of the offender can best be achieved through a balance of enforcement activities and supportive casework . We must remain impartial and objective to be " an arm of the court . " It would not be appropriate to sit on the side of either the prosecutor or the public defender . Miller 's proposal that probation officers " should try everything they can to keep a person out of the system , that they should be devising plans , helping with employment , and proposing other forms of supervision and residential care " shows a lack of knowledge about what a probation officer does . If the person is involved with a probation officer , he or she is already in the system . Nonetheless , for over 20 years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probationers to rehabilitation . But unless they take an active part in this plan and are willing to cooperate , it becomes only my hopes and dreams . Those offenders who are motivated to make changes and become lawabiding citizens do cooperate with our treatment plans , benefit from the opportunities the system has to offer , and terminate successfully from probation supervision . A united effort by all social systems including family , church , education , and the criminal-justice system is necessary to bring about positive change . Exclusively holding the criminal-justice system responsible as a failure is an overexaggeration . Antagonistic , sarcastic , and criticizing comments and excusing and justifying criminal behavior can only bring about more division . It perpetuates the problems we do have and ultimately results in more criminal behavior . Darlyne R. Pettinicchio Santa Ana , Calif . Crystal-clear persuasion The article by Donna S. Fernandez , " How one family came to boycott China " in the June issue , was very meaningful . I learned a lot about life in China and the Chinese economy . Not only does the author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also what we as individuals can do . She views the issue as a committed Catholic and her position is in concert with our Catholic faith . One of the problems of the Catholic Church , as I see it , is that the church does not explain in sufficient detail the moral aspects of many controversial issues . The church says abortion is wrong , but the whys and wherefores are not elaborated . In contrast , Fernandez treats her subject with thoroughness . I was also impressed with the way she explained the issue to her son , David . Too many parents do not take the time to make sure their children understand what 's right and what 's wrong . I have tried to boycott goods from China , but the proliferation of Chinese goods does n't make it easy . This article gives me reinforcement for my stand . Irene M. Robb Lewes , Del . U.S. CATHOLIC is wired ! We are building our own entrance ramp onto the information highway . If you 'd like to come along for the ride , E-mail your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will withhold names upon request . Remember , you can still send letters the " old fashioned " way to You May Be Right , 205 West Monroe Street , Chicago , Illinois 60606 , or fax your comments to 312-236-8207 . <p>                     