@@393640

Extraordinary diversity is at the heart of " Conservation by Design , " and though united by an ecological theme , the objects shown reveal distinctive approaches . It was required of each piece that it confront issues of wood consumption , forest management and preservation , and that the artist provide a statement defining the way these criteria had been met . ( The statements and a number of interesting essays are published in the catalogue edited by Scott Landis , a founder of the Woodworkers Alliance for Rainforest Protection . ) It would have been hard to miss the message of Henry Black 's Chainsaw , of endangered ebony , purpleheart and rosewood . A projecting gun barrel rests on a log wrapped in junk mail and greenbacks studded with bullets spew out of the chainsaw . Similarly didactic was a smaller construction , Reliquary , by Carolyn and John Grew-Sheridan , a shell of tree bark perched on top of a stack of discarded mail-order catalogues . The shell houses three " relics "  --  cubes of hard maple from the East Coast , cedar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are reminders of the threatened species . Some exhibitors simply avoided any use of wood , though the alternative materials , usually metal and plastic , may also raise questions about depletion of finite resources ( metallic ores and the petroleum basic to plastics ) . Garry Knox Bennett 's statement was a floor lamp titled Slowly , Sorrow Fled The Village Again ; its metal column supports flexible , snaky arms leading to four plastic reflector shades holding light bulbs . Musical Chair by Eck Follen is a strongly sculptural cage structure of steel wire , welded and painted black . Keith Kutch 's dignified Etruscan Throne Paradox , of sheets of compacted , recycled plastic with a galvanized steel frame and a seat surfaced with discarded rosewood veneer samples , recreates an ancient artifact . Most of the artists , however , expressed themselves with wood or wood-based materials that are commonly available or easily renewable . Some of these objects were of fantastic form . Fred Baier , for example , used birch plywood , steel and leather to create " a roll-top drop-leaf transformer robot desk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ driven by the forces of good . " Of similar size but different character was a bulgy hutch by Mitchell Ackerman , of paper pulp on wire mesh and bits of wood from recycled shipping crates . W. Logan Fry contributed Spectre of a Distant War , a poster-like box of plywood and found wood in which a chunk of tree trunk becomes a face with ominously toothed open jaws . Rough appearance was accepted as an asset or , in an alternative gesture , exploited to generate a beauty and elegance to rival that of exotic woods . David Ebner , for example , used thin sticks of sassafras , twisted and joined together , to make a bed headboard reminiscent of rustic Adirondack furniture . Christoph Neander 's handsome chest utilized white pine sapwood stained by fungus growth . By selecting the wood with pleasingly colorful blue-gray stains and assembling it into a gracefully swelling box with a few painted details , he turned material that would otherwise have been discarded to advantage . Richard Hooper laminated readily available birch plywood ( produced from sustainably managed sources ) to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bowl . The simple and elegant shape is enhanced by the surface color and pattern generated by the ply laminations . The small Pine Box by the Grew-Sheridans indeed has bottom and ends of pine , but its sides are a made-for-the-purpose board of laminated junk mail , all assembled with neatly crafted dovetail joints . Discarded corrugated cardboard is the basic material for another box , by Thomas Loeser , also dovetailed and with a lift lid . For this , Loeser developed a technique of laminating with interleafed sheets of colored paper to form large blocks that were then cut and milled at angles to produce surfaces with color striations of remarkable beauty . Among others who turned waste materials to good account were Dewey Garrett , who glued up trimming scraps from oak flooring with scraps of dark padauk to form slats into a lattice that he then lathe-turned into a 10-inch-diameter bowl , and Kenneth Scherdell , who rescued old oak barn boards awaiting a wood stove for Barnborn , a simple bench of carefully chosen proportions in which the weathered surface of the boards contrasts with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then there were works that mined the vein of found objects reassembled or modified in whimsical or amusing ways . John Marcoux 's Made in the U.S.A. , a striking cabinet , is made up of standard hardware-store yardsticks of basswood , its surfaces and edges stepped by the ways the yardsticks are assembled . Dean Johnston 's stool has three used baseball bats supporting a painted seat mimicking the color and stitching of a baseball . Mitch Ryerson 's table is assembled from a discarded plastic milk crate fitted with a drawer and a glass top and supported on turned-wood legs . And Ron Smith 's chair , The Essentials of Good Grooming  --  possibly the most astonishing object in the show  --  is composed of one large and two small ironing boards , other found objects ( including a flatiron ) and a few poplar planks . A number of the artists addressed themselves straightforwardly to the conservation issue by making attractive objects out of wood that is in ample supply or of a little-known exotic , but not endangered , species . Hickory is the material in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parsons , its steam-bent parts contributing to its graceful form , which suggests its potential for factory production . Hank Gilpin crafted a comparably elegant small table out of domestic elm , with decorative blocks of spalted ( chipped ) elm streaked with a dark grain to enliven its simplicity . Poplar , a wood in good supply but disparaged for its indifferent appearance , was rendered exotic by Mark Wessenger , who painted it with a water-based reddish acrylic paint before making it the pedestal for a small glass-topped table . David Ellsworth chose white oak ( commonly used for flooring ) in a solid block for his near-spherical vessel , Mo 's Delight , which he lathe-turned and carved in a way that exposes the beautiful patterns of its natural grain . Red oak is the material of two vases , Ice Fall and China Blue , by Thomas Kamila , both lathe turnings with filler and lacquer to bring out grain patterns . Using maple saplings in his stretched and twisted Verde Styx Ladderback chair , Jon Brooks achieves a kind of overgrown and mildly distorted version of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent in Peter Murkett 's armchair of recycled red oak and red maple salvaged from shipping pallets ( with a seat woven of steel straps from packing crates ) and in the simple side chair and bench by Michael Swanson , of ash , cherry , hickory and locust native to his Cobham , Virginia , location . Lee Schuette 's Hi-Tech Shaker Chair : Mama makes no secret of its origins in a typical Shaker rocker , transformed here with uprights turned from plantation-grown teak and aluminum rockers , stretchers and back slats . It can be knocked down and reassembled with standard fastenings , suggesting adaptability for commercial production and compact shipment . A wine cabinet of conservative design by John Shipstad is a compendium of the possibilities of exotic woods substituted for endangered species . Its frame is of kamarere from New Guinea , its panels veneered in sucupira from Brazil and inlaid with bayo from Mexico . The interior is lined with madrone from Oregon , the handles of chakte koc from Mexico . Six exotics , American apple plywood and shop scrap add up to eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such less-known exotic woods and a list of suppliers . ) While the crafts play but a tiny role in the destruction of rain forests , industrial production poses a serious threat . The exhibition addresses this reality through the representation of four companies , each a major consumer of fine woods , that have elected an environmentally responsible plan of action . The Martin Guitar Company , manufacturer of the finest factory-made classical guitars , has sought replacements for traditional rosewood , mahogany and Sitka spruce . A row of beautiful experimental instruments showed off walnut , cherry , ash , basswood and mesquite as alternatives for the backs of the instruments . So far , walnut has proved best . For soundboards , discarded Alaskan salmon traps are a fine source of recycled spruce . The Knoll Group , a major producer of modern furniture , exhibited chairs , ottoman and tables designed by the architect Frank Gehry that incorporate thin bent slats of maple from the managed harvesting of trees in the Menominee forests of Wisconsin . A water-based finish is applied by dipping rather than spraying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional , paneled design by the Portico Door Company of Costa Rica are now made from mahogany produced in the firm 's carefully managed forests . The Bridge City Tool Works of Portland , Oregon , makers of fine measuring and marking tools , traditionally of brass and rosewood , have found a rosewood substitute in Juara , a material made from laminated and dyed maple , birch and beech impregnated with phenolic resin . Juara looks as good as rosewood and offers greater density and stability . No one expects a single exhibition to reform industry and bring about worldwide conservation at a level that will save the rain forests . Still , the effort goes a long way in raising our collective consciousness and suggesting the creative opportunities for responsible materials selection . A 160-page catalogue , with essays by nine contributors and 105 color and 13 black-and-white photographs , is available for $30 plus $2 shipping from WARP , One Cottage Street , Easthampton , MA 01027 , or the Museum of Art , RISD , Museum Shop , 224 Benefit Street , Providence , RI. 02903 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WARP . John Pile is professor of design at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn , New York . He is the author of many books , among them Interior Design ( Harry N. Abrams , 1988 ) and Dictionary of Twentieth Century Design ( Facts on File , 1990 ) . <p>                     