@@394831

Before 1989 , asteroids were thought to be just average chunks of rock . In the fall of that year the picture changed when a small asteroid named 4769 Castalia was discovered shortly before it sped past Earth . Radar studies at closest approach showed that Castalia has a curious double-lobed structure . Three years later another small asteroid named 4179 Toutatis whizzed by Earth ( barely more than nine times farther away than the Moon ) . Once again , radar studies showed that the little mountain of rock was really two small asteroids nestled tightly against each other . In 1993 the spacecraft Galileo imaged 243 Ida , an asteroid orbiting the Sun in the main belt of asteroids between Mars and Jupiter . The pictures revealed that Ida was no single body ; it had a tiny moon , since named Dactyl , orbiting at a distance of 100 kilometers . While the notion of double asteroids like Ida may seem startling , the idea is not new . But until recently evidence was scanty and these objects received only limited attention from planetary scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flyby spacecraft , they are finding that double asteroids may be far more common than ever realized . How many of these things are out there ? The answer may lie in the traces of their demise on planets like Earth . Tag-team Battering Chicken Little got it basically right  --  and the evidence lies scattered all through the solar system , including the surface of Earth . Some 200 impact craters mark every continent except Antarctica and show that we did not escape the same cosmic bombardment that scars the Moon 's surface . In fact , because of its larger size and stronger gravity , Earth experienced a greater cosmic barrage than that suffered by the Moon . Only the action of wind and water , mountain building and plate tectonics , has masked Earth 's record of these cataclysms . When a small asteroid strikes the surface of any planet at 20 to 60 kilometers per second , the tremendous energy of its motion excavates a bowl-shaped crater many times the size of the asteroid itself . The size of the crater depends on the size of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a crater a kilometer across , like the famous Barringer Meteor Crater in northern Arizona . But asteroids about 1 km in diameter punch out craters tens of kilometers wide , complete with structures like central peaks and ringed walls . In all cases the crater is circular , whether the object comes straight down or from any but the most oblique angles . Single craters like these are a common sight throughout the solar system . On Earth and the Moon are scars left not only by impacts from single asteroids and comets , but fascinating doublet craters whose form suggests the impact of two projectiles . The lunar crater Bessarion B in Oceanus Procellarum is a good example ( see page 35 ) . Located about halfway between Aristarchus and Kepler , the larger crater of the doublet is some 12 km across . Providing evidence that both impacting bodies struck simultaneously is a septum , or ridge , of ejecta squeezed up between the craters during the violent instant of impact . Another famous crater pair , Messier and Messier A in Mare Fecunditatis , probably came from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On Earth at least three of the 28 largest well-preserved craters are doublets . The 24-km-diameter Ries crater in Germany and its sibling , Steinheim , found 46 km to the southwest , were formed nearly 15 million years ago . The Kamensk and Gusev craters , found in Russia , date from 65 million years ago . But the Clearwater Lakes of northern Quebec present the most striking example of double craters on Earth ( see page 34 ) . They formed when two asteroids of the same size slammed into the Canadian shield east of Hudson Bay some 290 million years ago . All told , about 10 percent of the large craters on Earth are doublets , which points up a very interesting clue about near-Earth asteroids : A sizable percentage of them must be double . Finding the Culprits It was only a matter of time before astronomers discovered a genuine double asteroid . In autumn 1989 Steven Ostro of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory beamed radio waves from the large Arecibo antenna in Puerto Rico toward the newly discovered asteroid 1989 PB ( now 4769 Castalia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1.5-km asteroid ( see " Radar Reveals a Double Asteroid , " April 1990 ) . Processing of the signals led Ostro to conclude that Castalia was two big rocks that touch  --  a contact binary asteroid . Then in December 1992 , the asteroid 4179 Toutatis made a close passage by Earth . By now , improvements at Arecibo and in Ostro 's technique let him obtain striking images of the 3-km-diameter asteroid ( see AstroNews , March 1993 ) . Only the second near-Earth asteroid to be imaged , Toutatis also turned out to be a contact binary , with a large 2.7-km lobe and smaller 1.3-km one . And more double asteroids are turning up . Radar observations of near-Earth asteroids 1627 Ivar and 1986 DA , as well as the large main-belt asteroid 216 Kleopatra , show signs of these bodies being dumbbell-shaped . Several other Earth-approaching asteroids , such as 433 Eros and 1620 Geographos , display light curves that vary greatly in brightness , suggesting they are highly elongated or possibly double . Where did all these double asteroids come from ? Perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dactyl , which was discovered last spring in images taken by the Galileo spacecraft in August 1993 . Some astronomers see Dactyl not as Ida 's daughter , but rather a little sister , born from the same debris cloud as Ida . Ida itself belongs to the Koronis family of asteroids , a group of a w hundred asteroids sharing similar orbital characteristics with 158 Koronis . Planetary scientists believe the family formed when the Koronis parent asteroid was fractured in a major collision with another asteroid . ( The Koronis family is but one of many asteroid families ; see " All in the Family , " February 1993 . ) After the collision , debris spread out into individual orbits around the Sun very close to the orbit of the original parent . A whole family of asteroids formed from this debris , with some asteroids forming pairs . But how ? What mechanism creates asteroid pairs ? William Hartmann of Tucson 's Planetary Science Institute suggests that as fragments blew clear of the catastrophic collision , by chance some moved on nearly identical paths . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into orbital pairs . In this scenario , Dactyl formed at the same time as Ida and from the same parent material , which explains the tiny moon 's similarity in color to Ida and why it was still near Ida . Hartmann 's idea also explains contact binary asteroids . He suggests that instead of winding up in orbit around each other , some fragments could collide gently . Rather than hitting hard and fragmenting , the pieces would slowly crunch together to form a big , dumbbell-shaped object with two components . Computer modeling that I have done indicates that both contact binaries and asteroid moons can indeed form in this way . The model takes a 110-km parent asteroid and shatters it into thousands of pieces . When the debris scatters , I find that there 's a better than 50 percent chance at least one of the largest fragments will eventually attract a moon . The moonlet remains in orbit around the larger asteroid ( as we see with Dactyl ) or , if its orbit is n't stable , collides gently to form a contact binary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With hard evidence that double asteroids exist , planetary geologists are now re-examining how double craters formed on the Earth and Moon . In 1991 Jay Melosh and John Stansberry of the University of Arizona 's Lunar and Planetary Laboratory confronted a vexing problem presented by double craters observed on Earth . Many show a wider separation than would be possible if a contact binary caused them . At first Melosh and Stansberry guessed that tidal stresses separated the contact binary enough to produce two independent craters on impact . Careful calculations , however , indicated that the tidal effects of Earth were n't strong enough and , moreover , the approach speed of the asteroids was too fast to produce the required separation . Thus they concluded that , as it stood , contact binaries could not account for double craters ; 10 to 20 percent of near-Earth asteroids  --  too many , in other words  --  had to be orbiting pairs in order get the necessary separation between the impactors to explain the observed craters . Then recently Italian astronomer Paolo Farinella of the Universita di Pisa rescued the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than one pass by the Earth took place . According to Farinella 's work , tidal forces during the first close encounter were enough just to " pre-separate " the contact binary , so that the next time the asteroid encountered Earth , tidal forces opened the separation a little more just before impact . That provided the distance required to produce the doublet craters we see . With assistance from Melosh , William Bottke of the Lunar and Planetary Laboratory is now testing this idea . They have combined the original tidal model with an orbital evolution one that follows the paths of a model contact binary asteroid as it makes multiple encounters with Earth . Their calculations indicate that the multiple encounters split contact binaries , which then impact Earth to create double craters we see . Nature herself arranged for a demonstration of tidal splitting when a close pass by Jupiter crumbled Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 into two dozen pieces before it struck the giant planet last July . Shoemaker-Levy 's breakup drove Melosh and Paul Schenk of Houston 's Lunar and Planetary Institute to scrutinize Voyager images of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past . They found several chains of impact craters that suggest other comets shared Shoe 's maker-Levy 's fate , striking Jupiter 's moons shortly after a close encounter with the giant planet . ( See AstroNews , February 1994 . ) And there may be signs of this " string of pearls " effect on the Moon in the form of crater chains . Robert Wichman and Charles Wood of the University of North Dakota and , independently , Ewen Whitaker of the Lunar and Planetary Laboratory and Melosh proposed that the Davy crater chain in Mare Nubium formed when a close encounter with Earth split a comet or weak asteroid into a dozen or so pieces that later impacted the Moon . ( See AstroNews , September 1994 . ) Another larger chain of craters near Abulfeda may record yet another chain of impacts on the Moon . Crater chains and pairs bear silent testimony to the varied dynamics that continue to shape our solar system . Until recently , two pieces of the double asteroid puzzle  --  double asteroids and the forces that split them to create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now that scientists have found bona fide asteroid duos and evidence of events that form multiple impacts on planets , the solar system has become a more exciting place to live . Dan Durda studies asteroids at the University of Arizona 's Lunar and Planetary Laboratory . His last ASTRONOMY article was " All in the Family " which appeared in the February 1993 issue . <p>                     