@@411834

I write this as NATO finally found the courage to restrict Serbian guns from lobbing shells and mortars into the once beautiful city of Sarajevo . The recent slaughter of more than 60 innocent people in the city market was too much even for the politicians who had disingenuously coughed up the Vietnam analogy to assuage their consciences . Funny how a place comes to life after the shelling stops . A haunting reminder of just this was the wire service photo showing a man sheepishly making his way across town nicely tucked inside the comforting shadow of a tank . All that armor and a man on a no-name steel bike on his way to buy bread or collect firewood . Or , in another place and time , to start a revolution . Who can forget the students on bikes crushed by tanks in Tiananmen Square ? " Every time I see an adult on a bicycle , I no longer despair for the future of the human race . " I have recycled this H.G. Wells quote a number of times in this column because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps a tragic authenticity . I do n't know the context of the quote but suspect Wells was talking about civility , a trait difficult to cultivate when bombs are dropping . When I see an adult on a bicycle in more hospitable places than Sarajevo , I think someone has decided to move quietly in a sea of noise to his or her own music . Some of you have written that you do n't ride a bike to work to save money , or husband a meager supply of gasoline . Rather , you ride for the sheer joy and independence . You ride because such an act is hopeful . Right after this year 's devastating California earthquake a reader from Pennsylvania called , absolutely incensed that the bicycle was not suggested as an institutional answer to the endless traffic woes of the Los Angeles commuter . " Cycling has to take advantage of this tragedy , " he said . I explained that a number of California organizations and clubs were setting up bike pools and caravans to get people to the office under their own power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw it on television , he could n't be completely sure . My file of photographs showing the bicycle in or on the edge of tragedy gets thicker by the day . Sarajevo has the most entries , including a photo of an old woman leaning on her bike next to a bombed-out church . The cross remains . Kids on bicycles are usually the first to have a look after another bombing in Belfast . South Africa shows me bicycles abandoned like litter among the many dead in the townships . The bike was one of the first to walk the streets after Hurricane Andrew . While the use of the bike may be explained in simple terms , it 's the junta positioning that is haunting . One does n't have to live in a war zone to feel vulnerable on a bicycle . In my opinion commuting year-round is an act of courage and civility , and contrary to what many people think , a very adult act . Wells ' hope for mankind is in the mobility and the civility . On a bike you move under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy give and take . I do n't claim the bike disappears beneath you but do claim the bike becomes " part " of one 's physiology . The bike stretches me , and I stretch it . We take meaning from each other . The other day a reporter asked me to define the essence of cycling . I responded : " Cycling meets us at our level of need . " These words were made flesh by the many accounts BICYCLING readers have sent me , describing the ways cycling has made them whole again . Austin Clark of Pueblo , Colorado , was paralyzed in one leg after surgery and in great pain . Having been a cyclist , he remembered a connection and taped his paralyzed leg to the pedal and started riding again . " I felt so good , it was unbelievable , " he wrote . " It was great I could do something . I could n't walk or run , but I could ride . " After a month of cycling he felt his little toe move . Now he has almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Perry Suzanne Templeton of Thibodaux , Louisiana , who had her foot essentially severed in a horse accident . The orthopedic surgeon saved the foot " with great difficulty " and she spent years in pain , therapy , and making the rounds of doctors . Someone gave her an old 10-speed and " something miraculous happened " : The kid in her was reborn . Through cycling , she astounded doctors with her recovery , completing a century recently . Cycling makes her " equal , whole , and without limitations . It is a forgiving endeavor and soothes my soul . Cycling restored my health and salvaged my sanity . " The bike often serves as a cultural leitmotif during a lull in the violence and insanity that is still too much with us . And just as frequently it 's the way out of our personal tragedies . <p>                     