@@427758

Cornel West and Henry Louis Gates , Jr. , are among the preeminent intellectuals of our generation . After many years at different academic institutions , both are now at Harvard University in the Afro-American studies department . Each has published celebrated work in the pastGates 's moving memoir Colored People and West 's profound Race Matters-and now the two men have collaborated on a new book entitled The Future of the Race ( Alfred A. Knopf ) . For this ESSENCE Dialogue , we asked Gates to sit down with West and elicit his ideas on the state of African-American leadership . This is what Gates had to say about his conversation with West : " One of Professor West 's great gifts is that he can engage in conversation with almost anyone , whatever their ideology . His keen-edged analysis forces us to remember what he has to say . There 's no one from whom I 've learned more than Cornel West . One of the most important things that he has to teach , I think , is that being a Black intellectual does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GATES : How did we arrive at such a large gap between the Black haves and the Black haves and the Black have-nots ? WEST : Information technology is creating tremendous gulfs between the professional managers and the working class in societies , so you 're getting broader gaps between the well-to-do and the working class . Also there 's the unemployed and underemployed class that is growing and affecting Black Americans greatly . The other thing is that we 've had a tremendous crisis of Black leadership because we have n't had the kind of courageous visionary leaders who are able to tell the truth to both America and Black America about what is going on . So you end up with a Black middle class that is oftentimes beholden to the corporate , bank and political elites for entree but far removed from the working class and working poor . GATES : So what do we do about it ? WEST : Well , one , we 've got to tell the truth . One reason we have a problem with leadership in the Black community is that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 're unable to be self-critical , you fall into a cowardly mode , so others defer to you and you just keep moving . GATES : And you develop a double-voiced discourse where you say one thing in public and another behind closed doors . In other words , you lie . WEST : Exactly . You see , when you really look at our history-at the Frederick Douglasses and the Marcus Garveys and the Elijah Muhammads-they were speaking the truth as they saw it , but they were also willing to pay the consequences . That was also true for Ida B. Wells Barnett , Ella Baker and Fannie Lou Hamer . They all had different political ideological perspectives , but they were willing to speak the truth and pay the consequences . Today people are much more willing to trash one another and castigate one another in clever and witty ways to bring attention to themselves in a self-indulgent mode , so nothing constructive happens . As a result they become deeply isolated , individualistic and narcissistic , and feed right into the dominant market morality of the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring together a wide diversity of ideological positions in the Black community . Why must we do this now ? WEST : I think it 's so important that we try to cultivate a culture of critical discourse , a culture of dialogue and conversation with one another across political and ideological lines . I think a Black operational unity is so very important right now because so many Black people feel their backs are against the wall . We have to show some motion and some movement in order to provide some hope and vision for all the folk who are perishing . Where there is no vision , people perish . GATES : What do you see as the leadership role of traditional African-American cultural organizations , sacred and secular ? WEST : I do n't think we can be nostalgic . There 's no way we can simply imitate and emulate what was once in place . I think that some of the traditional sites , like the church , will play a very important role . But only churches that have undergone a fundamental transformation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responding to popular culture . More important , I think this generation will have to create new sites for uplift . I think , for example , of the efforts of the various womanist networks and the efforts of gay brothers and lesbian sisters to come together and reconstitute networks of support , especially for those struggling with AIDS . Meanwhile , some old traditional churches with truncated visions are holding people with AIDS at arm 's length . They 've got to begin to meet these challenges effectively , or they 'll lose their legitimacy and their respect . GATES : What 's your feeling about the Million Man March ? WEST : I think it was critical for Black men to straighten up their backs and let America know that we know what 's going on . We know that in a certain sense it 's open season on Black folk and especially Black men . We know that as the civilization drifts drastically toward the right , we will have to engage in some form of moral outrage , some expression of moral outrage , even if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our leaders to link Black suffering with the suffering of others in our society-on the Indian reservations , among poor White brothers and sisters in Appalachia , Brown brothers and sisters in East Los Angeles and Washington Heights in New York City . Black suffering has become a fulcrum for the link to unjustified suffering in our society . GATES : But why men only ? WEST : I 'm not sure I would have initiated a march or a summit for just Black men . But Black men have been so unfairly scapegoated and defamed , it does in some sense justify the maleness of the march . On the other hand , we have not only got to call for unity and cooperation from Black women , but we also have to learn to listen to their criticism . GATES : Is there , as far as you 're concerned , a crisis of the Black male today ? WEST : I think one crisis of the Black male is that we 're struggling with who we are in relation to our bodies and our sexual desires , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are in terms of human beings in time and space . It has to do with our struggle to achieve our identity . It has to do with our struggle over our homophobia toward our gay brothers and the way they pose various kinds of threats to our conception of ourselves . I think Black men are dealing with these identity crises even more now , as the economic crisis hits so many of us so hard and as White supremacists circulate such grave stereotypes of Black men and Black women . GATES : What 's your take on the effects of rap music , particularly gangsta rap , on the next generation ? WEST : I think it 's true that rap music is the most innovative breakthrough in the last 30 years among young people and popular culture . There 's no doubt about it . But at the same time , hip-hop also reflects the breakdown of the apprenticeship networks in the Black community . I think it reflects a crisis of this young generation , numbers of whom have had to raise themselves . Our generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot of ways . So they 've come up with their own forms of wisdom . Hip-hop is partly a critique of the older generation that did n't give them a sense of history , that tried to keep them protected from the realities of the world . At the same time , in the larger society where market forces are accelerating and the exotic stereotypes of Black folks are everywhere , these gangsta rappers end up appropriating a lot of those stereotypical images and casting them in such a way that they think they 're cool . GATES : But would you place the ultimate responsibility on the consumer or on the industry ? WEST : I think both . We live in a culture in which sexuality and violence are an everyday reality-even without television and without the culture industry . So the culture industry in some way has to reflect reality . But there also has to be some civic responsibility on behalf of corporations in this regard . Like any other corporation in a capitalist society , the culture industry ought to be concerned not just about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the leadership question . How do the identity and leadership crises differ for Black men and Black women ? WEST : There 's no doubt in my mind that , economically speaking , Black women are worse off . There 's no doubt in my mind that psychically and existentially , in terms of self-love and self-confidence , Black women are worse off . At the same time , because a patriarchal society is more willing to target Black men explicitly , we end up with a disproportionate number of our brothers going to prison . In the end , Black men and Black women are in the same boat . But it has a huge leak . If we go up , we all go up together . If we go down , we all go down together . It 's the Black community as a whole that we 're talking about . <p>                     