@@394005

I am a lawyer with graduate degrees in both psychology and religious studies . For several years now , both as a law school administrator and in private practice , I 've worked with lawyers " in transition "  --  men and women changing careers within law , or those who want to leave the legal profession altogether . I 've noticed that behind much of the bravado and many of the presenting problems , such as compulsive perfectionism , work addiction and fractured relationships , is often a profound emptiness of spirit . I 've searched for a way to help my clients pick up the missing pieces of their lives and find a soul behind the role . But it is not socially acceptable , outside of prayer groups and retreat houses , to talk about the depth and sacredness of everyday life . One 's favorite form of prayer , say , or intuitions of transcendence , or near death experiences . For those running on empty , few opportunities for healing of the spirit are available anywhere . Then , while teaching interviewing skills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as natural as breathing , as old as the stone age and as current as Garrison Keillor . People are always sharing stories , whether neighbors in the car pool , business associates over lunch or children at day 's end . Why not use storytelling as a life-focusing technique ? Achievement stories obviously demonstrate career skills and successes to potential employers . But storytelling can also enlighten men and women about themselves , uncover the patterns of their lives and help them decide directions for the future . I 've learned from observing many clients that to lose track of our stories is to be profoundly impoverished , not only spiritually , but also humanly . Carl Frederick Buechner , in his autobiographical Telling Secrets , suggests that when we remember our stories we also reclaim much of our own lives that we may have long since written off . We discover that in everything that has happened to us over the years God was offering us possibilities of new life and healing . From the outside these happenings seem like trivial incidents in our past , but are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have missed their significance at the time , but we can still be brought to life and healed by our stories all these years later . About the time I was discovering the healing power of storytelling , my spouse passed along a copy of Dan Wakefield 's paperback , The Story of Your Life . Wakefield is the author of his own spiritual autobiography , Returning , and a successful novelist . The Story of Your Life describes a highly creative adult education course he has been offering to nondenominational groups in the Boston area and elsewhere , entitled " Spiritual Autobiography . " I admired Wakefield 's efforts to help people recover the sacred ; I wondered if his spiritual journey workshop could be adapted to the needs of a Catholic adult education program . I targeted a Catholic audience , not only because my own story has been scripted mostly within that setting , but because the Catholic imagination offers such rich resources for symbolic and reflective experience . So a few months ago , I put my ideas down on paper , submitted a proposal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the following course description in the continuing education bulletin of a local Catholic college : A SPIRITUAL JOURNEY WORKSHOP An adult education class that explores the lives , writings and spiritual paths of men and women such as John Henry Newman , St. Therese of Lisieux , Thomas Merton and Flannery O'Connor . A step-by-step program to help you use letter-writing as a tool to examine your own spiritual turning-points and discern the deeper directions of your Christian life . I planned the course so that the opening class introduced the concept of spiritual autobiography , clarified both the instructor 's and the students ' expectations and set the stage for the classes and exercises that would follow . The next three weeks focused , in turn , on the " three ages " of a person 's spiritual journey  --  childhood , adolescence and adulthood . Finally , classes five and six wove these elements together into an eight-to ten-page " spiritual autobiography " that was then shared with the other members of class . Would people be attracted by a class on spiritual discernment and pay $80 to attend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that 10 students were on hand  --  three men and seven women . As they introduced themselves , I noticed that the participants came from many walks of life : a teacher , two engineers , a real estate entrepreneur , a secretary , a car deer and so on . Several went without supper , and one drove over 50 miles to be part of the group . Religiously , one participant identified herself as a Quaker , another as Jewish and a third , I found out later , was an Episcopalian deacon . The rest of the class were assorted varieties of Catholic . After introducing myself , I insisted upon confidentiality and the " right to reticence ' ' - people were free not to participate if they felt uncomfortable about any particular exercise . Then I spoke briefly about the rich tradition of spiritual autobiography within the Christian community . For classic examples I used St. Augustine 's Confessions , Newman 's Apologia , St. Therese 's Story of a Soul and the more recent writings of authors such as Thomas Merton , Emilie Griffin , Madeleine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I explained , would begin with a reading by the participants of the previous week 's take-home assignment . Next , I would introduce that evening 's topic with a 15-to 20-minute video . This would be followed by a simple " warm-up " exercise , done individually by each participant , but then shared with another member of the group . Finally , for " homework , " I asked each member of the class to write a story about a particular stage of his or her spiritual journey . This two-page writing , suggested by the evening 's class exercise , would be the take-home exercise read to the whole group at the start of the following week 's class . In my introduction , I was careful to avoid too narrow or too " religious " a definition of " spiritual . " I told the class that spiritual meant a mindfulness of the sacred in everyday life , any meaning in life beyond that evident to the senses , or any effort to live one 's life by a power greater than one 's self . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to communicate some common religious and cultural traditions , I intended to open with a video highlighting the spiritual journey of some man or woman . For my sources I planned to use segments from videos such as Bill Moyer 's PBS interview with Sam Keene , Gateway Film 's biography of Cardinal John Henry Newman , Bob Fosse 's All That Jazz , Alain Cavalier 's Therese , Terrance Knapp 's tour de force , Damien , and Paul Wilkes 's film on Merton . At the last minute , however , I discovered the videotape of Anthony T. Padovano 's play , " Winter Rain . " The six scenes dramatizing Thomas Merton 's life , splendidly acted by Michael Moriarity , were the perfect lead-in to my six classes . And so we began . For a starter we watched Michael Moriarity , as Merton , describe his childhood , particularly his troubled relationship with his mother . Following this video , I passed out plenty of crayons and large sheets of drawing paper . Then I suggested that each member of the class reflect upon his or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorite room in the house where they had grown up . The room with the happiest memories and the nicest associations . I asked them to include every item they could remember  --  chairs , beds , pictures , windows , books , dolls , toys . I was n't interested in elaborate designs ; a simple sketch was enough . The participants were then asked to pair up , take about 10 minutes each and walk another class member through this favorite room , telling a story about significant items . My group loved this exercise . After a few hesitant starts and some clarifying questions , all the class were soon sketching their floor plans and then animatedly describing the rooms to their partners . This first class concluded with that night 's take-home assignment  --  a two-page description of some childhood spiritual experience . I felt it was important that this be a written exercise , both because of time limitations and because I wanted to avoid the stereotypical " testimonies " of prayer groups . Lest the class be intimidated by the idea of a weekly writing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two-page letter to someone they loved , such as a spouse , a parent or a best friend . As a model of what I meant , I read them a short section from Annie Dillard 's An American Childhood , where she talks about a special room of the house in which she grew up and her experience of " falling into time . " As the participants silently filed out , I was left wondering whether or not we had connected . To be honest , nobody had came up and said , " Great class ! " as they had done after my law-school presentations , but several shyly said goodnight , that they would see me the following week . So I was left hoping the process had " taken " and that at least a quorum would be present for the next week 's exercise . The following Thursday , at the start of the second class , I was pleasantly surprised to discover that not only had all the participants returned , but I had also picked up an additional student . The class members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my ground rules about confidentiality and the right to reticence aid then asked for a volunteer to read a letter about a childhood spiritual experience . At first there was an embarrassed silence . Then , hesitantly at first , the class began to respond . One middle-aged man , with tears in his eyes , read his letter describing an event that had happened on a July 4 over 50 years before , his seventh birthday . He recounted a completely happy day , how he had opened his presents , blown out the candles on his cake and watched fireworks with his family . But as he lay in bed that evening , listening to the faraway sounds of a summer 's night , he was suddenly overwhelmed with intuitions of his own mortality . For the first , but not the last , time in his life he realized that this day and this moment were gone forever and would never come again . Another man , half-humorously apologizing that he was an engineer , described his boyhood awakening in a free-verse poem . A psychiatric nurse spoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her resulting near-death experience  --  a bright light , a beautiful lady and an overwhelming feeling of peace . A young mother movingly told about a moment in her childhood , as dust danced in sunlight streaming into her room , when she asked her father , " Where 's Mommy ? " He answered that her mother had climbed those golden stairs of sunlight to heaven . She concluded her letter by describing how that scene would be repeated years later when sunlight streamed into another room and three little boys would ask her , " Where 's Daddy The silence after revelations such as these , and those that followed each week 's assignment , was pregnant , sacramental , like the reverential moment in the liturgy after the Eucharist . Nothing more needed to be said , only a soft word of appreciation . Occasionally another participant would add a whispered word of recognition . Less is more in moments as sacred as these . After the participants had shared their stories , I introduced the following week 's topic with a new scene from " Winter Rain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and drawing paper for an exercise leading to the next area of exploration . For the theme of spiritual adolescence , I asked the class to sketch a picture either of themselves as an adolescent , or their perception of themselves and God at that time of their lives . When reflecting upon their religious adulthood , they drew a picture of an adult friend , mentor or guide who helped them at a sensitive time of their lives and talked about the special kind of goodness that this person represented . Each evening , at the buzzer , they were still talking . I felt it was important that the class members have examples of the way that other authors , from within the Christian tradition , had written about significant moments of their own journeys . So to illustrate spiritual adolescence , I read a moving passage about a teen-ager 's crisis of faith from John Updike 's short story , " Pigeon Feathers . " Again , as a description of an adult spiritual guide , I offered Merton 's own portrait , from The Seven Storey Mountain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a preparation for our last two classes , I asked the class to draw a simple timeline charting the peaks and valleys of Merton 's journey . Then , as a focusing technique , I suggested that each participant sketch either a timeline of significant moments in their spiritual lives , or that they draw an expanding circle with themselves at the center and important people and events situated at different points along the circumference . From this exercise evolved their final take-home assignment , the six-to eight-page autobiographical narrative . From this experimental program in religious education , what have I learned ? First , in drawing up our parish educational programs , we should recognize the need of adult Catholics for small-group support where they can share their spiritual struggles , especially in the world of work , with others involved in the same journey . Spiritual support structures for college-educated , autonomous adults are nonexistent in many places still . I was stunned to discover , some time after my course , that the class members had continued to meet every other week for several months after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their way . Next , nothing beats the use of stories to communicate models of adult Christian living . Just as achievement stories communicate skills in the job interview , so personal narratives ( as distinct from evangelical testimonies ) demonstrate the day-to-day living of Christian values . The stories that mean the most to us are not those that speak to us about other people , but those that speak to us about ourselves . Or , as Anthony de Mello once put it , " The shortest distance between a human being and Truth is a story . " Finally , Cardinal Newman , in one of his Parochial and Plain Sermons , " Christ Manifested in Remembrance , " lays it down as a general rule that the Lord 's presence in our lives is usually noticed not at the moment of His visitation , but only later , when we look back upon the course of events . Christ walks among us , Newman says , and we are not aware of His presence . He comes into our lives in much the same way that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silently , discreetly . And so the members of my class shared with each other the completed stories of their spiritual journeys , tracing the labyrinthine ways from the first stirrings of their religious awakenings to the present moment . Each person , obviously , had come along a different path ; the events of their lives were dissimilar . But in some subtle ways the patterns were strikingly the same . There were wanderings from childhood religious ideals and later returns , false starts and new beginnings , overwhelming tragedies and moments of ecstatic joy . In Rostand 's play " Cyrano de Bergerac , " Cyrano is infatuated with Roxanne but is so shy that he stands in the shadows under her balcony and speaks words of love that are mouthed by another suitor . Years later they meet ; his love is finally revealed when Roxanne hears Cyrano speak " in such a voice that I remember long ago . So it was you ! " As the members of my class read their stories our last evening together , there came to each participant such a moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone on their journeys . At certain times along the way , like other fainthearted disciples , a stranger had overtaken them and , although His identity was hidden from their eyes , He had spoken to them in unexplained events and unexpected graces . A voice they now remembered from long ago : " So it was you ! " J. Murray Elwood , a Philadelphia lawyer , is the author of Kindly Light , a study of the life and spiritual teaching of John Henry Newman . <p>                     