@@343756

SUPREME COURT Gagging the Clinics The Justices did not disturb the constitutional right to an abortion but made it illegal to discuss the procedure in federally funded centers " Government . . . may validly choose to fund childbirth over abortion . "  --  CHIEF JUSTICE WILLIAM REHNQUIST , THE MAJORITY OPINION " This is a course nearly as noxious as overruling Roe directly . . . "  --  JUSTICE HARRY BLACKMUN , IN DISSENT <P> When politicians , both Democrats and Republicans , latched on to the abortion issue as the sort of emotional question that extracts votes and campaign funds from true believers , they unleashed a venomous public argument . That debate heated up again last week in the wake of a highly divisive Supreme Court decision . The Justices upheld a federal regulation , conceived by the Reagan Administration three years ago to assuage conservative constituents , that bans discussion of abortion in federally funded health clinics . <P> The court 's ruling in Rust v. Sullivan made little medical or intellectual or moral sense . It does not forbid women to seek abortion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some cases may even eliminate  --  access to such services for many poor and low-income women who can not afford private medical advice , thereby placing informed choice beyond their reach . " For these women , " Justice Harry Blackmun warned in a harsh dissenting opinion , " the government will have obliterated the freedom to choose as surely as if it had banned abortions outright . " The court 's action set pro- and anti- abortion advocates at one another again , arguing the merits of the decision itself and predicting fearfully or hopefully that the court will next go the full distance and outlaw abortion altogether . <P> The court 's 5-to-4 vote forces the thousands of clinics that get aid from Washington under Title X of the Public Health Service Act to make a stark choice : either halt their abortion-counseling and - referral services or forgo federal funds , at a time when most clinics are strapped for cash . Until last week , the 1988 regulations  --  which bar such clinics from offering either spoken instruction or printed materials that " encourage , promote or advocate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of legal challenges . <P> While the ruling does not directly threaten the fundamental right to an abortion granted under the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision , the court divided over the practical consequences for the 4 million women who rely on Title X ) funding . In his majority opinion , Chief Justice William Rehnquist contended that the ban on abortion counseling leaves a woman " in no different position than she would have been if the government had not enacted Title X. " Blackmun , who had penned the Roe decision , differed sharply , pointing to the 1988 regulation that requires clinic staff members to answer all abortion inquiries with the words " The project does not consider abortion an appropriate method of family planning . " He warned that a patient will construe this message " as professional advice to forgo her right to obtain an abortion . "                     