@@408924

Christians of the year 1000 fixed their faith on earthy essentials , not diocesan or parish politics . // AS WE APPROACH THE YEAR 2000 , it is logical to ask , " What was the church like the last time a millennium turned ? " The church of 1000 looked very different from today 's church . The church was n't yet " catholic , " or universal , in our global sense , since the known world included only Europe , North Africa and Asia Minor , with some mysterious people beyond those borders . The church also acted in ways that seem to us odd or even embarrassing . Most strikingly , as the first millennium of Christianity closed , many of the people 's devotions sound like Christianized paganism . The Second Vatican Council dominates the late 20th century and has drawn many people into religious discussions , but Christianity in 1000 witnessed neither great religious fervor in parishes nor high-end theological inquiry in the schools . In fact , not one ecumenical council met between the Fourth Council of Constantinople ( 869-870 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the pst is a foreign country , then at first glance millennial Christians are strangers to us . The church of 1000 was decentralized . It had yet to witness the papal revolution that , between 1100 and 1400 , created the Curial departments , college of cardinals and papal conclaves that we picture when we speak of the Vatican-a bureaucracy that did not exist as such in 1000 . Christians grumbling about Rome might have said " the Lateran , " but they would have meant the papal basilica and palace in Rome , not the papacy in the sense of the hierarchical , clearly delineated organization with offices , Web sites , nuncios and translation services that we recognize . Popes were stuck in quicksand : Rome 's wealthy families jockeyed to put their favorite sons into office . It was one of the worst periods of instability in the papacy 's history : 21 popes sat between 946 and 1048 . At 18 , John XII ( 955-64 ) was the youngest pope ever and died of a stroke , according to legend , while in bed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of every three popes who served between 872 and 1012 died violent or suspicious deaths , some by mutilation , beating or suffocation . From 872 to 1054 , only one pope left Italian soil . Popes did not even stick together . Stephen VI ( 896-97 ) infamously conducted the " cadaver synod , " in which he tried the rotting corpse of his predecessor , Formosus , for perjury . The prosecutors found the dead pope guilty , stripped him of his regalia , cut off his blessing hand and dumped the body in the Tiber . In turn , the Romans deposed Stephen , who was strangled in jail . But these dramatic circumstances went largely unnoticed . Few people knew the pope 's name . Inculturating the Faith In 1000 the church was still evangelizing . After Islam swept away Christian control of the Mediterranean basin and the Iberian peninsula in the sixth through the eighth centuries , Christianity looked north and northeast to expand , with little idea of where the world 's edges stood . In 968 the Archdiocese of Magdeburg was created without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 966 , Hungary in 968 and Russia in 988 . In the East , Roman and Orthodox Christianity sometimes competed in proxy wars . That tension bubbled for nearly the entire first millennium . This competition exploded when Rome and Constantinople excommunicated each other in 1054 ; it would take almost the entire second millennium for these excommunications to be lifted by Pope Paul VI and Ecumenical Patriarch Athenagoras I in 1967 . As it entered new territories during the first millennium , the church frequently synthesized many elements of the existing pagan culture to gain Christians and royal protection without making enemies . Pope Gregory 1 ( 590-606 ) laid the blueprint , counseling his missionaries to meet pagan cultures gently : Indoctrinating without tolerance and sensitivity would not help spread the Christian faith , which they should introduce gradually . Gregory instructed them to throw down pagan idols , but not the temples in which they sat , and to consecrate the temples with holy water and relics . These temples , he wrote , " should be transferred from the worship of idols to the service of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these temples are not destroyed , they may put away error from their heart and , knowing and adoring the true God , may have recourse with the more familiarity to the places they have been accustomed to . " Missionaries performed baptisms at natural fountains where local populations already worshiped . They absorbed indigenous Anglo-Saxon circle , braid and knot patterns into their vestments and illuminated manuscripts . The Christian saint and monk replaced the pagan magus while accomplishing the same miracles and cures . The 10th-century AngloSaxon Leechbook listed remedies against " elves " afflictions " ( rashes and other ailments ) which sound part medicine , part Mass and part magic . A German antidote for infertile fields included mixing holy water with dirt , oil , honey , milk , tree bark and herbs into clods . The priest prayed , " Grow and multiply and replenish the earth , " then said four Masses over the clods and plows . The church thus convinced pagans of its superiority , when the Christian medicine conquered heathen disease or natural calamity with a holy bouquet garni . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The king received a corps of educated clerics who glued the kingdom together with the new faith , while the church sometimes looked in another direction as it enjoyed the peace and patronage needed to evangelize . That is how a chronicler in the 1070 's could record seeing at Uppsala in Christian Scandinavia the hanging bodies of 72 dogs , horses and human beings that had been sacrificed . Iceland accepted Christianity in 999 , but left legal the practice of killing unwanted infants by exposing them to animals and the cold . Earthy Piety Millennial Christians fixed their faith on earthy essentials , not diocesan or parish politics . There may be some parallels with today 's church . Then as now , the man and woman in the pew may have been more concerned with asking God 's help to raise their families than to resolve the gap between competing schools of theological debate . Religion then , like politics today , was local and mostly tied to the normal events and fears of a farmer 's day . Life for medieval peasants was generally nasty , brutish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Marriage was still mostly a matter of a couple moving in together ; only occasionally did they go to the parish church 's door for a blessing . But the parish priest also blessed weapons and prayed against illness , difficult births , demons , hail , storms and lightning . The Christian of the year 1000 , cleric or lay , had an affective , unlearned relationship with the faith . One AngloSaxon priest who was training an apprentice could not tell the difference between the Old Testament and the New . Baptism at times was administered " in the name of the fatherland , the daughter and the Holy Spirit . " Legislation from the eighth and ninth centuries still had to prohibit explicitly the worship of trees and rocks . Christ was often depicted standing in the pantheon of Norse gods because , given polytheism , he was more acceptable as one god among others ; it was only over time that God 's Son replaced other gods . It would be 200 years more before Francis of Assisi embodied the move toward the human , suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stem judge whose divinity countered the Arian heresy that persisted throughout much of the first millennium , claiming Jesus was no more than a superman . More than anything else ( in 1000 as in 2000 ) , the sign of the cross became the most powerful and accessible aid against trouble . At the turn of the first millennium , the sign was made over a fallen soldier ' on the battlefield to stop his gushing wound or even to raise him from the dead . An intersection was considered a safe and holy place because it was a " crossroad . " Road markers and shrines were constructed that evolved into pilgrims ' inns . Nature cooperated . When St. Heribert of Cologne ( d. 1022 ) could not find the right material for an abbey 's crucifix , he went on a picnic and cut down a pear tree that had conveniently shaped itself into a cross to meet his need . Lay people were charged to pray , pay and obey . Practicing the faith meant attending Mass , offering tithes ( money , goods or services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They did not participate much in the liturgy . The priest 's back was turned to the congregation . Mass was in Latin , which few knew , including functionally illiterate peasant priests whose bumbling of " Hoc est enim corpus meum " was later parodied into the magical formula " hocus pocus . " Medieval peasants infrequently confessed sins and received the Eucharist , perhaps at Christmas , Easter and Pentecost , but maybe even less often , since the Fourth Lateran Council in 1215 had to mandate annual Communion ( later called the " Easter duty " ) . When they did receive , it was under the form of bread , not wine , which was reserved for royalty . Priests may have been nervous about distributing the Eucharist and happy to place the host in the mouth and not the hand , when faced with the practice of wearing the host around the neck as a traveler 's lucky charm or crushing it into powder to sprinkle over fields or into potions . The mix of Christianity and superstition existed in all social levels . Beating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a crystal amulet that allegedly encased a piece of the true cross and hairs from Mary 's head , elements of wood and hair traditionally associated with pagan talismans . Those who fought , worked and prayed all applied relics to fight toothaches , miscarriage , gout , stomach-aches and blindness-which led to a lively trade in false and stolen relics . Although the church participated in the pagan-Christian synthesis , it also fought its results . Stephen of Hungary ( 975-1038 ) , both a king and a saint , prohibited Christians from marrying pagans and classified the religious transgressions of adultery and blasphemy as crimes , like murder and theft . Burchard of Worms wrote his Coi-ector about 10 10 , a pastoral manual of prescribed , or " fixed-rate , " penances for specific sins . The Christian who confessed to consulting magicians to find a lost item , tell the future or cause rain had to observe fast days assiduously for the next two years . Other sins included dancing or drinking on a grave , consulting a woman for love brews or marking the sun , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build a house . In one passage , Burchard instructed the confessor to ask the penitent , " Have you put your son or daughter on your rooftop or on your oven in order to gain some remedy for their illness ? " An answer of yes merited 20 days on bread and water . Millennium Faiths Christianity 's path from 950 to 1050 was surely dimmer than it had been before or would be again , but change was on the horizon . Pope Gregory VII ( 1073-85 ) would soon launch the papal revolution that transformed the church 's hierarchy and fought for its independence . Universities and Abelard 's scholastic method were budding up from the winter of the first millennium , the leading edge of a 12th-century renaissance in spirituality and education . And although the church of 1000 has been charged with compromising its message in order to spread the faith to pagan cultures , it rarely bargained away essentials . First millennium missionaries saw in the pagan cultures they encountered a religious disposition they redirected to the Gospel , as Paul had done at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Athenians they already worshiped Jesus at their shrine " to the unknown God " ( Acts 17:23 ) . And the church still evangelizes , be it the Roman Empire in 100 , the pagan north in 1000 or a paganized Christianity that ironically seems to be arising in 2000 . On second thought , those Christians in 1000 may not look so strange to Christians in 2000 after all . Author Affiliation CHRISTOPHER M. BELLITTO is assistant professor of church history at St. Joseph 's Seminary , Dunwoodie , and its Institute of Religious Studies in Yonkers , N.Y . // <p>                     