@@351992

A CHANCE TO BE HEARD Consumed by debates over health-care reform and the crime bill , legislators have left four other major issues to languish . With votes on these expected before the 103rd Congress adjourns this fall , there is still time to influence the outcome . Time invites you to use the attached postcard to express your views . <P> GATT : Last December 117 nations agreed on a plan to revise the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade . The changes in the global pact would reduce tariffs on manufactured goods , cut agricultural subsidies , tighten the protection of intellectual-property rights and create a new mechanism to mediate future trade disputes . Congress is considering whether to approve U.S. participation in the agreement . Opponents ranging from Pat Buchanan to Ralph Nader warn that the new treaty would require the U.S. to defer to a supranational body on such matters as automobile-emission levels , product warning labels and safety standards . Supporters say the revised treaty could help America 's economy grow an additional $200 billion annually , or about 3% a year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persuade Congress to approve the agreement this fall without any amendment , under the so-called fast-track procedure , calling for a single up-or-down vote . <P> TELECOMMUNICATIONS : In an effort to keep up with rapidly changing technology , both houses have been working to update the laws and regulations that govern the telephone and television industries , with the goals of encouraging competition and accelerating construction of the information superhighway . In June , by comfortable margins , the House passed two bills ( now combined into one , designated HR3626 ) intended to increase competition among cable-TV and phone companies . The bill would permit regional phone companies , the so-called Baby Bells , to get into the long-distance phone business from which they are now barred in exchange for granting their competitors , including cable-TV companies , access to their transmission and switching systems . The bill would also allow cable-TV companies and long-distance carriers to provide local phone service . In the Senate on Aug. 11 , the Commerce Committee sent to the floor S1822 , a bill that would permit the same process but stipulates that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice Department and the Federal Communications Commission confirm that they have opened their lines to competitors . That could take several years . The House version lets them in after one year , regardless of competition . The House version is expected to go to the Senate floor in September . <P> INTERSTATE BANKING : In late July , House and Senate conferees reached agreement on HR3841 , the interstate banking bill , which would allow bank holding companies to establish separately managed and capitalized banks and branches in more than one state . Its sponsors claim that the legislation will make banking more convenient for customers and foster a leaner , stabler and more profitable banking system . A Senate vote was delayed Aug. 9 , when Texas Republican Phil Gramm lodged a point of order involving his state 's banking laws . Final action is expected sometime after Labor Day .                     