@@358907

Every few weeks , outside the movie theater in virtually any American town in the late 1910s , stood the life-size cardboard figure of a small tramp  --  outfitted in tattered , baggy pants , a cutaway coat and vest , impossibly large , worn-out shoes and a battered derby hat  --  bearing the inscription I AM HERE TODAY . An advertisement for a Charlie Chaplin film was a promise of happiness , of that precious , almost shocking moment when art delivers what life can not , when experience and delight become synonymous , and our investments yield the fabulous , unmerited bonanza we never get past expecting . <P> Eighty years later , Chaplin is still here . In a 1995 worldwide survey of film critics , Chaplin was voted the greatest actor in movie history . He was the first , and to date the last , person to control every aspect of the filmmaking process  --  founding his own studio , United Artists , with Douglas Fairbanks , Mary Pickford and D.W. Griffith , and producing , casting , directing , writing , scoring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first decades of the 20th century , when weekly moviegoing was a national habit , Chaplin more or less invented global recognizability and helped turn an industry into an art . In 1916 , his third year in films , his salary of $10,000 a week made him the highest- paid actor  --  possibly the highest paid person  --  in the world . By 1920 , " Chaplinitis , " accompanied by a flood of Chaplin dances , songs , dolls , comic books and cocktails , was rampant . Filmmaker Mack Sennett thought him " just the greatest artist who ever lived . " Other early admirers included George Bernard Shaw , Marcel Proust and Sigmund Freud . In 1923 Hart Crane , who wrote a poem about Chaplin , said his pantomime " represents the futile gesture of the poet today . " Later , in the 1950s , Chaplin was one of the icons of the Beat Generation . Jack Kerouac went on the road because he too wanted to be a hobo . From 1981 to 1987 , IBM used the Tramp as the logo to advertise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1889 , Chaplin spent his childhood in shabby furnished rooms , state poorhouses and an orphanage . He was never sure who his real father was ; his mother 's husband Charles Chaplin , a singer , deserted the family early and died of alcoholism in 1901 . His mother Hannah , a small-time actress , was in and out of mental hospitals . Though he pursued learning passionately in later years , young Charlie left school at 10 to work as a mime and roustabout on the British vaudeville circuit . The poverty of his early years inspired the Tramp 's trademark costume , a creative travesty of formal dinner dress suggesting the authoritative adult reimagined by a clear-eyed child , the guilty class reinvented in the image of the innocent one . His " little fellow " was the expression of a wildly sentimental , deeply felt allegiance to rags over riches by the star of the century 's most conspicuous Horatio Alger scenario .                     