@@410506

Why read Paradise Lost ? Given its reputation as a cornerstone of the fossilized canon , the case against it seems virtually open and shut . Exhibit A : all those biblical and classical allusions , all the footnotes and latinate English in iambic pentameter , all those irrelevant discussions of angels and devils , good and evil . Exhibit B : John Milton , king of patriarchal literature by dead white males and prima facie guilty of misogyny , offends modern sensibilities . Exhibit C : Milton 's attempt to justify the creation story of Genesis  --  as his maintenance of a Ptolemaic cosmos  --  introduces a host of encumbrances and embarrassments for modern Christians . Exhibit D : Paradise Lost is just plain hard to read : it 's long , difficult and demanding . Why bother ? Because Paradise Lost demands a level of reflection that few other texts can duplicate , and that every reader should experience . It raises issues still relevant for our culture  --  questions about creation , war , pride , relationships , nature , progress , technology and freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulating and rewarding not just for academics , in whose classrooms , unfortunately , it usually resides , but for the general reader as well . To read Paradise Lost is to realize that no matter how secular our society has become , we all still struggle  --  whether we want to or not  --  with questions about right and wrong , about free will and choice , about the nature of God , and about the relations between God , woman and man . To read Paradise Lost is to enter into the world of passionate argument and debate , not the cold world of a fossilized classic . Indeed , Paradise Lost continues to challenge the social and religious status quo  --  and the status quo of reading itself , for it especially rewards modern critical emphases upon readers ' responses and the slipperiness of language . That Milton 's text promotes disputation can be seen in the disparate reactions it has provoked over the centuries . Despite recent challenges and protests , Paradise Lost is still acknowledged , in the terms of one detractor , as the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 1920s , modernists , including T. S. Eliot , pronounced Milton dead . Critic F. R. Leavis proclaimed in 1936 that " Milton 's dislodgment in the past decade , after his two centuries of predominance , was effected with remarkably little fuss . " Firmly relodged in the university curriculum as a work of religious orthodoxy , Milton , in the words of Marxist critic Christopher Hill , must now " be defended from his defenders almost more than from the declining band of his enemies . " Christians too have been uncertain how to treat this " Christian classic . " Samuel Johnson , the dean of 18th-century letters , claimed that " in Milton every line breathes sanctity of thought , and purity of manners , except when the train of the narrative requires the introduction of the rebellious spirits ; and even they are compelled to acknowledge their subjection to God in such a manner as excites reverence , and confirms piety . " But Johnson was wrong about the orthodoxy of Paradise Lost , as has been confirmed by generations of strife over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lost lacking in humility and charity ; salvation through Christ 's blood is hardly mentioned . A professor I knew at Calvin College , while perhaps taking some satisfaction in speaking of Paradise Lost as the " discovery of mans darker side of himself , " was obliged to highlight Milton 's Arminian emphasis on free will , antitrinitarianism , and  --  from a Calvinist point of view  --  generally suspect standing as a great Christian writer . Roman Catholics have been equally appalled : the Virgin birth and the crucifixion have little place in Paradise Lost ; and several gratuitous reminders  --  notably in the description of the Paradise of Fools  --  exhibit Milton 's contentious attitude toward Rome . According to Cardinal Newman , good Catholics must feel a great repugnance for Milton . Milton provides an elusive target for those who would enshrine him as the creator of the great orthodox Christian epic  --  no matter their place on the theological spectrum . Paradise Lost is , as Joseph Summers put it , full of " embarrassments " for those trying to enlist it in their causes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " subversive " and dangerous for young citizens : epic battles  --  and warfare in general  --  come off looking quite silly indeed . Neither does this epic fit the conservative agenda of the most vocal defenders of the canon ; it hardly gives a blueprint for timeless Republican living . But just as Milton allows little comfort for those seeking to claim him as a stern Puritan or saintly Christian , so too he frustrates those who would attempt to make Paradise Lost merely a great work of literature . Paradise Lost challenges its readers repeatedly to use their intellects but also to recognize their need for faith ; it challenges readers to exercise freedom and responsibility but also , finally , to embrace the ethic of obedience . Milton wants his readers to know that they will be changed after confronting Paradise Lost  --  for the better should they grasp the meaning of his work , for the worse should they disregard it . In challenging us , Paradise Lost best exemplifies the qualities of great literature . Great texts like Paradise Lost generate questions that disturb and unsettle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endorses bland obedience ; it challenges preconceptions rather than delivering The Truth . Thus I value the " embarrassments " and disputes so abundantly encountered in reading Paradise Lost . From the start , Milton challenges our allegiances and abilities to choose . Because the epic begins with Satan and his fallen forces , we 're made to identify with him and to acknowledge our own feelings of destructiveness , pride , ego . While some , notably William Blake , conclude from the work 's first two books that Milton was " of the devil 's party unawares , " a more complex and constructive effort is at work . For instance , we are forced to participate in a rational debate between the fallen angels , and encouraged to identify with their plans for revenge against God . Yet our smug position as bystanders and admiration for the vivid characters is destroyed as we read Beelzebub 's argument : To waste his whole creation , or possess All as our own , and drive as we are driven , The puny habitants , or if not drive Seduce them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foe ... " Puny habitants " alienated from God , we belatedly recognize , means us ; Milton pulls his readers into one of many stunning moments of realization  --  whether we believe in literal attacks by devils or see in this account an accurate description of 20th-century alienation . Similarly , we look with patronizing scorn as the inhabitants of hell amuse themselves in Book II  --  in games , exploration , even in argumentation , as some sat apart In thoughts more elevate , and reasoned high Of providence , foreknowledge , will , and fate , Fixed fate , free will , foreknowledge absolute , And found no end , in wand'ring mazes lost . Those are the very activities theologically astute readers will engage in as we encounter Book III and speculate about Milton 's Arminian leanings and difficult theology . The epic tests us from the start . Book III , with its risky portrayal of God in dialogue with the Son , has disturbed nearly all readers . God appears defensive , aloof , decidedly unpleasant . For Christians , Milton 's God seems unnecessarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he knows will come : " Foreknowledge had no influence on their fault . " Many readers seize on this unflattering portrait as evidence of the work 's flawed status : Milton is obviously incompetent if he portrays God so negatively , Satan so positively . Yet here again is the strength of Paradise Lost . Milton repeatedly alerts us to the gap between our understanding as humans and the reality of God . We wish to shape a God on our own terms  --  a friendly , comprehensible God  --  but Milton allows no such thing . Even if one rejects the God of Christianity , one can appreciate the way Paradise Lost makes the point that human nature and spirituality are not reducible to empirically known data ; some things transcend language and experience . Similarly , Milton reminds Christians that theological debate serves a limited purpose . Paradise Lost encourages us to consider questions of free will , predestination , original sin and divine foreknowledge . Yet just as frequently Paradise Lost cautions that such debates lead us into " wand'ring mazes . " We must exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  but also warns us that reason can fail , that obedience finally must persist . In his recounting of the War in Heaven , in considering Satan 's fall , in showing life in Eden , Milton reminds Christians that a faithful life is n't a simple matter of either/or , of yes/no . Paradise Lost insists that we make reasoned choices but also that we choose within the crucible of obedience ; Paradise Lost celebrates human experience , knowledge and even sensuousness but insists that we place those elements within God 's perspective . One of my students commented , " I admire Milton 's attempt to make Christianity workable , livable and on a human sphere , with at least a semblance of worth , rather than portraying the realm of humanity as a place of degradation , evil and corruption .... I like Milton because he does n't oversimplify Christianity . He does n't make it easy for us to figure out what is going on , and rightly so . " This work offers no blueprint for the Christian life or a moralistic lament for lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a way through a complicated , fallen world . I frequently link Paradise Lost with Sir Thomas More 's Utopia . I 'm always struck by the negative reaction to Utopia : we would n't want to live there ; the strictures on inhabitants of Utopia impress us as repugnant , extreme , inconsistent . When it gets right down to it , Utopia is indeed " nowhere "  --  and we do n't want to be there . Similarly , Paradise Lost raises fascinating questions about our notions of happiness . Adam and Eve , we are told , live a life of praise and service in Eden . They begin each day with hymns of praise ; they work eagerly , tending their garden ; they enjoy fine food and , most important , excellent companionship : Milton reminds us on several occasions that they enjoy pure sexual relations , walk naked without shame , and converse freely with each other , God and angels . Yet most readers respond coldly to Milton 's Paradise . " Boring , " say my students . Who would want such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convenience , fun and complication . Forced to think about paradise , we can not free ourselves from the sad limits of our culture or find the means to recollect a world , biblical or otherwise , that was free from sin , free from strife . I find myself especially challenged to imagine a world of balance and peace , a world where service does not mean servitude , a world in which even hierarchy  --  Adam and Eve are dearly placed in command of nature  --  may include harmony rather than exploitation . Certainly , those are vexing issues . Service and obedience strike us in our individualistic culture as odious , even undemocratic ; Milton 's Eden presents them as easy , pleasurable ideals . The strongest argument against Milton and Paradise Lost  --  in recent criticism and in my classroom  --  centers on the relationship between man and woman . Though in the first two centuries after the publication of Paradise Lost many women regarded Milton as an ally in the struggle for self-determination and respect , Virginia Woolf and other writers have identified him as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The charges against Milton are serious . True to Genesis , Milton describes Eve as shaped out of Adam 's rib  --  seemingly an afterthought , a cure for Adam 's lonely state among the animals . During the lengthy conversations between Adam and Raphael in the middle books and between Adam and Michael in the last two books , Eve rests , prepares food , or disappears . As Book IV forcefully asserts , they are Not equal , as their sex not equal seemed ; For contemplation he and valor formed , For softness she and sweet attractive grace , He for God only , she for God in him . Without a doubt , Paradise Lost lays bare the assumptions that have governed much of Christian practice for centuries and that have led to the marginalizing and even demonizing of women . As usual , however , Paradise Lost presents complexities . It has a deeply layered view of gender and religion that challenges readers to think dialectically and critically . One can see Milton 's Eve  --  the first to fall , the weaker and less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideals embedded in the tradition and hence in the imagination of the author . But Milton also presents other pictures . He had , for instance , enlightened ideas about divorce : he emphasized in his divorce tracts that marriage was the union of minds , not simply bodies , and thus acknowledged women 's importance as intellectual equals . Even though Eve often remains in the background as Adam and Raphael converse in Paradise Lost , Milton frequently reminds us that she , like Adam , is a rational being responsible for reasoned thought and for obedience . In comparison to many Renaissance authors , Milton makes significant efforts to counteract the tradition that saw Eve as corrupt and mindless from the start , woman as the ruination of man . Similarly , Milton reminds us several times  --  undoubtedly enraging his strict Puritan brothers and sisters  --  that Adam and Eve enjoy their sexuality in the garden . Far from being a curse to man , Eve appears as a friend ; she too enjoys sexuality , the life of the mind , and purposeful work . Milton offers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created corrupt , the cause of all men 's woes . Milton also frustrates any attempt to enlist him in the cause of human liberation . Without a doubt , a hierarchy remains : Eve is second to Adam in strength , reason and closeness to God . Her physical appearance receives considerably more attention than Adam 's . Adam smiles " with superior love , " " in delight/Both of her beauty and submissive charms . " Again , Paradise Lost is so demanding because Milton resists simple answers , sometimes to the point of being contradictory . Further , Milton dauntingly raises the question of our ability to understand relationships in edenic conditions . Can we imagine an unfallen world ? Can we imagine a world in which obedience ( to God , to each other ) involved willing relationships of love and service , not servitude ? Can we imagine a world in which hierarchy ( Father , Son , Adam , Eve ) signifies a natural order but not servitude , insult and marginalization ? Or a world in which inequality ( Adam and Eve are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by virtue of his greater reason , higher in the hierarchy ) does n't imply unequal worth in God 's sight or exploitation or curtailment of freedom ? I ca n't easily visualize such a world , but Milton challenges us to do so . As an icon of misogyny Milton is often the focus of anger . Yet my own reading leads me less to anger than to a sense of mourning  --  mourning the loss of paradise . I see enacted in Milton 's account  --  rather than advocated  --  the separation between men and women . I 'm struck by how Adam most explicitly voices misogynistic views after the Fall , blaming Eve for his own choice , claiming only then that Eve is inferior . I 'm struck by how the Fall leads immediately to futile argument between Adam and Eve and a corruption of sexuality . As much as I am committed to equality , Paradise Lost makes me question whether technical equality , essentially an individualistic goal , blinds us to the importance of mutuality and communality . On the other hand , Paradise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question whether my reaction is simply a residual longing for male dominance , a desire to keep women in their place . In the final analysis , I most appreciate the way Paradise Lost makes me and any reader confront these issues in all their complexity  --  and resists those who would embrace it as endorsing the demonizing of women just as it often repels those seeking modern views of equality . Paradise Lost makes me question , openly and radically , the foundations of Western culture , and at the same time compels me to imagine what unpolluted , paradisiacal life might be like . Although I 'm frustrated by the work 's seemingly unquestioning embrace of the woman-out-of-man's-rib story , I 'm also challenged to contemplate the central fact of life in Eden : Adam and Eve are equally called in Milton 's world to a life of obedience and fulfillment , equally granted minds , freedom of choice , and responsibility . Paradise Lost offers a most fruitful ground for argument  --  indeed , for very different interpretations and ways of reading  --  but most of all for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and argumentation even for those of us who have , compared to Milton , meager  --  even pitiful  --  backgrounds in classical and biblical literature . Despite the excellent footnotes in modern texts , the issue of " lost " knowledge matters . Possessing Milton 's incredible learning would certainly make his text more accessible and satisfying . Milton often goes well beyond the Bible  --  in his account of the war in heaven , in presenting the conversations of archangels Raphael and Michael ; in his creation of the allegorical characters Sin and Death , in paraphrasing Genesis 1  --  and displays a bold willingness to rewrite scripture . Such audaciousness is lost on those who do n't know the Bible . Similarly , Milton often uses his many classical analogies to undercut them ; he is writing an epic but also destroying the epic form , subverting the conventions as he writes his Christian epic . For instance , he describes Eden by recalling  --  and dismissing  --  classical gardens : ... Not that fair field Of Enna ... Nor that sweet grove Of Daphne by Orontes ... Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where Abassin kings their issue guard . As Robert Crosman points out , Milton asks us to imagine the most beautiful gardens from mythology  --  and now that we 've imagined them , to stop ! Milton reminds us of our intellectual tradition , calling attention to its importance and richness ; but he also reminds us that intellectual pursuits take us only so far . To those who find Paradise Lost impossible to read or teach , I would hold up this delicate balancing between classicism and anti-intellectualism . Never before have so many resources of the mind been marshaled to make the case that reason must finally give way to faith . Identifying all the allusions is not the point . After much struggle with Paradise Lost , we may well conclude that the work 's real hero is the one who has been tested , even harassed , through the long journey  --  the reader . If Paradise Lost continues to challenge its readers , it will remain alive and important ; it may even lead us to recover some of Milton 's biblical and classical education . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we will have contended with a work that makes us confront our lives and beliefs  --  or unbelief  --  in new ways . John Ottenhoff teaches English at Alma College in Alma , Michigan . This the fifth in a series of articles " rethinking religious classics . " <p>                     