@@393641

Although the Toledo Museum of Art presents the broad sweep of art history for a general audience , glass is integral to its history and identity . The museum has excellent collections of European and American art , with particular strengths in ancient Greek pottery and 17th-century European paintings ; small galleries house its solid collections of Asian , Islamic and African art . But a special commitment to glass is evident throughout . The Toledo has taken an unusual step in placing its entire glass collection permanently on display , in the expansive , two-story " Art in Glass " installation , the crowded Glass Study Room and in galleries dedicated to a specific period or movement . " All our curators know something about glass , " says the museum 's director , David W. Steadman , who is well-versed in the field , having come to Toledo in 1989 from his directorship of the Chrysler Museum . In the 19th-century European galleries , glass by Emile Galle and the Tiffany Studios is shown alongside Post-Impressionist paintings and Art Nouveau furniture ; in the late-20th-century galleries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flanked by Karla Trinkley 's pate de verre Pink Bowl and Harvey Littleton 's blown Blue Ruby Spray , both 1990 . In addition , the museum 's temporary exhibits have often featured glass . Recent shows include " Thirty Years of New Glass : 1957-1987 " ( 1988 , organized by the Corning Museum ) , " Libbey Glass : Triumphs of the Factory " and " Glass by Dominick Labino " ( 1989 ) , " Crossing the Boundaries : Sculpture of Howard Ben Tre " ( 1992 ) , and " Recent Acquisitions : Dale Chihuly Glass " and " Contemporary Crafts and the Saxe Collection " ( 1993 ) . On a sunny day , you can almost see the glint of glass from the parking lot . Why this attention to glass at Toledo ? The founder , Edward Drummond Libbey , who brought the New England Glass Company from Massachusetts to Toledo in 1888 , gave his collection of ancient glass to the young museum . Early acquisitions included substantial collections of ancient , Islamic and 19th-century American glass . The strength of these holdings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glass industry , created a unique focus for the museum . Through its School of Design , the museum fostered the groundbreaking 1962 Toledo Glass Workshops , for which Harvey Littleton , a former museum instructor , and Dominick Labino , research vice president at Johns-Manville Fiber Glass Corporation and a museum student , worked together to convert a museum garage into a glassblowing studio . Later the museum sponsored the influential " Toledo Glass Nationals , " held in 1966 , 1968 and 1970 . By 1969 the Museum School had established its own glassworking studio and hired Fritz Dreisbach as instructor . In 1986 the fine arts program , now housed in a splendid Frank Gehry building linked to the museum , became part of the University of Toledo Center for the Visual Arts at TMA . " I think this community is very proud of our heritage and that the studio glass movement was born here in 1962 , " says Davira S. Taragin , curator of 19th- and 20th-century glass . In 1991 , a gift of 57 pieces from the California collectors Dorothy and George Saxe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The timing was perfect . While the Saxe gift was being negotiated , the museum was in the final phase of a major reinstallation . For the 20th-century galleries , this meant the introduction of glass , ceramics and furniture alongside painting and sculpture . According to Steadman , " Our philosophy is one of the interrelationship of all the arts . We try to apply the same standards to everything , and display them together . " Although the museum has consistently combined the " fine " and " decorative " arts in its period exhibits , the contemporary galleries were not as inclusive . The reinstallation , coinciding with consequential new acquisitions in contemporary glass , has allowed the curators to undertake an exciting integration of 20th-century art in all media . To celebrate the Saxes ' gift , the museum organized " Contemporary Crafts and the Saxe Collection , " shown there September 12-November 14 , 1993 , and currently on view at the Newport Harbor Art Museum in California . Best known for its glass , the Saxe collection also includes works in clay , fiber , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taragin was bowled over by the extent and quality of the ceramics , for example , and could n't understand why they had n't been shown before . The resulting exhibit presents an intriguing cross section of studio craft from the late 1970s through the 1980s , emphasizing the mature work of established artists . It is more than an overview , however . " I did n't want to do a survey show , " Taragin explains , " but there is n't one theme that runs through the Saxe collection . It 's eclectic . " Convinced that patronage is " a neglected part of our history , " she chose to use the exhibition to explore the role of patronage in the crafts , personalized through the story of the Saxes , who , " in a sense ... epitomize the crafts collector who developed in the 1980s . " The catalogue extends the show 's brief text in fascinating essays about the evolution of the craft market , from the early street fairs to the glitz of the 1980s gallery scene . Simply documenting this elusive history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the exhibition . According to Taragin , " We had the worst time trying to pull together the little bit of information that is in the book . Nobody kept records ! My role as a curator right now is to try to collect , preserve and document what 's going on as it happens , so that in a hundred years there will be some record of the whole scene . " There are standout pieces in all media in the Saxe show , including , for example , the work of fiber artists Neda AI Hilali and Jane Sauer , jeweler Deborah Aguado and furniture maker Sam Maloof . The Toledo curators chose five pieces by ceramists Jack Earl , Robert Turner and Adrian Saxe and woodturner Bob Stocksdale for the museum 's permanent collection . Each of the 57 glass objects and one related drawing was carefully considered in relationship to Toledo 's existing collections . " The museum was collecting contemporary glass pretty actively until 1972 , so we are well represented in the 1960s ; then we stopped . The Saxe collection is a real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1980s , " Taragin explains . " But there are certain people whose work we are acquiring in depth , and you see it as you walk through the galleries . " Toward this end , the Saxe gift includes multiple pieces from key figures , such as Howard Ben Tre , Dale Chihuly , Dan Dailey , Klaus Moje , Stanislav Libensky and Joel Philip Myers . Significant works by other artists , like Michael Cohn , Ginny Ruffner , Mary Shaffer and Toots Zynsky , were selected in part for their resonance with other works in the collection . Steadman describes the museum 's approach to collecting glass : " We ca n't be truly encyclopedic , but we try to be as broad as we can in our representation . However , we do not give up our basic curatorial approach , which is collecting for quality , when we 're dealing with glass . Even though some pieces of historical or contemporary glass may be interesting for one reason or another , if the quality is not there , you wo n't find them in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toledo Museum to document the history of contemporary glass more fully , but the museum 's interests are more ambitious . Interpretative labels in the newly reinstalled 20th-century galleries chronicle essential ideas and movements , and the glass collections are employed extensively to address issues of art . " I was so excited , in coming here , not to have to look at glass artists in a bubble . Being able to give the objects the dignity ... of applying the same methodology that we apply to painting and sculpture , and looking at them within the context of larger movements and trends  --  that 's what 's really important to me , " Taragin says . In a section labeled New Realism Emily Brock 's glass-and-metal The Counterman-Diner , 1991-92 , is placed alongside paintings by Richard Estes , Jack Beal and Philip Pearlstein . Stanislav Libensky and Jaroslava Brychtova 's The Gray Table , 1987 , currently traveling with the Saxe exhibition has been displayed in a section called Minimalism . A marvelously evocative gallery dominated by the work of Willem de Kooning , Mark Rothko , Louise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's column Blue Dr. Zharkov , 1970 , and Littleton 's Column III , 1970 , clustered with Golem Chair , 1969 , designed by Vico Magistretti . Across the room , ceramics by Toshiko Takaezu , Maija Grotell and Otto and Gertrud Natzler surround a crushed-glass vase by Frances Higgins . A label describing the studio craft movement connects these pieces with the " spontaneity and individualism associated with Abstract Expressionism , " but it hardly needs to ; the point is eloquently made by the objects themselves . This integration of various media is n't a new idea , of course . In their period galleries , most museums display at least furniture alongside paintings and sculpture ; done well , the juxtaposition demonstrates and amplifies their common ethos . In the Toledo Museum , for example , it 's wonderful to see the different responses to late-19th-century " Japonisme " expressed by a Herter Brothers wardrobe , Tiffany and Gorham silver , and paintings by Blakelock and Homer . Similarly , the museum 's combination of a Piet Mondrian painting , a Frank Lloyd Wright window , Wilhelm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chair hints at the evolution and dissemination of early modernism . It 's refreshing to see art from the studio craft movement entering the dialogue at Toledo . For the most part , serious collecting of studio craft is a new phenomenon in art museums . Since paintings and sculpture receive more attention and much swifter canonization , craft objects of the same period have entered museums later than their more prestigious cousins . This is beginning to change . As craft collections develop , it will be interesting to see how museums come to terms with exhibiting them . Will studio craft be displayed separately from design for industry ? Should functional work be segregated from nonfunctional ? Will there be a resurgence of interest in period rooms ? The possibilities for interpreting craft objects are wide-ranging  --  and so are the difficulties . At present , glass and other craft media are variously defined as decorative art , as design , as 20th-century art , as American art , or by media . This bewildering array of cultural categories alone ensures that craft objects will be handled differently in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ categories will be tested independently in each museum . It would be foolish to expect a clear consensus , and perhaps consistency is n't really important . The issues addressed by studio craft are multivalent and , as Steadman says , each institution has its own personality . With its long , particularized interest in glass , the Toledo Museum is well placed to influence the future treatment of craft by art museums . In addition to collecting and documenting 20th-century craft , the Toledo has occasionally been its patron . The museum recently commissioned a Wendell Castle piano to be used in performance and displayed in the Peristyle theater , which regularly hosts the Toledo Symphony . Conceived by Taragin and Joyce Smar , curator of performing arts , this exciting cross-departmental project exemplifies the museum 's collegial atmosphere . Castle 's Steinway is the museum 's third commission : a 1969 Labino glass mural graces a gallery entrance , and two cast-glass benches by Ben Tre were installed for visitor use in 1987 . " There 's a lot to do , " Taragin says , " in terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everybody here is poised to support this kind of work . We acquire things slowly , but collections do n't have to be built in a day . This collection will have a life well beyond me , or anyone here . We want it to mean something to be in this collection . That 's very important . " Following the Newport Harbor Art Museum , Newport Beach , California ( March 12-June 5 ) , " Contemporary Crafts and the Saxe Collection " travels to the Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of American Art , Smithsonian Institution , Washington , DC ( October 28-February 5 , 1995 . ) The exhibition and tour are sponsored by Philip Morris Companies Inc . A 216-page catalogue with essays by seven contributors , 124 color and 24 black-and-white photographs , copublished by the Toledo Museum of Art and Hudson Hills Press , New York , is available for $60 hardback , $34.95 paperback , from the Museum Shop , TMA , Box 1013 , Toledo , OH 43697 . Jody Clowes , a frequent contributor to AMERICAN CRAFT , is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    