@@341666

The slaughter began with an incident all too familiar in South Africa 's seething black urban townships . Returning from a Sunday drinking session in a local shebeen , or pub , a noisy group of Xhosa migrant workers from the grim , single-sex hostels of Tokoza township clashed with a crowd of Zulu rivals . Insults were traded , weapons brandished . When the dust settled , a man lay dead . Some said the victim was a Zulu killed by Xhosas , others a Xhosa killed by Zulus . In the end it hardly mattered : the murder unleashed tribal-based animosities that date back centuries and have claimed 4,000 people over the past three years . <P> The conflagration of factional fighting last week went on for six days . It left at least 200 people dead and hundreds wounded  --  in one week , more black civilians died than the African National Congress 's guerrilla campaign killed in 30 years . As the bloodletting raged , the A.N.C . found itself standing side by side with the government of President F.W. de Klerk in desperately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the Tokoza , Katlehong and Vosloorus sections around Johannesburg , roving bands of Zulus set houses on fire and attacked fleeing residents with guns , spears and butcher knives . Whole villages fled in terror as Zulu impis went on the warpath , kicking up dust with their traditional war dances and waving sticks , pangas and stabbing spears . Some victims were doused with gasoline and set aflame ; others were hacked to death with axes . As the carnage spread to Soweto , at least 35 people died . Police tore down barricades of burning tires and debris and used tear gas and armored vehicles to keep the warring factions apart . <P> The bloody outbreak is a setback for Nelson Mandela and the A.N.C. , which only two weeks earlier had announced that it was suspending its 29 years of armed struggle against the government . Complicating matters further is the political dimension of the tribal warfare , which is linked to a long-standing feud between Mandela 's A.N.C . and the Inkatha movement led by Mangosuthu Buthelezi , Chief Minister of Kwazulu , the tribal homeland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders have publicly deplored the killings , the violence is considered a sign of the Zulus ' frustration over De Klerk 's failure to include them in negotiations for a new constitution . <P> The political face-off between the A.N.C . and the mostly Zulu Inkatha membership has long threatened to break the black majority apart . Buthelezi , who was once an active member of the A.N.C . ' s Youth League , persistently condemned the outlawed congress for its policy of violence and has always maintained that his 1.5 million-member Inkatha movement is more representative of South Africa 's blacks . From its outposts in exile , the A.N.C . called Buthelezi a puppet of the South African government and a traitor to the black cause and threatened to have him assassinated .                     