@@352287

They have been around for a couple of decades , clunky-looking status symbols from an era before Al Gore had even heard of the information highway . The sight of a 6-ft. satellite dish on the front lawn traditionally signaled one of two things : here is a house so far away from civilization that the cable company wo n't even bother coming , or here is a homeowner rich enough to afford the most expensive toy in the media supermarket . <P> That is changing fast . Direct-to-home satellite broadcasting is making a fresh bid for a share of the television market  --  not just people in the boondocks but city and suburban dwellers as well who already subscribe to cable . A new generation of satellites , sending out signals over the high-power Ku-band ( rather than the old C-band , which most current dishes utilize ) , combined with digital compression technology , has made it possible to bring in - many more channels with much smaller dishes  --  the size of an extra-large pizza . With prices coming down too , home satellite dishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " There 's no denying that a significant number of people have had it with the TV they 're getting right now , " says Eddy Hartenstein , president of DirecTV , the satellite-programming unit of GM Hughes Electronics . Enthuses satellite-TV pioneer Stanley Hubbard : " Once consumer expectations change , they never go back . Digital satellite is changing consumer expectations forever . " <P> Cable finds itself in a vulnerable position because , at least temporarily , it is lagging behind in the perennial game of technological leapfrog . Nearly every major cable company is developing sophisticated new fiber-optic technology that will ultimately deliver hundreds of channels and permit full interactivity  --  enabling viewers to order programs on demand , buy merchandise at the touch of a button and " talk back " to the set in a host of other ways . But this much vaunted technology is still years away from nationwide operation . For now , most cable customers must settle for 40 or 50 channels of traditional programming , technology that in many older systems badly needs upgrading  --  and , in many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local cable company for service . <P> This has created a window of opportunity for potential rivals . ( These rivals received a significant boost from the 1992 Cable Act , which requires that cable programmers like HBO and Showtime offer their services to any competing delivery system at comparable prices . ) The oldest of these competitors is so- called wireless cable , which collects programming with large satellite dishes and sends it to homes via microwave transmitters . Wireless companies provide a low-cost alternative to cable in a number of cities , such as Houston , New York City and Cleveland , Ohio , but have traditionally been hampered by limited capacity ( only about 30 channels in most systems ) . But wireless operators , like cable , are preparing to upgrade to digital technology , which could expand their capacity to 250 channels , making it more attractive to potential customers .                     