@@410421

At 12:46 A.M. last March 20 , seventy-four meters beneath the icy surface of the Arctic Ocean  --  and in spite of the high-tech monitoring equipment each carried  --  a pair of submarines , one American , one Russian , collided . They were 105 nautical miles off the Kola Peninsula  --  by some measures the most heavily militarized region in the world  --  engaged in the kind of Cold War cat-and-mouse game that most people think has been consigned to history . On that morning an American nuclear-powered attack sub , the U.S.S. Grayling , was shadowing a Russian Delta-class sub out on a routine patrol . ( Such Russian subs are normally equipped with sixteen ocean-spanning nuclear-tipped missiles . Under the terms of START I the number of nuclear warheads they can carry is limited  --  but that agreement has not yet officially gone into effect . ) That the Americans were tailing the " enemy " was routine too . Though tough economic times have forced the Russians to cut back on the amount of time their submarines spend at sea , when they do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under decades-old U.S. military guidelines , attack boats tail the missile subs with the intention of torpedoing them if war breaks out . The accident occurred as the Russian boat crossed in front of the American . If the U.S. submarine had been five seconds slower , the Russian sub would have been struck right on its missile bay ; the bump could conceivably have opened a crack where the missiles were stored , sinking the sub and scattering nuclear warheads over the ocean floor . After the collision the roughly half-a-billion-dollar American submarine  --  which according to the Pentagon sustained " slight " damage  --  circled to see if the Russian vessel was seriously damaged . A later report by the Russian Navy claimed that its sub sustained a " small dent . " " But thirteen-thousand-ton submarines do n't just go bump in the night , " says Joshua Handler , a research coordinator for Greenpeace who has advised the Reagan , Bush , and Clinton Administrations on Arctic nuclear and military matters . This accident came just fourteen months after a Russian sub in the Barents Sea surfaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vessels . The March collision was one of the items Boris Yeltsin brought up with President Bill Clinton at their Vancouver summit . Clinton apologized and promised to look into the matter , calling it " a regrettable thing " and saying " I do n't want it to ever happen again . " The President assured Yeltsin that he would order a review of the collision and would open talks with the Russians " to discuss whether the policy should be changed and where we should go from here . " In his post-summit statement Yeltsin brought the matter up again . By mentioning the submarine collision as one of the few irritants standing in the way of smoother U.S.-Russian relations , Yeltsin elevated the accident to a new level of importance in Washington . " Assuredly the White House boxed the ears of the Navy to make sure this kind of thing does n't continue , " says William Arkin , the director of military research for Greenpeace . " I promise you reviews are going on right now , at several levels , asking the question " Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the past decade the official word from Washington and Moscow has been that the superpowers were aligning , and thus nuclear threats were diminishing . Deals were struck to disassemble what remained of the arsenals of destruction built up over the previous fifty years . Today , however , the Arctic  --  long home to myriad missile silos , prowling nuclear submarines , and sophisticated radar and communications systems  --  is far from being disarmed . Though military spending and deployment are hot topics in both countries , the relatively empty Arctic ( its population is just 10 million , at least three quarters of them Russian ) continues to harbor American and Russian nuclear submarines and bombers equipped with long-range cruise missiles . Neither country has retargeted its Arctic ICBMs away from their Cold War positionings . The frozen lands and sea above the Arctic Circle are the last potential battlefront of the Cold War . Sixty percent of Russia 's submarine-based strategic nuclear forces are in the vicinity of the Kola Peninsula , and the Pentagon worries that a decreased Russian submarine presence along the eastern coast of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waters . With the collapse of the Warsaw Pact , Soviet bombers were moved from Hungary to northern bases ; Russian Bear bombers , some of them capable of carrying terrain-hugging cruise missiles , still occasionally test the northern radar defenses and are challenged by either U.S. or Canadian fighters . Russia 's only remaining nuclear test site is in the Arctic , on Novaya Zemlya . Two winters ago many Russian ships steamed out of the Black Sea and joined the northern fleet . The heavily armored divisions protecting the old Soviet northern flank have not withdrawn  --  in contrast to the Russian troops that were in Central Europe . Though Defense Department appropriations continue to dwindle , so far no one from the new Administration has ordered the U.S. military to curtail or alter its activities in the Arctic . The Pentagon maintains both air and sea operations there , from a variety of bases in the northern tier of the United States . In cooperation with the Canadians , it also helped construct the North Warning System , the $2.5 billion defense project that included upgrading radar installations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arming of the Arctic began after the Second World War . The barren , sparsely populated region became strategically important as first the United States and then the Soviet Union developed strategic bombers capable of delivering nuclear weapons overseas . Soviet bomber attack routes were plotted across the North Pole , and the United States responded by building a string of high-tech radar stations in the Arctic . Soon the U.S. and Canadian militaries had established a major economic , environmental , and technological presence up north . As ICBMs replaced bombers as the primary nuclear threat in the early 1960s , visions of the Arctic as a strategic battleground began to fade . In the late 1970s developments in long-range air-and sea-launched cruise missiles and submarine warfare once again fixed attention on the Arctic as an arena of potential superpower confrontation . The region 's frequently ice-covered waters provided good shelter for ballistic-missile submarines , whose primary concern was to avoid detection . In the 1980s the Arctic seas became the foremost operational arena for the nuclear-powered attack submarines of both sides . Throughout the eighties the dominant Navy strategy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which upon the first sign of war in Europe the Navy would launch a sizable attack on the Soviet Union 's Arctic bases and weaponry . The goal was to relieve the pressure on any main front in Central Europe by opening up a new front in the north , diverting both manpower and weapons . American military thinkers felt that the United States could n't compete man for man against the Soviets in a land-based war in Europe . Their counteroffensive was intended to destroy the Soviets ' valuable collection of 100-plus nuclear submarines in port or on the prowl in the Arctic . Partly as a defense against the maritime strategy the Soviets employed what they called a bastion concept . This meant they kept their subs within small areas that they covered with surface ships and airplanes , to keep American forces at a distance . The subs at sea remained under the Arctic ice , where they were difficult to track . Since the collapse of the Warsaw Pact such strategies would seem to be obsolete or at least unnecessary . But officially , few changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The word in Washington is that neither country will change until the military hierarchy does . " Yet it 's dramatic how much has changed in the last two or three years , " Josh Handler says . " In the early to mid-eighties we had a whole slew of incidents in the Arctic : intercepts , big exercises off Kamchatka , lots of literature referring to the Arctic as " the strategic frontier . " That 's all dropped off the map . Sure , the man on the street will be surprised that subs are still prowling and warning systems are being retrofitted . But it 's essentially on autopilot up there . " Oran Young , the director of the Institute of Arctic Studies at Dartmouth College , believes that the Arctic will remain an attractive area for maintaining a limited military force as a deterrent . " You have to remember that policy in the Arctic is motivated by a lot of factors other than the larger strategic balance , " he says . " There are a lot of players , with a lot of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues . Some have major stakes in deployment patterns , ranging from protecting civilian jobs to members of the military in both countries desperately trying to carve out new reasons to justify their existence . " Some observers would argue that the Arctic remains important for one reason and one reason only : nobody owns it . Antarctica has been governed for more than thirty years by international treaty , and so the oceans north of the zones under the jurisdiction of the various Arctic countries are one of the least regulated places on earth . Even outer space is more heavily regulated . In recent years Soviet and American leaders , most notably the former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev , have talked about reducing the armed presence in the Arctic . Speaking in Murmansk in 1987 , Gorbachev set forth ways he felt the two nations might cooperate and asserted the Soviet Union 's " profound and certain interest in preventing the North of the planet , its polar and subpolar regions , and all Northern countries from ever again becoming an arena of war . " His so-called zone-of-peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cooperative resource development , coordinated scientific research , environmental cooperation , and the opening of the northern sea route ( which runs along the Arctic coast of Russia from Murmansk to the Bering Strait ) to foreign ships . But there remains , as then Soviet Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov put it , a " lack of trust that has built up in a region so sensitive from the viewpoint of security interests " such that the cooperation Gorbachev envisioned is difficult to achieve . A key to any change is the future of the Russian military . In the late 1980s more than four million Soviet soldiers were stationed at home and abroad , supported by thousands of planes , four naval fleets , and the world 's largest fleet of submarines . In addition , 1,400 land-based intercontinental missiles tipped with nuclear warheads were in position for firing . When the Soviet Union collapsed , Russia inherited most of the state 's military . Only about 2.2 million Russians are officially still in uniform , and money shortages have brought most naval vessels close to home ports and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intend to eliminate entirely its armed forces in the north , but it does not know how many troops to keep . One big problem is a housing shortage , which already affects the 1.2 million military-related civilians and soldiers living north of the Arctic Circle . Grave concern persists in nearby Finland and Norway that destitute soldiers could overrun the border and loot local stores . One reason U.S. officials give for supporting the status quo in the Arctic is the still unsettled relationship between Russia and Ukraine . Despite a tentative agreement under which Ukraine will turn over its nuclear warheads to Russia in exchange for the uranium extracted from them , and its share of the Black Sea fleet in exchange for debt relief , there remains concern that a nuclear threat still exists in the former Soviet states . When Senator Sam Nunn , of Georgia , returned last winter from a tour of Soviet military bases , he cautioned that the " risk of accident or unauthorized launch of nuclear weapons has increased as instability has increased . " Stephen Cohen , the director of Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat is greater than ever before . " That 's one reason the Navy continues to monitor the location and movement of Russian subs loaded with nuclear missiles . The reality is probably that now no more than one Russian strategic ballistic missile sub is at sea at a time , whereas two , three , or four American attack subs are constantly on the prowl in the Arctic . The disparity has to do with maintenance , or the lack of it . Keeping nuclear submarines afloat is very expensive . With budgets cut to a minimum , the Russian subs are simply not in good enough shape to be at sea . Pentagon officials will say little about when submarine tailings and bomber flyovers might stop . " No " is all Defense Department officials will say as to whether an end is in sight . In regard to whether or not such games might cease , an anonymous Defense Department official told the Associated Press last spring , " It 's something that we 've never historically addressed . " And although Defense Secretary Les Aspin said in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in its submarine operations in order to avoid future collisions , no one in the Defense Department will say what this change means , or whether the tailings have stopped . Nor will Pentagon spokesmen detail deployments or any alterations in Navy strategy that may be in effect in the Arctic . As part of its first move to shrink the military , the Clinton Administration did propose a reduction in the number of nuclear attack submarines from more than eighty to forty-five or fifty by the year 2000 . And right now all branches of the military are experiencing tremendous ferment as competing factions develop new collections of war-room scenarios in order to justify their very existence . But how can the Navy rationalize a submarine force of even forty ( now to be supplemented by new Seawolf submarines costing in the billions of dollars ) , given the condition of the Russian fleet ? " What the Navy is trying to do right now , " says Bill Arkin , of Greenpeace , " is stay very , very quiet . Nothing is going to change unless things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Navy , Yeltsin brought this issue to his attention . I know the Joint Chiefs worked very quickly to respond to the President 's desires after that-first by restricting naval operations in the Barents Sea , and second by beginning a review of the entire issue of naval activities in the Arctic . In an already strained relationship with the White House they do n't want to give it ammunition with which to seek vengeance in the form of reducing their budget even more . " In 1991 Canada and the United States reinvested in the early-warning system they had set up back in the 1950s . Today from a necklace of sites making up the just-completed North Warning System a shiny new long-range radar network ceaselessly scans the skies for friend or foe . The NWS replaces the antiquated Distant Early Warning , or DEW , line , in monitoring the roughly 5,000-mile span from Alaska to islands off the coast of Greenland . The new system has fifteen long-range radar positions that can " see " 200 miles out . Eleven are in Canada . It also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles . In addition , 400 people are spread out in stations along Canada 's huge northern frontier , an area of land and water bigger than Europe , watching for the opening salvo of Armageddon . Is such surveillance still necessary ? A supervisor at one of the new radar stations in the Northwest Territories told a reporter for The New York Times , " Just because there are fewer burglaries in the neighborhood does n't mean you throw away the burglar alarms . " One consequence of the continued military presence in the Arctic is a worsening of environmental problems . The Soviets have admitted dumping into Arctic waters since 1965 eighteen nuclear reactors , six of them laden with radioactive fuel , from submarines and an icebreaker . Most of the reactors were dumped off the coast of Novaya Zemlya , turning a site near northern fisheries into the world 's largest known nuclear dump . ( Over the past thirty years the U.S. Navy has lost two nuclear subs  --  the Thresher and the Scorpion  --  and has admitted to dumping one reactor , from the Seawolf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleanup off the Siberian coast are difficult , because of the military presence , the climatic conditions , the remoteness , and the shifting interplay between land and sea-ice . International agreements for mopping up oil spills and resolving conflicts over water and air pollution do exist among the Arctic states , but these agreements are not comprehensive and have yet to be proved effective . Of great concern to environmentalists now are the hundred or so of Russia 's older nuclear submarines that are already decommissioned , and the fifty or sixty due soon to be taken out of commission . " All of those reactors that have been dumped came from submarines that had accidents , " says Josh Handler , who was integral to an effort to encourage the Soviet scientists who were aware of the dumping to come forward with their evidence . " They simply did n't know what to do with them : they did n't have any land-based storage sites , they could n't get the fuel out of them , they could n't repair them-so they filled up a barge and dumped them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be the future of the decommissioned submarines . They have a backlog of about a hundred nuclear submarines that have been taken out of service , and they still do n't know what to do with them . Greenpeace received a letter from the Russian navy last October , responding to our request to go to the Kara Sea , in which they said they did not have plans to scuttle these submarines . But that 's all we have to go on . " When a Greenpeace ship tried to enter the area on October 12 of last year to confirm the earlier dumpings , it was fired upon and seized by the Russian military . Twelve days later President Yeltsin ordered an investigation that eventually confirmed Greenpeace 's suspicions . Right now cooperative agendas for the Arctic are in short supply , largely because no state has developed a coherent Arctic policy or a process for making crucial decisions . And , since policy efforts by either the United States or Russia provoke opposition or skepticism from the other , neither Washington nor Moscow is giving high priority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce the military presence in the region ? How do we codify reductions in arms ? How could we make the Arctic nuclear-free ? Would that include nuclear weapons as well as nuclear-powered ships and submarines ? Oran Young believes that maintaining some military presence in the Arctic is reasonable . " It 's very easy to imagine a situation where both sides have a modest number of nuclear weapons in the Arctic as a kind of residual deterrent force , " he says . Josh Handler , however , disagrees : " We say , get all of the nukes out of there . " Canada ( which has long disliked that Arctic patrols often take place in its waters without its acknowledgment or approval ) and the Scandinavian countries are very concerned about the future of all militaries in the North . The Scandinavians may have the most cause for concern , given the large number of troops stationed just across their borders and the large amount of radioactive waste that was dumped in their fishing waters . Last January , when Russia , Norway , Sweden , Finland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Euro-Arctic Region , officials from the member countries called for better monitoring of radiation , improvement in nuclear safety , and a cleanup of areas contaminated by radiation and other pollution . As for the United States , its future north of the Arctic Circle is anybody 's guess . " I 'd like to think that somebody is off pondering or reconsidering American military policy in the Arctic , " says John Kroll , a professor at Dartmouth College who specializes in trade and arms agreements and the Arctic , " but I get different stories about whether the Navy is even bothering . It may take the budget to drive everyone to reconsideration . " <p>                     