@@410749

The need to achieve an environmentally sustainable world is shaping the evolution of the global economy . Ecological pressures increasingly will influence economic decisions , making some industries obsolete while opening up a host of new investment opportunities . Companies and nations that fail to invest strategically in the new technologies , products , and processes will fall behind economically and miss out on the jobs these new industries provide . The size of the world economy has quintupled since 1950 , bringing unprecedented , though unevenly distributed , prosperity to many nations , but much of the affluence has been borrowed from future generations . Destruction and degradation of natural assets  --  air , land , water , forests , and plant and animal species  --  have subsidized the profits of many businesses in the late 20th century . For industries around the globe , the debts are coming due . Sulfur dioxide , hydrocarbons , and other pollutants flow in immense quantity from smokestacks , fouling the air and shortening lives . Billions of tons of greenhouse gases that enter the atmosphere each year are expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been for the last 100,000 years . Heavy metals , PCBs , and thousands of other chemicals find their way into the rivers , lakes , and seas , while chlorofluorocarbons have damaged the protective laser of ozone in the upper atmosphere . The relentless search for new sources of timber , fuels , and minerals is bringing destructive development to the far corners of the planet , disturbing the remaining storehouses of biological and cultural diversity . Laws enacted by some countries to address these environmental threats have yielded mans ' gains , from lower sulfur emissions to reduced water pollution levels . However , the challenge ahead is more fundamental  --  going beyond pollution controls and better management to reshape industries in order to make them environmentally sustainable . Responding to problems such as global warming and the loss of biological diversity will require the revamping of today 's enterprises , such as chemicals and paper , and the creation of entirely new industries . Primary responsibility for creating an environmentally sustainable economic system lies with elected governments , which represent the interests of society as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while consumers and local communities create the pressure for change . The challenge is to adopt policies that make economic and ecological imperatives converge , redirecting market forces to achieve the environmental goals . Since private businesses focused on earning profits , it is up to governments to ensure that the most profitable investments are the ones that are environmentally sustainable . Policies ranging from well-crafted regulations to taxes can be used to attain these goals . In a world where private industry controls the bulk of capital investment , accounts for the preponderance of jobs , and provides trillions of dollars worth of goods and services each year , its role in damaging the environment  --  or ultimately in sustaining it  --  is central . In the end , it is industry that has the technological capacity , management skills , and investment capital to achieve an environmentally sustainable economy . Many large , diversified corporations  --  some with annual revenues that exceed the gross national products of many nations  --  now have the power to shift investments among continents as well as industries and to determine , in large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also play a big role . While many have worse environmental records than large corporations do , they also contribute disproportionately to technical innovation in many industries . Without the active participation of businesses of all sizes , there is little hope of achieving a sustainable global economy . In order to move forward , they will have to embark on extensive internal reforms that better equip them to respond to fast-moving environmental issues and opportunities . In a competitive global economy , corporations that allow themselves to fall behind will face serious financial risks . In short , those that fail to invest in the future may find they do not have one . As the number of environmental concerns has multiplied in recent years , it has become clear that no corner of the Earth is unscathed and no industry free of responsibility for the dilemma that today 's and future generations face . Gradually , focus has broadened from simple air and water pollution to sweeping problems of land use such as deforestation and soil erosion , and then to the long-range threats of ozone depletion and global @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues could be solved one at a time through simple , focused solutions mandated by governments . Today , fundamental changes are inarguably necessary and , in some cases , already being pursued . Once seen as a distraction to the real business of business , ecological awareness is becoming an engine of the next Industrial Revolution . It now is pervasive in traditional " dirty " industries , such as chemical manufacturing and metals processing , as well as high-tech and service industries , such as computer manufacturing and food companies . Businesses are likely to prosper in the future not by selling massive quantities of identical products  --  the traditional route to economic success  --  but by meeting consumer needs in the most efficient way possible . They will have to supply energy " services , " rather than electricity ; " information , " rather than a newspaper ; and crop protection , rather than pesticides . The challenge of the coming environmental revolution is likely to include alterations in manufacturing processes , the adoption of new agricultural techniques , and the development of alternatives to fossil fuels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already is a major industry . The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development estimates that the worldwide market of environmental goods and services was around $200,000,000,000 in 1990 , and projects it will grow 50% by 2000 . These figures are defined narrowly , however , only including such items as the market for sewage treatment equipment and the cost of cleaning up toxic wastes . The much larger demands of redesigning basic manufacturing equipment or creating new industries likely will be measured in trillions of dollars . The biggest areas of potential business growth lie in the most fundamental areas : finding alternatives to the internal combustion engine , substituting lightweight synthetics for steel , making solar electricity competitive with coal-fired power , substituting aquaculture for deep-sea fishing , etc . PRESSURE ON INDUSTRIES The far-reaching economic consequences of ecological issues are apparent even for relatively simple areas like air pollution . In the early 1970s , scientists and policymakers believed that the solution lay in putting pollution control devices in factories and automobiles. no decades of this approach have created a multi-billion-dollar market for catalytic converters and flue gas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some countries such as Japan and the U.S. , few cities have genuinely clean air yet , and some have worse air pollution than ever . The impact of environmental rules has ricocheted through the global automotive industry . Since 1990 , prototype electric cars have been developed by General Motors and BMW , and work on hydrogen-powered vehicles has been announced by Mercedes and Mazda . Some of these models will be on the market by the late 1990s . It appears that automotive technology is about to undergo some of the most rapid change since Henry Ford introduced the Model T. The gasoline-powered internal combustion engine , which has dominated transportation for most of this century and which survived the oil crises of the 1970s unscathed , finally may be on the way out . Nissan and several European automakers are addressing another environmental issue  --  wasted materials . They have announced plans to build cars that will be nearly 100% recyclable . Among the industries slated for rapid change , basic extractive and material processing enterprises are near the top of the list . Operations such as mining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , playing important roles in the rapid loss of old-growth forests and wetlands . Such losses of often-irreplacable habitats are diminishing the Earth 's storehouse of biological diversity . Scientists estimate that the planet is losing approximately 50,000 species annually , or about 140 each day . The logging industry is under heavy pressure to clean up its act . Government regulations have pushed foresters in the northwestern U.S. to develop techniques known as new forestry , intended to cut valuable trees selectively while maintaining the integrity and diversity of the forest ecosystem . In addition , many trees are being grown as an agricultural product on managed plantations , although such practices are sustainable only if sufficient diversity is maintained to prevent serious blights and other problems . Improved management can cut the environmental impacts of raw materials production , but even greater benefits will be gained through basic changes in other industries that reduce needs for timber and virgin minerals . The efficient use of recycled materials is likely to reduce the size of the mining and logging industries substantially . The per capita use of some virgin materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built most of their materials-intensive infrastructure  --  while recycling is increasing at double-digit rates . There are enormous opportunities for more efficient use of wood . U.S. consumption could be cut in half through increased recycling and reduced waste in wood processing , consumer products , and construction . Governmental mandates , consumers ' pressure , and the rapid proliferation of recycling programs have caused paper manufacturers to convert a number of mills to the use of recycled pulp , and at the same time to eliminate the use of dioxin-producing chlorine bleaches . Manufacturers that once claimed recycled paper was only good for low-grade paper products now are making high-grade magazine stock at least partially from recycled fibers . Such developments have set off a technology race that could help determine winners and losers in the paper industry in the next decade . Over time , the industry may move away from the forested areas where it is centered to the outskirts of large cities , where its major future resource  --  discarded paper  --  and its markets lie . The steel industry is undergoing a similar transformation . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ore , and environmental concerns , it has been replacing its older , less efficient , more polluting mills . The most rapid area of growth is in modular minimills that rely on electric arc furnaces . They are far more energy-efficient and rely heavily on scrap steel , rather than iron ore . Because they do not need to be near iron and coal resources , minimills are likely to be decentralized and can be a center of economic development even in a small city . The chemical industry is among those most affected by environmental concerns , having grown at a staggering pace in recent decades , as has the number of its products . Complex organic compounds , many of them toxic , find their way into virtually every product and production process . Government figures show that more than 700,000 tons of toxic pollutants are released each year by the U.S. chemical industry . Many of these are long-lived and contaminate lakes , groundwater , and the air people breathe . Concerns over toxic emissions mushroomed after the catastrophic release of methyl isocyanate gas from a Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people and injuring 200,000 more . Governments gradually have cracked down on toxic releases  --  first into water , then onto land , and finally to the air . Many companies have been faced with the costly cleanup of decades ' worth of negligent waste disposal . Others have been hit with massive lawsuits filed by those injured by exposure to toxic materials . Early on , it became clear that end-of-pipe pollution controls were not always the most cost-effective way to deal with these toxic chemicals . In the U.S. , 3M pioneered a different approach . Its " Pollution Prevention Pays " program , established in 1975 , encourages employees to find ways to reduce or eliminate use of dangerous chemicals  --  and save money  --  through redesign of products and manufacturing processes . The corporation estimates it has prevented more than 1,000,000,000 pounds of emissions since then and saved over $500,000,000 . The company planned to cut its releases to the air another 70% by the end of 1993 . Many other firms began to emulate the 3M approach . Dow Chemical reports that its pollution reduction program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The British chemical giant ICI has designed a new terephthalic acid plant in Taiwan that it claims produces virtually no chemical waste . The new , redesigned production processes usually are simpler and cheaper , and investments are repaid quickly . Some chemical companies have made process redesign an important part of corporate strategy . An even greater challenge is to find substitutes for products that are hazardous or can not be manufactured without using toxic ingredients . The agricultural chemical business is one industry where cleanup efforts extend well beyond the factory wall . Agriculture has been transformed in recent decades by the massive use of herbicides and insecticides intended to boost yields . Pests have become immune to numerous chemicals , however , and many toxic substances have leached into groundwater . A number of farmers are turning to alternative forms of pest control , including integrated pest management ( IPM ) . Combining small , targeted applications of pesticides with careful monitoring of field conditions and protection of predator insects , IPM often saves farmers money through reduced chemical bills . It is likely to have far-reaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IPM services . Companies may find they do better marketing " pest management " than pesticides alone . Water conservation is another burgeoning enterprise . In contrast to the large dams and diversion projects of the past , improving the efficiency of water use will rely on a diverse array of manufacturing and service companies . Water shortages in many regions have led to government conservation programs . The market for low-flow toilets and showerheads is growing , and many industries are altering their production processes to cut water use by 75% or more . Agriculture , the largest user , is turning to drip irrigation and other forms of water management to deliver water more efficiently . Depletion of natural resources also may help create entirely new industries  --  supplying for profit what nature once provided free . Growth in the world fish catch , which has proceeded steadily for most of this century , is slowing and may not increase much more in the years ahead . With the world 's population surging upward and demand for protein increasing , it is not surprising that fish prices are up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is constrained by the availability of natural resources  --  such as clean water , energy , and space  --  commercial fish farming now is a growing enterprise . It currently contributes 10-15% of the world 's fish , from the high-cost salmon farming practiced in the fjords of Norway to the prolific carp and tilapia farms now common in China . REFORMING CORPORATIONS The environmental revolution began with grassroots activism in the 1960s and was joined by active government policymaking in the 1970s and 1980s . Now , industry itself is being swept up in the process . During the past few years , business policies and practices have begun to undergo sweeping reforms that in the end may yield not only a cleaner environment , but a different kind of company . Industry as a whole , however , only has taken the first steps in a long journey . In the years ahead , business executives will have to spur the process of reform , and governments will meet to cooperate in making the new approaches work . A broad spectrum of ecological philosophies and practices is existent among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still are in " attack mode "  --  lobbying tooth and nail against any environmental legislation and telling the public that such laws will cost jobs and add to the price of consumer goods . Top executives at auto companies devote more effort to fighting new fuel economy standards than toward developing more fuel-efficient engines . Such attitudes not only slow the evolution of public policy , they poison the corporate atmosphere  --  giving employees the notion that environmental improvement is something to be feared , rather than encouraged . Another strategy popular among companies looking to resist change is to run glossy ads that exaggerate their environmental achievements . Mitsubishi , a major cutter of old-growth forests in Southeast Asia , claims it practices " sustainable forestry " ; Solvay , a leading European manufacturer of plastics , has taken credit for recycling energy and materials within its normal production process , although much of the " recycling " involves potentially hazardous incineration . Others allow industry groups to do their " greenwashing " for them . Sometimes the group 's name provides all the distortion needed . For instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fought the 1992 climate treaty signed in Rio de Janeiro and opposes efforts to reduce dependence on fossil fuels . The contradictory signals stem not merely from hypocrisy , but from ongoinp struggles within companies and industries over ecological issues . A growing number of executives see that such efforts can backfire  --  both in the form of attacks from groups such as Greenpeace and by slowing the internal process of reform . Yet , they often face stiff in-house opposition from those who vainly yearn for " the way things used to be . " For companies ready to change , it usually begins with better management  --  an area in which Japanese companies have lessons to offer . Their corporate culture of " quality management "  --  wherein waste is avoided , materials are managed as carefully as possible , and processes constantly are improved  --  is a key ingredient of Japan 's economic miracle . Beginning in the 1970s , that nation 's companies effectively turned this philosophy to environmental cleanup , thus allowing them to make steady gains . Although these concepts are not easy to transfer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are working to adapt them . In some industries , better management alone can yield rich ecological rewards while adding to profits . Sony established a high-level Global Environmental Council in 1990 that coordinates policy throughout the company . In more than one-third of major U.S. corporations , the senior environmental official reports directly to the chief executive officer and , in many cases , the CEO has taken a personal and public interest in environmental matters . At BankAmerica , for example , the CEO personally announced the company 's new environmental strategy in 1990 and actively has led it since . Since businesses are run by human beings , motivated by the usual mixtures of ambition , fear , compassion , and greed , there often are psychological reasons for a company 's performance . Beyond their concern about the bottom line , executives have an obvious interest in their personal reputations  --  which sometimes are sullied by environmental disasters . Some report that criticism over the dinner table from their spouses or children has spurred them to action . As ecological issues have gained public attention , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensitivity . Often , this occurs as part of a generational shift , as younger executives inherit the reins of power . New leadership frequently leads to revamping a company 's culture and opens new opportunities for reform . Another essential element of corporate environmental reform is refocusing on the long run . It is easier to be concerned about the environment if a company is not obsessed with quarterly profit figures , as many are today , particularly in North America . In 1985 , for instance , Wall Street raider Charles Hurwitz gained control of Pacific Lumber Co. , a California firm with a policy of cutting its forests no faster than they could grow back . To pay off his takeover debts , Hurwitz doubled the company 's cutting rates  --  selling off 1,000-year-old trees for quick cash . German and Japanese firms are less susceptible to pressures for short-term profit . In Japan , the boards of most companies mostly are controlled by executives who rise through the company 's ranks and are more loyal to other employees than to the firm 's shareholders . Free of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to focus more on the long-term prospects of the company and are in a better position to consider ecological concerns . Employees deliver better environmental results when they know their company will reward them for doing so . Today 's most successful corporate pollution-prevention programs share several principles , among them formal recognition of employee environmental achievements , high-level responsibility for ecological issues , and a strong commitment from top management . Linking environmental performance with pay and promotion can offer strong incentives for innovation ; 3M includes such considerations in employee performance reviews . Unlike some firms , it avoids giving cash awards for environmental ideas to individual employees , in the belief that this would discourage cooperation . ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITING One of the keys to progress is to develop systems for routine measurement of performance  --  so-called environmental auditing . Until recently , companies rarely collected the comprehensive information needed for these evaluations , such as materials and energy consumption , emissions levels , and studies of the impacts of their products . Increasingly , though , companies are tracking emissions , and several accounting firms are offering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now audits its compliance with regulations , record at individual plant sites , and over-all corporate performance . Environmental auditing is growing in popularity , and the information it yields often spurs businesses to make changes that go beyond legal requirements . While these practices are evolving , lack of standardization and public access may limit the value of many auditing programs . Audits usually are done by company personnel according to their own criteria  --  and often for management 's eyes only . Sometimes , even the board of directors is denied access . The next step will be for third-party environmental audits to become routine , with the results made available to shareholders and the public at large . Standardized , public audits would provide real accountability and lead to far-reaching changes in procedures . Comprehensive tracking of materials and energy use can help companies get a handle on the economic and ecological implications of their production processes . Energy audits are becoming common practice in a number of firms , and some are moving toward accounting for the inputs and fate of all the materials used in business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now requires companies to report information on inputs of toxic materials as well as emissions , which is likely to spur closer examination of industrial processes and alternatives for cleaner production . The U.S. government does not require environmental audits , but it has established the world 's most advanced pollution reporting system  --  the Toxics Release Inventory ( TRI ) . Set up in 1986 , TRI collects information on toxic chemicals released from about 24,000 U.S. industrial facilities each year . When first proposed , the inventory was assailed by industry groups as a paperwork nightmare . In practice , it has provided a powerful stimulus for emissions reduction . The CEO of Monsanto " reacted with shock , " according to a company case history , when presented with the firm 's first report to TRI . He then set an ambitious goal for emissions reduction . In addition , environmental organizations have used TRI data to put pressure on major polluters , assembling more than 150 reports on local , state , and national pollution problems during the last three years . Armed with such evidence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exerting pressure for change . It is increasingly difficult for firms to borrow money , obtain insurance , negotiate labor contracts , offer new stock , site facilities , or sell products without first demonstrating that their operations are ecologically sound . Many of these companies  --  recalling the precipitous stock decline that followed Union Carbide 's Bhopal accident or the nearly 17,000 lawsuits by asbestos disease victims that led to Manville Corp . ' s bankruptcy  --  are concerned not just with the direct cost of environmental problems , but with the risk of being stuck with an unintended financial burden . The liability clause in the U.S. hazardous-waste cleanup law , for instance , has spurred lenders and insurers to insist on site audits prior to virtually all industrial real estate transactions so as to preclude an expensive waste disposal problem . A growing number of investors now seek out " green investments "  --  motivated by the potential financial rewards of such a portfolio and by the desire not to finance morally objectionable activities . This movement includes many pension funds , universities , and other institutional investors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe are ecologically progressive ; others use their position as stockholders to demand reform , employing information provided by groups such as the Council on Economic Priorities in New York , the Investor Responsibility Research Center in Washington , and Environmental Data Services in London . In addition , environmentally focused investment firms and funds have emerged to serve the individual investor , including the Calvert Group mutual funds and the Global Environment Fund in the U.S. and British unit trusts , such as the Merlin Ecology Fund . Although banks are somewhat less at risk in the companies they lend to , many have established environmental policies in recent years . At the simplest level , these include scrutinizing borrowers for potential environmental problems that could make it difficult to repay their loans . Germany 's Deutsche Bank has established a European environmental data base that is available to its borrowers  --  most of whom are small businesses  --  in order to help them clean up their acts . For Deutsche Bank , this service appears to be intended in part as a way to attract business . Although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there can be little doubt about the sweeping nature of the transition that lies ahead for many companies . The necessary changes will reach deep into business management and culture . The cornerstones of more environmentally responsible corporate practice  --  openness , accountability , taking a longer-term view  --  potentially offer corporations , and the societies in which they function , far-reaching benefits . The transition to an environmentally sound economy is as great a challenge as business has encountered . While the costs may be high and the danger of missteps real , most companies will face greater risks if they ignore the need for change . Those that do not learn how to earn profits in an ecologically sound way may find they have no profits to worry about . At the national level , those that try to force a false choice between jobs and the environment may end up with neither . In the end , the health of the global economy will depend on the health of the global environmental base on which it stands . Christopher Flavin and John Young are , respectively , vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Washington , D.C. <p>                     