@@394145

" There is nothing beautiful or sweet or great in life that is not mysterious . "  --  Francois-Rene de Chateaubriand THE MODERN AMERICAN CATHOLIC university , beset by all the curricular , administrative and political distractions that occupy its secular counterparts , has an additional and largely unique responsibility . It must do more than merely provide an environment where certain ethical principles are observed and where responsible thinking and conduct are promoted . The Catholic university must continue to be a place where the spiritual dimension of life is affirmed and explored , not as a peripheral or isolated activity , but as the heart and raison d'etre of the institution . The Catholic university is concerned with challenges not just of this life but the mysteries of the life to come , and the latter are ultimately of more significance than the former . The Catholic university is committed to a dualistic view of humanity in which the visible and physical is complemented by the invisible and the spiritual . While the content of curriculum , the modes of instruction , and the ways in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this commitment to the unseen world of the spirit is not . This said , we must quickly add that it is not the role of the Catholic university in America to convert the non-Catholics in its midst or to claim that church teaching has an exclusive monopoly on the truth . The central importance of spirituality on which the Catholic university insists does not require it , or any other educational institution , to proselytize among its students or neighbors . We acknowledge that the Catholic university should promote the ideas expressed in the documents of the church while simultaneously respecting and affirming other belief systems that also view human beings as possessing a soul as well as a body . Thus the stance of the university regarding the nature of human persons is a broad one in comparison with views held in previous centuries . Critics may see the above position as the selling out of a formerly more aggressive ( or self-defensive ) stance that stressed the unique qualities and the divine origins of church doctrine . But the Catholic university 's welcoming of other belief systems does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of departments of theology , what the church has held to be true , nor does it mean that religious questions framed from a Catholic perspective have no place in The Catholic university . David J. O'Brien , Loyola Professor of Roman Catholic Studies at The College of the Holy Cross in Worcester , Mass. , expressed this point well in the Fall 1994 number of Conversations , a publication of the National Seminar on Jesuit Higher Education : Catholic schools have a special responsibility to attempt to integrate religious questions into general education and to offer interested students , including those in professional and graduate programs , opportunities to engage the Catholic tradition and to learn of the life and work of the contemporary church . They also share with all other schools an obligation to assist faculty and students to think through their social and civic responsibilities , especially in the context of the specific forms of learning they pursue . Sense of the Spiritual . Professor O'Brien 's acknowledgment that the students involved be " interested " is important , as is his mention of graduate students , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a medical school class as it is in an undergraduate theology course . This task of teaching about the mysterious is in one sense more difficult than it was a few decades ago . Trends in mainstream American culture leave many students and more than a few instructors uncomfortable discussing the spiritual , even if privately they acknowledge its existence . The decline in enrollments at parochial or private high schools also means that fewer students enter a place like Saint Louis University with the background to begin relatively sophisticated discussions of religious experience . The formal religious background of graduate and professional students is even more varied and unpredictable than that of undergraduates and is an accurate reflection of the increasing diversity found on Catholic university campuses . Moreover , the typical competition and the psychological and financial pressures of graduate education pose a special challenge to Catholic universities that have few professors trained in theology and that hope to address issues of the spirit as well as of the mind . These universities must therefore rely on lay teachers , on non-Catholics and even on the agnostic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long past for bemoaning these developments or for trying to generate formulas to determine the exact number of Catholics , or the spiritually inclined , needed to insure the " Catholicity " of a Catholic university . Even if a " critical mass " of teachers committed to Catholic values could be determined , the actual number is far less important than the thoroughness and fairness with which prospective faculty members are recruited and interviewed , and the care with which the faculty is educated as to the mission of the university , which ultimately is concerned with encountering the mystery of human life and destiny . In years gone by , the spiritual needs of students at Catholic universities were addressed by a " spiritual director , " the direct ancestor of today 's campus ministry staff and/or the vice president for mission . Yet a single individual or office can not adequately meet the needs of a diverse and diffuse student body . For this reason it is all the more important that as large a portion of the entire university faculty as possible become involved in supporting this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when that faculty is recruited in part according to criteria reflecting this aspect of the mission , but also in part reflecting scholarly or professional accomplishments . No matter how firmly the university 's administration strives to establish clear criteria for hiring , the decisions of departmental hiring committees are influenced by subjective and personal factors , by pressures to recruit faculty who reflect the diversity of the student body and community and by the availability of appropriate candidates . As if these complications were not enough , the very nature of the interviewing process often makes it difficult to obtain a balanced picture of the candidate . Candidates understandably supply references that show them in the most favorable light , and Federal laws restrict questioning the candidate regarding many personal topics . While these laws appropriately protect candidates from intrusive and harassing questions , they place the Catholic university in the unenviable position of occasionally having to infer the candidate 's actual positions on matters relating to the university 's spiritual mission . This approach , of course , is very ineffective . " Behold , I show you a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall all be changed . "  --  1 Cor. 15:51 The original meaning of the Greek word musterion implied not so much a puzzle to be solved as an initiation into a realm of experience that was visible only to the initiated . A mystery was a rite , a passage and a transformation . The university engages mystery in this sense of the word as well as in the sense of mystery as humanly unknowable . Embedded in the acknowledgment of the spiritual side of human existence is the inescapable truth that the spiritual side can not be entirely comprehended . Within the mystery there are both ambiguities to be clarified and subjective experiences that can not be fully communicated or explained . There is also the unknown , which church teaching asserts will be known in the next life . But the university also can provide mystery as the portal through which the initiate passes into an unseen world . This passage , whether the initiation is conceived of in specifically religious terms , or more generally in a personal spiritual awakening , has historically been one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flourished in medieval France or Renaissance Italy , American Catholic universities operate in a pluralistic democracy with strong traditions of academic freedom and varying modes of inquiry , both of which can function as powerful forces to promote encounters with the mysteries . We therefore agree with the comment of the presidents of 15 American Catholic universities on ordinances proposed to implement Ex Corde Ecclesiae , the 1990 pontifical document on Catholic higher education . In a letter dated Nov. 29 , 1993 , to Bishop John J. Leibrecht , chairman of a U.S.C.C. committee on that document , they pointed out the atmosphere of conflict and even hostility that these ordinances could produce : " If implemented , we believe that significant harm would be done ... under these ordinances , a university would be put in an adversarial relationship with the local Bishop , who would be expected to judge the competency , orthodoxy , and probity of life of a professional theologian . " Such an adversarial and judgmental atmosphere is not conducive to encounters with mystery , nor does it encourage faculty or students who fear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into productive dialogue with teachers , colleagues or peers . Entering into the mystery can not be forced through conformity and should not be compelled through threat or punishment . Material Needs and Pragmatic Responses . By placing the encounter with mystery at the center of the university experience , the Catholic university finds itself experiencing other tensions . The worldview of the empirical scientist need not be inimical to either meaning of the word mystery , but the procedures of modern science are . The agencies that finance the university 's scientific endeavors and the outcomes expected from these endeavors do little to engender respect for the idea of mystery in a learning environment . Again , professional fields such as business and education arguably have a great need for the perspective that the spiritual provides . Yet the material needs and pragmatic responses of these fields generally tend to overshadow the spiritual and mysterious elements of these undertakings . As we speed from crisis to crisis we are apt to forget the spiritual reality that creates the practical imperative . Another risk inherent in embracing mystery comes from an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears to us absolute , we may be inclined to view our understanding of mystery as an immutable absolute as well . In reality our understanding of the mystery , both in the sense of the ineffable and of the initiation to the ineffable , evolves over time . University educators face different social conditions and human responses to these conditions than their predecessors of 100 or even 30 years ago . Our conception of what we must be prepared to tolerate has broadened . The commitment of the Catholic university to what it calls " family values " remains as strong as ever . Nevertheless , its tolerance of those who are not within a traditional nuclear family compels us to extend our Christian love to them , even as we affirm the scriptural and sacramental basis for the sanctity of marriage . Such a position is easily misunderstood . Yet if , as Theodore M. Hesburgh , C.S.C. , former president of the University of Notre Dame , has often said , the university is where the church does its thinking , this thinking should include paradoxical and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . JESUIT UNIVERSITIES IN PARTICULAR It is by no means certain that given this necessity for simultaneous acknowledgment of Catholic spirituality and the practical and changing circumstances of human beings within and outside of the church , Catholic universities will be sustained . The very fact that the future of Jesuit higher education , for example , has become the subject of so much discussion in recent years is an indication of the uncertainty many in Jesuit universities feel about the future mission of these schools . In the moment of transition from Jesuit to non-Jesuit ( or perhaps more properly , post-Jesuit ) , the Ignatian ideal need not be lost , however . But to assure that what is retained is more substantial than a fading afterglow , deliberate measures must be taken . At Saint Louis University the Faculty Partnership program attempts to begin this process of sharing the original Ignatian mission with lay faculty , but more needs to be done . The mission of a Jesuit university is closely related to the notion of mystery . Since the time when St. Ignatius Loyola ( 1491-1556 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followers began to establish schools throughout the world , the motivation behind Jesuit education has been more than the furthering of human knowledge . If this statement seems only a truism , let us look deeper to see the dilemma concealed within it . At the foundation of the Jesuit experience lies the Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius , a handbook for a searching and often arduous mystical training that emphasizes both the mystery and the necessity of action in the material world . Without the Spiritual Exercises there would be no Saint Louis University ; yet  --  and here is the essence of the dilemma  --  the university today is supported by a faculty the majority of whom , despite their sympathy with the ideas of the Society of Jesus , have not experienced the mystery inherent in this training . If we insist that an encounter with mystery , as elucidated by Ignatius , is central to the university identity , then we must concede that this identity may already be in jeopardy . If , on the other hand , we allow that those who have not undertaken the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own , are we not denying the unique value of these exercises ? No facile answers present themselves in the face of this dilemma . The most desirable outcome would no doubt be to find more men willing and able to embark on the long journey which results in becoming a Jesuit educator . While the Society of Jesus is , of course , vitally concerned with finding ways of attracting prospective Jesuits , all observers agree that for at least the foreseeable future , the numbers of Jesuits teaching in universities and colleges will continue to dwindle . Other approaches must therefore be considered . The history of the Society furnishes examples of lay men and women , as well as religious of other congregations , supporting Jesuits in their work , but in these instances the lay workers did not share either the educational responsibilities or institutional authority of members of the Society . In earlier centuries , and even at the beginning of this century , lay partners of Jesuits , who were organized into societies called sodalities , neither expected nor received recognition as equals . Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men and women teaching in them must be based on a different understanding or partnership . A basic component of this new relationship will be a true equality between Jesuit and partner . Partners as Equals . During the last half-dozen years the Society of Jesus has begun the process of including lay men and women in its mission . Jesuit provinces in places as diverse as Ireland , East Asia and Maryland have expressed a desire to develop more Jesuit-lay collaboration and to strengthen the collaboration already in existence . Closer to home , the U.S. Jesuits ' Wisconsin Province has embarked on a program which seeks to do just this . Entitled Ignatian Associates , the program includes a two-year process culminating in " first promises , " a public declaration of commitment to the Jesuit mission . This two-year formation process includes discussions regarding the mission of the Society , a study of key Jesuit documents , including the Spiritual Exercises , 10 to 12 hours per month of service to others and formation in prayer . The language of the formula for the first promises closely parallels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the Society . The formation and role of associate should not be seen , however , as merely a watered-down version of a full-fledged Jesuit experience . The broadening of the Jesuit community through the admission of associates is certainly within the Ignatian tradition of adaptability to varying social circumstances  --  in this instance , the affiliation of significant numbers of individuals who are willing and able to serve the Ignatian mission . The Wisconsin Ignatian associates , who at this writing number less than a dozen , are missioned to diverse individual apostolic commitments ranging from ministry with H.I.V./AIDS patients to family recreation programs and the teaching of catechism . The associates program , however , does not yet focus on the specific needs of a Jesuit college or university . Should programs such as the Ignatian Associates be instituted within the framework of higher education , some of the earliest features of the culture of American academe must be considered . The literature on U.S. Catholic higher education is extensive , and we do not pretend that the following list is exhaustive , but we offer it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an expanded and redefined Jesuit presence . 1 ) The culture of the contemporary American Catholic university reflects the dynamic evolution of higher education in this country during the past 150 years . Viewed from the point of view of the instructor , the American university system has placed great emphasis upon individual initiative , competition of its scholars and on contributions to knowledge through a ritual of challenges to existing assumptions . Each of these characteristics holds the seeds of potential conflict with the ideals of obedience that were originally a crucial component of the organization of the Society of Jesus . American academics are increasingly socialized to work frequently in isolated competition . Is such an attitude compatible with lay affiliation with a Society that historically has valued solidarity and obedience ? The self-selection of voluntarily associated lay persons within a university faculty produces a group of associates who hold values separate from those held by the majority of the unaffiliated faculty . This separation may weaken rather than strengthen the university as a whole . 2 ) The dichotomy between the scholarly research activities of faculty members and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the larger world of U.S. higher education , the former is typically more highly valued than the latter . However , the commitment articulated by Ignatian Associates of the Wisconsin Province can be more easily assessed within the realm of the interpersonal than in the context of pure scholarship . To put it another way , an instructor whose assignment is essentially teaching and counseling students can be guided and mentored by other faculty members and by administrators so that he or she can fulfill the promise offered up becoming an associate . For a faculty member whose principal assignment is research or scholarship , assistance from peers may be more difficult and success more elusive . In short , he or she may not get his work published . In an environment where failure to publish results in denial of tenure , such a dilemma could warp the intent of those who promise their fidelity to the Society . 3 ) One response to this problem is to allow only tenured faculty or only faculty with primarily teaching assignments to make such promises to the Society , but such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its most motivated potential associates . Rather , the advent of a program similar to that found in the Wisconsin Province on a university campus should prompt a reexamination of the priorities of the institution and even the criteria for tenure operating in that university . Taking such a step may be risky , but in the long run may prove salutary for the university that possesses only limited resources and which can only excel in a few chosen fields . 4 ) A university is staffed not only by faculty and administrators , but by coaches , counselors , residence hall directors and many others . While the support by each of these for the ideals of Ignatius is important to the university , the involvement of Residence Life staff in the mission of the university is arguably one of the most crucial . The social development of undergraduates is an area where the Jesuit college or university can legitimately claim to be offering an alternative to other schools , and where the notion of a role model can be transformed from rhetoric to reality . We therefore recommend that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs involving special commitment to the mission of the Society . 5 ) Graduate students and professional school students make up another part of the university that merits inclusion in any program to expand the range of individuals who can serve the Ignatian mission . The needs and interests of graduate and professional school students , who often have lives based far from the university campus , are too often overlooked by administrators already responding to undergraduates , faculty and alumni . Yet graduate students hold special promise as prospective lay associates . By their choice of graduate education , they have already demonstrated a willingness to make a commitment of time and effort stretching over a period of years . With their demonstration of success in advanced studies , these students confirm their ability to organize their lives around an articulated goal . The curricula of graduate and professional programs are in many cases excellent " fits " for future associates . Medical ethics , education , public policy and medicine are among the graduate programs currently offered at Jesuit universities that should be included in the development of lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students and administration who are fully committed to supporting the institution but who are not themselves Catholic . Can such individuals become involved in committed lay partnerships with the Society of Jesus ? A century ago such a question would have been unthinkable , but with the growth of an ecumenical spirit we must in all seriousness ask whether the Society can afford to pass over such important potential partners . We must also raise the more difficult issue of the inclusion of non-Christians among those promising to work for the mission of the Society . The broader the range of acceptable candidates becomes , the more inclusive ( and , of course , the less specifically Catholic ) the wording of their promises will be . Nevertheless , the Spiritual Exercises , which have been recognized by no less an authority than Peter-Hans Kolvenbach , superior general of the Society of Jesus , as beneficial to non-Catholics , can remain the focal point of the process leading up to the offering of promises . A Broader Community . We have written elsewhere about the importance of interpreting the Jesuit university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the educating mission of the Society in new and profound ways also requires careful interpretation to various constituencies . The relationship between the Society of Jesus and a university as a community of teachers with its own chains of command and responsibility , its organization by specialization and its ties to other institutions will have to be interpreted in light of the promises made to the Society . Jesuits may find that they need to learn more about the procedures of academe , while academics who have made promises will need to consider their professional responsibilities in light of their promises . Everyone in the university community , especially the professional colleagues of faculty associates , must be educated about the type of commitment into which these associates are entering and what its impact will be on the workings of the university . Moreover , the intentions of the Society in inviting the inclusion of lay persons in its mission need to be discussed openly and candidly . Otherwise , some within the community may conclude that the Jesuits are merely trying cynically to hold on to their control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an antagonistic atmosphere harmful to both the Ignatian mission and the functioning of the university . There are other constituencies from which few if any candidates for lay partnership with the university are likely to come , but which deserve a complete and comprehensive interpretation of the role of lay associates . These include undergraduates , the board of trustees , donors  --  past and potential  --  alumni ( although some recruitment efforts in this direction may be appropriate ) , government agencies having dealings with the university and the general public . The level and type of knowledge about the Society possessed by each of these constituencies will determine how the notion of lay partnership is presented . In fact , no aspect of the creation of such a program is more important than the impression of the program held by various groups touched by the university . The long-term success of lay partnerships within a Jesuit university may depend on how well students and community members grasp the significance of the promises made . Finally , if a reorganization of the American Jesuit provinces along functional rather than regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be more easily accomplished . A province consisting entirely of professed members and lay partners will be better equipped to address the problems of integration , recruitment and interpretation that we have briefly sketched . Faculty who undertake promises to the Society will feel greater support for their efforts within an organization structured around the concerns of higher education . And their colleagues are less likely to worry that the goals of higher education are being undermined by an unfamiliar theological agenda if they know that the Society has established an administrative unit exclusively for higher education . The literature dealing with American higher education has been filled for the past decade with charges that the moral core of the university experience has been compromised or even killed . The development of Jesuit-lay partnerships is not a panacea for the real or imagined ills of the American Catholic university , but it is a way for Jesuit institutions to take the lead on a number of moral fronts . First and foremost will be the promotion within the university tradition of these partnerships that exist in opposition to cynical careerism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lay partners , provided they have unimpeachable academic credibility , can contribute greatly to the moral climate of the university . Second , the important component of service to the community will be enhanced and emphasized by the presence of faculty and others committed to an ideal which includes service . Finally , Jesuit universities that count among their members individuals who have publicly promised themselves to God and to service to others can be a model for other colleges and universities , Catholic and non-Catholic alike . PAUL C. REINERT , S.J. , has been associated with Saint Louis University in St. Louis , Mo. , for 51 consecutive years . After taking a doctorate in education at the University of Chicago , he served as dean of Saint Louis University 's College of Arts and Sciences from 1944 to 1949 , as the university 's president from 1949 to 1974 and as its chancellor from 1974 to 1990 . At present he is chancellor emeritus . During the past half-century , he has also been a leader in educational and civic affairs at both the national and local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saint Louis University 's department of education , Father Reinert has recently completed a reflective account of the university 's history from 1944 to 1994 . The article published here is a chapter from those memoirs . <p>                     