@@394000

" Not only are the English more religious than they think they are , " sociologist Rodney Stark wrote to me , " they are more religious than they have ever been . " Surely he must be wrong . Was not England once called Mary 's Dowry ? Before the Reformation were not the English people deeply Catholic ? Is not the present religious situation in England the result of centuries of de-Christianization ? The answer to all these questions , I think , must be in the negative . The mass of English people were never orthodox and devout Christians in the sense we would tend to define both words today . Neither was anyone else . Keith Thomas went too far , as Eamon Duffy has recently shown , when he said of medieval England : " It is problematical as to whether certain sections of the population of this time had any religion at all . " The actual situation seems to have been rather the opposite . Far from not believing in anything , the peasantry of England ( and of the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a blend of Christianity and animism , Christianized animism and animistic Christianity . By our modern standards it was neither an orthodox nor an especially devout religion . James Obelkevich says it better than Keith Thomas : " Modern research reveals that there never was an " age of faith . " In every period the majority resisted as well as accepted the elite religion : the discovery of deviant folk beliefs and practices , of lukewarmness verging on indifference , not to mention anticlericalism , has alarmed clerical reformers since the advent of Christianity . The church accomplished great things in western Europe : but it never fully Christianized it . " The literature by social historians of medieval religion , apparently not well known to Catholics or even to Catholic sociologists ( including this one till the last couple of months ) , leaves little doubt about that point . I must here note several important qualifications : I am trying to create a model , a tentative and speculative portrait , of the religious life of the European peasantry before the modern era . This model will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence that supports or refutes it and 2 ) it creates a healthy suspicion about the " ages of faith . " I would persuade the reader to consider the possibility that " The Faith We Have Lost " ( an allusion to Peter Laslett 's book The World We Have Lost ) is in fact a faith we never had and that " stories " of religious decline provide poor models with which to understand religion at any time in human history . My model covers a millennium and a continent . Obviously there could be and probably were enormous variations in time and place from the outlines of the model . I have assembled some of the bits and pieces of the model from passing references in the work of social and demographic historians ( who by and large , as I have noted , are not greatly interested in religion ) . Hence my model is to a very great extent a work of speculation and imagination  --  subject to improvement and refinement ( and perhaps ultimate rejection ) in response to data and observations from those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model is quite similar , however , to that of scholars who have written monographs on the subject  --  for example , Jean Delumeau , David Gentilcore , Jane Schneider , Irene Flint , Emmanuel LeRoy Ladurie , Carlo Ginsburg , John Bossy , C. John Sommerville and Robert Whiting . These authors , each in his or her own way , argue or imply that the Middle Ages were never Christian in any fully meaningful sense and that the idea of an age of faith is a myth . The peasants were spirit worshipers whose Christianity was swallowed up in folklore . Only the two Reformations ( Protestant and Catholic ) created a semblance of a Christian Europe , and that not for very long . The religious struggles of the Reformation era were in fact a struggle between an educated elite and illiterate mass culture . Jane Schneider describes a medieval religion which was largely " animistic , " in which humans bartered on a quid pro quo basis with the powers of the world to be protected from evil . She sees the Reformations as an attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its logical conclusion . Carlo Ginzburg even argues that in the witch trials the elite judges imposed on animistic practitioners the judges ' own preconceived explanations of the phenomenon of magic . These ideas will seem surprising and perhaps even offensive to many educated Catholics . I am not suggesting that our ancestors were any less Christian than we are , nor that God might have loved them less than She loves us . If their Christianity was mixed with elements that made it doctrinally imperfect , ours may be imperfect for other reasons which will be unacceptable to our descendants . Or even for very similar reasons . I am , rather , advocating a much more modest position : By the standards of orthodoxy and devotion we take for granted today ( but which they did not know ) , medieval Christians were not paragons of either orthodoxy or devotion . The practice of Christianity ( and Catholic Christianity ) , I suggest , may not be any better today than it was in the 13th century , but neither is it any worse . It is different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? A year ago my International Social Survey Program ( I.S.S.P. ) colleagues in Britain ( at Social and Community Planning Research ) asked me to prepare an article on religious attitudes and behaviors in the British Isles and the United States , based on the I.S.S.P. 1991 study of religion in 20 countries ( a study not to be confused with the much publicized , but intellectually dubious and data-retentive , European Study of Values ) . As would surprise virtually no one , Ireland and the United States exhibited much higher levels of devotion and practice than did Great Britain . It seemed that my challenge was to explain why the British were less religious than the Irish and the Americans . But as I struggled to find evidence of past religious behaviors in all three countries , it became apparent that I had the question wrong . The data on the three countries in , let us say , 1790 showed them to be ( more or less ) equally religious ( or unreligious ) . Emmet Larkin , in his extensive studies of 19th-century Irish Catholicism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time after the mid-century famine , when most of the Irish-speaking day laborers ( who were only loosely tied to the church ) had either died or migrated . Jon Butler and Nathan Hatch have shown that intense religious involvement in the United States dates to the time now called ( not altogether accurately ) the Second Great Awakening at the beginning of the 19th century . At that time , there was an explosion of religious populism , which resulted from the impact of the egalitarian ideas of the American Revolution on religious life . It therefore appeared that the religious differences between England on the one hand , and Ireland and the United States on the other , date to the middle of the last century for Ireland and to the beginning of the 19th century for the United States . Hence the question arose as to whether there was ever a time before 1800 when either the Irish or the English were seriously orthodox or deeply devout in the sense in which we would use either adjective . I could not find such a time . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States in the last century was a new phenomenon  --  the final conversion to Christianity of the rural masses who were brought into the church over a thousand years previously . The histories of the British churches in the 19th century are filled with quoted passages deploring the lack of devotion among the people . Even allowing for the clerical propensity to view-with-alarm , it seems clear that the industrial urban working class was not devout at the beginning of the 19th century . In E. R. Wickham 's study of Sheffield , there is a glimpse through the mists of that city at the beginning of the 18th century , and there is little evidence of religious devotion . Was England " burned out " religiously because of the religious wars of the 17th century ? Or was there , even when the Puritans were fighting the King 's Men , just beneath the surface of events little propensity to religious devotion ? In any case , the portrait of the Church of England in the 19th century 's most perceptive " sociological " novelist , Anthony Trollope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pushing each other to obtain admission to churches and chapels on Sunday morning . Nor were the low levels of religious devotion to be found only in Protestant England . The French social historians and historical demographers describe a similar situation in France as far back as their data go  --  to the 15th and the 14th centuries . Studies of Spanish religious behavior show the same pattern . Some scholars are beginning to question whether there was really much devotion in Western Europe in the High Middle Ages . Rodney Stark and Roger Finke noted in 1992 that most medieval rural churches were far too small to provide room for all the people in their regions . They cite an Oxford Diocese Visitation in 1738 as evidence that 30 parishes reported a combined total of only 911 communicants , as an average , on the four great festivals-Christmas , Easter , Whitsun and Ascension . They cite Peter Laslett as evidence that only 125 of 400 adults in a particular English village received Easter Communion in the late 18th century ( which Laslett considers a high level of religious devotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as 11.5 percent of the population , in 1850 as 16.7 percent , in 1900 as 18.6 percent . The monthly church attendance rate of 22 percent reported in my analysis of I.S.S.P. data was , in fact , higher than the church membership rates at those earlier time points . Perhaps England was never a very religiously orthodox country  --  which is not quite the same thing as saying that it was not religious . The data that Finke and Stark cite extend back to the beginning of the modern era ( a time covered by David Gentilcore , Michael Carroll and William Christian ) . But as they peer back into the mists before this time , few scholars find any evidence of more intense orthodox religious devotion  --  religion , oh yes , lots of it , but not what we would consider acceptable today . It is hard to find any evidence that there was an age of intensely orthodox Christian peasant life in the years between the 6th and the 16th century and every reason to think there could not have been . First , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1300 to 1600 in Western Europe that , if anything , men and women would have been drawn to greater religious intensity than their ancestors . Plague and famine devoured populations . In France , for example , the population fell between 1350 and 1450 from 20 million to 10 million ( and rebounded to 20 million again in the next 100 years ) . The Black Death and the Little Ice Age ( which destroyed crops just as completely as did the potato blight in the 19th century , and for much longer periods of time ) were apocalyptic events for the European peasantry , events that aborted an early attempt to leap into modernity . Yet there is no evidence of an intensification of religious behavior . If devotion was not very intense in times of plague and famine , how could it have been intense in the centuries immediately before ? Insofar as we have evidence , it would seem that the threat of the plague ( and in Spain the threat of the Moors ) led to more superstition and more hatred for witches and Jews , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to more reception of Communion . Moreover , two Catholic conciliar decrees suggest that the peasantry was anything but devout in the previous centuries . The obligations of weekly Mass attendance ( Council of Agde in 506 ) and yearly reception of Communion ( First Lateran in 1215 ) would not have been imposed if frequent church attendance and reception of Communion were typical behavior . Nor is there any evidence that these requirements were effectively enforced in the peasant parishes of Europe during , let us say , the period from the 9th to the 12th century . What about the earlier years ? Since the evidence is so limited , one is forced to make an a priori case : It was impossible for the church to have thoroughly Christianized the peasant masses in the Dark Ages . Invaders , war lords and bandits pillaged Europe for centuries . Transportation was difficult , dangerous and at times impossible . Communication was slow and problematic . Plagues and famines repeatedly devastated populations ( though perhaps not so badly as after 1350 ) . The church lacked the resources ( in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( if that be the appropriate word for the time ) the peasant masses-at least beyond the monastery lands . The people in the larger towns and cities ( such as these might have been ) could be nudged toward deeper religious devotion , but the peasantry ... ? What could you do for them or to them ? They were Christian in their own way , but it seemed an insurmountable task to make them better Christians . If this indeed was the situation . then one would expect that as Europe reorganized itself and reduced the chaos , as the church grew in power and wealth , there would be reform movements that would attempt to " catechize " or , to use a currently fashionable cliche , " evangelize " the peasants . In particular , the work of the mendicant orders ( from the 12th to the 14th century ) and the clerks regular ( from the 14th to the 18th century ) can be seen as , in part , efforts to Christianize the peasantry . Moreover , the two Reformations were also , in part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined as such . In summary , the perspective which shapes this article is one that searches for evidence of intense and orthodox Christian devotion among the European peasantry from the fall of the Roman Empire to the beginning of the 19th century and has not been able to find that evidence and indeed wonders how such devotion could have been possible . But what about all the saints and theologians , the monasteries and cathedrals , the pilgrimages and shrines , the heresies and councils , the kings and bishops  --  are not their stories the stories of a vital , if far from perfect , Catholicism ? Such stories describe life among a tiny elite , perhaps only 5 percent of the population , surely no more than 10 percent , which lived for the most part in the cities , towns and monasteries . The rest of the population of " Christendom " were peasants living in the countryside and wresting their living from the land , the pagani , the paisani , the paysants , whose very name has come to mean the absence of Christianity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe were ever very devout Christians  --  not in the sense that we usually mean when we use these words . There could be no de-Christianization of Europe , as the term is normally used , because there was never any Christianization in the first place . Christian Europe never existed . BEFORE " SECULARIZATION . " A European theologian , in a conversation with me about " secularization " some years ago , offered what he thought was the decisive argument : " The peasants paused in the field to pray when the Angelus bell rang . " Perhaps they did . But one would want to know how many peasants at what historical times did this and how much it was an indicator of their religious devotion . The issue is not whether the church was a dominant force in the religious lives of the European peasantry for the 1,000 years after the end of the Roman Empire . It shaped the calendar of the day and the year . It set the festivals  --  Christmas , Carnival , Lent , Easter , St. John 's Night , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It offered a panoply of intercessors to whom to pray and of evils from which to be protected . It presided over the key events of life  --  birth , marriage and death . Its moral code and its canon law governed human behavior ( how fully remains to be seen ) . It provided fundamental religious stories  --  Adam and Eve , Jesus and Mary , Peter and John  --  around which men and women could organize and give meaning to their lives . The peasants ' imaginations were , up to a point , Catholic . If " secularization " means merely that this description is no longer applicable , then there would be no disagreement with it because it merely states the obvious . The critical words two sentences above are " up to a point . " And the question is where that point was . The fundamental question asks to what extent the European peasant masses , brought into the church from , let us say , the 5th to the 10th century , were Christianized . They became Catholic when their rulers converted . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized eventually into parishes founded by the diocese in which they happened to be located and presided over eventually by clergy appointed by the local bishop and then by the local lord  --  though the spread of a network of parishes throughout Western Europe was not completed before the 11th century . The Catholic rituals and calendars were imposed upon these peasants  --  and there is little evidence of resistance . But beyond the festivals and the stories , the rituals and the devotion , how deeply did Christianity affect the world views and the behavior of these people ? That they lived in a pervasive religious culture , a culture which has diminished if not vanished completely , is beyond question . But what remains open to question is whether that culture could fairly be called Christian . This question divides into three separate questions : 1 ) To what extent did the peasant-converts and their children have intellectual convictions in which to ground their popular faith ? 2 ) To what extent was the popular faith mixed with superstition and belief in magic that pushed the peasant folk religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a world view which remains Christian ? 3 ) To what extent did their folk religion move them to regular religious practices such as church attendance and reception of Communion ? The picture we obtain from the existing studies suggests that by the 14th century the answers were these : 1 ) There were only the most rudimentary intellectual convictions among the peasantry because few were required  --  since there was no serious religious competition  --  and few were possible in an environment in which the peasants were illiterate and their clergy often only semiliterate. 2 ) There was so much superstition ( belief in witches , for example ) and so much belief in magic among the peasantry that their folk religion was surely on the edge of the outer limits beyond which a world view is no longer Christian . 3 ) The shrines were more important than the parish church , charms and spells more important than the Mass , amulets and apparitions more important than Communion , Mary more important than Jesus or God-often not the Mary of mother-love but the Mary , as Michael Carroll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who could be especially punitive when she was offended . Obviously , there are degrees to which this description is more or less true , depending on times and places . The social and demographic historians on whom one rely are concerned about birth and death rates , age at marriage , organization of agriculture , plagues and famines . Usually they only attend to religion in passing references . But they never find an intensity of orthodox religious devotion worth noting , and invariably they comment that the Catholicism of the peasantry was pervaded by superstition . Were these peasants pagans or Christians  --  apart from the fact that as country-dwellers they were called pagani ? That is a question I do not want to answer because any answer would patronize our ancestors by applying to them standards of our time that are not applicable to their time . Patently , they were a mixture of both , as are we today . They surely thought hey were Christians , and some of them were doubtless better Christians , in the essential meaning of the word ( unselfish love of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revealed in Jesus ) , than many of us are . The point here is that , given the resources available to them and to the church in that era , it was inevitable that their religious behavior would not be of solidly grounded in intellectual conviction , would be mixed with superstition and magic and would not move them to levels of devotion we would think proper . Professor Michael Carroll has wisely warned me about the mistake of defining the non-Christian mixtures in this folk religion as pagan . There is little reason to believe that the " old religions " survived as organized faiths . The animistic superstitions antedated Christianity  --  and the official religion of the Roman Empire that Christianity supplanted . But , in fact , we know very little about the religion of European peasants before the fall of the Empire and the coming of the tribes . Odin and Thor , Jupiter and Mars were the gods of the literature , the sagas , the epics of the time ; but it does not follow that they were the gods of that 95 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elite or that these gods had the same roles in the lives of ordinary people that they played in the lives of those who recited and then wrote the sagas and the epics  --  or , more precisely , those for whom they wrote . It is perhaps enough to say that the superstitions ( holy wells in the Celtic lands , for example ) were holdovers from the nature religions and leave the matter at that . The " folklore " religion of these ordinary people was mixed with many practices that are best called " non-Christian animism "  --  indeed , an animism which does not seem greatly different from the animism which British anthropologists found among African nations in the first half of this century . How deep was the Christian faith of European peasant folk religion ? Deep enough to survive for a millennium . Not deep enough to survive changes in the religious affiliation of their political leaders during the Reformation , sometimes back and forth across denominational lines . Not deep enough in England to survive the ruthless destruction that Henry VIII began in 1529 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  either European industrial cities or , in the case of pre-famine , Irish-speaking day laborers ( the so-called " Bog Irish " ) a generation without priests after their immigration to America . As I pointed out in these pages a year ago , there are two Catholic traditions  --  the High Tradition found in theology books and church documents and the Popular Tradition found in the rituals , art , devotions and stories of ordinary people ( " Sex and the Married Catholic : The Shadow of St. Augustine , " 10/31/92 ) . The Popular Tradition without elements of the High Tradition has two major flaws : 1 ) It does not have the durability or the depth to survive either outright attack or drastic change . 2 ) It easily falls victim to folk religion , superstition and magic . The Rev , Andrew Greeley , professor of social science at the University of Chicago and a frequent contributor to AMERICA , has written more than a hundred books , including fiction as well as studies in sociology and religion . His most recent publication is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 