@@393655

On the counter in Connie Kiener 's kitchen sits a plate of vegetables drawn from her garden . This trompe l'oeil appetizer is a majolica icon , painted directly on the tiles to consecrate the space . Though its existence as food is an illusion , as a vessel it is full of meaning , symbolizing values Kiener has distilled from experience . Like her life , it celebrates usefulness . Like all her work it seeks to identify the utility of form . Kiener finds it ironic that her elaborately patterned surfaces adorn simple functional forms . " This is actually a tray , " she says of her " edible icon " that resembles a page from the Book of Kells , except that the figure in the center , enthroned in medieval splendor , is a head of broccoli . " You could serve drinks on it , if you wanted to . " Her laughter embraces the prospect . Yet , humor is never the point , though her works are sometimes funny . Whimsy is merely one of the personal attributes of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She says , " Each artist dwells in a womb of her own world , from which she reaches out to the rest of the world . " As a visually voracious child growing up in Portland , Oregon , Kiener drew to corroborate what she saw , winning praise for a strong pencil line and bold brush stroke . By the age of five she felt confident enough in her skills to teach her playmates . " I founded my own art school , " she boasts . Later she won scholarships to the Museum Art School in Portland ( now the Pacific Northwest College of Art ) and to Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles . Approaching life like a draftsman , Kiener has kept whatever enhances her vision and rejects the irrelevant or distracting . When she arrived at Chouinard in 1966 , L.A. Cool was putting Southern California on the art map , making artists into stars . L.A. Cool was the epitome of late modernism , emphasizing the material reality of paint rather than its role as medium of expression and exchange . Seeking a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , among those who wanted to see no further than the paint . Her disaffection from this dominant taste was matched by her frustration with the art program at Chouinard . The curriculum was organized around an artificial progression from basic classes that gave assignments to classes in which following one 's personal direction was encouraged . The more advanced sections had more freedom . " You had to earn the right to express yourself . " Kiener wandered the halls seeking alternatives to painting until she found the ceramics department headed by Ralph Bacerra . Although the traditional Japanese approach to clay , which emphasized stoneware , reduction and raku , was at the peak of its powerful influence in the United States , Bacerra encouraged exploration . Furthermore , mastering arcane skills and bending obdurate materials to one 's will provided a sense of structure to Kiener that seemed anything but arbitrary . A two-week workshop she took in majolica suggested the alternative of painting expressively on clay . Majolica ( or maiolica ) is a loose term that can refer to a style or a technique . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major branch of ceramics . Unlike lead or similar decolorants , tin turns glaze an opaque white . During the Middle Ages this white underglaze was introduced from Moslem Africa through Spain to southern Europe , where it acquired a persistent identification with majolica . Linguistic confusion spread along with tin glazing , with stylistic variations named for the ports of export for the wares rather than the centers of production : Italians called it majolica ( from Majorca ) and the French , faience ( from Faenza ) . Delftware was the term for the wares emanating from the Low Countries and later England . In 1970 , Kiener received a Canada Council grant to establish a ceramics studio in Vancouver , British Columbia . Although it meant taking herself " out of the mainstream , " she does not regret the time she was able to spend with her children , seeing for herself how work sustains the rhythms of life . She came to know more about majolica than anyone she knew , but it was nowhere near enough , and materials were as scarce as answers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blue , yellow and green  --  all used on a white background  --  so she scraped through the white background to add an additional color . After firing , she went back in with china paints and additional firings . In 1979 she was able to go to Italy , a pilgrimage she now repeats every few years . Ceramics in museum collections there confirmed Kiener in her vocation , while contact with modern workshops revealed a living craft tradition , with new and accessible materials . Later that year Ginny Adelsheim , a lifelong friend and fellow ceramist , invited Kiener to return to Oregon and help start what became an award-winning winery . This was a timely offer , combining part-time employment with the use of Adelsheim 's studio . Kiener remained there for two years before setting up her own atelier in a converted grocery store . When demand for her work outgrew that space , she designed and built a new home and studio overlooking the Willamette River . In Canada Kiener had studied dance , and she felt an instinctive connection between the dancer 's body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new sense of order , of what it feels like for an activity to have a beginning , a middle , and an end , to develop in many ways while moving toward completion . " As one watches Kiener paint , it is clear this is no metaphor . Each platter , bowl , cylinder , vase or tile is a sustained improvised performance . She works on a coating of unfired Zircopax ( a tin substitute ) and gum arabic , a thirsty surface more absorbent than paper . Water-based overglazes are absorbed instantly , so each brushstroke becomes a permanent record of its making . It is swift , intuitive work . Aqueous effects , improvisation , and an emphasis on gesture combine with the transparent nature of the glaze to suggest watercolors . Its similarity to watercolor differentiates Kiener 's style from the oil-painting-inspired Italian majolica mode frequently invoked to praise it . This paradox is resolved by viewing the history of tin glazing as a sequence of regional styles , each a barometer of secular taste in a given place and time . True majolica has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with its line drawings and outlined flat spaces , celebrates the introduction of printing to European culture . Kiener 's distinctively American eye satisfies and extends this pattern , collaborating in a decorative tradition that stretches from Audubon 's sketches to the action painting of Abstract Expressionism . The soft , filtered light of the Pacific Northwest illuminates Kiener 's spaces . Her loose , impressionistic brush , flattened perspective , and thin colors evoke rainwashed nature more readily than they do urban sophistication . Kiener embellishes the splash of water and slice of fruit with glimpses into other lives . Vision is an extension of touch , and her visually tactile renderings of vegetable and animal life knit together sensual appetites and their objects . Her playful anachronisms and whimsical juxtapositions project a human dimension without anthropomorphism . When a platter depicting a bowl of fruit is rotated , the inverted bowl becomes the profile of Mount Hood as seen from her studio . Another large platter , Bees at Night , is the one work in a hives series that shows no bees . Form may follow function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conscience as well as the motive of ornament ; a decorated pot holds two contents instead of one . In her recent works Kiener shows her propensity to punctuate periods spent exploring design genres with moments of startling invention . The works  --  mostly platters  --  are based on the upholstery fabrics of the 1940s and 50s , when wartime austerity ended in an explosion of exotic jungle foliage and intense colors in vibrant combinations . This was the environment of Kiener 's earliest awareness , and she recalls it in sinuous purple philodendrons on black plates or yellow and green vines knotted with vermilion flowers . The very latest platters , however , juxtapose concentric bands of unrelated motifs , with each independent orbit asserting itself equally and the whole achieving only the most dynamic unity . They are polyphonic mandalas , somewhere between visual string quartets and optical jazz combos . Connie Kiener does not consider herself an anachronism . " Each generation starts over , " she says . " And we go through the same stages . Only we have the possibility open to us of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start with . " Geoffrey Wichert is a stained-glass artist and writer from Portland , Oregon . <p>                     