@@409292

The pebble plains in California 's San Bernardino National Forest  --  scattered openings where clay soil is intermixed with particles and small rocks of quartzite  --  confront plants with a desertlike habitat . Totaling about 550 acres , the plains consist of two dozen patches , ranging in size from one and one-half to seventy-five acres . Additional patches once existed but have been obliterated by human activity , particularly the creation of Big Bear Lake early this century . Geologist Peter Sadler suspects that the red clay and quartzite pebbles were laid down millions of years ago , during a warmer , wetter period , when the region was relatively flat . Lava flows that overlie some of the clay and pebbles date back six or seven million years  --  before the San Bernardino Mountains began to uplift . As the mountains formed , the clay and pebbles in some places eroded away or were buried by other materials . Sadler believes that some of the pebble plains are surviving examples of the original deposits , but that others may consist of redeposited sediment . Erosion continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mountain . Because of the high elevation , summer temperatures range from 80deg F during the day down to 40deg F at night ( temperatures drop below freezing at least 250 nights a year ) . The alternate formation and melting of ice crystals pushes soil upward , bringing pebbles to the surface and creating peculiar , finger-shaped ridges in the clay . Annual precipitation on the pebble plains is ten to twenty inches , mostly falling in winter as rain or snow but with a few heavy summer thunderstorms . Water drains poorly through the fine-grained clay soil , tending to run off or stand in shallow pools . In summer such pools evaporate rapidly , and the land is extremely dry . The reason these areas are not invaded by the adjacent pine forest , botanist Tim Krantz suggests , is that the clay dries out so quickly that pine seedlings can not survive . District botanist Maile Neel has recorded forty-five kinds of plants from the pebble plains , one-fifth of them considered rare by the California Native Plant Society . Some of the rarities are known only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some distance away , farther south in California or in Mexico . Nearly half the plant species on the plains are annuals that flower and form seeds early in spring , then disappear before the onslaught of summer . Among them is Baldwin Lake linanthus , a two-inch-tall member of the phlox family that has creamy-yellow flowers . An annual that blooms later is eye-strain monkey flower , so named because of its small stature and tiny flowers . The monkey flower grows at the edges of seeps , where water from springs crosses the clay and pebbly soil . In the spring , these moist areas are bright with flowers , including yellow violets , collinsias , and purple rock cresses . The perennials have developed various tactics to withstand the interrelated stresses of heat and aridity . Gray , hairy leaves reflect the sun 's intense rays , while conserving moisture . Species with hairy leaves include the Bear Valley sandwort , whose small , white , five-petaled flowers appear in June and July , usually following a summer shower . A dwarf member of the carnation family , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plains and only there . Among the species whose leaves are gray as well as hairy are Parish 's rock cress , which is a purple-flowering mustard , and the ashy-gray paintbrush , which has greenish yellow flower clusters in its northern range and dull-crimson flower clusters in its southern range . About a fourth of the species are succulents , which store water in their leaves or stems . An example is Munz 's hedgehog cactus , found in the San Bernardino Mountains and in Baja California , Mexico . The leaves of some perennials are matted together in a little cluster that hugs the ground . One is the pebble plains buckwheat , found on all the pebble plains ( often it is the most common plant ) and nowhere else . It blooms in July , August , and September by sending up a wiry stalk that bears a head of tiny white flowers . Fuzzy rattail  --  which grows in the San Bernardino Mountains and in Baja California  --  is gray , hairy , and matted . The Forest Service is striving to protect the surviving pebble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attractive to people riding off-the-road vehicles , which grind down the plants and leave deep ruts during rainy weather . Wild burros also roam the area , and although they pose a lesser threat , they , too , trample the delicate vegetation and rough up the soil , inviting invasion by nonnative species . Robert H. Mohlenbrock , professor of plant biology at Southern Illinois University , Carbondale , explores the biological and geological highlights of the 156 U.S. national forests . <p>                     