@@423891

The wrought iron trim ( shown in Before photo ) seemed to fade into the woodwork . New wooden columns and rails painted a bold white bring the porch to life . A lattice screen adds the finishing touch without being confining . Turn the page for our step-by-step instructions on building columns and dressing up the handrails and newels . See page 96 for the " Secret Ingredients " that make this front porch practical as well as pretty . Step 1 : Cut wrought iron using a reciprocating saw with a metal-cutting blade . Position temporary 2 x 4 supports before removing posts . Step 2 : Drill a center hole in a 2-inch-thick block of wood . This will allow air to flow through your column . Position the block on a metal column foot . Drill two holes through the wood so you scratch the surface of the foot . Use a bit suitable for metal and drill through the column foot at each scratched mark . Screw the block to the foot . Step 3 : Prime lumber on both sides before constructing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildup inside the column may cause exterior paint to peel later . ) Using the block as a starting point , nail the sides together . Check the column periodically with a hand level to be sure that it 's straight . Step 4 : Box in the tops of each column with 1 x 2s and the bottoms with 1 x 6s . For a finishing touch , bevel the edges of the columns with a router , starting about 3 inches from ends . Repeat the process to create half posts to serve as newels at the top and bottom of the steps . Use 2 x 4s to form pickets and rails . Step 5 : Nail a 1 x 4 to the tops of newel posts and handrails for a surface that is pleasant to grab . Step 6 : Attach a piece of scotia molding corner trim to the underside of each newel top for a finished look . Miter the corners of this concave , square-backed molding before nailing in place . ( Left ) This porch seemed overwhelmed by the two-story house next door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made it seem confined and stuffy . We built a lattice screen instead , which adds privacy but still lets breezes flow . We left a 30- x 30-inch window in the lattice to frame the view of a crepe myrtle . ( Right ) Plug vents cost about a dollar each at hardware stores . These vents help keep air flowing through your column , reducing interior condensation , which can shorten the life of your paint job . Drill a hole at the top and bottom of each column , on the inside face . Insert vents , and paint to match surface . ( Above ) We painted the facing edge of the concrete porch lip to match the tiled floor . Because this is a vertical face and will not be walked on , it was not necessary to use porch paint . Exterior latex house paint will do the job . <p>                     