@@426267

We were 6 years old the first time we watched a schoolyard bully in action . It was a cement yard adjoining P.S. 166 in Manhattan , and we remember the holy terror quite clearly . We will warily not mention his name , however , as there is at least some possibility he is still alive after the years he has presumably spent brawling in bars and getting into tire-iron fights with motorists who cut off his car . Sociology being excluded from the firstgrade curriculum , we had not yet assimilated " self-esteem " into our vocabulary . But thinking back on the lout years later , we were pretty sure he had more of it than we did . We are surer than ever after reading an utterly fascinating report on self-esteem in the latest issue of Psychological Review , a journal published by the American Psychological Association . Written by Roy F. Baumeister and Joseph M. Boden of Case Western Reserve and Laura Smart of the University of Virginia , the report is titled " Relation of Threatened Egotism to Violence and Aggression , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the subtitle : " The Dark Side of High Self-Esteem . " Friends , there really is a dark side  --  even if it is hard to discern in the endless public palaver on the subject . A Nexis search on March 26 yielded up 3,847 articles invoking " self-esteem " that had been added to the database just since year-end . A serious sampling of the articles turned up none questioning esteem 's quintessential wonderfulness and centrality in human affairs . A Village Voice entry worries that low self-esteem leads innocent suspects to confess . An AP feature earnestly attributes a wave of suicides among French police officers to their low self-esteem . The New York Times approvingly reports that Little League coaches are now being trained to raise kids ' self-esteem as well as bunting skills . Articles in the Arizona Republic and a lot of other places tell us that kids join violent gangs because they lack self-esteem . The Psychological Review paper is long ( 29 pages ) , fact-freighted , and totally inconsistent with the above blather . Repeatedly noting the discrepancy between the pop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious empirical studies , the authors firmly state : " In our view , the benefits of favorable self-opinions accrue primarily to the self , and they are if anything a burden and potential problem to everyone else . " Specifically , the profs tell us that high levels of self-esteem are often associated with violent , aggressive behavior . Their review of the research on violent youth gangs concludes with some news for the Arizona Republic : " Gang members apparently think , talk , and act like people with high self-esteem , and there is little to support the view that they are humble or self-deprecating or even that they are privately full of insecurities and self-doubts . Violent youths seem sincerely to believe that they are better than other people ... " As for people with low selfesteem , long identified as our planet 's greatest problem : " Depressed , self-deprecating , insecure , and shy people are underrepresented among criminals . " The authors are not of course stating that most people with high self-esteem are violent . It is the obverse that is true : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spouse beaters-tend to have high self-esteem . In the days before psychobabble took over , they were described as egotistical , arrogant , and conceited . In and out of schoolyards , their mindset can leave them thinking they are entitled to steal from and beat up others , also that they can get away with it . The model put forward in Psychological Review focuses on a particular violence-engendering situation . The authors argue , persuasively , that the single most common trigger of aggressive behavior is a challenge to the elevated self-appraisal-a sign of disrespect , for example . The paper describes the obsession of both youth gangs and organized-crime gangs with " respect , " and the heavy penalties suffered by those failing to proffer it . When high self-appraisals are unrealistic , they are especially likely to get challenged and precipitate violence . The most dangerous character of all is the guy who has an unrealistically high but somewhat unstable notion of his worth . The instability leaves him feeling sensitive and defensive about perceived slights , and ever ready to erupt . One somehow doubts that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but just to be on the safe side : Let 's stick to baseball , fellows . <p>                     