@@393645

The impulse to abstract may be the most powerful and pervasive motivation to form , not only for the Romanian-born sculptor and textile artist Ritzi Jacobi , but also for the many associated with the contemporary fiber medium . In fact , the primary impetus for organizing this exhibition was to explore this idea and then to consider artists who would best illuminate it . Jacobi was clearly a first choice because of the relationship of her work to the concept and because of her position , since the early 70s , as one of the very few whose art making has helped ground and establish an identity for contemporary fiber . Jacobi 's approach has always been through abstraction , in that she upholds the supremacy of form over narrative . As an artist , she was impulsively , out of a compelling need to fabricate , to build , to materialize form through personal invention . Abstraction is a phenomenon we must examine to understand the way form occurs , not only in the work of Jacobi , but in much of contemporary fiber and textile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is tied to various media when there exists an essential attraction to and overwhelming need to work with materials . It is seen in the work of painters who " coat " their canvases with layers of paint , then scratch through the colored skin to the interstices in the cloth beneath , or in that of draftsmen who are conscious of the feel of graphite pushing into paper as a line goes thick and thin  --  artists who feel passionately about the physical world , who connect and find their bearings through contact with substance and the elemental . The impulse to abstract is something alive , emanating from wit the artist , not merely part of a historical theme in the orderly sequence of Western art . The focus of this exhibition is on abstraction as it relates to behavior  --  as an observable activity inherent in all . It presupposes a certain intimacy with materials , and it requires manual labor . It draws on bodily intelligence . The need to discover must be so strong that we are able , at times , to short-circuit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impulse is in direct contrast to the need to imitate . Imitation is much more highly regarded in our culture , for the product can often be more easily understood . It provides a picture that is clear , rational and verifiable ; it is a linear process , connected with learning , training and achievement . The need to abstract involves all the senses , especially touch , yet the product of this behavior may be considerably less tangible . Materials provoke and initiate the impulse to abstract . The painter Antoni Tapies said , " Material is our external reality and would have no existence of its own except as a projection of our reason or our psyche . " * For many artists , materials not only possess profound qualities that affect us subliminally but are also loaded with associations derived from our common experience . Whether processed , synthetic , natural or raw , materials lead the way to a complex arena of cultural discovery . Even their names possess a strong cultural resonance  --  polyester , silk , porcelain , pine , oak , platinum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Over time , we react more intimately to the material , and often in an exaggerated fashion . It is the stuff , the materiality  --  succulent , pliabie , plastic , soft , hard , malleable , diaphanous , translucent , shiny , oily , glittery  --  of materials that bewitches , tempts and stimulates us . Our initial response is to their physicality , their sensuousness ; it is mostly instinctive . We are not drawn to materials because we have figured out or rationalized our need for them ; the attraction resides elsewhere . Rarely do we get so close to reality without imitation or representation  --  in other words , we gain a more immediate sense of the real world through abstraction . Many working in contemporary fiber select materials , perhaps , because of the way that they offer clues about form yet to be visualized . Understanding this concept may reveal something about the creative process . It is possible that materials and their consequent transformation may be the first stage in the search for idea . Materials suggest ideas because of their inherent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way they seem to contain or absorb unique information . The information is not necessarily universal ; we read and respond in our own personal and peculiar ways . In fact , the way we respond may give expression to a rich and eccentric experience of the world . To make form that responds only to material 's physical properties  --  what it can do rather than what it encourages us to do  --  more often produces results that are predictable and familiar . The artist 's ability to discover qualities in materials that go beyond their scientific properties will result in form with far greater expressiveness . Some artists are unusually willing to allow materials to play a significant role in the discovery of form ; it is the essential and limitless source of inspiration for those who are material-oriented . The belief that the source of ideas may exist within material often contradicts established thinking in Western art that material is a crude resource to be exploited , to be overcome by the will of the a artist-creator  --  merely the stuff that bears the imprint of the artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow us to discover our own personal reality through a subconscious process , an intuitive , creative journey in which material is an active partner . Ritzi Jacobi experiences a deep empathy with material , but this is in tandem with a near-physiological dependence on process  --  that is , process in her work is not simply the means to an end . On the contrary , process is an element that is externalized and made visible as part of the surface . This is true not only in the deep relief surfaces of bound stubble penetrating the ground of the tapestry cloth , as in the early works , such as the Romanica series , 1978-80 , but also in the softly blistered goat hair and cotton of the magnificent tapestry La Derniere de Cette Serie , 1986-87 . The intensity in the composition of surface detail  --  every blemish and pore is considered over hundreds of square feet  --  is accomplished over a period that may last up to a year . Her obsession with constructing surface is irrational nearly beyond comprehension  --  but then it is ultimately insignificant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process as though the energy and vitality of the maker were absorbed into the cloth . The soft , sagging skin is convincing and alive , with its blistered and furrowed surface spread across the monumental textile plane . This supple mass of cloth lifts up in the center , creating a bipartite form with softly flaring appendages . La Derniere de Cette Serie may be the culmination  --  and the masterpiece  --  in a long series of works that include suspended tapestries , freestanding sculptural tapestry and Softdrawings , all utilizing surfaces and forms that are deeply informed by certain organic phenomena . It was Ritzi Jacobi , often in collaboration with Peter Jacobi , in the late 60s , who was among the earliest to explore the great expressive potential of tapestry and textile as a medium for the creation of powerful and convincing sculpture . These were forms new to the art world , created by artists who simply could not find the satisfaction of surface and structural organic connectedness in a painting or in traditional sculptural processes . The assemblage of elements , especially in the tapestries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accumulate naturally or condense around breaks in the periphery , or create a dense growth in patches between the flat , barren tapestry skin . Jacobi 's sensuous Softdrawings were lifelike : the flat , translucent flaps and appendages hung low and gently swelled , with graphite stain permeating crevices and edges . The next monumental construction , Relief , 1989 , and the smaller Relief , 1990 , along with the subsequent constructions Fly South and Monocline , both 1993 , reveal a dramatic shift in approach . Not only are these recent works far more reductive and anonymous , they seem to engage forces other than the organic . Relief 1989 , is a large field , more like a suspended wall , with a softly shifting , vertically grained surface that runs from the ragged bottom edge 15 feet up to the top . This nontapestry surface is constructed of shingled , wrapped bundles attached on the same plane . Situated diagonally and in counter-movement to the ground are several hundred bundled " bricks " that seem to be held in position by some kind of magnetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " bricks " float and change in size from the lower right to upper left . Fly South and Relief , 1990 , further establish Jacobi 's departure from biologically derived surfaces to ones more akin to physics and the physical forces surrounding us . The surfaces of both works are highly charged : they exude an energy whose source comes from within . In Fly South , the consistently scaled bundles of wrapped hemp-painted white and black and natural-are effervescent , for the three shaded elements keep the energy mixture in flux . Not only does the 10-inch thickness dramatically reinforce the work 's physicality but the differentiated surface elements draw one deeply into its ground . Fly South and Relief may not be textile in a technical sense ; they are constructions , but they are deeply influenced by the spirit of weaving and cloth making . Both are volatile surfaces made of hundreds upon thousands of particles that interact to create a whole . The size of Monocline  --  more than seven feet square  --  is not unusual for Jacobi , and its surface scale is massive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tubes are bolted together , then folded and intertwined among themselves . The result is a deep , open , exaggerated surface  --  in a sense , a magnification of Fly South . The surface mass becomes both the object and the focus of Monocline . It is as if the surface is now the sculpture . For Jacobi , drawing is primarily a way of thinking sculpturally , and often the acts of drawing and making sculpture come very close to being the same . The hachures ( hatched lines ) in a number of drawings are thick , dense lines of charcoal , pressed by hand , side by side , onto the paper to form planes . Sometimes these planes appear to be " materialized , " as if they could be skinned off the paper surface . Untitled , 1988 , is a large drawing of subtly translucent black , overlapping hachure planes on paper . Three black posts lean against the drawing  --  two against the side , one on the edge . The physicality of the posts reinforces the feeling that the drawing is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , the black posts become part of the drawing , extending it into three-dimensional space . The " building " of the hachure drawings is not unlike the construction of a textile plane in the accumulation of lines as sedimentary layering . The plane remains porous as the lines amass , allowing light , or whiteness , to pass through the interstices of the drawing . Untitled ( collage ) , 1992 , is another drawing-collage with strong sculptural connotations ; the perforated cardboard template becomes the thick physical half , or real side , of the work , and the equidistant peppered marks become the illusionary half . One is drawn to the marks by way of the perforated object . In this piece even the process of making the drawing is shared , as we can imagine pushing the graphite pencil through each small hole in the cardboard 's matrix . A number of drawings and collages in this exhibition refer either to works that have since been made or pieces that may come in the future . Untitled , 1992 , is a drawing for a work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a collage that fantasizes about the possibility of building a work that towers over an industrial tank ( shown in scale ) . ( Photo omitted ) These are not intended as literal illustrations of an idea  --  rather , they reveal a part of the thought process Jacobi utilizes in the development of her work . Ultimately , these drawings remain a fascinating mystery , a cryptic notation about what is yet to be realized . For Ritzi Jacobi , building models or maquettes is also a way of materializing ideas on form . Often unrefined , direct and spontaneous , models such as Big Balance , 1991 , speak eloquently , without , at times , any need to go further . This work shows the lyrical movement of the soft , multi-stranded paper line cavorting around an aluminum T-bar . The hard and straight frame not only supports the erratic , segmented line but tempers its movement and gives meaning to the opposite quality of the hard metal  --  an excellent example of how the artist integrates drawing with sculpture , showing the line with real substance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another maquette , of cardboard and wood stacks , piled up and leaning precariously . This crude but effective model offers only a glimpse of an idea , a catalyst for a sculpture later fabricated at a Daimler-Benz factory near Stuttgart , Germany . A dramatic transformation occurred as the rough cardboard and wood became a compilation of solid aluminum planks standing more than eight feet tall . The contrast between model and finished work offers insight into Jacobi 's approach . Her maquettes and drawings provide a quick , rudimentary look at certain basic qualities we see in a final work . She does not develop a specific plan , nor does she diagram the work in advance to be meticulously executed later . Models and drawings vaguely document ideas about future works and give only a rough indication of the floating-brick formation in the tapestry Relief . The double drawing Untitled ( for Relief ) , 1989 , is a quick , gestural rendering of the rhythmic surface grain and the placement of the floating brick bundles . It is fascinating to observe that models and maquettes and drawings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works . Ultimately , from these vague documents emerges the real live work . In fact , the decisions that give spirit to form are made by Jacobi in the studio during the physical process of hand-building , shaping and constructing . Seeing and experiencing the work of Ritzi Jacobi provides us with sustenance and balance in the face of a culture that increasingly is distancing itself from touch , materiality and the world of the physical . Much of our experience is second-and third-hand ; we are becoming passive participants via the window of television and electronic interactive media . Verbal communication is emanating more from the screen and through various electronic conduits , eliminating personal , face-to-face involvement . Jacobi makes work that gives us our bearings and substantial connection to the world , work in which expression comes directly out of materials and ultimately transcends the theoretical . It is an art in which the motivation to form emerges from handling , shaping and constructing as the artist gets deeper under our skin , coming closer to the soul than to the intellect . It is ironic that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least explainable . Jacobi neither mimics the overly cynical world nor does she try to proselytize , or propagandize , or laden us with text . She gives us an art in which an authentic spiritual element is tied to the transformation that occurs when ordinary materials assume extraordinary form . In his book Abstraction and Empathy ( 1908 ) , the German philosopher and critic Wilhelm Wooringer wrote , " The urge to abstraction is the outcome of a great inner unrest inspired in man by the phenomena of the outside world . " We respond to Jacobi , as well as to others guided by these phenomena , in a manner not unlike the way primitive peoples shielded and protected their psyches from what Worringer referred to as " the prevailing caprice of the organic . " In this hyperactive , postmodernist period , we also need to protect our psyches  --  from the bland electronic haze slowly permeating every aspect of our existence . The impulse to abstract is an instinctive behavior experienced by many artists , in all media . It leads to the discovery of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , yes , the sublime . * 1ictoria Combalia Dexeus , tapies ( New York : Rizzoli , 1990 ) , 16 . " The Impulse to Abstract : Recent Work by Ritzi Jacobi " will travel to the Fine Arts Gallery , Texas Woman 's University and the University of North Texas Art Gallery , Denton ( August 29-September 20 ) , and Reinberger Galleries , Cleveland Institute of Art , Ohio ( December 8-January 15 , 1995 ) . The 40-page catalogue , with 10 color and 14 black-and-white photographs , is available from Rosenwald-Wolf Gallery , Philadelphia College of Art and Design , the University of the Arts , 320 South Broad Street , Philadelphia , Pennsylvania 19102. $14 including shipping . <p>                     