@@393653

During the more than 20 years that he has been making quilts , Michael James has remained faithful to his training as an abstract expressionist painter . Yet he 's worked almost entirely in a medium that seems at first blush incompatible with painting in general and with abstract expressionism in particular . The laborious methods of the quilter share little with the quick brushstrokes of the easel painter . The utilitarian and domestic roots of quilting argue for a literal imagery that abstraction abhors . But by taking art itself as his subject  --  a departure that separates James from many of his quiltmaking contemporaries who work in more narrative forms  --  he has produced work that breaks new aesthetic ground while still paying ( sometimes ) obscure homage to the tradition . Reconciling such disparate worlds exacts a price , and James has struggled with aesthetic concerns that many art quilters might find esoteric or even irrelevant . But they have driven his work to an uncommon originality . At mid-career , James is pleased with how his quilts have evolved . " I look at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lyrical and kinetic than it ever was before , " he says , reflecting on a pair of round quilts pinned to the walls of his Massachusetts studio . James 's technique has changed little since the early 1980s . Almost all his quilts are composed of strips of fabrican adaptation of Seminole strip patchwork , he points out , but with a different intent . They are almost entirely machine sewn , and the quilting lies hidden in the seams . These technical constants have led to a body of work that emphasizes two-dimensional composition over the usual three-dimensionality of the quilt . " My techniques are very traditional , " he allows . " There 's not anything particularly innovative about them "  --  certainly not when compared to other quilters ' experiments in photo-transfer imagery , tie-dyed and painted fabric , and frayed seams . By adhering to a few basic " tools , " James has concentrated on what interests him most : color and hue transitions , figure-ground relationships and the definition of space through juxtaposed forms . Over the last decade , James has tackled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : how to compose a quilt without an underlying grid structure . A pieced quilt , by definition , is an assembled object  --  traditionally built of square or rectangular blocks that often combine a repeated pattern to build a larger composition . The lyricism he finds in his recent work reflects a breakthrough in his approach to construction  --  a solution to the limitations of the grid . One of James 's quilts from the pivotal Konkordiaplatz series , 1989-90 , embodies the problem and his approach to it . The quilts in this group represent a synthesis of his sensory responses to the mountainous basin in the Swiss Alps that surrounds the Aletsch glacier , the largest in Europe . " In the summer of 1988 I spent several days hiking along its perimeter , which extends many kilometers from the Jungfrau firn , " he explains . " What impressed me most was the very audible sound of millions of gallons of water rushing unseen beneath the perfectly still expanse of glacier . It seemed incongruous : the unrelenting movement of so much water and the stony rigidity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Panorama : Konkordiaplatz , 1989 , represents the scene very directly : glacial ice ( the sharp angles ) with water flowing beneath ( the curved forms ) . The grid structure is not readily apparent , although it emerges on close observation of the stripes of the " frame . " The quilt is built of three rectangular panels . Because the central panel grid is of different scale than the grid of the side panels , the deft transitions between scales tend to bury the mathematics altogether . Although the " scene " has an analogue in the natural world , James is no realist , not even an impressionist . He abstracts the landscape through a composition that owes more to Giotto than to the Hudson River School : Panoroma : Konkordiaplatz constitutes an abstract expressionist altarpiece . Ironically , a crisis of confidence followed the masterful , self-assured quilts of the Konkordiaplatz group . " In 1991 I was uncertain whether I was even going to do more quilts , " James says . " I thought maybe I had reached a point where I had pushed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned out not to be true , and from my present vantage , I 'm awfully glad I did n't abandon them . " James has come to accept these crisis periods as inevitable . " I know I 'm going to hit a wall where it seems I ca n't get beyond what I 've been doing  --  that I 've exhausted the possibilities , " he says . " But I 'm fully willing to confront that when it happens and work through it one way or another . " The key word is " work . " A practical man , James retreats to preparing new strip-pieced cloth in a different palette when he encounters a fallow period . He also keeps making quilts , drawing on his formal training to pose a fresh aesthetic problem . " I 'm working just to be doing something while I try to filter through what I 've been doing , why I feel I 've exhausted that direction and how I can find a new direction , " he explains . " Those things are all going on mentally while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who earned an M.F.A. in painting from the Rochester Institute of Technology in 1973 , sees his education as a critical resource and bemoans the lack of academic training in quilting . Although the absence of quilting from fine arts curricula was understandable when the art quilt groundswell began in the 1970s , its continued omission from fiber art curricula , he believes , has resulted in muddled aesthetic standards and too few artistic models for quilters . " Artists who work with quilts ca n't get the technical knowledge  --  nor the professional support  --  that they need in the art schools , " James says , " so they have to go outside of the system , where there 's very little criticism or even self-criticism . " He acknowledges that many art quilters disagree with his point of view , arguing that the strength of quilting as an art form is that it is democratic and non-elitist . But without a formal basis for recognizing and solving problems , James counters , artists tend to turn to their contemporaries for inspiration , inevitably producing derivative quilts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disdains technique that becomes too easy , which is why curved forms periodically disappear from his compositions . " It 's a red flag . When I reach the point where curves almost seem facile , I drop them , " he says . " As a series progresses , and I become familiar with how the various elements of the series interplay , I begin to understand it too well , and I have to do something else to push me in a different direction . Dropping curves helps . " When curves reappear , they usually signal that James is working out solutions to a different technical or aesthetic problem . Having effectively mastered techniques to obscure the grid underlying his quilts with the Konkordiaplatz group , James worked through a short series of quilts in 1991 and 1992 that solidified these compositional lessons but pushed no farther . Then , suddenly in 1992 , he produced Bourree , a quilt that displays his confident manipulation of curved forms while quietly manifesting a new approach to composition . In Bourree he limited the variations in curves to concentrate on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The title , James says , comes from a movement of Bach 's third solo cello suite , and the interplay of form and tonality suggest both the intricate formality of Bach and the mellow timbre of the cello . Bourree represents a genuine breakthrough in James 's work : quilts that escape the confines of rigid geometry but still address the familiar concerns of quilting , e.g. , figure-ground relationships , color transitions and the articulation of three-dimensional space in a two-dimensional plane . By abjuring the grid structure , James has moved his quilts out of the rationalist , measured compositional world of the premodern period and into the irrational , emotive compositional thicket of modern art . The movement is not as radical for James as it might be for some quilters , for his work has tended toward ever greater abstraction over the years . For a structural artist like James , the danger of escaping the grid is compositional chaos . The flip side of chaos , however , is freedom . And leaving behind the rational ( and rationalizing ) grid appears to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artistic themes : the beauty of ritual , the excitement of movement and the sensuality of color . A pair of 1992 quilts  --  Processional and Suspended Animation  --  demonstrate his newfound power . Surface subsumes architecture , redefining a space that becomes all the more intimate for its lack of grid-structure monumentality . Some of the forms look back to the pointed curves of Asian landscapes and seascapes  --  the cresting waves of Japanese prints , the bamboo of Chinese brush paintings . The orientalism is hardly a coincidence ; James himself feels that recent trips to Japan may have influenced his design sensibilities . Processional , for example , formalizes movement in direct reference to traditional Japanese court dance and pantomime . But Michael James the clear-headed ascetic has an obverse : Michael James the sybarite . The forms of Suspended Animation directly echo those of Processional , but they are composed in a radically different way . Whereas Processional marches across the frame in stately fashion , the curved and jagged forms of Suspended Animation generate a dervishlike maelstrom of activity . In a printed artist 's statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spontaneity of graffiti " with this work . He accomplished his goal . If there 's one lesson in looking at James 's career , however , it is that neither an Apollonian nor a Dionysian impulse dominates for long . In Vortex , 1993 , he returns to an emphasis on ovoid forms , piled up in layers of space in transects of an inverted cone . In contrast to the activity implicit in the title , this quilt conveys a tranquility and solidity achieved in part by a subdued palette . Formalism appears even more explicitly in Quilt No. 150 ( Rehoboth Meander ) , 1993 , through an ordered arrangement of four columns and an exploration of James 's peculiar forms as stand-ins for ideographs . Reminiscent of columnar writing , it begs the question of meaning by appearing at once representational of script and simultaneously self-referential in its symbols . The subsequent rectangular quilt , Out of Line , 1994 , tumbles the forms , suggesting that the pair might be thought of as a duet  --  a before and after of meaning , or the monument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grid has freed James for visual explorations of what some might call " painterly " concerns , and viewers sometimes strive to pay him what they assume is the ultimate compliment by calling his work " paintings in fabric . " But Michael James could not disagree more . " They 're quilts , " he says emphatically . " It bothers me that people ca n't seem to accept the " quiltness " and the  --  I hesitate to use the word  --  " art . " The two are compatible ; they coexist in the same object . " Patricia Harris and David Lyon are freelance writers living in Cambridge , Massachusetts . They have authored a critical essay for the monograph Michael James : Studio Quilts , to be published in 1995 by Editions Attinger , Switzerland . <p>                     