@@408751

God 's actions , nature 's laws IF GOD INTERFERED , even by " progressive creation , " in the evolutionary process , he would be throwing a crutch to us after giving us two good legs ( see " Debating evolution : The God who would intervene , " by Edward J. Larson and Larry Witham , Oct. 27 ) . If such interference were proved scientifically , what is the virtue of faith ? No courage , no humility , no qualities of heart and soul would be required , just an observation of scientific data . Faith as a gift of scientists . As for the intemperate scientist quoted in the article who gave the " lot of damn rot " answer to the question about God : Could the scientist venture to tell us why earth , sea and sky 11 wanted " to evolve our brain ? Why nature " wants " to reproduce and evolve ? He could only say it does , adding nothing . Connell J. Maguire Riviera Beach , Fla . When I saw " Debating evolution , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the issue of God , evolution and how God does something with creation  --  if anything . I was quite disappointed to find that the article amounted to little more than a " bean counting " review of the stances of scientists , theological schools and their deans . There have been many contemporary attempts to think through the issue of God and God 's intervention . Perhaps we should bury ourselves in the offerings of process theology . This would be one approach that holds together God , creation , evolution and the question of intervention . The authors might have reviewed and critiqued some of these offerings , instead of mailing out the questionnaire and then informing us of the responses to a shallow inquiry . John T. Ball Pataskala United Methodist Church , Pataskala , Ohio Larson and Witham report that Americans they surveyed had no clear-cut answer as to how to reconcile scientific evolution with a God who " intervenes . " But there is no possibility of reconciling God with our evolutionary past if we do not first understand the ideas of contemporary evolutionists-a shortcoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an evolutionary universe as being " governed by impersonal and tightly knit laws " suggests they have an outdated understanding of evolution as meaning that all variations in the natural world resulted from chance mutations selected out by the survival of the fittest . But since Julian Huxley offered that picture in 1942 , evolutionists have significantly altered their understanding , developing a less machine-like picture of evolution . The evolutionist Stephen Gould and others have pointed out that natural selection need not to be the sole cause of natural variations . As for natural selection itself , Richard Dawkins , Edward 0 . Wilson and others have provided examples of cooperative relationships within and between species , thus making competition between individuals only one factor . Stuart Kauffman has shown that a genetic message can be altered in ways other than randomly because the environment itself can affect genes through enzymes . Alister Hardy has pointed out internal factors causing change , such as the way animals seek out new environments instead of remaining victims of current surroundings . Moving beyond this element of animal curiosity and initiative , W @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be understood as feeling and experiencing . And Sewall Wright has noted the presence of sentience in all beings ( something akin to mind ) . If biologists have failed to educate others about these subtleties in evolutionary theory , Christian theologians can be similarly faulted . Conspicuously absent from the thinking of people quoted by Larson and Witham was an old principle of Christian theology that Paul Tillich faulted Einstein for overlooking-that is , that God can only metaphorically be depicted as a separate causal agent , because God , more literally , works in and through all creatures according to their nature . It appears that the gulf between science and religion is not limited to varying perspectives and contrasting ways of using language , but extends to ignorance about critical ideas . Bruce Yeager Houston , Tex . The question whether God intervenes directly in nature and in human affairs is serious and important , but given the religious background for creationism , I wonder whether the creation/evolution controversy is an appropriate context for it . The whole of what Christians call the Old Testament is constituted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Therefore , let me bring in a quotation from one of the greatest Hebrew scholars of our time , Abraham Heschel : " The biblical words about the genesis of heaven and earth are not words of information but words of appreciation . The story of creation is not a description of bow the world came into being but a song about the glory of the worlds having come into being . " It is a celebration of the fact that the worlds , including ourselves , exist at all . The Jews of the time when the Old Testament was compiled were not scientists and had little or no interest in the questions that scientists raise . Instead , they were profoundly concerned with what , as a people and individuals , God had called them to do-an immediate , practical question , not wrangling about abstractions like " world " and " creation " and " evolution . " Which side particular individuals take in this debate can certainly influence their behavior , but to take either one as prescribing how we should live in our worlds seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it properly does ) but to dictate morality . Mary McDermott Shideler Boulder , Colo . Christians and the Holocaust ... I WAS SURPRISED that Marc Ellis did not seem to see the Holocaust as primarily a Christian problem ( " Ending the era of Auschwitz , " Oct. 6 ) . Christians are proud of their high ethical standards . Ifwe fall short , questions need to be asked and meaning searched for . What does it mean that during the Holocaust only one quarter of I percent of Christians did anything to help their Jewish neighbors ? Are the Gospels themselves anti-Jewish and a problem ? Do we need to get rid of the doctrine of supersessionism ? Are the Epistles interpreted incorrectly in a way that denigrates Judaism ? To ask tough questions is not " finger pointing " at individual Christians . It is proper " finger pointing " at the failure of all of us . My Jewish friends think that Christians have come a long way . I think that we have much work to do to get back on track . Eventually , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remember much more . Then we can change what needs to be changed . After that we will be in a position to repent and move forward . Richard A. Schreck Cleveland Heights , ohio Mainlinefaith ... I AGREE with Kenneth W Chalker that we do not need to spend inordinate amounts of time in mainline churches dealing with hermeneutics and catechesis , especially if all of that is done in insider jargon ( " Mainline faith , with passion , " Oct. 20 ) . Yet I believe Chalker misses the mark . Simply ramping up enthusiasm for more soup kitchens and homeless shelters in mainline churches in order to make such churches passionate again is not the answer . We may as well call ourselves social service agencies . People must be brought to faith by making personal commitments to Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior . Chalker closes his article with the sad story of a teenage girl who was made pregnant by a 20-year-old boy who had fathered 14 other children with over a dozen different women . " Where do we begin the catechesis which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he asks . He claims the answers are not easy . But in a way they are : begin early telling kids that such sexual activity is wrong and against God 's plans . I suspect that that type of message will not come from our mainline churches , ineluding my Presbyterian Church ( U.S.A. ) . Too many " mainliners " mock our Southern Baptist friends who hold " purity " rallies for their youth , and make excuses such as " kids will be kids " and " they 're going to do it anyway . " Stephen H. Janssen Eastminster Presbyterian Church , Marietta , Ga . Chalker bemoans the inability or unwillingness of mainline churches to adequately contextualize the gospel in contemporary American culture . Then he turns around and jabs at churches that do exactly that ( " electronic sounds of churches trying to be relevant ... shallow , religious glitz " ) . It is hard work , crafting music , drama and preaching that draw large numbers of unchurched people to church , introducing them to God 's love and helping them grow into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loving and serving others . Since Chalker says that these are good things , I 'd think he would have a higher regard for churches that do them effectively , whether or not those churches enjoy the cachet of a mainline name brand . James Caraher Jr Schiller Park , Ill . Divine wrath ... MIROSLAV VOLF and I differ as to the nature of the God we serve ( " Divine violence , " Oct. 13 ) . Volf says that scripture affirms God as a God of wrath , and does not venture to explain it . I admit that God is frequently referred to as having wrath , and that violence is attributed to God . But I also believe that a stronger case can be built against God 's wrath . Perhaps the God of today is not the same as the God of the ancient Hebrews , and perhaps is more loving and less wrathful . Since change is so inherent in our world , could it not also be a characteristic of God ? I appreciate that Volf sees God 's violence , his sword @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I am not sure why God would express love through an instrument less effective than love . Volf argues the divine violence is necessary to confront " evildoers " because " some evildoers will make themselves untouchable by the lure of God 's love . " I believe it is God 's love that has the power to cancel evil , not wrath and violence . There are still many holes in Volf 's " Divine violence " and I believe those holes create a hazard for us in living out the life Jesus Christ modeled and calls us to live . I believe I can minister to my flock and encourage them , nurture them and excite them to grow by totally avoiding the idea of God 's wrath . Ed Denham Coolidge United Methodist Church Coolidge , Ariz . <p>                     