@@410484

Memo to George Bush and Bill Clinton : One of you will be the first U.S. president to serve a full term in the post-cold-war era . As I write in my Bolivian hotel room , the local cable system offers CNN , with its horrible images from Somalia and Bosnia-Herzegovina  --  two current crisis points of suffering in a world that desperately needs U.S. leadership . The purpose of this memo is to offer to you the following suggestion : Although the Somalian and Bosnian crises must be addressed immediately , it is not enough to provide emergency relief at points of agony that have attracted world media attention . Whichever of you wins in November must also address suffering that is less visible  --  the quiet desperation of sickness of body and spirit that plagues poverty-stricken people throughout the world . Specifically , let me tell you about Bolivia , a country of 7 million people . Bolivia has the lowest per-capita income of any South American nation . It is landlocked , cut off from the Pacific Ocean by neighbors that took its seaports through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The life expectancy in Bolivia is 51 . Until a revolution in 1952 finally gave basic rights to the Aymara and Quechua indigenous tribes , who make up more than half the population , the country was run entirely for the benefit of its white ( Spanish ) oligarchy and outside commercial interests . After 1952 , a succession of military dictators was in control until the formation of a democratic government in 1978  --  a shift inspired in part by the intense human-rights pressure applied by then President Jimmy Carter . I have traveled here with Paul McCleary , director of the Christian Children 's Fund . one of more than 30 U.S. nongovernmental organizations ( NGOs ) that work in Bolivia . This is McCleary 's first visit since his tour of duty here as a United Methodist missionary 20 years ago . He has been holding press conferences and visiting in the capital city of La Paz with members of the congress , including both the president and the vice-president of the senate . Two nights ago CCF 's Bolivian national director , Adolfo Peters , hosted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by more than 100 NGO staffers , governmental officials and U.S. , Canadian and British embassy representatives . I share this small social note , Mr. President ( or future Mr. President ) , not to describe the delicious , spicy sultenas we were served , but to suggest that NGO networks like this one in Bolivia offer you I an independent group of individuals and organizations whose leaders and staff members know one another and are committed to the welfare of the people in the country in which they work . As I glance at the sickening scenes of brutality and suffering in Bosnia and Somalia , I write to say that as president in a post-cold-war era you have a rare opportunity to move toward a new vision  --  one in which you could seek to transform the world from a collection of warring ethnic and national groups into a collection of communities willing to reach out and serve others . You will , of course , continue to rely on the State Department to relate to governments ; but you can reach out to these NGO networks not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and heal . I urge you to utilize this network by , yes , giving financial support where possible under U.S. law ( through the Agency for International Development , for example ) , but more important , by listening to what these various NGO networks can tell you about people 's needs , sensitivities and aspirations . There are enormous problems around the world , but they are problems you can now confront without having constantly to factor in the issue of communism . In Bolivia , for example , the economy suffers from a serious lack of health care , the decline of the mining industry ( especially the silver mines , which one political leader reminded me " once financed the Spanish Armada " ) , and an agriculture top-heavy with coca-leaf farmers . For centuries this country has grown coca leaves both for tea ( good for altitude sickness ) and for chewing pij ' cheo ) , a longstanding legal and cultural practice a within the indigenous communities . But as you well know , official U.S. interest in Bolivia has been focused almost entirely on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cocaine . Our anti-drug policy has concentrated on the eradication of coca fields and the interdiction of first the paste and then the cocaine 0 powder that moves out of Bolivia ( principally through Colombia 's drug mafia production centers ) into U.S. streets and homes , where it is the source of so much human suffering . John E Kennedy once said of those who did n't believe capitalism to be superior to communism , " Let them come to Berlin . " I would say of all those people considering the problem of cocaine use in the U.S. , " Let them come to Bolivia . " Our attempts at eradication and interdiction have failed , in large part , because we do not look at the problem through the eyes of the people who live here . As Alma Guillermoprieto wrote in the New Yorker recently , " The leaf of the coca bush provides only one of the essential ingredients for the manufacture of cocaine , but this ingredient is the toxin that gives the drug its kick  --  cocaine alkaloid , which is processed to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the U.S. and other Western countries provide the profits for the narcotraffickers ( whose homes here in Bolivia are easily identified ; they stand out as monstrous symbols of corruption amid the very modest dwellings of 99-plus percent of the population ) . For more time than history can record , the coca leaf has had its ritualistic and sensory benefit for Bolivia 's indigenous peoples . But it has been U.S. government policy to focus its energy in attacking the drug problem at the supply-side rather than the market-side , thus forcing Latin American governments to challenge their coca farmers to try other crops  --  none of which can equal the income that the Western world 's appetite for cocaine produces . This , Mr. President ( or future Mr. President ) , means that the U.S. government is seen by most Bolivians as a Yanqui bully , pretending to solve its own problem of drug abuse by interfering in internal Latin American affairs . Drug abuse in the U.S. , with its high price tag of death , destruction and law enforcement costs , will have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to work on this complex problem with officials in Bolivia , Peru , Mexico and Colombia ; you can not do it unilaterally . U.S. voters may not know , or care , that coca leaves have other purposes than that developed for them by modern chemistry . But both of you know it , and whichever of you is elected will want to make sure the leaders of these Latin American countries know that you know it . I did n't sit down at my computer in this hotel room in Cochabamba to discuss drugs with you . You already know how ineffective we have been in halting the narcotraffic that starts in the coca fields . However , I am moved to speak of cocaine and coca leaves to implore you to fight this problem energetically and with a high degree of intergovernmental cooperation and sensitivity  --  the kind of diplomacy that you , President Bush , employed in dealing with Arab leaders in the Middle East when you were confronted with Saddam Hussein 's invasion of Kuwait . I really sat down at my computer to urge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world and to learn from them how the people they serve feel about their needs and hopes . Believe me , they are far closer to the people than our official intelligence and State Department networks . Let me point to just two of the NGOs working in Bolivia to give you a brief sample of the network in this country . The Christian Children 's Fund is a private international institution working " to improve living conditions of needy children , their families and communities . " Based in Richmond , Virginia ( P.O. Box 26484 , Richmond , VA 23261-6484 ) , CCF has national offices in 24 countries in Latin America , Africa and Asia . It is supported by grants and gifts mainly from the U.S. , Germany , Britain , France , Canada , Australia , Japan , China and New Zealand . ( You probably have seen its ads  --  the ones that feature actress Sally Struthers . ) CCF identifies communities and organizations that work for the " survival , physical , educative , economic and social needs " of children , and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency spends over $2 million a year in Bolivia for 64 projects that serve a total population of more than 90,000 . ( As a onetime sports writer I am particularly drawn to a project in Santa Cruz , where close to 700 children receive support that literally takes them off the streets and into the world-famous Tahuichi Aquilera Academy , an intensive soccer training program for boys from six to 20 . Check out your favorite U.S. college soccer team and you may find some Tahuichi graduates . ) On a smaller scale but also typical of the NGOs in : Bolivia is the Andean Rural Health Care ( ARHC ) program , with headquarters in La Paz ( U.S. address : P.O. Box 216 , Lake Junaluska , NC 28745 ) . ARHC began as a dream of Henry Perry , a North Carolina United Methodist physician who witnessed the harsh reality and suffering in Bolivia when he traveled there as a volunteer during medical school . ARHC is now providing basic health and child survival programs for 50,000 impoverished Aymara and Quechua people . ARHC sends trained local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that other basic health needs are met . Immunizations are provided by ARHC workers , and local governments help with some of the medications . ARHC staff member Martha Edens estimates that the organization spends about $665,000 yearly on the program in Bolivia  --  all of which is raised from gifts and grants , with significant support from United Methodists . There are other NGOs in Bolivia , of course , but CCF and ARHC are just two examples of service agencies that employ local personnel to serve a population in desperate need , the sort of need that is being met quietly on a daily basis . What is being done now is only the beginning-t which is why it behooves you to support , encourage and learn from the work being done by these volunteer agencies . I can tell you from conversations I have had in this country , where both your campaigns are being watched closely , that there is great hope that 1993 will be the beginning of a new era . When Jimmy Carter occupied the White House , his staff related to organizations like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was able to plug into this network , though with limited success . That was more than a decade ago , when the shapers of American foreign policy felt they had to play by strict cold-war rules , rewarding government leaders who rejected communism and only to a limited degree looking beyond those leaders to their suffering populations . You no longer need to feel limited by that geopolitical worldview . You have a unique opportunity to make your country a stimulus for healing in the world . May I respectfully suggest that you begin by establishing a connection to those agencies that are already working to stem the tide of suffering in the world 's impoverished nations . They are your allies in this war against human suffering . Sincerely , James M. Wall <p>                     