@@397040

WHAT HAS fashion to do with religion ? Fashion is play , religion is serious . Fashion lives for the moment , religion for a lifetime and whatever is beyond a lifetime . The world of fashion did n't concern itself with religion until recently and briefly when , influenced b Madonna , runway models started wearing large crosses . Yet Christianity has perennially been concerned with fashion . Two attitudes toward dress haven characterized Western Christianity . Augustine argued in City of God that dress belongs to culture , differs according to culture , and has no significance in a Christian life . Rut Clement in Alexandria and Tertullian in Carthage both gave detailed advice to women on appropriate Christian dress . Clement addressed both men and women , advising them to avoid ostentation , along with faddish hair styles and makeup . Tertullian 's advice to women is more notorious . Concerned about men 's  --  his own , he acknowledges  --  vulnerability to seduction , he urged women to make themselves ugly through neglect and to veil themselves for good measure . Devotional manuals through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would be too extreme to say that dress  --  especially women 's dress  --  has been an obsession of Christian male authors ; it has been a pervasive concern , however . Robert Altman 's film Ready-to-Wear brings to mind several underlying relationships between fashion and religion . First , neither religion nor fashion exists in the abstract ; each exists in a concrete world of political , institutional and social arrangements . Fashion relates more explicitly to a particular historical moment and society ; the word " fad , " a near-synonym for fashion , is an acronym : " for a day . " But religion also must continuously maintain and articulate itself in relation to particular needs and interests if it is to retain its ability to address people . Moreover , the cultural tasks of each are similar in some respects : both seek to provide resources for shaping the desires and identities of individuals and communities . Ready-to-Wear is a send-up of fashion most glamorous event , the Pret-a-Porter runway show in Paris at which fashion designers show their current collections . The press release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as revealing identity , as tools of power , and as keys to a mystery . " Although women 's clothing is showcased in the Paris collections , men in the film are as concerned with clothing as women . As a black taxi drier remarks , " All white guys look alike to me . The clothes , that 's how I tell everyone apart . " The plot is slim . The apparent murder of the unpopular head of the fashion council is being investigated . The audience already knows he has choked to death on a ham sandwich , so no attention is taken away from fashion and the people who live for it  --  journalists , models , designers and hangers-on . Their various encounters create the dramas surrounding the shows . Even the laughs are minimalist . After about six different people step in dog excrement , the joke wears thin . Altman 's docudrama was filmed at the 1994 spring collection . Taking roles patterned on actual fashion-world figures , Sophia Loren , Julia Roberts , Marcello Mastroianni , Anouk Aimee , Tim Robbins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the stories-within-the-story . As in Altman 's The Player , many famous faces make cameo appearances  --  fashion designers and models as well as such actors as Danny Aiello , Lili Taylor and ( playing themselves ) Harry Belafonte and Cher . Cher makes one of the film 's few references to a world outside the Paris shows . When asked , " What do you think of ready-to-wear ? " Cher replies : " I think it 's sad . It 's about the loneliness of women . I 'm a victim as well as a perpetrator . I think it 's not about what you put on your body , but what you are inside . " Altman comments in a press release that Cher 's speech " cut to the heart of what the film is trying to say . " The other reference to a larger world occurs when Lili Taylor , playing a New York Times photojournalist , asks Anouk Aimee a routine question ; Aimee protests , " Why does n't anyone ask real questions ? " " All right , " Taylor replies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50 percent of the world 's pollution is caused by textile mills ? " Good filmmaker that he is , Altman does n't preach . He spoofs the fashion world by showing its preoccupations as vacuous , trendy and mean-spirited . But the fashion world Altman shows is suspiciously one-dimensional . No one in Altman 's fashion industry is talented and hard-working . No one cares about other people apart from their professional or sexual utility . And behavior has no physical or moral repercussions . Laughingly confessing that she has " a little problem with alcohol , " Julia Roberts ( who wears a shirt that says " the world 's greatest mom " ) falls into bed with a stranger and stays there throughout the shows on which she is supposed to be reporting . Nothing in the film questions this behavior . After days during which champagne arrives every time they are on-camera , the lovers part , thanking each other politely for a " great time "  --  and looking gorgeous . Altman makes his point . Despite his professed reticence to criticize fashion , he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Like John Bunyan 's Pilgrim 's Progress ( in which the term Vanity Fair first appeared ) , Ready-to-Wear is a morality tale . What does not appear onscreen in this " expose " of fashion ? Anything that might have humanized these shallow people . No one has pain . There is no mention of the way AIDS has wreaked havoc in the fashion world . Sex occurs frequently and with little provocation , but safe sex has apparently never been heard of . Similarly , there is no mention of the eating disorders that are routine part of many models ' lives . Even the death of a husband , lover and colleague can not stop the show . Is n't it a bit too convenient that no one was saddened about the death of the " murdered " man ? He just was n't a " nice guy . " It is also frightening to realize that the people represented as arguably the least talented and articulate are a black designer and two black models . Is the fact that Altman was permitted to film the spring 1994 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fashion industry 's lack of integrity  --  it thinks any publicity is good publicity ? There is an irreducible contradiction in Altman 's claim that the " reality level of the film is very high " ( it was shot " like a documentary " ) and his derisive representation of high fashion . Documentary sticks as close as possible to reporting ; Altman 's film is an acknowledged caricature . It 's a cheap shot to ridicule people that most Americans  --  Altman 's target audience  --  already think of as superficial and vacuous . If the film were a documentary rather than a send-up , it would let film audiences see that , in the highly stressed world of high fashion , as with any other collection of human beings , there are some deeply felt , enduring friendships , some people honor their committed relationships , many feel pain , and at least some people are generous . Ready-to-Wear is a farce , but Altman has decided that the fashion world is a farce as well , and he uses an old motif to rub it in  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the event , Simone Lowenthal ( Anouk Aimee ) sends her models onto the runway naked , with little makeup and no gimmicks . Within the film , this scene is supposed to exhibit humorously the bankruptcy of fashion . The audience within the film gets the joke and laughs , after the first shock . Then they stand up and applaud . But the models  --  real runway models , young women not accustomed to exhibiting their naked bodies  --  take it seriously . Neither ashamed nor strutting , they are simply there , walking the runway in their bodies rather than in the clothing they usually exhibit . Even after the film 's tedious and often adolescent satire , this is an amazing moment . There  --  after all the strenuous endeavors of fashion to embellish , conceal and deny it  --  is the body . No matter how unclothed it may be on television , in movies and in advertising , the female body is always " dressed , " posed and presented for a reason  --  to sell cars or alcohol or sex . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unadorned young bodies transcended Altman 's use of them . While I deplore the filmmaker 's use of young women 's bodies to communicate his message , I nevertheless saw them as quite astonishing and wonderful . It struck me that fashion and Christian theology both have a penchant for hiding , disclaiming and silencing bodies . Both , in different ways , seek to ignore the fact that bodies  --  not ideas or ideals  --  inform a large part of people 's diverse perspectives , needs and interests . Race , class , gender , sexual orientation , age , degree of health : each of these factors contributes strongly to the way a person sees and experiences the world . Yet both religion and fashion endeavor to establish an ideal body as normative . Liberation theologies have repeatedly exposed traditional Christianity 's indifference about the oppressive political and social conditions that do harm to bodies . For Christianity , the actual body has all too often been less important than the fully redeemed body which can only exist outside present experience . And even when fashion proclaims , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cover of Vogue this past November ) it quickly becomes evident that the body that has " returned " is a very particular and seldom-seen body  --  an ideal body . If bodies  --  and who has ever seen " the body , " an ideal body unmarked by biology , gender or race  --  were indeed " back " we could expect to see big changes in both fashion and theology . Fashion is " play , " we are repeatedly told . To take it seriously is to ruin the fun . But for whom can today 's high fashion  --  or even getting dressed every morning  --  be fun ? Fashion exists in the context of a culture that repeatedly reminds all women and most men of their physical and sartorial inadequacy , evoking anxiety even in those young , white , thin , wealthy , heterosexual people who embody the ideal body of current fashion . Those who can not aspire to that ideal because of age , race , sexual orientation or class still find it difficult to ignore our culture 's ideal body . Furthermore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people to categorize strangers and acquaintances alike . In this context , can fashion be play for anyone ? High fashion is about money and power , even when it borrows fashions from the street . As is true of every human enterprise , fashion is inevitably invested in issues of power . Fashion exercises what Michel Foucault called " strong power " in the way it attracts ( it does n't have to coerce ) large numbers of people to want the current look . Yet the media-driven fashion industry equipped with nothing but the possibility of attracting , can be resisted . In fact , it is particularly vulnerable to widespread , sometimes near-unanimous resistance . The more desperately some designers endeavor to attract , the more resistant their public becomes . In short , a sympathetic  --  or even fair  --  look at the fashion world would reveal not only ( or even primarily ) a dictatorial power that exerts its force on an intimate part of everyone 's life , but also a creative , temperamental and hard-working group of people who have suffered disproportionately from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vanity Fair exists only in caricature  --  and in farce . Nothing approximating the fashion industry of the 20th-century existed throughout the history of Christianity . But religious leaders have long recognized that in its capacity to shape desire and create identities , fashion can compete with religion , which takes those tasks as its essence . A long look at the amount of cultural space taken up by proposals for redesigning bodies and clothing reveals intense attention to appearance . Fashion becomes constricting  --  even demonic  --  when it encompasses a disproportionate amount of attention , when it is used to define and design who one is . But then , of course , it is not " high fashion " or " the fashion industry " that is the problem , but the person  --  man or woman  --  who seeks identity in a " look . " Finally , however , the " slave of fashion " must be seen as representing a religious and social failure  --  a failure to provide resources and nourishment more capable than fashion of bearing the weight of identity , relatedness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perpetrators , " we should scrutinize the culture 's symbolic resources . Ready-to-Wear , like many other popular films , is better at raising issues than it is a identifying culprits or offering alternatives . Nevertheless , Altman 's film offers an opportunity to reflect on and explore some of our culture 's dominant and dominating values . <p>                     