@@410701

Retailers have diverse telecommunications needs . Whether the technology is used to capture and transmit product and sales information or provide telemarketing and voice-mail services , telecommunications has grown in strategic importance . As the application of retail technology expands , telecommunications increasingly will play a major role in retailers ' game plans . These needs are expanding at an incredible pace . Both voice and data communications have become integral to the operations of retail businesses . Without being on-line and interactive with telecommunications networks , retailers can not authorize third-party credit purchases at the point of sale . If their on-line distribution systems are not available , they can not ship from their warehouses to stores to replenish merchandise . A responsive , cost-effective telecommunications network is the key to tying together the merchandising , buying , store operations , and financial operations of the business . Integration of these functions offers a competitive advantage by supplying the information needed to support the retail buying decision and provide customer service . In addition , telecommunications in the retail world has become more complex with the growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that require fast communications . At the same time , the available alternatives and retailers ' investments in technology have escalated . Historically , retailers have built many new application systems , giving telecommunications only secondary consideration . This often has resulted in multiple telecommunications lines to stores , causing increased costs and lower reliability than desired . Because of the growing dependence on and complexity of telecommunications , retailers now need to develop strategies that are linked directly to their over-all business strategies . It is time to focus on strategic telecommunications planning , rather than making it simply an after-thought . Retailers must control the technical , financial , and managerial complexities of telecommunications networks by planning accordingly . At one mass merchant , buyers talk live by satellite with up to 3,000 store management people gathered at 200 locations throughout the nation . By using a telecommunications network , this retailer can convey merchandise information in an efficient and cost-effective manner . This is just one example of how today 's retailer has looked beyond the traditional business approaches to communications technology as a means to meet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seizing the initiative and are using telecommunications technologies proactively in their business operations . " Telecommunications is the centerpiece of all we do in retailing information systems , " says the vice president of management information services ( MIS ) at a department store chain . " Our stores are remote from executive management . Telecommunications will dictate the level of customer service we give in our stores . " Some retailers are directing their attention to increased use of telecommunications because of environmental factors forced on them by the marketplace . These include the growing reliance on large volumes of information required to operate a retail business and the proliferation of multi-location stores , distribution centers , and buying offices . Additionally , the divestiture of AT &T; has increased the complexity of , as well as the opportunities for , **28;0;TOOLONG industries , including retail . The current environment in retail telecommunications calls for increased use of the following applications : TYPES OF TRANSACTIONS . There is an ever-increasing need for the processing of new transaction types and the collection of additional data . More and more retailers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including personnel records , interstore transfers , and returns to vendors . In addition , there is a growing trend toward accepting third-party credit , installing automatic teller machines , accepting debit cards at the point of sale , and collecting time and attendance data automatically . TRANSACTION AND DATA VOLUMES . Technological advances such as bar coding , scanning of item size and color information , and full in-store price look-up greatly are increasing the volume of data processed . This generates the need to raise network capacity that creates the potential for higher costs . At the same time , however , it gives the retailer much better information on which to base key merchandise and business decisions . POINT-OF-SALE INFORMATION . With the improvements in POS and telecommunications technology , retailers are installing advanced systems that provide and collect additional information at the POS . Examples include the capability of locating merchandise in other sales outlets and displaying pertinent customer information to the sales associate while a transaction is taking place . With scannable customer identification cards , some retailers also are capturing valuable information about what their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( EDI ) . A rapidly growing number of retailers are sending and receiving electronic data to and from external sources for purchase orders , invoices , shipment notices , merchandise receipts , and credit bureau reports . The number of large retailers and vendors actively participating in the Voluntary Interindustry Communications Standards ( VICS ) Committee indicates a growing commitment to this major telecommunications trend . For one large retailer , " the tying together of stores , headquarters , and vendors via EDI is very important to our future . " The potential for competitive advantage has been proved by the benefits achieved by those companies already operating in a quick response mode . ADDITIONAL USES OF ON-LINE SYSTEMS . The explosive growth of MIS requirements in all business sectors has created demand for computer systems that operate in an on-line environment and interact with existing systems . Some examples are purchase order management , credit authorization , collection management , credit application processing , gift registry , customer service , merchandise sales and stock planning , price management , selling-floor scheduling , and information centers . The implementation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsive , reliable networks . INCREASED TELEMARKETING AND OTHER ELECTRONIC RETAILING . The rapid improvements in technology and the increasing costs of operating traditional stores are causing retailers to look for alternative ways to reach their customers . Among these concepts are home video shopping and mail order with 1-800 call-in ordering . The traditional mail order business has become a phone order business , supplying the customer service needs of fast response , accurate inventory information , same-day shipping , and cross-selling . We also are becoming accustomed to the cable TV shopping channel and the electronic kiosk , both of which are communications-intensive . NEED FOR EXTENDED OFFICES . There is a growing need for executives to have access to information when they are not in their offices and on their own time schedules . Voice and electronic mail are functions that can be accessible at any time and from any location . Requirements for accessibility of sales data are similar . The retailer who takes advantage of new technology by applying it creatively and successfully in the operation of the business will enhance the potential for a competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telecommunications networks , since POS terminals are becoming more homogeneous and good mainframe applications are becoming more common in most retailers . MANAGEMENT DECISIONS The advent of telecommunications as a factor in the retail industry has brought many technical , financial , and managerial issues to the forefront . Today , the retailer is responsible for making technical decisions such as selecting equipment and network services from a variety of vendors for each **28;30;TOOLONG business application ; managing multimillion-dollar operating and capital expenditures for telecommunications , as well as allocating these costs to divisions and stores ; and making managerial decisions such as defining telecommunications staffing levels and determining which telecommunications information systems capabilities  --  e.g. , telecommunications inventory systems , order processing , and financial management systems  --  are required to manage today 's telecommunications environment . These kinds of responsibilities require the retailer to develop a strategic telecommunications plan focused on such issues and closely tied to the business plan . Today 's telecommunications environment has become complicated by a greater number of options for services and a myriad of vendors from which to choose . Therefore , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial and managerial ramifications of technical decisions on other aspects of the organization . Various alternatives offer significant differences in levels of service , backup , and disaster recovery capabilities ; levels of compatibility ; system controls , capacities , and management controls ; and , finally , costs . In order to improve operating efficiencies , many retailers also are consolidating voice , data , and video telecommunications services onto shared intracompany , high-capacity networks to support their key operating strategies . " From our perspective , " indicates one vendor , " the retailer wants one " pipe " from stores to headquarters for the transmission of all financial and merchandising information . " However , without appropriate backup capability for critical store applications , the failure of this single " pipe " severely can limit the establishment 's ability to operate . Additionally , if used by multiple divisions , stores , or cost centers , the cost of this single " pipe " may not make business sense after hidden management expenses are included . A comprehensive telecommunications plan will identify the technical solutions that meet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and controlled proactively to provide maximum availability to users . Downtime can mean lost revenue and reduced customer and employee service . It is essential that telecommunications systems , which carry all or a majority of a retailer 's data and voice traffic , be designed with appropriate management tools . A well-thought out telecommunications plan will address these technical needs as well . It also will identify whether the network should be managed in-house or by a third-party contractor  --  an option that has developed in recent years . Telecommunications systems should be flexible . Their design must include consideration of the capacity required to accommodate additional growth in the amount of business functions being automated , the number of locations , and the volume of transactions of all types ( i.e. , voice , data , and image ) . In many telecommunications systems , the destruction , unauthorized modification , and retrieval of information are additional growing problems . Security vulnerabilities increase as networks are dispersed beyond the controlled confines of a building . A telecommunications plan should include an analysis of requirements for software to control access @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Encryption may even be required to protect confidential merchandise and financial information . From a financial point of view , telecommunications is a growing operating and capital expense that is critical to running a retail business . As more companies consider putting in services such as satellite and other types of networks , the capital investments can be large . One big retail firm currently is evaluating the installation of a $20,000,000 network , which will have an annual operating cost of several million dollars . Another is investing nearly as much , as a percentage of sales , on telecommunications as most retailers spend on all data processing . Many companies do not know their costs because they are not identified and consolidated in their financial reporting . Most executives are surprised at the total expense for voice , data , and image communications , including equipment depreciation , maintenance , local and long-distance usage charges , and support personnel . It is important to consider the many options available and to do so by including not only the operating outlay , but also depreciation for capital expenditures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as required telecommunications information systems . Because it is now possible to lease , purchase , and set up multiyear contracts for telecommunications networks , the complexity and cost of certain options require rigorous analysis from a financial perspective . Regulatory activity at the state and national levels can affect operating costs . Telecommunications plans must be designed with the flexibility required to recognize and accommodate the more likely changes in regulatory pricing and service availability . The telecommunications information systems being used in the retail industry today capture the data needed for more accurate and complete identification and allocation of costs . These data also can be used in conjunction with network management information to measure service-level performance and over-all cost effectiveness . Actual cost allocation involves increased overhead for the personnel that perform it . From a managerial point of view , users have assumed greater responsibility for developing and implementing telecommunications strategies because of the strategic business importance of the plans , growing complexity of the issues , and limitations of vendors . As a result , the retailer requires people with different skill sets  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vendors , and still others to control telecommunications expenditures and information systems . A complete telecommunications strategy addresses not only the technical and financial issues , but also the evolving managerial concerns . The retailer 's challenge is to maximize the business potential and operating efficiency of the network that ties it all together . As one points out , " A lot of people talk about it , but the people that do something about telecommunications , whether it 's for electronic data interchange , price look-up , or other advanced functions , are the ones that make a difference . " The authors are , respectively , a regional director of Deloitte &; Touche 's TRADE Retail &; Distribution Services Group , Dallas , and a partner responsible for telecommunications technology consulting in the Northeast , based in New York . <p>                     