@@409752

Picture a home where your kids do n't argue about having to do homework , but instead complain about not being allowed to spend more time on it ; where , at the touch of a button , they can view and access as much information as at the local library ; where the family room is also a media center that 's able to share its audio and video throughout the house  --  and where your hand-held remote control can adjust not only the TV and stereo , but also the lights , heating and cooling , door locks , and even window shades . Now picture that the home is built with recycled materials , and that it conserves heat and air-conditioning so its energy costs are reduced to an absolute minimum . Picture that it lets you program or reprogram every functioning part of it anytime you want  --  from your favorite chair or on a phone away from home . Is this the " dream home " we have been awaiting for so long ? Is this what our accumulated technology and manufacturing progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer is yes , then it must be the New American Home for 1993 , cosponsored by POPULAR SCIENCE . The home , a showcase of the latest and greatest home-related products , materials , methods , trends , and designs  --  and a barometer of sorts for current homeowner lifestyles in this country  --  opened its doors in February for the annual convention of the National Association of Home Builders in Las Vegas . The judicious use of natural resources was a major theme in this year 's home ; advanced electronics in home-automation and entertainment systems was another . But the overall goal was to incorporate these themes into a home designed for family living . This included finding ways to meet the special needs many families have , such as in this home 's handicapped-accessible ground-floor bedroom suite ( see Accessibility in the Bath ) . Reducing the home 's impact on the environment was perhaps easiest to achieve , given the ever-increasing supply of available products . Leah Bryant , vice president and regional manager for builder Lewis Homes of Nevada , adds that because buyers today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water quality , conservation is also a good selling point . " We do feel a need to put more products into our homes that are environmentally compatible , " she says . Many of the basic building components use innovative recycled materials . All of the home 's wall studs , for example , are engineered 2X4s made from short lengths of wood that would formerly have been discarded as scrap . These pieces are reconstituted  --  finger-jointed and glued together  --  to create studs that are as structurally strong as common lumber , and in some ways superior . Typically , construction lumber contains defects , and wood in its natural state is prone to splitting or warping . Makers of engineered lumber have eliminated most defects . Steve Winn , project superintendent for Lewis Homes , was impressed with the wood 's performance . " We typically send our best carpenter back into a house before the drywall goes up to straighten out any framing or replace bent or warped studs where necessary , " explains Winn . " This usually takes about two days , but these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house in just a couple of hours . " Louisiana-Pacific Corp. , which manufactures the engineered studs , also provided the Nature Guard insulation in the home . The company claims this blown-in cellulose product , made of nontoxic flame-retardant-treated waste newsprint , offers the maximum resistance to heat loss among all loose-fill insulation products , with an R-value of 3.8 per inch . To increase the effectiveness of the insulation , the house was enclosed with Thermax Blackore sheathing from Celotex . This foil-faced fiber-reinforced board contains carbon black , a material that reduces heat transfer through the board 's polyisocyanurate foam core . With an R-value of 6.5 at its 3/4-inch thickness , Thermax Blackore claims the highest rating of any insulated sheathing product . The home 's Cor-A-Vent ridge vent is the first designed for the barrel-tile roofs prevalent in the Southwest . Energy-conservation measures extend to the choice of exterior doors and windows . To defend against the extremely hot southern Nevada sunlight , all of the Andersen windows and hinged and gliding patio doors were installed with argon-filled double-pane High-Performance Sun Glass . An improved metallic-oxide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The low-emissivity glazing also helps retain interior heat during cold weather . Nassau Bahama Sunshades installed around the house also cut down the sunlight reaching the windows . These adjustable aluminum louvers from Folding Shutter Corp . shade the glass when the sun is high , but do n't impede light , ventilation , or view . To complete the home 's envelope , the exterior doors  --  including Pease Industries ' Ever-Straight entry doors and Stanley Autograph garage doors  --  are all steel insulated with foam . The garage doors also have automatic openers with noncontact-reversing building codes nationwide ; the closing doors will reverse if a person or object is standing in the path of its infrared beam . Innovation and environmental concerns extend to the interior of the home as well . Syndecrete , a limestone-like material that incorporates up to 40 percent industrial and consumer waste , is used for the fireplace hearth in the living room . This product mixes cement , carpet fibers , and fly ash with aggregates of virtually any inert substance  --  from shredded plastic toys to brass hardware shavings  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designs . Recycled rubber from automobile tires and other sources is the base for another new material , FlexTech , used on the home 's outdoor decks . The resilient water-resistant covering from Bomanite Corp . is made from finely chopped rubber granules and resins that are mixed on-site and troweled in place by local contractors . In some cases , cost helped determine the choice of materials . The Oak-Over moldings from Contact that were used throughout the interior , for example , have hardwood veneers laminated over a base of common softwood . These moldings look like solid oak but cost less and perform better than the real thing  --  they do n't split when nailed , are consistent in size and shape , and are available in longer lengths . Other items in the home that help reduce energy costs or are more environmentally sound include : * WaterMate electronic metering devices . These small self-contained digital gauges can be installed on water lines , faucets , and sill cocks or irrigation systems . They measure flow volume in gallons , liters , or cubic feet ; track @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store and show information on a liquid-crystal display . * Kohler water-management software . This program for personal computers helps homeowners keep track of water use at every outlet . * Broan Sensaire motion-detecting , humidity-controlled fans in each bathroom . A light turns on when someone enters the room or shower , and a fan operates automatically when humidity increases . * A Briggs Turboflush 1.5-gallon toilet . This one-piece pressure-activated unit is installed in the frequently used downstairs powder room . KIDS ' " OFFICE " Inside the house , electronics work together to educate , entertain , and provide convenience . A past example of this was the conversion of one room into a home office . But homeowners with young , growing families also take a special interest in their children 's education . The learning center addresses that interest by creating an updated , electronic version of a home office for kids . The focus of this study and work area is Apple Computer 's Macintosh Performa 600 CD personal computer . This computer greatly expands the software base and capability of word processors with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ libraries of information , as well as provide full-motion video , audio , and photography to accompany texts . With this setup you can rapidly move between software files and CDs and interact with the information to ask or answer questions or view photos and movie clips of the material . A small sample of the educational software and CD titles in the learning center includes Renaissance Masters ' Electronic Library of Art , Wordstar 's Complete Works for Writing , and the Macintosh edition of the American Heritage Dictionary with Thesaurus . Another educational device in the study area is a Laptop Teacher Super Computer , a coaching tool with a digital voice synthesizer . Voice cartridges convert English to French , Spanish , German , or Italian to quiz kids in grammar , math , history , and geography . Electronics do n't have to be all work and no play , however , even in a learning center . The hottest new video games are also on CDs , and they 're just as mind-boggling as the educational discs . The Sega Genesis CD allows players to alter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NOT JUST KID STUFF The latest technology showcased in the New American Home is not just for kids , of course . The house itself was plotted on computer-aided design ( CAD ) equipment . " A number of suppliers had computer applications for their products  --  skylights , windows , plaster finish , toilets , etc.  --  and we were able to plug these into our CAD design , " says architect Jan Van Tilberg . " Having the floor plan on computer also made it possible for us to easily modify the layout . " AT &T; Videophones lend a futuristic touch in the house , and digital , cordless Escort 900-megahertz phones from Cincinnati Microwave use spread-spectrum technology to enable family members to roam up to a half-mile from home  --  with no loss of signal . On the entertainment front , advances in audio and video such as improved-definition TV and Cinema Screen 16-to-9 aspect-ratio TV , both from ProScan , make the home 's first-and second-floor bedroom suites the kinds of havens that are hard to leave . The family room holds a home theater , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Effectiveness ) . But the practical side to electronics can be just as interesting for would-be home buyers  --  especially the hands-on types who ca n't resist " tweaking " their interior environments . Carrier 's new in Vironment heating , ventilation , and air-conditioning system , for example , allows for near-infinite variations in room-to-room climate control . A central processor continuously monitors and regulates the system 's Comfort Zone network of electronically controlled air ducts and temperature sensors located throughout the house . When signaled by the sensors , powered dampers within the ducts adjust the flow of heated or cooled air to individual rooms . For each of the home 's two zones , this system includes a high-efficiency Synergy 2000 air conditioner , which can idle down to run at half its normal energy use when cooling demand is low . Rated at 12.6 and 12.3 SEER ( Seasonal Energy Efficiency Rating , a measure of cooling efficiency ) , these two units operate well above the new mandated minimum 10-SEER level . Likewise , home heating provided by two gas condensing furnaces , rated 93 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency . ( The units are sized slightly differently to accommodate the two principal house zones . ) In addition , the system includes electronic air-cleaning and humidification . The home 's electrical grid also has been enhanced by adding a number of new products . Unlike the " smart " electronic home systems coming to market , which require expensive proprietary wiring and fixtures , the New American Home relies on standard , off-the-shelf items . Advanced Control Technologies wall switches are power-line carriers that can be programmed to change lighting functions or act as light and appliance timers . The switches can also transmit and receive control signals to and from different parts of the home . Even the basic house wiring is not so basic . An Elan HD system from Square D networks the home 's high-and low-voltage telephone and coaxial lines . This system enables residents to control the various audio and video equipment scattered from any room in the house ; to send audio-video signals from one room to another ; to use frontdoor-mounted minicams to view visitors on any of the home 's televisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as intercoms . All of these functions are tied together by a Maestro home-control system . Its powerful microprocessor " brain " allows users to consolidate and access the many operations of the home through television-type hand-held remotes , wall-mounted key pads , or any touch-tone telephone . Reprogramming any function in the home  --  from resetting room temperatures to reconfiguring light-switch operation  --  is done using preset codes or TV-screen menus . The Maestro system also has its own sensors for door and window security , automatic lighting , and outdoor sprinkler operation . Tours of the 1993 New American Home are available to industry professionals attending the Home Builders show , and the house will be open to the public for a short time following the convention . After that , it will be sold for an anticipated $360,000 . According to Lewis Homes , its construction cost was higher than that of a typical 3,000-square-foot production home of equal size , a fact reflected in the semi-custom nature of the house . " It 's expensive to build as a production home , " notes Leah Bryant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the house is still a bargain . ACCESSIBILITY IN THE BATH In the spirit of the 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act , this year 's New American Home includes a ground-floor bedroom and bath suite designed to meet the needs of a handicapped resident . Although private homes do not have to conform to the provisions of the act , such a suite could be used for aging family members or a disabled child . Passageways wide enough for wheelchairs or walkers and lever door handles are fine for bedrooms , but creating bathrooms suitable for special needs is more difficult  --  or has been , until now . To meet the demand for appliances and fixtures for the disabled , manufacturers have introduced products that conform to requirements of the act and the American National Standards Institute . Many of these offer features and styling that will appeal to nonhandicapped homeowners as well . In the suite , the Kohler accessible bath fixtures include a high-pedestal toilet for easier seating and rising , a sink that extends forward of the counter and has an offset drain to allow wheelchair access @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side door for easy entry . A folding seat for bathing or showering is built into the tub . The toilet 's siphon-jet flushing system consumes just 1.5 gallons of water with each use . Scald-proof pressure-balancing faucets add to the room 's safety features . SOUND EFFECTIVENESS The family room series as Media Central in the 1993 New American Home , thanks to an Elan HD audio-video distribution wiring network . With this system , sound and television signals , including laser disc or recorded video , can be routed to any room in the house . Infrared repeaters in other rooms enable residents to control the system using hand-held remotes . This entertainment center , by Philips Consumer Electronics through Sears Contract Sales , includes : a 46-inch Wallvision2 rear-projection TV , a CD-I player incorporating Kodak-CD technology for television viewing of photographs and slides , a laser-disc video and hi-fi VCR , a dual-cassette deck , a five-disc CD changer , and the latest in audiotech : a digital compact cassette ( DCC ) deck . Unlike a compact disc , DCC allows for digital recording from any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               