@@409308

For the last four summers , field parties from the American Museum of Natural History have traveled to the badlands of southern Mongolia looking for fossils from the age of dinosaurs . These expeditions continue a tradition of Museum exploration in Mongolia that started in the 1920s . Led by Museum paleontologists Roy Chapman Andrews and Walter Granger , the Central Asiatic Expeditions discovered some of the world 's greatest dinosaur localities , including the Flaming Cliffs ( so named because of their brilliant red color ) , where the first dinosaur eggs were found . As members of the American Museum 's recent joint expeditions with the Mongolian Academy of Sciences , we have revisited some of the classic localities , prospected some others discovered by Soviet , Mongolian , and Polish teams , and found a few new sites of our own . All the members of the current expedition have their own reasons for wanting to explore the rich fossil beds of the Gobi Desert . One of our main motivations was the possibility of finding dinosaur fossils that would shed light on the origin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were unearthed more than a hundred years ago in Bavarian stone quarries , they were immediately hailed as the link between reptiles and birds . Although Archaeopteryx had teeth and a long reptilelike tail , it also had wings and feathers and was probably able to fly . But new discoveries and theories have recently rekindled the debate over just how birds evolved . Birds are now considered to be a subgroup of dinosaurs , descended from fast-moving , bipedal carnivores that Archaeopteryx greatly resembled . But we know few specifics about the transition from typical dinosaurs to birds and about early bird diversification . This is largely due to the lack of well-preserved fossils . Skeletal lightness is the key to flight , but thin , hollow bones also break quickly after a bird dies and are preserved as fossils only under extraordinary circumstances . The few known specimens have been preserved through chance  --  some birds happened to perish in an environment conducive to preservation . Archaeopteryx and two recently discovered sparrow-sized , early Cretaceous fossil birds , Iberomesornis from Spain and Sinornis from China , were found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lakes . Fossils created in these conditions can be spectacular . Many even reveal delicate feather impressions . Yet other important physical features can not be fully examined because the bones in these fossils have been smashed flat-preserved in essentially two dimensions . Well-preserved , three-dimensional fossil material is vital to a better understanding of the entire question of bird origins . Mongolia , a prime site for such material , has yielded both primitive birds and the small theropod dinosaurs thought to be close relatives of birds . One striking example is a rock-encased Velociraptor , a small , swift , carnivorous theropod dinosaur , entwined in a death struggle with a Protoceratops , a plant eater abundant in Cretaceous times . Among the world 's paleontologic treasures , these fossils were discovered in the 1960s by Perle Altangerel ( a Mongolian participant in our recent joint expeditions ) , and by Polish colleagues . During our first three field seasons in the Gobi , we , too , have had the good fortune to unearth several new dinosaur specimens ; one of these has given us new insights into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1991 expedition , we were in Ulan Bator , Mongolia 's capital city , preparing for the two-month excursion to the Gobi , when Perle Altangerel showed us an unusual specimen , collected in 1987 in south-central Mongolia . At first , we could hardly believe that the bones were the remains of a single animal  --  they looked as if they belonged to two different creatures . But Perle assured us that they had been found in a single place with all of the bones articulated , or still arranged as in life . The hind limbs were long and birdlike , about the size of a turkey 's , while the front limbs were tiny . Typically , in theropod dinosaurs , if the front limbs are small , they are also weak . The front limbs of this animal were short and small , but all of the bones had the sort of large protuberances and processes that one sees in heavily muscled burrowing animals . At the end of the arm , instead of the usual multiple " fingers " seen in most four-legged animals , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hooked claw . For this reason , Perle had named the creature Mononykus olecranus , the genus name meaning " one-claw . " In our minds , we cataloged this fossil as an interesting anomaly until Perle brought it to New York during a visit in 1992 . On seeing it again , we compared it with a specimen that American Museum paleontologist Malcolm McKenna had found in July 1992 about forty-five miles northwest of the Flaming Cliffs at Tugrugeen Shireh ( the site that had yielded the dinosaurs locked in combat ) . Among the loose bits were bones that were smaller versions of the ones Perle had found . Associated with these bits , Malcolm had also found a small skeleton , which he excavated and encased in a plaster jacket . We began to extricate the specimen from its protective plaster block , and after a few days , the legs and tail of a small animal emerged . The hind limbs were structurally identical with those collected by Perle two years earlier at Bugin Tsav , but they were about one-third smaller , perhaps representing a juvenile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dimensions , had a nearly complete pelvis , a long , articulated tail , and a complete foot . During the spring of 1993 , more specimens of this group turned up . One fragment had been collected during our 1992 expedition . Another had long been sitting in the Museum 's own collection . Excavated by the Andrews expedition , it was brought to our attention by Bryn Mader , of the Museum 's Department of Vertebrate Paleontology . It was a small , reddish lump with a few exposed , eroded white bones  --  typical of fossils from the Flaming Cliffs . While only a few vertebrae , the hind limbs , and parts of the distinctive pelvis were preserved , these sparse , heavily abraded elements told us that these were the remains of the first Mononykus ever collected . Even the dust-covered label proclaimed it to be an unidentified " birdlike dinosaur . " Taken together , these three specimens led us to conclude that Mononykus olecranus was not an aberrant theropod but a primitive bird  --  a bird with short , single clawed forelimbs instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive bird , at about 70 million years old , was disturbing because Mononykus was much younger than fossil birds that appear more advanced . Feathered , flighted Sinornis and Iberomesornis , for example , . predate Mononykus by about 40 million years . In addition , both the more advanced , but flightless , diving bird Hesperornis and fully flighted ancestors of modern birds were contemporaries of Mononykus . Our reasons for considering Mononykus a bird are based on the presence of several evolutionary novelties shared by Mononykus and birds . These novelties  --  or derived characteristics  --  are the criteria that systematists use to group organisms and to reconstruct their family trees . For example , all feathered vertebrates ( birds ) have backbones , but not all organisms that have backbones have feathers . So feathers constitute a derived characteristic , evidence that all birds form a group of closely related animals among the vertebrates . When systematists attempt to reconstruct family trees or place newly discovered animals like Mononykus into context , they look for derived characters , such as feathers , that are evidence for subgroups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wings and they many primitive features reminiscent of its dinosaur ancestors ( including teeth , a long tail , and foot bones that are separate from one another ) , the bizarre Mononykus had several birdlike characteristics that are not found in Archaeopteryx specimens . These include a breastbone with a strong median keel , a fibula that is reduced to a small spike ( like the thin bone of a drumstick ) , and fused wrist bones . These derived traits , shared with modern birds , place it firmly in the subgroup with other avians . What is the place of Mononykus in the evolutionary history of birds ? Currently , the oldest-known bona fide birds are the 145-million-year-old Archaeopteryx and the 100-million-year-old Iberomesornis and Sinornis . Certainly , mononykosaurs ( Mononykus and its relatives ) have a lengthy history that is unrecorded in the fossil record , and the discovery of Mononykus still leaves great gaps in our knowledge of the evolutionary events that took place between Archaeopteryx and the origin of modem birds . The specialized forelimbs and late geological age of Mononykus tell us that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We will continue to search both in the field and in our Museum collections for other kinds of mononykosaurs and to fine-tune the position of these animals in the family tree of birds and theropods . Mononykosaurs are animals of Dr. Seussian dimensions . Much of the skeleton looks pretty average for that of a small theropod . Only with the strange front limbs do we get into trouble . What could they possibly have been used for ? Forelimb modification is a recurring theme in theropods  --  both dinosaurian and avian . ( Among these are the diminutive arms of Tyrannosaurus rex , the elongated arms of some Mongolian theropods , and the flippers of penguins . ) But the short , muscular , clawed arms of Mononykus are among the most bizarre we have ever encountered . Living animals with strong , clawed front limbs are diggers . The actual muscle power can be determined from the size of the series of crests on the arm bones , which , in life , anchored big muscles . This musculature was further empowered by the architecture of the arm bones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our elbow , is as long as the forearm . Muscles attaching to the olecranon process give tremendous leverage to the forearm , in much the same way that a long-handled shovel works better than a short-handled one . The bone surfaces indicate that movement was predominantly in a single plane , with the massive fingers moving inward toward the middle of the body . Our best guess is that Mononykus was an animal that fed much as aardvarks or anteaters do today , using its brawny front limbs to tear apart plants ( or perhaps insect nests ) while foraging on the ground . Present-day birds have highly modified forelimbs , usually associated with the evolution of powered flight . These specializations include a reduction in the number of digits ( birds have just one primary digit homologous to a single human finger ) , the fusion of all the wrist bones into a single inflexible element , and a reorientation of the top of the upper arm bone . These forelimb specializations link Mononykus with modern birds . But this complicates the story of the origin of flight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just how adept a flier it was is a matter of debate . More advanced birds like Sinornis and Ibermesornis definitely flew . Mononykus , however , was undoubtedly a ground dweller . Its privileged position in the avian family tree  --  nearer to modern birds than to Archaeopteryx  --  suggests two very different , but plausible , scenarios for the evolution of flight . In one scenario , the common ancestor of Archaeopteryx and modern birds had some degree of powered flight , but the ability to fly was later lost in the lineage leading to mononykosaurs , as it has been in birds such as kiwis , ostriches , and some rails . In the second scenario , the original bird ancestor was flightless , and the ability to fly arose twice  --  once in the lineage leading to Archaeopteryx and again in the lineage leading to modem birds , some time after mononykosaurs split off from the latter line . This second possibility has important ramifications  --  if it is true , then Archaeopteryx may not be relevant to the origin of what we think of as modem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground-dwelling Mononykus as the closest relative of the first modern flying birds . Could flight have arisen twice in the history of birds ? This scenario is not as convoluted as it may seem . Mononykus does exhibit a keeled sternum for attachment of developed muscles and the fusion of the wrist bones . Conceivably , these elements arose in Mononykus ancestors for some other function , such as digging , and were subsequently co-opted for flight . As paleontologists and systematists , one of our goals is to understand how organisms interrelate . As more creatures like Mononykus are discovered , the family tree is readjusted to make room for the newcomers and often to reflect new thinking about relationships within groups . In our wildest dreams , we would never have imagined that our best-preserved representative of the early evolution of birds would be as unusual as Mononykus . The discovery of such specimens shows that the boundary between modern birds and their typically dinosaurian ancestors is a diffuse one and that the path of early bird evolution is a circuitous one . The true importance of Mononykus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of early bird evolution . <p>                     