@@400334

Can the Global Warming Agreement Be Saved ? // t was a chronicle of a death foretold . The ink was hardly dry on the Kyoto Global Warming Protocols when the Senate voted 95 to 0 to reject any treaty that did not require developing countries to reduce their emissions of global warming gases . Senator Chuck Hagel ( R-Nebraska ) asked , " Why would we put ourselves in a position to restrict our economy , our industry , the dynamic of our society when ... other countries have no intention of doing the same ? " Photograph Photograph Flooding of low-lying coastal areas is becoming more common as the U.S. drags its feet on reducing greenhouse gas emissions . // So much for U.S. leadership . The deal brokered in Kyoto last December requires the United States to cut its COz emissions by seven percent below 1990 levels by no later than 2012 , the European Union by eight percent and the rest of the industrialized world somewhere in between . What has likely condemned the Kyoto pact to the fate of the still-unsigned biodiversity treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ binding targets . Negotiators also failed to establish rules governing key protocols such as emissions trading , which stands to benefit richer countries who can buy their way out of their Kyoto pledges . In other words , the U.S. position makes the solution to global warming sound suspiciously like economic colonialism : Other countries cut back on greenhouse gases while the U.S. takes the credit . " The debate needs to occur domestically first , " argues Roger Pielke , Jr. , a political scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research ( NCAR ) in Boulder , Colorado . Scientists agree that the targets established by Kyoto are far below what is necessary to arrest climate change . Still , given the accelerated rate at which countries are producing greenhouse gases , treaty reduction goals are significant-the U.S. alone would end up reducing emissions 35 percent below what would have occurred without an agreement . " The U.S. is increasing emissions at the rate of three percent a year , " says Richard Gammon , a climate ocean scientist at the University of Washington who headed the U.S. global @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet our Kyoto goals requires a net three percent decrease year after year . That 's enormous structural change . " Therein lies the source of opposition to the Kyoto accord . The Western Fuels Association and Global Climate Coalition , both representing polluters , are underwriting heavily funded campaigns against the pact . " We 're concerned that it 's going to be very difficult to get down to those targets and timetables , ' says Bill Edmonds , a policy analyst at PacifiCorp , one of the Northwest 's biggest power companies . As Friends of the Earth points out , there are now so many loopholes in the treaty that its implementation could easily lead to increases in emissions . For example , one of the protocols would let countries use " sinks " the creation of storehouses of carbon dioxide , achievable by planting treesto meet their reduction targets . But not only do sinks fail to address fossil fuel usage , as yet there is no consensus on the best method for measuring their effectiveness . The Union of Concerned Scientists , for one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a common methodology to measure their benefits . Nor are there any limits to carbon trading , which will allow nations to purchase spare emissions , known as " hot air . " The U.S. has already staked a claim to Russian and Ukrainian emissions credits , which the former Soviet Republics " earned " when their economies collapsed . The result ? The US. would get away with cutting its emissions target by half , but not by actually making any reductions . " What happened in Kyoto was only the first chapter of the story , " acknowledges Annie Petsonk , international counsel for the Environmental Defense Fund . The next installment will be written at a UN meeting scheduled to take place in Buenos Aires in November . Bowing to the enormity of the work ahead in getting the treaty ratified , the administration has already postponed its original deadline , which would have delivered it to the Senate by 1999 . Domestically , President Clinton has also proposed a $6 billion package of tax cuts , credits and research grants to reduce greenhouse emissions , but some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The federal 10 percent tax credit for alternative fuel vehicles ( up to $4,000 ) is a case in point , says Kris Nelson of Alternative Fuels Consulting in Salem , Oregon . He argues that auto companies ca n't bring down the cost of alternative fuel vehicles without volume , but wo n't be able to achieve volume with high start-up costs . " Most of us in the alternative fuels community were appalled that Clinton did not include any financial incentives , " he says . As the U. S. continues to drag its feet on both the national and international level , environmentalists can take heart from something that did n't happen in Kyoto : No one questioned the science , accepting the scientific consensus as presented in the 1995 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change : " The balance of evidence suggests a discernible human influence on global climate . " <p>                     