@@396720

Whenever psychologists want to know about human relationships they go out and collect a lot of data , analyze it for general trends , and then contribute to the professional literature on everything from couples therapy to sibling rivalry . Nothing , however , beats one good juicy case study for richness of detail and the kind of subtlety that is always missed in large-scale samples . Such is the case of the two famous brothers William and Henry James . For those not quite up to speed on who these two are , they lived at the turn of the last century . Henry , American expatriate in England , novelist , short story writer , playwright , interpreter of Western artistic and literary sensibilities , and by far the more well known of the two today , was an American progenitor of the modern psychological novel . William , physiological psychologist at Harvard , experimenter in the paranormal , psychologist of religion , pragmatist philosopher , and older brother of the two , in his own time became a major prophetic voice reflecting the mood of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rose to such international acclaim that they are often confused for each other . As one wag put it , Henry wrote novels like a psychologist while William wrote psychology texts like a novelist . Or in the words of another interpreter , the mix-up is to be expected , for they were to each other as orange juice is to vitamin C. ( He neglected to say which brother was which . ) A look into their lives and accomplishments , as well as their eccentric upbringing , tells us at least five things about brothers in general , about famous siblings in particular , and about the vicissitudes of growing up in families with great talent . 1 . Genes are important , but once you 're here , family environment is everything . The first thing that the James brothers have to tell us is that personality emerges out of the family constellation . Individual identity is forged not in isolation but in the context of relationships . The Freudians say that family relationships are the template for how you are going to act with everyone else later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their father , Henry James , Sr. , was a bespectacled , talkative , and bald-headed philosopher of religion with a wooden leg and the beard of an Old Testament prophet . He is the one biographers always set up as the head of the house , the prime influence on the boys , and the true literary luminary of them all . The mother , Mary Robertson Walsh , was a stout , patient , and dependable woman from a well-to-do New York family who completely subsumed her considerable personality under that of her husband so as to become indistinguishable from him . It was she , however , who actually ran the family and kept things together . Then there was William , the oldest of the James siblings , who was wiry and high-strung . Henry , who came next , was a quiet , gentle presence , more docile than William . Bob , the next in line , was athletic , masculine , and handsomely rugged , but prone to drinking and violent outbursts . Wilkie , the youngest boy , was good-natured , plump , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alice , normally quiet and stoically withdrawn but wholly capable of her own opinions . Henry , his mother 's favorite , was always politely reserved with everyone . He bonded closely with William but eventually became most protective of sister Alice . With her friend Catherine Loring , he attended Alice on her deathbed as she succumbed to cancer at age 44 in London . William was always solicitous toward Wilkie and he helped Bob through his periodic bouts with alcoholism , having to hospitalize him on several occasions . With Alice , William had a curiously flirting , somewhat erotic , but brotherly attachment . But one of the most outstanding features of the children 's interactions with each other was the unorthodox way in which they were educated . They traveled extensively in Europe , toured the museums , sat with tutors , slogged through provincial schools their father thought would be best for them to try , and became multilingual at an early age . Meanwhile the core of their learning took place at the family dinner table . Ralph Waldo Emerson 's son , Edward , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The adipose and affectionate Wilkie , as his father called him , would say something and be instantly corrected by the little cock-sparrow Bob , the youngest , but good-naturedly defend his statement , and then Henry ( junior ) would emerge from his silence in defense of Wilkie . Then Bob would be more impertinently insistent , and Mr. James would advance as Moderator , and William , the eldest , would join in . The voice of the Moderator presently would be drowned by the combatants and he soon came down vigorously into the arena , and when in the excited argument the dinner knives might not be absent from eagerly gesticulating hands , dear Mrs. James , more conventional , but bright as well as motherly , would look at me , laughingly reassuring , saying , " Do n't be disturbed , Edward ; they wo n't stab each other . This is usual when the boys come home . ' And the quiet little sister ate her dinner , smiling , close to the combatants . " Emerson went on to say that Mrs. James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promoted a mature and picturesque speech , which became all the more Gaelic as the conversation descended to its lower levels . And even when they blundered they managed to save themselves with wit . Other visitors as well recounted odd stories of heated discussion on morals , taste , and literature , and of humorous curses against the father , consigning his mashed potatoes to eternal lumpiness . As the boys grew up , they learned that not to question and to have no opinion was to shirk not only one 's intellectual duty but one 's moral responsibilities . As a result , both Henry and William learned to observe things , people , and art , a trait inherited from their even more adept father but largely denied to their brothers and sister . ( Alice produced a diary , but it was not published in her lifetime. ) 2 . You may be more deeply influenced by your ancestors ' choices than you know . The second lesson from the James brothers is that many of the choices we make in our own life regarding work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by what has already happened in the lives of our immediate forebears . And although the patterns may already have been laid down , we at least may still have the freedom to find unique ways to work them out . To get this in the Jameses , however , the reader must know that one of the biggest influences on William and Henry 's career was their grandfather ( and William 's namesake ) , William James of Albany , a staunch Calvinist Presbyterian who married three times and sired 16 children . He was a fantastically rich financier of such projects as the Erie Canal ( he once bought Syracuse , New York , for $30,000 ) and was responsible for raising the initial family fortune , so that Henry , the novelist , could later say , " We were not guilty of doing a lick of business for two-and-a-half generations . " If we begin to look across just these three generations , from William of Albany to his son Henry James , Sr. , to his two sons William and Henry , some interesting patterns emerge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vocation of writing . When William of Albany came from Ireland to America in 1789 , he landed with only a Bible and a desire to see one of the Revolutionary battlefields . His subsequent successes were wholly in business . He did no writing , and his speeches , while recorded for posterity because of his importance as a leading citizen , were not memorable . His son Henry , however , hated business but loved the luxurious life that the family wealth afforded him . He obliged his father by starting divinity training at Princeton but fled after two-and-a-half years to make his own way in the world , first as a typesetter , then as a writer and public lecturer on topics of Christian socialism . He became a free-spirited religious philosopher , attracted to the teachings of sects like the Sandemanians , who believed that the greatest sin among Christians was pride in their morality , and he took up the mystical theology of Emanuel Swedenborg , which advocated the inward spiritual transformation of consciousness . He was close friends with Ralph Waldo Emerson ( who became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in England , and was known to the burgeoning cult of American intellectuals such as Oliver Wendell Holmes , William Dean Howells , John Greenleaf Whittier , Henry Wadsworth Longfellow , Mark Twain , and others . Insofar as they saw themselves as inheritors of this Swedenborgian and Transcendentalist legacy , William and Henry each took their father 's spiritualized psychology one step further , in a more secular and scientific age . William helped launch the modern scientific study of consciousness , while Henry wrote about the internal workings of the mind when faced with an unsolvable moral dilemma . Like their father , who was actually better at it than they were , William and Henry became writers . Their ideas in many ways were the same , but now transmuted by the differences between the generations . While their father wrote about arcane religious subjects , William wrote textbooks and Henry novels that conveyed their ideas to popular audiences and were widely read . To this , as a teacher at Harvard and a public lecturer , William added a lively and colorful lecture style , again taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Sr. , admonished his sons : " Do n't become too narrow . " Henry , the budding novelist , ignored him , escaped abroad at the earliest opportunity , and plunged right into the art of fiction . William , on the other hand , took his father so seriously he almost never found a niche . His father told him he could be anything he wanted , but each time he chose something the father said , " Well that 's alright , but , do n't become too narrow . " The situation nearly drove William to despair . First he chose painting but then , to please his father , turned to science . William 's new involvement in laboratory work turned out to be a good escape from the suffocating influence of his father 's religious ideas , except that William himself soon began to choke on the antiphilosophical and antireligious biases of the reductionistic scientists around him . Only after recovering from a near-suicidal depression , by " believing to believe " in free will , and by acknowledging that consciousness might have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did William finally discover the field of psychology , which he approached with a philosophical bent . 3 . Male bonding can involve a love-hate relationship . A third lesson from the James brothers is that birth order is no guarantee that the oldest always comes out on top . Henry 's biographer , Leon Edel , calls this the Jacob and Esau complex , a Biblical allusion to the twin sons of Isaac in the Book of Genesis . Esau was born first , but Jacob arrived immediately thereafter by holding on to his brother 's foot . When they grew up , the older brother served the younger , after Jacob appropriated Esau 's inheritance and stole their father 's blessing . Henry , the younger , was admiring of his older brother , always looking for approval , while early on stealing most of the thunder in parental and public acclaim . William , on the other hand , while being devoted , affectionate , and Henry 's critical sounding board , was also envious , frequently admonishing , and ever guilt ridden because he was dependent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William 's tardiness in getting off the ground . He mucked around until he was 30 before he even found a job , and while he had numerous articles and reviews in print , did not publish his first book , the literary remains of his father , for 13 years beyond that . Henry went straight for his vocational goal to become a self-supporting writer , and by the time of William 's first book was producing the first complete edition of his collected works to date  --  13 volumes . William 's reaction to Henry 's birth is not recorded ( he was only one at the time ) , but the Freudians would predict displacement anxiety . One anecdote seems typical . William , age eight , used to go off in the city with others his own age . Henry , just barely seven , would always want to come along . At one point , begging to be taken , he was rebuffed by William : " I play with boys who curse and swear . " All their moving about on two continents , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . Their lives fused and they became dependent on each other emotionally . Their letters often show an endearing affection , William opening with " beloved Arry " and often signing " Bro. " or " your bretha . " Both were constantly concerned with each other 's welfare . Harry found it dismally unsatisfactory and difficult to write to William without knowing every detail about his health and well-being . Harry , for his part , would give a running commentary of his own ups and downs , describing in vivid terms a languishing depression or a " moving intestinal drama . " The brothers helped each other in big and small ways . There is a record of one touching moment when Harry , who had been the only one of the two able to get from England to Boston upon their father 's death , stood over the grave by himself and read William 's farewell letter , which had arrived too late When William was unable to deliver his presidential address to the British Society for Psychical Research , brother Harry rose to the podium and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harry 's doorstep in 1899 , desperately ill with a heart condition , Harry , with the aid of William 's wife , Alice , lovingly nursed him back to health . Especially as they aged , William was concerned about Henry 's abject loneliness , partly brought on by the nature of his vocation ; Henry was , after all , always watching , always observing , a habitual outsider . It was a way of living that he developed to a degree well beyond his brother . But William 's concern was also due to the fact that Henry had remained single with no family of his own . As William lay dying in 1910 , he made his wife promise to be there for Harry at his end . All their lives the two of them had genuine divergences of taste and opinion . Henry found seances " dull and repulsive " and particularly disliked the riffraff they attracted . William was a cautious believer who pleaded for tolerance ; as a result , he regularly attracted a coterie of cranks , eccentrics , and radicals . Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the underdog , the chaotic , and the exception to the rule , and while he could carry himself with aplomb in the most cosmopolitan company , he was tactfully frank in his opinions about pretension and spoke out against dogmatism . Henry 's detachment led him to a life of aesthetic contemplation ; William was immersed in worldly affairs . For him , to think was to act . All of life was an ethical proving ground of the will . There are few indications of rancor during the early period of their respective careers , and what rivalry did surface appeared as humorous jousting . The first major ripple between them seems to have come in 1882 , over the dispensation of their father 's estate . Wilkie had been left out of the will because his father had just advanced him a large sum of money . In a surprise move Henry , not William , had been made the executor , and when the shortfall to Wilkie came out , Henry wanted to redivide the money , while William desired to follow their father 's wishes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to William anyway , and William eventually caved in so Wilkie could get more money . But the episode demonstrates the strained circumstances that can develop over matters of inheritance , and Harry 's apparent leading role with the parents . Another episode , in 1905 , involved the brothers ' inaugural membership in the American Academy of Arts and Letters . Even though both had attained international renown by that time , Henry had been elected before William , so that when William replied to the invitation to join , he turned it down . He gave three reasons : first , he never joined any bodies that did not do specific work ; second , he thought accepting any such membership would be pure vanity ; and third : " I am the more encouraged to this course by the fact that my younger and shallower and vainer brother is already in the Academy and that if I were there too , the other families represented might think the James influence too rank and strong . " There is a certain tongue-in-cheek tone to William 's letter , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And there was one funny episode in which the futurist H. G. Wells saw Henry actually lose his temper in a quarrel with William . The occasion was one of William 's trips abroad , this time with his daughter . Wells was to pick them up at Henry 's residence , Lamb House , for lunch . On approaching , Wells saw Henry completely unnerved , raising his voice about just what was and was not permissible behavior in England . William , for his part , appeared to be arguing in an indisputably American accent , with what Wells described as " an indecently naked reasonableness . " William , lacking Henry 's passionate regard for the polished surfaces of life , had discovered that a correspondent of his , the famous G. K. Chesterton , was staying at a little inn abutting Henry 's property . William , desiring earnestly to get a look at Chesterton , had found a garden ladder and put it against the wall . He had clambered up and was just peeping over when Henry caught him at it . Furious , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued to rage about the propriety of the whole thing , while William looked on rather sheepishly . As it turned out , Chesterton and his wife were not in the inn at that moment , but Wells , with William and his daughter in the car , ran into them on the road just outside town , so William was able to get his coveted impression anyway . 4 . Even if you are a world-famous writer , it helps to have an equally adept brother who will unflinchingly read your stuff . A fourth lesson is that sometimes your bonded sibling knows more about you than you do . One of the big secrets of the brothers ' success was that they were always ready to give the most candid and unvarnished opinion of the other 's work as soon as each new piece was published . They took each other 's comments seriously and made adjustments accordingly in subsequent publications . In this way each helped to shape the other over their entire careers . But only in a general way did this make them similar . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helped to create two radically different writing styles , but made the divergences for which Henry is best known almost incomprehensible to William . William aspired to short sentences , although he confessed that their sheer number often got away from him . Henry , on the other hand , composed each sentence as if it were a labyrinthine wormhole into the subconscious mind of the reader . In the early 1890s , in the middle of writing Princess Cassimissma , in which his style perceptibly changed , Henry switched from scratching with his own pen to dictating . This made him not only more diffuse , but led him into a convoluted stream-of-consciousness style all his own . Yet he found it an easier and more inspiring way to write . William , for his part , began writing late and did not find his voice for some time . In the late 1860s , when he was just beginning to publish , he sent his first pieces to younger Harry to edit out the more windy parts and submit them for him . Later , when his venue became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own style as a vibrant portrait painter in words . Eventually William , too , would turn to dictation but not to the extent that Harry did . In sum , William wrote about the stream of consciousness , while Henry adapted it into a method of composition The origin of this method is not hard to find . Emerson , William 's godfather , wrote frequently in his journals about the unceasing flow of conscious experience . William , from his physiological training , drew frequent analogies to the flow of blood and to the health of written text , as he was forever evaluating someone 's narrative as either " too thick " or " too thin . " In 1855 , moreover , both brothers , aged 11 and 12 , respectively , had lived for a winter next door to the Swedenborgian physician James John Garth Wilkinson , a close family friend . At that point in his career , Wilkinson was intensively studying mediumship in his living room and would have a string of young feminine somnambulists parading through his house doing automatic writing . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book of some one thousand poems , and in the back described in detail his method for producing automatic speech , writing , and drawing . We suspect that something like a dissociated state of consciousness resulted from this approach . Miss Bosanquet , Henry 's amanuensis , reported that he would enter into a state of rapt absorption while dictating , completely oblivious to all outside noises . William , who made the stream-of-consciousness metaphor so famous , for his part developed automatic writing as a technique in the Harvard Psychological Laboratory and used it in the experimental study of dissociated states ; he encouraged audiences to take it up as a therapeutic method of self-analysis ; and he taught the technique to an aspiring young Radcliffe student , Gertrude Stein , who went on to make it a writing style of her own . Thus girded with a method , the brothers then proceeded to objectively criticize each other 's refinement of it . Their analyses almost always had two sides . William might write back that he thought some new piece of Henry 's was " immortal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human and good . " Henry read William 's Varieties of Religious Experience with " rapturous deliberation , " and his Pragmatism with " thralldom . " ( " All of my life , " he suddenly realized , " I have unconsciously pragmatized . " ) And to William 's Pluralistic Universe , Henry proclaimed his " enchantment , ... pride , and almost comprehension . " But William could be alternatively incisive and biting . He would wax philosophic about Henry 's ability to accept criticism , then become deeply apologetic , taking back everything he had said in the face of Henry 's angelic humility , wishing himself dead instead of sitting in judgment , always promising never to dispense advice again . Henry would often respond , in the way of continuing self-abnegation , with even more fierce criticisms of his own productions . But Henry could bite back as well . After reading The Golden Bowl , one of the three great productions of Henry 's later period , William wrote : " Why do n't you , just to please your Brother , sit down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mustiness in the plot , with great vigor and decisiveness in the action , no fencing in the dialogue , no psychological commentaries , and absolute straightness in the style ? Publish it in my name , I will acknowledge it , and give you half the proceeds . " Henry replied , " I mean ... to try to produce some uncanny form of a thing , in fiction , that will gratify you  --  but let me say , dear William , that I shall greatly be humiliated if you do like it , and thereby lump it , in your affection , with things of a current age , that I have heard you express admiration for and that I would sooner descend to a dishonored grave than have written . " He then went on to give brother William one of those particularly convoluted Jamesian sentences that was the very subject of their exchange : " I 'm always sorry when I hear of your reading anything of mine , and always hope you wo n't  --  you seem to me so constitutionally unable to " enjoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a point of view remotely alien to mine in writing it , and to the conditions out of which , as mine , it has inevitably sprung  --  so that all the intentions that have been its main reason for being ( with me ) appear never to have reached you at all  --  and you appear even to assume that the life , the elements forming its subject-matter , deviate from felicity in not having an impossible analogy with the life of Cambridge . " ( The original sentence in its complete form had 135 words in it ! ) William 's rejoinder was to reiterate that Henry 's new method seemed perverse : " Say it out , for God 's sake , and have done with it . " While William 's opinion of Henry 's writing style did not change , the two of them were characteristically soon back on track emotionally , gushing forth with brotherly affection and familial support . This paradox of brotherly love amidst all the differences then leads us to the final point to be exacted from their relationship : 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one flaw is fatal . The fifth lesson is that you should judge a life in terms of the big picture and not on any one blemish . It is a curious fact of history that heroes and heroines are presented to us in so stereotyped a form that they seem Divine , more perfect than we could ever be . We are crestfallen when their idyllic reputations are sullied by some new biography showing they had faults , got colds , had enemies , and sometimes acted badly . William and Henry were , of course , not perfect people . In the first place , they claimed never to be entirely well . They both feared a weak psyche based on defective genes , although their physical ailments seemed to get worse whenever they were together and to miraculously disappear when they were apart Second , they would be counted today as somewhat emotionally dysfunctional . William engaged in a sinister form of teasing with his sister Alice that had a distinctly sexual component . He remained shy with the women to whom he felt attracted and kept mainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his father choose his wife for him . And once married , he dearly loved her and the children but would always leave the country whenever she was about to give birth . Henry , for his part , could never establish a long-term intimate relationship with a woman . He had many close friends , such as Edith Wharton , but he remained a bachelor and left himself open to the interpretation of homeoerotic leanings . There was also a touch of narcissism to be found in some of their letters , as if they knew that they were great and that what they wrote ostensibly on intimate grounds was going to be read later by a wide audience . Henry was often fond of referring to geniuses , including himself . William , somewhat more self-effacing , wrote frequently on geniuses , describing the ferment of their state of mind , their unceasing crosscurrents of thought , and the inspiring effect of their creations on others . There was a big debate in psychology in the late 19th century , however , over whether genius was actually a form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal , and they could always be found to have traits we would associate with neurosis or more severe mental illness . William was willing to acknowledge that " madness ferments in the dough of which great men are made . " But he was unwilling to equate genius with mental illness . Rather , he believed that great men and women , having an unhabitual view of things , are mistakenly labeled as pathological because they are different . To prove this he cited numerous examples of American geniuses who were not morbid , such as Ralph Waldo Emerson , Henry Wadsworth Longfellow , and other members of the literary circle of Henry James , Sr. The test of their true status , William maintained , is the effect geniuses have on society . Rather than contributing to its disintegration , they are the ones who set their own newer and higher standards , break the barriers of the known , and show the rest of us the way . It is by their fruits , and not their roots , that they should be known . And so the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same way . They were American originals , in a class with only a few other internationally famous siblings , such as the Bronte sisters or in our own time , Thomas and Aldous Huxley . They were themselves , as one biographer put it , among America 's most significant productions of the 19th century . We can only wonder why there are not more like them around today . <p>                     