@@409278

The Missouri Ozarks consist largely of porous limestone and dolomite overlain by stronger rock , such as sandstone . In many places beneath the surface , water has dissolved the limestone or dolomite , creating caves and passages , such as Meramec Caverns and Onondaga Cave . When a hollow collapses , the overlying sandstone falls into it , leaving a basin known as a sink . Hundreds of sinks of various sizes are scattered throughout the Ozarks . A spectacular one is Slaughter Sink , which lies in Mark Twain National Forest , along the northern edge of the Ozark Mountains . Slaughter Sink is nearly one-quarter mile wide and 175 feet deep ; its steep sides are dolomite . Overlooking the western rim is a sandstone promontory flanked by a dolomite pinnacle . Known as Chimney Rock , the thirty-foot-tall pinnacle is perched on a fifteen-foot pedestal . The floor of Slaughter Sink is nearly flat , except for a secondary , small sink at its northern end . When the basin floods after heavy rains , the water drains through this small sink , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it emerges as bubbling Boiling Springs near the Gasconade River . The spring also delivers water from other sinks in the vicinity , pouring 42 million gallons into the river each day . The hilly terrain that surrounds Slaughter Sink supports an upland forest of black , red , post , and blackjack oaks and red cedar . Flowering dogwood and redbud are common smaller species , providing colorful blossoms in early May . Sandstone boulders are strewn across the forest floor . On a dry , west-facing slope above the sink is a two-acre dolomite glade , an open area sprinkled with limestone and chert pebbles . The only woody species that survive here are some red cedars , an ironwood , and a few shrubby , white-flowered ninebarks , members of the rose family . The glade is dominated instead by prairie grasses ( big and little bluestem , side-oats grama , and switch grass ) and prairie wildflowers ( blazing-star , wild petunia , Missouri coneflower , rosinweed , false boneset , horsetail milkweed , and purple prairie clover ) . A narrow strip of woods with red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and red cedar grows around the lip of Slaughter Sink , a relatively dry zone because of exposure to the afternoon sun . In early March , before the leaves come out , white flowers with five narrow petals adorn the branches of small serviceberry trees . Summer wildflowers include Indian-physic , bee balm , yellow lousewort , and St.-Andrew's-cross . Broomrape , a four-inch-tall plant that produces a single , inch-long , tubular white flower , is unusual among flowering species because it lacks leaves and chlorophyll . It obtains nutrients by attaching itself with rootlike threads to the roots of various other plants . The sink 's steep dolomite walls sustain a variety of plants that lodge in the crevices of the rock . Most are species restricted to dolomite or limestone . They include a number of ferns  --  two kinds of purple cliffbrakes , dwarf lip fern , black spleenwort , and bulblet bladder fern . Near the base of the sink 's walls , a terrace has built up from material washed down the slope . This terrace supports a forest of red and chestnut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and black walnut . Spicebush and bladdernut are the dominant shrubs , while maidenhair fern , jack-in-the-pulpit , and yellow lady's-slipper orchid are among the wildflowers . Most of the forty-acre floor of the sink is covered by vines and wildflowers , with scattered silver maples , black willows , and persimmons . The vines include summer grape , greenbrier , raccoon grape , moonseed , trumpet creeper , and poison ivy , while the principal wildflowers are spotted spurge , prickly sida , and false nettle . The most striking wildflower is green-dragon , which has an eight-inch-tall spike protruding from its compact flower . Slaughter Sink is home to the extremely rare Salem cave crayfish , known only from a few caverns in the Ozarks . It spends most of its life in subterranean areas , and as a result of its adaptation , it is white and blind . Crayfish may be found in nearly every freshwater habitat in North America , from cold northern lakes to warm southern swamps , from water-saturated fields to fast-flowing streams . But owing to its secretive life style , the Salem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Robert H. Mohlenbrock , professor emeritus of plant biology at Southern Illinois University , Carbondale , explores the biological and geological highlights of the 156 U.S. national forests . <p>                     