@@407303

EDUCATION When Parents Come to School In an era of small budgets and large classes , volunteers may be more vital than ever By Andrew Vowles Annette Quirk never had any qualms about volunteering at her daughters ' elementary school in Minnedosa , Manitoba . But she was in the minority : Few of her fellow parents crossed the threshold of Tanner 's Crossing School except to drop off or pick up their children . That began to change a few years ago , after parents ' long - simmering questions and concerns about teaching loads and educational quality finally boiled over . Working with several like - minded parents , Quirk helped to establish the Families in Education committee as a successor to the former home and school council . When funding for teachers ' aides was subsequently cut , the committee decided to start a formal volunteer - management program . The group surveyed teachers about their classroom needs and sent home questionnaires in monthly bulletins asking parents to indicate their interest in volunteering . That initial effort netted about 25 regular volunteers . Four years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Each fall , the committee distributes a booklet to parents that lists volunteer opportunities and requirements , updates its roster by asking parents how they 'd like to help out , and publishes a handbook of roles and responsibilities . Today , about 60 parents visit the school regularly as classroom or library assistants , lunchroom supervisors , reading buddies , sports coaches , recess monitors or field - trip chaperones . As a former high - school teacher , Quirk was n't surprised to find that many teachers  --  although not all  --  were eager for help . What she found more interesting was that parents had often considered volunteering but had feared getting the cold shoulder from the experts . " Parents wanted to become involved and did n't know how to go about it , " she says . And that situation is hardly unique to Minnedosa , or Manitoba . Of course , not all teachers are falling over themselves in efforts to recruit volunteers  --  and perhaps with good reason . Young children may cling to their parents at school instead of participating in class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dad . And strained relations between child and parent can cause just as much stress inside the classroom as out , sometimes tainting the learning atmosphere for the entire group . Even the best relationships can turn awkward , particularly if the parent fails to recognize that , inside the school , the child metamorphoses into a student . " There are some kids who do n't want mom around because it 's their private little world . I had to learn to accept that , " says Beaconsfield , Quebec mom Gloria Gray , recalling her eldest daughter 's embarrassment about having a parent in the classroom . Gray 's solution  --  volunteering for duties in another class  --  allowed her to keep a hand in at school without cramping her daughter 's style . If kids might balk at having their parents at school , imagine how some teachers must feel . Says Sarah Cook , program manager of Volunteers Sharing in Education run by the Ottawa - Carleton Learning Foundation : " I sometimes wonder whether teachers feel like surgeons who , while operating , are being assisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parent tell tales " out of school " about the teacher , the class or other children ? Will mom or dad rush to hasty , misinformed judgments about classroom policies or teaching styles ? Where to find the time to organize volunteers ? How to choose one parent without offending others ? What happens if the volunteer decides not to show up one day ? What if a parent 's desire to help is just a front for pushing a pet agenda ? " Letting a nosy , busy - bodying parent into the classroom can be a problem , " says Karen Bachtold , member of a parent advisory council in Kipling , Saskatchewan . Given these potential barriers , it 's important that parents be able to articulate just why they want to volunteer . In making their case , they can point to a list of well - documented benefits of parental involvement in schools , including improved student performance and self - esteem ; greater parental understanding of classroom and school issues ; and more time freed up for teachers to give students individual attention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the child performs better and the school as a whole benefits , " explains Joy Bastness , senior adviser to the board of the Saskatchewan Association of School Councils in Saskatoon . And in these days of education - budget slashing , volunteers can offer themselves as a solution for maintaining school services and programs that might otherwise end up on the chopping block . No single approach exists for offering volunteer services at school . One recourse is simply to express interest to the individual teacher or principal . In some places , the parent is then enlisted , with few hoops to jump through . A low - key approach , with as few " thou - shalts or shalt - nots " as possible , might be a deliberate move to encourage volunteering . For example , asking parents to report to the office for volunteer duties is a reasonable safety precaution , says Se O'Hagan , assistant superintendent of the Agassiz School Division just outside Winnipeg . But he believes that requiring volunteers to sign in or don name badges might dispel their sense of ownership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you come in to something that belongs to you , do you have a sign - up sheet ? " Others believe that schools should put together some sort of volunteer management program . Akin to volunteer programs run by hospitals , it might include some of these elements : Recruitment : The school maintains a volunteer list that includes candidates ' interests , skills , work experience and availability . Teachers fill out their volunteer requirements , perhaps for publication in the school newsletter . Interviewing and/or screening : A school staff member interviews parents to probe for their motivations for volunteering , and possibly to co - ordinate a police check for security purposes . Orientation/training : The school or teacher outlines expectations for volunteers in some form , perhaps in a written code of ethics . Guidelines can govern everything from security procedures , like signing in at the office , to volunteer etiquette inside and outside the school . In - service training might include a discussion of the volunteer guidelines ; more specific training might be offered in , say , assisting students with reading or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the point is that you ca n't simply allow people to embark on a program unless you understand exactly where they 're coming from , " says Maybelle Durkin , former executive director of the Canadian Home and School Federation in Ottawa . If nothing else , such a program lays out roles and responsibilities  --  something parents need to know . Parent helpers particularly need guidelines now that educators are turning more and more to volunteers as a way to cope with funding cuts . If it means the difference between offering or cancelling a program , parents may feel compelled to help staff a library or to offer particular talents in music to fill the gap . And few schools are likely to snub such offers of assistance . But parents need to think about the implications of their efforts , however well - intentioned . If the school views its volunteers more or less as a pool of cheap labour  --  say , enlisting a cadre of parents to staff the school library as an alternative to retaining a professional librarian  --  it may sacrifice instructional quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose jobs have been eliminated . Having expectations spelled out from the beginning also helps well - meaning parents avoid the potential problem of volunteer burn - out . Parents need to practise basic time - management skills and set limits for themselves , says Michelle Lane , past president of the home and school association at Henry Kelsey Elementary School in Saskatoon : " Parents feel they can come in and change things or make a big difference . You can make a big difference but ultimately the job of educating kids is the job of the teachers . " Gloria Gray recalls a school trip to the U.S. where she and her husband , David , served as drivers and chaperones  --  and as automated teller machines for a few students whose wants exceeded their wallet size . Her suggestion : Make sure the school explains responsibilities up front ( and , in the case of class outings , requires pre - payment of expenses ) . Common sense and the ability to say no are the best guides for Gray , who says she will feel no compunction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Her husband agrees . " You can get over - involved , " he says , adding that while he enjoyed his chaperone duties , he now limits his efforts to serving on committees . What to do when the teacher refuses help from a would - be volunteer ? A determined parent might approach the principal , home and school association , or even the local trustee  --  although administrators often see it as their duty to back up the teacher 's decision . It 's important to remember that there may be sound reasons for educators ' reluctance to let parents into the classroom . Look for ways to allay their concerns  --  polite persistence can help break down barriers . " Keep offering your services , " Karen Bachtold advises . " Watch for opportunities to help when requested , whatever it might be . " Rather than adopt a confrontational tone with administrators , make the case for the potential benefits of parental involvement . Suggest that the school conduct a volunteer needs assessment or run a training session to ease staff members ' discomfort . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ councils are a likely recourse . Says Durkin : " It 's going to be a lot easier with school councils because they have some legal basis in a school . They 're not there on sufferance but because the government says it 's a good idea to have parental involvement . " And look for ways to offer help beyond such time - honoured roles as field - trip chaperone or photocopying clerk . Those tasks are as important as ever , but parents with particular skills might have something extra to offer . Although both her daughters have moved on to high school , Gloria Gray still keeps her hand in at their elementary school with a volunteer task she began years ago : An accomplished calligrapher , she pens the official class list for the school 's graduation ceremony . " It 's something special I offer , " she says . " I still love to do that . " Resources Working with Volunteers in Schools : A Handbook for Educators and Volunteers Sharing in Education brochure , Ottawa - Carleton Learning Foundation , 340 March Rd. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; ( 613 ) 241 - 0462 . Help for the Helpers One area where volunteers are increasingly in demand is in the school computer lab . Even relative techno - illiterates might find a place here . Under a project called SchoolNet Support Parents , offered by the Manitoba Association of Parent Councils ( MAPC ) and local schools and boards in the province , parents can receive training from Industry Canada through local elementary schools in how to use computers and the Internet , including a national electronic learning resource called SchoolNet . Those parent volunteers in turn can teach students , and their teachers , how to use the technology in their own schools . Following last year 's successful pilot project involving almost 50 parents in three schools , the program will be offered in more schools around the province and , ultimately , across Canada . Viola Prowse , past president of the MAPC in Winnipeg , says the project has drawn attention particularly from classroom - shy parents who make up roughly half of an average school 's potential volunteer pool : " We 've @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't spend as much time in schools . " For more information , contact the MAPC at ( 204 ) 786 - 4722 . For an information kit about SchoolNet , contact the National SchoolNet Office through Industry Canada , 1 - 800 - 268 - 6608 or ( 613 ) 993 - 5452 . Figures not transcribed Consult original publication <p>                     