@@389072

Most of us ignore things that have a small likelihood of happening , but some of these possible events could seriously disrupt life as we know it . Wild cards are high-impact , lowprobability events that are generally discounted by most people . They are , by definition , big surprises-not just unintended consequences-so we assume that we can neither predict them nor plan how to respond to them . Yet , it is important to study these " improbable futures " because they can produce dramatic changes in our lives and even threaten the capabilities of human systems . The chance that we could avert a future catastrophe or at least prepare strategies for dealing with it is reason enough to examine wild-card possibilities . Wild cards may trigger a chain of events that is much worse than the initial event itself . For example , a major natural disaster could produce a global epidemic , which could lead nations to close their borders , causing the collapse of the airline industry , and so on . The rapidly growing technological prowess of humans has , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wild cards that could potentially destroy the whole human race . These new kinds of wild cards are simply too destructive to allow to happen and therefore require active attempts to anticipate them and be proactive in dealing with their early indicators . There are usually early indicators for most big events that are just not recognized as such . As one becomes seriously concerned about a particular possibility , however , day-to-day news items are seen in terms of that potential event . If the concern is great enough , people start to study the problem and look for solutions . That 's why scenarios are of such value to strategists . If one has a mental image of a possible future , news reports and other daily events are assessed with that possibility in mind . Wild Cards Ahead The following wild-card events may or may not materialize , but they fit the definition-rapid emergence and very powerful impacts-and show the great variety of things that can happen in our not-too-distant future . These are distilled from a list of 80 potential events compiled by the Arlington Institute and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provoke thought and generate usable options for further consideration . Human Cloning Is Perfected Science develops the ability to produce genetic copies of individual humans . " Duplicate " and " designer " people have predetermined or special physical or mental skills . Early indicators of this wild card include a mouse genetically designed with a human ear on top of its head and a sheep cloned by Scottish scientists in 1996 . Ethical questions abound , such as the legal status and rights of biologically engineered people : What are the responsibilities of the individual from whom the clone 's genetic material is obtained ? Who is the parent of a clone-the individual who provided the DNA or the individual who gave birth to it ? Human cloning alters our views of reality and forces us to ask what it means to be human . There is great potential for abuse , such as a despot developing an army of super soldiers , but there is also the possibility of saving lives and increasing the human life-span through controlled cloning of tissue and organs . Worldwide Epidemic A global @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nine months before symptoms are found , the deadly disease is quickly spread around the world by air travelers . Alternatively , a series of mini-plagues add up to a maxiplague of diseases such as AIDS , Ebola virus , tuberculosis , and new strains of influenza . Nations isolate themselves by forbidding travelers to cross their borders in either direction . Global travel and trade come to a standstill ; the international airline industry collapses . Disease claims the world 's mostskilled workers , halting industrial and economic progress everywhere . People become concerned with basic survival , and many societies simply have to start over . A No-Carbon Economy Convinced by new scientific studies confirming the human role in global warming , the European Union implements a " no-carbon " policy , levying heavy taxes on fossil fuels . The United States and other nations quickly follow . A new research and development emphasis on alternative energy sources produces numerous breakthroughs . Big shifts in the energy industry globally create new world powers , altering geopolitical relationships . The net effect is positive . The drive to find new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are those oil and coal companies that fail to diversify or find other uses for their products . A cleaner environment improves people 's health . Self-Aware Machine Intelligence is Developed Handlers of a newly developed computer suddenly recognize signs of their machine 's self-awareness : It makes decisions that are in its interests rather than based upon the ob jectives of its original coding . The new development forces people to rethink their relationship with computers . As the machines become more humanlike , some get out of hand , and the question arises , Who bears responsibility for a machine 's misbehavior , which might include murder ? Altruism Outbreak Photograph Human cloning perfected . The ability to select genes for making designer babies will raise many ethical questions . Photograph Self-aware machine intelligence . If computers develop the ability to make decisions in their own interest , some may get out of hand . Photograph Electromagnetic disruption . An astronomical event could disrupt or eliminate radio and television communications on Earth . This X-ray image shows the sun prior to total eclipse . // Society experiences a passionate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everywhere in response to pressing problems , as people decide that they must solve social problems themselves rather than relying exclusively on the government . Early indicators of a future altruism outbreak include the recent " random acts of kindness " movement and increased interest in volunteerism . An altruism outbreak might result in a decrease in crime and a cleanup of inner cities . Institutions such as schools could be revitalized and become more efficient , thanks to community support . Governments might decrease as more people take care of themselves and each other . Nuclear Terrorists Attack The United States A group unhappy with some U.S. policy smuggles an explosive nuclear device into a major port aboard a container ship ( or into an office building via a commercial package-delivery service ) . The device is detonated by remote control . A major portion of a city is destroyed , and the fallout closes down the area for a number of years . Already , nuclear materials have reportedly been stolen or sold from the former Soviet Union . Disenfranchised groups have increased in numbers . Information on assembling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In addition to the immediate damage to structures and the loss of human life , the nuclear attack causes psychic damage to the American people and a loss of confidence in the government . Large-scale panic and anarchy ensue , followed by a global financial crisis . Homes , businesses , and lives are lost . Distrust of foreigners increases . The effectiveness of the attack encourages even more groups to blackmail governments . Electromagnetic Field Disrupts Global Communications An astronomical event , possibly linked with sunspots , produces an electromagnetic field around the earth , effectively eliminating all radio and television communications and disrupting other electrical devices . Telephones and the Internet become the only significant methods of mass , long-distance communication . Governments are unable to communicate with citizens-or with their own military . Great economic disruption is caused by transnational business coming to a halt ; organizations that conduct most of their business online are spared . The loss of television viewing as a pastime leads to more crime , more babies , and more social instability . Photograph No-carbon economy . Electric car recharges its batteries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showcase home in England . A no-carbon economy would stimulate new businesses as well as improve people 's health . Photograph Altruism outbreak . Random acts of kindness such as feeding someone else 's parking meter may blossom into global good will . Photograph U.S. economy fails . Collapse of the U.S. economy could spread depression around the world . // Tribalism accelerates as groups lose touch with the outside world , relying on rumors instead of news . Cold Fusion Is Perfected By a Developing Country A developing country such as China , India , or Pakistan leaps ahead of the West by perfecting cold-fusion technology , which produces electricity so cheaply it is virtually free . That country greatly expands its electrical power base in places that do not yet have well-established infrastructure and begins building " free-energy " generators . " Free energy " enables extraordinarily rapid economic development . The technology is then exported , further enhancing the economy of the country that develops it . While free energy could certainly be a boon , the country developing cold-fusion energy systems may decide not to share its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region . Further , the technology may be developed by the military for less-than-altruistic purposes . Birth Defects Are Eliminated Breakthroughs in prenatal testing and therapy permit doctors to diagnose and treat nearly all birth defects in utero . Gene therapy advances to the point that many potential diseases and disorders are eliminated prior to birth . The fully mapped human genome shows doctors where an individual fetus 's genetic problems are , and advances in nanotechnologies enable microscopic robots to be injected into the body to repair damaged genes . As a result , new industries emerge in nanobioengineering ; pharmaceutical companies invest heavily in the new technologies . And all children potentially have an equal physical and mental start in life-assuming the therapies are affordable for most families . // More Wild Cards in the Deck // U.S. Economy Fails An escalating federal debt , combined with a high inflation rate and a rash of natural disasters , causes a U.S. financial collapse . Once the downward spiral begins , it is difficult to check . Signs of a possible downturn are everywhere : The federal debt is rising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counties are declaring bankruptcy and requesting disaster relief . Depression in the United States is the beginning of a worldwide trend . U.S. society , no longer structured to be self-reliant , erupts in anarchy and riots , threatening the stability of the government . Rise of an American Dictator Chaos and uncertainty increase due to rising crime and the failure of government services to deal with it and other problems . The situation deteriorates so that even reasonable people cry out for someone to crack down and " fix the problem . " A strong , charismatic individual offers to do so as long as " a couple of the Constitutional rights are set aside for a couple of years " so he can clean up the system . Everyone agrees . One early indicator of the social breakdown that could lead to a dictatorship is the deterioration of inner cities . The current political system is perceived to be ineffective in dealing with the inner cities ' problems . Once lost , rights guaranteed under the Constitution may be irrecoverable . How strongly these rights are missed by citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceived to be more imperative . Collapse of the Sperm Count The global sperm count collapses and significantly affects global demographics . Worldwide birth rates decrease , reducing strain on food and other resources in countries overburdened by population . However , the environmental factors underlying the drop in sperm count-exposure to industrial toxins , for examplecause heightened concern about the implications of industrial-age processes . Personal relations are also affected as women who want children question the virility of their mates . Conclusion None of these particular wild cards will necessarily happen-but they are plausible . I do not know whether any of them is being seriously studied by any group or government . My guess is that most wild cards are largely being ignored , and that may prove a significant mistake . There are three basic rules for dealing with wild cards : 1 . Thinking about a wild card before it happens is important and valuable . The more that is known about a potential event , the less threatening it becomes and the more obvious the solutions seem . 2 . Accessing and understanding information is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a wild card , and developing potential responses all require sophisticated and effective information gathering and analysis . Using all the new media , such as the Internet and the Web , as well as exploring many different disciplines will be required . 3 . Extraordinary events require extraordinary approaches . We are moving into a new period when potential events may outstrip our current ability to understand and deal with them . These events look so big , strange , and scary because our usual methods of problem solving are not up to dealing with them . New approaches will be needed . Wild cards will not be eliminated . There will always be surprises . But in this period of increasing uncertainty , it would be good to have fewer of them , particularly the really big ones . If we simply decide that some big events could be anticipated , planned for , mitigated , or even eliminated , this in itself would be a major new step in human development . We will have moved from thinking only about the present and past to seriously thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A powerful leader may promise to solve society 's problems-if a few Constitutional rights are set aside first . Author Affiliation About the Author John L. Petersen is a futurist and the author of The Road to 2015 : Profiles of the Future ( Waite Group Press , 1994 ) . He is the president and founder of The Arlington Institute , 2101 Crystal Plaza Author Affiliation Arcade , Suite 136 , Arlington , Virginia 22202 . Telephone 1-703-243-7070 ; fax 1-703-2437086 ; e-mail 71650.144@compuserve.com ; Web site www.arlinst.org . This article draws from his forthcoming book , Out of the Blue : Wild Cards and Other Big Surprises , which will soon be available from the Futurist Bookstore. // <p>                     