@@409443

More versatile hulls are mounting more powerful engines . That means more performance to come . A new year may just be good resolutions ashore for landlubbers . But for those of us who head afloat for our fun , it 's the beginning of the boat-show season and new developments , followed by great days on the water . January has seen city shows for Houston , Chicago , Nashville , New York , Toronto , Tampa and Philadelphia , among others . February saw exhibitions in New Orleans , Baltimore , St. Louis and Miami for starters . Last fall we checked the big boating industry trade shows and introductions for a preview of what will be launched this spring . Here 's a quick look at some standouts . JET JOBS Newest mini-boats are a cross between a Jet Ski and a dinghy . Hardly normal fishing rigs , they have limited cockpit space for three to six passengers , look like tiny run-abouts , and have water jets for power . For an ardent angler , however , anything that floats is worth considering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rayder , with seats for four , comes from Sea Ray Boats . Both of these Brunswick companies use 90 hp jets from their Mercury Marine engine division . Boston Whaler , Reebok International 's boat company , has been producing the five-seat handlebar-steered Rage , with Yamaha 50-horse jet power . Zodiac ProJET , also using the Yamaha jet drive , combines an inflatable 's buoyancy tubes with a rigid hull and claims speeds to 36 mph . This year it will be offered in an all-white model as well as the traditional gray tubes or last year 's white and orange . The water jets providing push for these 13 to 14-foot rigs do it without using exposed propeller blades  --  hence safer swimming around the boat  --  and some units are reported strong enough to pull water-skiers . For fishermen , a jet boat can ease " go anywhere " rigs . Hotshot drivers liked to show off by steering for shore full speed to bounce over exposed reefs and dry sandbars . It made for a spectacular show , but it wrecked so many hulls that jet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floatable Sherman tank for some of those destruction-derby stunts . Jets have never lost their popularity , however , when it comes to running fishermen and explorers up the rocky propeller-eating white-water rapids of shallow rivers . The original jets were a bump-and-bang scene to dock because they would n't really steer in reverse . That 's been corrected . Now the only problems are minor  --  reduced efficiency compared with prop jobs , plus a habit of ingesting seaweed . Run through beds of kelp , hydrilla or floating plastic bags and the jet-pump water intakes gag on the mix . But for clear-water operation they have their advantages . DEEPER WATER For open offshore passages , some larger new seakindly rigs are available . Recent models that look notably suitable for off-soundings include Bob Long 's Wellcraft 217 Fish center console 21-footer that has gone back ( or forward ) to those dependable engines called " inboards . " This one comes with either gasoline or diesel power enclosed in an engine box that fits under a bait and tackle prep center with lockers , recirculating bait well , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that swings forward for additional storage . Wellcraft is also adding a V-21 Steplift fishing model and Eclipse sportboat runabouts to its line of cruisers , plus the Scarab and Nova performance series . Stratos tops out with a 32.5-foot 3300 CC center console that has two bunks in a forward cuddy cabin and can take twin 250 hp outboards for push power . A dozen smaller blue-water models range from 28 down to 18 feet , and Stratos also has 17 more performance freshwater bass and ski choices . Hydra Sports also has both inshore and offshore fishing craft . Javelin , Quest , Stratos and Hydra Sports are all in the OMC Fishing Boat Group supervised by knowledgeable former racing driver Earl Bentz . Major additions to the Grady-White sportfishing series are the 20-foot Adventure 208 Walkaround Cabin and the Escape 20 , an open center console model with additional cockpit seating . Both are developed from Eddie Smith 's line of 11 successful offshore performers , and offer the Grady-White Sea V sup 2 hull design that sharpens up from an 18deg dead rise at the transom to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for 230 outboard horsepower and will perform with a lot less . More for deep water ? Take a look at Stamas , Pro-Line , Robalo , Celebrity and some introductions from the bass-boat builders that are now adding walleye and offshore rigs . Ranger Boats , made famous by Forrest Wood , have bigger Sportfisherman models with higher sides to keep the waves out . MonArk 's Pro Super Sport 1900 SS in aluminum also uses the increased freeboard that helps anglers stay safe and dry aboard . These are pre-rigged with MerCruiser sterndrives or Merc , Mariner or Force outboards . Tracker , Sea Nymph and Fisher are additional lines with brawnier entries for blue water . INSHORE FISHING Even lightweights are versatile , and the 75-pound Old Town Discovery 133K canoe can be rowed or paddled out while carrying 800 pounds of passengers and gear . Oarlock sockets are positioned for rowing from the forward seat or midships , or anglers fore and aft can paddle the conventional way . Small inflatables are also getting new attention . A number of additional boat and motor builders will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being customized for chasing stripers , walleyes , crappies , whatever is hitting , and are getting bigger of smaller plus more versatile for alternate skiing and cruising . They can be as sleek as a metalflake finished Bass Tracker Nitro that can top 75 mph , or as basic as a comfortable aluminum skiff . Trackers can even be ordered by mail as well as from dealers . Fisher Marine has a particularly maneuverable Back Water Special , a 16-footer that ace bassman Bill Dance helped design . Rigged with a 40 hp Mercury or Mariner outboard with tiller steering , it also comes with a bow-mounted MotorGuide 730 30-pound-thrust electric trolling motor plus an optional Stealth MotorGuide of 35-pound thrust that is side-mounted . As Bill Dance points out , with this setup an angler can pull the boat sideways to follow a river channel contour or ease over to lake structure . Humminbird fish finder , lights , safety essentials and Escort trailer all come with the package . DECK SPACE Pontoon craft and deck boats continue in popularity . More than 40 builders are turning out these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight a fish , sun , swim and even camp out when they 're rigged with fixed or convertible top and side curtains . Better ones now provide a galley and marine head as well . Models we noted included Sea Nymph 's 2200 Deckboat with pedestal seats for fishermen , aerated live wells and full instrumentation . Tracker Marine includes Sun Tracker Bass Buggy , Party Barge , Party Express plus Party Huts and Party Cruisers with fixed cabins in this category . Sizes range from 16 up to 32 feet , and fitted trailers are available . Alumacraft , Fisher Marine , Godfrey , Grumman , Harris , Kayot , Landau and Smoker-Craft are additional builders . PUSH POWER Added to the many outboard motors we reviewed several months ago , more sterndrive muscle has recently been announced . Ford 's Power Products Division multi-port EFI V8 engines are being marinized for OMC 's Cobra power plants . Mercury 's MerCruiser is introducing a V8-powered Bravo Three 300-hp sterndrive with twin propellers , one counter-rotating behind the other , similar to Volvo Penta 's Duoprop drive . More speed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported . Meanwhile , Volvo has moved forward with a new 820/DPX 8.2-liter V8 engine that puts 385 propshaft horsepower into the new DPX high performance Duoprop drive . Designed for sterndrive boats that want to operate in the 70 mph range , the unit should be making a speedy splash when hooked to hot hulls . Volvo is also introducing an electronic throttle-body fuel injection engine , the 570 EFI V8 with 255 hp , plus two new V6 sterndrives . For boatmen looking for more action , 1993 appears to offer a lot to choose from . PHONING FOR BOATING ANSWERS A great many boating questions can be solved " by the numbers . " A wealth of pleasure craft information available is available by calling the telephone numbers listed below . A free phone call to Washington , D.C. , connects you with the U.S Coast Guard Boating Safety Hot Line . It is 800-368-5647 and is available weekdays from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m . Easten time . Originally set up service queries about safety recalls , it now is answered by helpful Guardsmen and women who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment , regulations and the locations of Coast Guard districts where additional data can be obtained . They ca n't tell you which boat to buy , but they will know if any safety defects have been reported . District offices , found in your phone book , can put you in touch with Coast Guard Auxiliary branches that offer free Courtesy Marine Examinations of your boat  --  an excellent way to find what equipment you really need as well as what is required by law . Want information about installing a VHF radio on your boat ? The FCC Private Radio Bureau Licensing Division ( Box 1040 , Gettyburg , PA 17325 ; 717-337-1212 ) can tell you about the $335 Ship Station License that you need and Operator 's License that you do n't unless you will be cruising into foreign waters . Need instruction in seamanship , boat handling , rules of the road , navigation , chart reading , engine troubleshooting and more for your family ? The U.S. Power Squadrons , Coast Guard Auxiliary , American Red Cross and some state boating agencies all provide excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Boat/U.S . CourseLine at 800-336-BOAT or 800-245-BOAT in Virginia . Handicapped boatmen can find out about resources and opportunities from Harry Horgan , Shake-A-Leg , Box 1002 , Newport , RI 02840 ( 401-849-8898 ) . The National Center For Disabled Services ( 201 I.U. Willets Rd. , Albertson , NY 11507 ; 516-747-5400 ) has a slide/cassette and book/program called Boating For The Handicapped : Guidelines For The Physically Disabled . <p>                     