@@394006

In seven Presidential elections during the past 40 years , Republican candidates won the office of Chief Executive thanks principally to the changed voting behavior of two constituencies , Southerners and Catholics , that broke loose from their historic Democratic moorings to join the G.O.P. 's northern Protestant adherents . There were times in the 1980 's when the dissolution of the New Deal coalition seemed so final that some pundits concluded that Republicans had a lock on the White House . The 1992 election put a stop to this talk , but in its place an equally fallacious theory  --  that the recent election saw a restoration of the voting patterns of the 1930 's  --  has gained some currency . The New York Times , for example , said that Bill Clinton 's supporters " resembled the old New Deal coalition . " One Washington , D.C. , think-tank writer credited President Clinton with winning back to the Democratic fold " for the first time in a dozen years " the prodigal Southerners and Catholics . Even so respected a political scientist as Seymour M. Lipset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support his surprising conclusion that " the social correlates of Clinton and Bush voters resembled those for Roosevelt and Landon in 1936 . " These interpretations do violence to the facts . In the Southern states , where Democratic Presidential candidates enjoyed a monopoly until 1948 ( excepting 1928 ) , Clinton ran behind Bush . Ranked by the percentage of its vote given to George Bush in 1992 , Mississippi was the most Republican state in the nation , and second , third and fifth place were won respectively by Alabama , South Carolina and Virginia . As for Catholics  --  the main subject of this article  --  in the New Deal era a Democratic Presidential candidate could count on better than two-thirds of their vote , a far cry from the 44 percent that Bill Clinton received . Narrowing our sights to more recent elections , we see in Table 1 no evidence that either Southern or Catholic voters returned in droves to the Democratic party in 1992 . ( Table 1 omitted ) It is true that a massive shift in voting patterns occurred in 1992 . George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 million popular votes and of 30 percent in his share of the total vote compared to his 1988 race . The stampede away from Bush , however , headed mainly for Ross Perot . The voters Perot rounded up  --  almost 20 million strong  --  are ignored by those who find in the returns a reestablishment of the New Deal Democratic coalition . President Clinton received 3 million more votes than were cast for Michael Dukakis in 1988 , but this gain should be viewed in the perspective of a 13-million increase in voter turnout . In this light , the Democratic Presidential ticket , the choice of 43 percent of the electorate , fell 6 percent below the share of the vote given to the party 's candidates four years before . Surveys of voting behavior point clearly to the conclusion that switches from one major party to the other were a minor element in the drastic changes in voting patterns in the last Presidential election . Apparently the only group to do so in force was that of Jewish voters , 80 percent of whom flocked to Clinton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reduction of 5 percent in the share of the vote they gave to Bush . CATHOLIC VOTING PATTERNS The factual information on voting behavior in this article is drawn from a variety of surveys conducted by several organizations . Particularly important among them for the 1992 election is the exit polling done by Voter Research and Surveys jointly supported by a consortium including the major television networks . 1 . THE HOMOGENIZATION OF CATHOLICS IN THE ELECTORATE . A distinctive feature of the voting pattern of Catholics in 1992 was its close correspondence to the vote of the nation as a whole . Historically , the vote of Catholics has been substantially more Democratic than the vote of the nation as a whole . In an extreme case  --  1960  --  the differential was in the neighborhood of 30 percentage points , as John F. Kennedy won 80 percent of the voters who shared his religion versus 50 percent of the total electorate . Even in the Democratic rout of 1972 , George McGovern received a Catholic vote 10 percentage points higher than his vote from the nation as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difference between the Democratic vote share from Catholics and from the total voting population was only 1 percentage point . This fact is yet another indication that there was no strong return of Catholics to the Democratic fold last November . A trend toward homogenization of Catholics in the general electorate is discernible in elections throughout the 1980 's and is confirmed by other indicators . The percentage of Catholics who regard themselves as Democrats has declined over the course of the last 20 years as the percentage of those who identify themselves as Republicans and Independents has grown . More significant than the party preference people profess is how they actually vote . Here again the gap between Catholics and others has narrowed tremendously . One of last fall 's campaign polls reported that , when asked how they usually voted , 34 percent of the Catholics replied Democratic , 33 percent said Republican , and 26 percent said they split the ticket . These results were very close to the poll 's findings about the total electorate . On the matter of " general political orientation , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Conservative was the classification in which 51 percent of the Catholics and 53 percent of the total electorate fell whereas 44 percent of the Catholics and 42 percent of the total called themselves Moderate/Liberal . Responses given to survey questions designed to plumb attitudes on the issues of 1992 likewise suggest that what bothered Catholics was little different from what disturbed the nation as a whole . The economy was far and away the greatest concern of those who turned out to vote . Other issues that one might expect to have exercised substantial influence on the voting decisions of Catholics appear to have had a relatively minor effect . For example , when asked to name the most important issue of the campaign , only 5 percent of the Catholics and 6 percent of the total interviewed selected abortion . Interest in this issue and in family values was considerably more widespread among " born again " Christians than among the rest of the nation , including the Catholic voters . Changes dating back to World War II have reduced differences in political attitudes and voting behavior between Catholics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is found in the growth of the number of Republican Catholics in the United States Congress . Forty-five years ago , 5 percent of the Republican membership of Senate and House was made up of Catholics ; 25 years ago , it was 11 per cent ; today it is 23 percent . The political melting pot has by no means resulted in identical voting patterns of Catholics and other religious communities . Catholic voters occupy a position somewhere between predominantly Republican white Protestants and overwhelmingly Democratic Jewish voters and show a higher propensity to behave as swing voters from one election to another . Within the Catholic community sharp differences in voting patterns emerge when its subgroups are placed under the microscope , as is done in the following sections . 2 . RACE , ETHNICITY AND AGE . The margin that Bill Clinton amassed over George Bush in tie vote of Catholics disappears if we eliminate three subgroups from our count : Hispanics , African-Americans and the elderly . These three have been most resistant to Republican blandishments and have largely maintained loyalty to the Democratic Party as white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 compares the vote of white Catholics by age group ( Column A ) with that of the total ( Column B ) . ( Table 3 omitted ) Only among the oldest age cohort were Catholics more Democratic than the total electorate . These are the voters most likely to remember the Democrats as the party of F.D.R. and the New Deal and perhaps of Al Smith , and to remember Republicans as the party of the Depression . Particularly remarkable is the deviation of Catholics aged 18-29 from the voting pattern of this age group in the entire electorate : Catholics split evenly between the major parties ' candidates whereas young voters as a whole gave Clinton a lead of 9 percentage points . 3 . GENDER . Shown in Table 4 is a pronounced gender gap , which appears in survey data separating the sexes . ( Table 4 omitted ) The data reflect the vote of white non-Hispanic Catholics only . Males in the sample narrowly preferred Bush to Clinton . The women sampled gave the Democratic ticket a substantial plurality that differed little from the vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It comes as no surprise to find that economic status was an important factor in the voting behavior of Catholics , just as it was of Protestants . Democratic votes predominate at the lowest income level and Republican at the highest , and at every level there is a song correlation in the distribution of the vote between the major parties . Exceptions to this generalization are found , however , in the case of Jewish and African-American voters , who are overwhelmingly Democratic at all income brackets . The data in Table 5 provide a comparison between the vote of Catholics and Protestants at three income levels . ( Table 5 omitted ) At the lowest income level Catholics were substantially more Democratic and less Republican than Protestants . Indeed , Bush ran a poor third , well behind Perot , in the vote cast by the poorest Catholics . The disparity narrows as the income ladder is climbed , and at the highest rungs , it disappears . The homogenization of Catholics is clear in the highest economic stratum  --  an income of $75,000 and above . 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Catholics emerges when analyzed in terms of the geographic regions in which they reside . The South , where voting behavior is most starkly polarized by race , has become , because of its white population , the banner region for Republicanism . And the growing segment of Catholics in Dixie proved to be more Republican than their coreligionists in other sections . Whereas George Bush led Bill Clinton among Protestants in all sections of the country except the West , among Catholics it was only in the South that he won more votes than the Arkansas Governor . White non-Hispanic Southern Catholics were particularly supportive of Bush as the following distribution of their vote shows : Bush 48 , Clinton 34 , Perot 18 . According to polls , Catholics constituted more than 40 percent of Louisiana 's voters in 1992 and approximately one-quarter of those who voted in Texas and Florida . In fact , it appears that from Florida 's Catholic voters ( including a staunchly Republican Cuban population ) George Bush received a plurality of approximately 200,000 , enabling him to overcome a deficit of about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunshine State . 6 . RELIGIOUS OBSERVANCE . Another factor apparently affecting voting decisions in 1992 was relationship to organized religion . Fifty-five percent of those who voted for Bush were in the habit of attending church at least weekly , a habit shared by only 35 percent of Clinton 's supporters and 33 percent of Perot 's . Of the voters who professed no religious affiliation , 62 percent voted for Clinton , 18 percent for Bush and 20 percent for Perot . Table 6 presents data on the vote of the white Catholic and the white Protestant population  --  first for each of the two groups as a whole and then for two classes of each group 's adherents on the basis of church attendance : ( Table 6 omitted ) The correlation between membership in many Northern Protestant denominations and Republican political affiliation goes back to the 1850 's . In some religious bodies the more devout the congregant , the stronger his attachment to the Republican Party . More recent is the development in the South of a similar , and even tighter , connection between white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicanism . The Christian Coalition reported that its post-election survey found that 46 percent of Bush 's vote came from white evangelicals . Although this figure is probably an exaggeration , other polls indicate that Bush did receive more than 60 percent of the " born again " Christian vote a higher level of support for the Republican ticket than found among any other group surveyed . A correlation between religious observance and voting behavior is weaker among Catholics than among Protestants , and probably a more recent development . In 1944 Catholics who were weekly churchgoers were as inclined to vote Democratic as those less regular in attendance . In that year 's election 68 percent of the former group voted for Roosevelt as did 70 percent of the less devout . SOME CONCLUSIONS Catholic voters in 1992 changed markedly from their voting pattern in Presidential elections of the 1980 's , abandoning the Republican Party for Ross Perot . After having given George Bush about half of their vote in his first race , they cast little better than a third for him this time . One indicator of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which Catholics constitute a majority of the population . In 1984 , 75 of these counties were carried by Reagan ; in 1988 Bush carried 50 , and in 1992 only 39 . Catholics , like other Americans , manifested a high level of interest in the election with a 10 percent increase in their turnout above the 1988 level . They gave Clinton about the same number of votes that they had given Dukakis , but , because of the increased turnout , this was a smaller share of their vote . Clinton 's plurality over Bush among Catholic voters exceeded two million , rolled up in the Eastern and Far Western states . Collectively , Catholics divided their votes much as did the nation at large and for the same reason  --  dissatisfaction with the recent performance of the economy and uneasiness about the future . The so-called social issues appear to have had minor influence on voting decisions in 1992 . Although a gap remains in voting behavior between Protestant and Catholic America , it has narrowed . The major explanation of this development has been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans and Independents . Those most prone to drift have been members of younger generations , those of middle and upper income groups , and white Southerners . On the other hand , black Catholics , Latinos ( except of Cuban antecedents ) , Catholics in low-income brackets ( a group overlapping substantially with Latinos ) and elderly Catholics have remained largely loyal to the Democratic Party . Catholic voters , like the nation at large , did not give either major party or its candidates a vote of confidence . Perhaps the most significant aspect of the last national election was the size of the vote cast for Ross Perot . When one voter out of five prefers a political neophyte with a jerrybuilt organization of amateurs conducting a chaotic ( if generously financed ) campaign to the Democratic and Republican Presidential candidates , a serious threat to the viability of our party system has emerged . Not in 80 years has so large a segment of the electorate displayed so deep a rejection of the major parties and a readiness to replace one or both of them . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a transitory phenomenon , but no one should count on it . Neither Democrats nor Republicans can safely ignore the signal that many millions of Americans seem to be looking for a new political home . William B. Prendergast has for the past 45 years been doing research and writing in the field of American government . He has taught political science at the United States Naval Academy , the Johns Hopkins University and The Catholic University of America . He has also served as research director for both the Republican National Committee and the Republican Conference of the U.S. House of Representatives . <p>                     