@@396815

This season about 10 million people will go Alpine skiing in the U.S. Approximately 125,000 of them will sustain an injury . For about 20,000 , that injury will be a serious knee sprain , usually involving the anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL ) . For its victims , this injury may well mark the end of an active life-style for a year at least , until surgery or rehabilitation or both have worked their miracles . Recent studies put the incidence of ACL sprains at about one in every 2,100 skier visits , more frequent than even broken legs were at their height in the early ' ' 70s . But there is as yet little a skier can buy or do that will alter the risk of sustaining this injury . ACL sprains represent the most serious threat to skier safety in almost half a century . Most hopes for ACL protection have been pinned ( inappropriately , perhaps ) on the binding manufacturers . Although no binding has been shown to be effective in protecting the ACL , several suppliers claim to address the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies will have introduced models with upward release at the toe and , in several cases , models with aggressive compensation capabilities for the type of fall believed to be responsible for many ACL sprains . But worthwhile as these current trends are , as they should lead to a further reduction in lower leg injuries , there is no reason to believe that these developments will have a significant impact on ACL injuries . The ACL is one of four ligaments in the knee . It lies at the center of the joint and , along with the posterior cruciate ligament , helps maintain proper alignment of the tibia ( lower leg bone ) with the femur ( upper leg bone ) . Disruption of the ACL can cause chronic instability that , with time , can result in progressive damage to the cartilage that lines the load-bearing surfaces of the joint . People with a damaged ACL who wish to continue an active life-style ( including skiing ) often require surgery and rehabilitation to restore stability in the joint . The medical cost to those who choose surgery and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who do not choose surgery , the long-term costs of recurrent knee problems can be high . If we estimate the average medical costs at $10,000 per sprain , the cost nationwide totals $200,000,000 annually . This is equal to about $4 for every lift ticket sold . It is tempting to put our faith in the binding manufacturers to find a solution to this type of injury . Twenty years ago , broken legs and ankles were the scourge . Such injuries have since declined by over 90 percent , thanks primarily to advances in modern bindings and to improved procedures for adjustment and maintenance of bindings in ski shops . But during this same period , serious knee sprains have increased threefold . Unlike the case regarding lower leg injuries , no link has been found between the design or condition of the release system and the risk of sustaining an ACL injury . Serious knee sprains appear to represent a completely different accident scenario than a broken leg or ankle . Many researchers now believe the rise in ACL sprains , which began in the late ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boots and skis . The stiff back of the modern Alpine boot allows the skier to weight ( apply pressure to ) the tail of the ski more easily than did boots of 15 or 20 years ago . Changes in ski design over the years have greatly improved the ability of the ski tail to carve when weighted and put on edge . But when a skier is caught off balance while leaning to the rear and to the inside of the turn , the combination of modern boots and skis can cause the downhill ski to carve sharply inward ( oversteer ) and apply a highly unusual combination of loads to the knee . Flexion ( bending ) of the knee beyond 90 degrees exaggerates the effects of oversteering . Injury to the ACL can result if the skier can not quickly , and virtually automatically , transfer weight to the uphill ski as the outside ski oversteers . We have termed this scenario the " phantom foot ACL , " because the lever system that twists and bends the knee  --  the tail of the ski  --  extends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's natural lever system , the human foot . The flexed knee appears to be extremely vulnerable to the combination of loads applied by the phantom foot . The speed with which oversteering occurs aggravates the situation . Injury occurs suddenly , often before the skier realizes anything unusual is about to happen . There 's a fine line between a skier 's successful recovery of balance and the chain of events that leads to injury . Voluntary muscle control , however , is usually lost immediately upon injury , often precipitating collapse and a complete loss of ski control . The Alpine ACL sprain has therefore been called " the injury that caused the accident . " Considerable basic research is still required to fully understand the ACL problem , let alone solve it . We do not even know , for example , if there is a margin of safety between the loads required to maneuver the ski in a normal skiing stance and the loads that cause injury to the ACL when the skier is in a potentially vulnerable position . Without such a margin , no binding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have more information , new binding designs , especially those based primarily on the old model for tibia protection , will be just more shots in the dark . Instead of focusing all our attention on the release system  --  the binding  --  it may be more practical to address over-steering directly , via the control system  --  the boot and ski . Better knowledge of the control system could result in enhanced steering performance and even in equipment that automatically corrects for oversteering , thus eliminating the need for release . Although there does n't appear to be a hardware solution on the horizon , training in how to fall , when to fall , and how to stop after a fall could offer some immediate relief . However , no one has developed a " how to fall " program in the light of what we now know about ACL injury mechanisms . And ski instructors , as a group , have yet to accept even the principle of teaching how to fall . Those of us who have studied Alpine skiing injuries believe that the information necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem could be obtained in a year or two of concentrated research , for a relatively modest cost . But to date no such effort has been funded by government or industry , here or abroad . Where will the impetus for change come from ? In the case of tibia and ankle fractures , the threat of competition from other suppliers and of litigation with injured customers motivated improvement in products and services . But these forces do n't currently exist regarding the ACL problem . Without them or some other incentive , manufacturers are reluctant to make radical changes and risk failing in the market or the courts . Something has to be done to shake up the system . The ski industry has been effective in implementing solutions through various standards organizations , but it lacks any institution for cooperative problem solving . It seems that the feasibility of ACL protection will have to be demonstrated through research before normal market forces cause manufacturers to act . The impetus for undertaking that research , if there is to be any , may have to come from skiers like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seals , and the eagles , maybe we can save our own ACLs as well . For information on how to contribute to this effort , contact Dr. Robert Johnson , president of the International Society for Skiing Safety ( ISSS ) at the University of Vermont , Department of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation , Given Building , Burlington , VT 05405 . Technical Editor Carl Ettlinger has researched skiing safety for more than 25 years . For the past 20 years he has worked with Dr. Robert Johnson , of the University of Vermont 's Department of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation , and Dr. Jasper Shealy , of Rochester Institute of Technology , on what has become the largest and longest-running study of ski injuries . <p>                     