@@394668

Unfortunately , observing the sky from the city gets a bad rap these days . The message is often " Do n't bother . There 's too much light pollution . " This is true , of course , if you 're looking for faint comets or deep-sky objects . Such pursuits require a sky free of the urban glow that can easily wash out extended objects in the eyepiece . But you do n't have to trek out to a dark sky to view the nearby planets . They 're so bright they can be observed in a telescope just as well from an apartment balcony or rooftop in the heart of the city . Furthermore , planets do things ; they exhibit phases , atmospheric storms , and shifting surface features . And in Jupiter 's case there is an added bonus : the four Galilean moons , which continually do-si-do around the giant planet like square dancers . All you need is a small telescope to follow their ever-changing positions In March you have the chance to witness two of the last events in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the two occurs on March 22 , when Europa eclipses Ganymede . The eclipse begins at 8h08m universal time ( UT ) and runs until 9h32m UT ( 3:08 a.m. and 4:32 a.m . EST , respectively ) . Ganymede , Jupiter 's largest and brightest moons , dims an easy-to-spot 36 percent at mid-eclipse . At that time the moon lies about three Jupiter-diameters east of the planet 's center and Europa is slightly west of Ganymede . The second satellite event  --  in this one Europa occults rather than eclipses Ganymede  --  occurs on March 29 . Europa first intrudes on Ganymede 's disk at 9h26m UT and finally separates from Ganymede at 10h43m UT ( 4:26 a.m. and 5:43 a.m . EST , respectively ) . The combined light of the two satellites drops by a perceptible 23 percent at maximum . Unfortunately for viewers on the East Coast , the approaching dawn drowns out the second half of the event . Observers farther west can witness the entire occultation . For optimal viewing of either event , you want the satellites to look like sharp points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . How do you do this ? If you telescope is a reflector , you can start by making sure it is well collimated . This is especially important if your telescope has a focal ratio of f/6 or less , though any reflector benefits from proper collimation . Also , give your instrument time to adjust to the outside temperature . Because you 'll be observing these mutual events in the wee hours , you might set your telescope in the garage or on a sheltered patio the night before , someplace that is out of the elements , but where the optics can cool down to match the air temperature . If possible , observe from a grassy area . A ground cover of some type helps insulate your observing site during the day and in turn releases heat slowly at night . Concrete and blacktop , on the other hand , radiate the heat absorbed during the day back into the sky , making the images of stars and planets shimmer violently . Whatever type or size telescope you have , start observing with about 40x per inch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on Europa and Ganymede , so experiment with higher magnifications , but do n't go so high that the images begin to look like frying eggs . If you 're intent on observing the subtle drop in light intensity , you might edge Jupiter just out of the field of view and so avoid its glare Jupiter itself was a fascinating object for study throughout late fall . The entire disk was banded with narrow gray and brown belts that seemed to change in intensity from week to week . The North Tropical Belt appeared darker than usual , and bluish festoons arced toward the equator from the still prominent North Equatorial Belt As I wrote this in mid-November , the South Equatorial Belt was more of an ill-defined brown smear dominating the planet 's southern hemisphere . In March , Jupiter reveals an apparent equatorial diameter of 44 " and shines brightly at magnitude  --  2.5 . The giant planet looms large and glorious in the telescope , presenting an ever-changing panoply of clouds , storms , and moons that can best be appreciated by an attentive eye . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its best evening appearance of 1992 . You can begin looking for the planet in late February , when it is somewhat brighter ( at magnitude  --  1.2 ) than it is in March but lies lower in the sky Mercury is at its best when it reaches greatest elongation  --  its greatest angular distance from the Sun , which puts it 11deg above the western horizon 30 minutes after sunset . Though still quite bright at magnitude  --  0.3 , Mercury is low enough that you 'll have to do a little work to see it . Find an observing site with a clear horizon to the west  --  a ball park or tall knoll will do as long as there are no trees or buildings to block your view . Be sure to bring along a pair of binoculars . These will help you spot the planet long before you can see it with the naked eye . Then zero in on Mercury with your telescope and a moderate-power eyepiece . I wish I could promise you craters , ice caps , or some other exotic surface features @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atmospheric murk that a telescope will , at best , show only the phase and a kind of " Old Yeller " hue that does n't suggest the real color of the planet . ( Under good conditions , it looks almond-colored to me . ) Nevertheless , watching Mercury 's phase and apparent size change during the last week of February and the first half of March makes for a good observing project . In late February the innermost planet appears 5 " across and shows a distinctly gibbous phase ; by greatest elongation it grows to 7 " in apparent diameter and appears just under half lit ; and on March 17 it extends a full 9 " across and displays a slender crescent just 14-percent lit . VESTA AT OPPOSITION Now rising in the east at sunset is the familiar sickle-shaped asterism that forms the head of Leo the Lion . To the sickle 's east , the lion 's triangular hindquarters , marked at its easternmost apex by 2nd-magnitude Denebola , literally brings up the rear . Around the middle of March , if you are lucky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naked eye might catch the glint of a 6th-magnitude " star " lying about 3deg due west of Denebola . You 'll have no trouble spotting it in binoculars . Yet despite its brightness , you wo n't find this object on any star chart . This is Vesta , the third largest of the big four asteroids and the brightest of all asteroids in our solar system . It is brightest at opposition on the night of March 8/9 , when it reaches a peak magnitude of 5.9 and it remains quite bright throughout the month , easily visible in binoculars and telescopes , even from suburban locations . If you 've never seen an asteroid , now 's the time to do so . This one could n't be easier to locate . Use an eyepiece that yields about a 1.5deg field of view . That should give you plenty of scanning room . Fortunately , the area just west of Denebola is devoid of bright stars and the asteroid is the brightest object in the region . Use the finder chart or table of coordinates at right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , zoom in with the higher power . Of all the large asteroids , Vesta has the most puzzling features . According to spectroscopic observations , this asteroid , with a diameter of 538 kilometers ( 334 miles ) , is composed of basaltic rock , material similar to that on the plains of the Moon . Astronomers still have n't figured out how that 's possible or why few other asteroids share this characteristic . Additionally , Vesta has a high albedo , or reflectivity , hence its high surface brightness . Vesta reflects about 30 percent of the sunlight that strikes it , compared with Ceres , the largest asteroid , which reflects only 6 percent Vesta also rotates fairly rapidly  --  about once every 5.3 hours . Astronomers have noted that as the asteroid rotates , its colors change , meaning it has varied surface features . Maybe someday we 'll fly by and take a look ! Like a determined flea , Vesta makes its way northwestward through Leo 's hindquarters for the rest of March , ending up a little over 1deg northeast of Theta Leonis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still-respectable magnitude 6.3 . This is a good time ( and good part of the sky ) to photograph the asteroid 's trail relative to the stars . Load some quality black-and-white film ( T-Max 100 or Tech Pan 2415 ) and mount your camera at the prime focus of your polar-aligned telescope . Center the field of view and expose for twenty or thirty minutes , being sure to guide carefully . Take several exposures of varying lengths . When developed , these photos should show Vesta 's stubby telltale streak going its own way among the stars  --  a major minor planet marching to the beat of a different drum A former associate editor of Astronomy , Jeff Kanipe is the editor of Star Date Magazine , which is published by McDonald Observatory at the University of Texas at Austin . <p>                     