@@385085

Tisha Campbell recently filed lawsuit against her " Martin " co-star Martin Lawrence alleg- I ing that he has tormented and sexually harassed her on the set of their hit FOX TV sitcom . The suit , filed in District Court in Los Angeles , also alleges emotional distress , misrepresentation and sexual battery . Also named in the suit was HBO Independent Productions , the company that puts the show together for FOX . The show is now in its fifth year . Campbell left the show in November , claiming that working conditions were " intolerable , " according to the suit . It alleges that she " was subjected to repeated and escalating sexual harassment , sexual battery , verbal abuse and related threats to her physical safety by Lawrence . The hostile working conditions on the show became unduly aggravated due to Lawrence 's increased volatility , erratic and violent conduct and his apparent obsession with Campbell , in which he focused his lust , anger , and violent tendencies on her . His emotional instability , coupled with what Campbell is informed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he has been known to carry a firearm , have made her fear for her personal safety . " Her suit has been followed by charges and countercharges . Immediately after her suit was made public , Lawrence released a statement denying all of her charges , suggesting he was just being put in the middle of her battle with HBO . His statement said : " Martin Lawrence regrets that he is being used as a pawn in a contract dispute between Tisha Campbell and HBO . Martin has long been Tisha 's champion and protector , and is thus deeply hurt by these allegations . There is no merit to the lawsuit and it will vigorously be defended . " Photograph A Tisha Campbell , co-star of the hit TV show " Martin " , recently filed suit against Martin Lawrence for alleged sexual harassment on the set of the show . She also left the show and says she 's suffering from emotional distress . Photograph Popular comedian and actor Martin Lawrence denies Campbell 's allegations that he harassed her . Lawrence says he is being put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Independent Productions , the company that puts the show together . // Campbell 's attorney , Kurt C. Peterson , told JET that Lawrence 's statement is completely " false . " He issued a statement for Ms. Campbell that said : " Mr. Lawrence 's statement referring to a contract dispute ' between HBO and Ms. Campbell is untrue . " He said her contract with HBO was worked out prior to the beginning of the season . Her suit says that from the beginning of the show 's run in 1992 Lawrence began asking her out for dates . " She consistently refused such advances , " the suit said . She claims that she and others related to the show became very concerned with Lawrence 's behavior during the second season . " Throughout rehearsals and taping of the show , Lawrence became increasingly manic and volatile , and he would often , and easily , fly into uncontrollable fits of rage for no apparent or rational reason . ... He often threatened Campbell and others on the set in extremely menacing tones that if he did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit charged . Troubles got worse during the third season , the suit claims . Lawrence , it said , " was continually screaming and raging uncontrollably at Campbell and others while continuing to threaten Campbell and her co-workers and their jobs for no good cause . He humiliated and abused Campbell in front of the entire cast and crew on so many occasions that it reached the point where she needed to be hospitalized due to the stress he caused her . " None of the crew came to her assistance although she complained many times , the suit states . During the fourth season , his mood swings " were terrifying to Campbell , and Campbell is informed and believes , the rest of the cast and crew . " She was afraid to the point of " installing a lock on her dressing room door , " according to the suit . By the beginning of the fifth season , the suit charges that Lawrence " was out of control ... Campbell had long since requested that the writers stop writing scenes that required her to be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But , the scenes were still written . In the show , their characters became husband and wife . Last November 15 , 1996 , the suit charges that during a bedroom scene in full view of the studio audience " Lawrence again tried to force his tongue into Campbell 's mouth , simulated intercourse and forcibly touched her body , all against her will . " She claims in the suit that she discussed with producers Christopher Albrecht and Russell Schwartz ( who are also named in the suit ) about installing a " panic button " in her dressing room . When she found out that Lawrence reportedly had forced his way into his estranged wife 's hotel room " and threatened to kill her and her entire family while displaying a firearm , and that he became so enraged and out of control that he kicked and broke a marble tile wall next to her hotel room " she became even more concerned , the suit said . Later that same day ( Nov. 21 , 1996 ) , when he showed up on the set , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " confronted " Campbell and " ransacked his dressing room . " She asked Albrecht not to continue filming because of Lawrence 's state , but to no avail , her suit alleges . According to the lawsuit , the following day Campbell saw Lawrence 's " most hysterical outbursts . " It was after Lawrence " physically confronted a fellow cast member and maligned , insulted , threatened and screamed at Campbell to the point where she was terrified and concerned for her safety that she realized she could no longer tolerate the outrageous working conditions on the show . " At that point , Campbell states in the suit , she informed the producers that " she was leaving and would not return to the show . " As a result of the stress on the show , Campbell alleges that she now has problems sleeping , is depressed and is suffering from severe emotional distress . <p>                     