@@409928

If you are worried about the future of your marriage or relationship , you have plenty of company . There 's no denying that this is a frightening time for couples . More than half of all first marriages end in divorce ; 60 percent of second marriages fail . What makes the numbers even more disturbing is that no one seems to understand why our marriages have become so fragile . In pursuit of the truth about what tears a marriage apart or binds it together , I have found that much of the conventional wisdom  --  even among marital therapists  --  is either misguided or dead wrong . For example , some marital patterns that even professionals often take as a sign of a problem  --  such as having intense fights or avoiding conflict altogether  --  I have found can signify highly successful adjustments that will keep a couple together . Fighting , when it airs grievances and complaints , can be one of the healthiest things a couple can do for their relationship . If there 's one lesson I 've learned in my years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 200 couples over 20 years  --  it is that a lasting marriage results from a couple 's ability to resolve the conflicts that are inevitable in any relationship . Many couples tend to equate a low level of conflict with happiness and I believe the claim " we never fight " is a sign of marital health . But I believe we grow in our relationships by reconciling our differences . That 's how we become more living people and truly experience the fruits of marriage . Although there are other dimensions that are telling about a union , the intensity of argument seems to bring out a marriage 's true colors . To classify a marriage , in my lab at the University of Washington in Seattle , I look at the frequency of fights , the facial expressions and physiological responses ( such as pulse rate and amount of sweating ) of both partners during their confrontations , as well as what they say to each other and in what tone of voice they interact verbally . But there 's much more to a successful relationship than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolve conflicts in the same way , nor do they mean the same thing by " resolving " their conflict . In fact , I have found that there are three different styles of problem solving into which healthy marriages tend to settle : * Validating . Couples compromise often and calmly work out their problems to mutual satisfaction as they arise . * Volatile . Conflict erupts often , resulting in passionate disputes . * Conflict-avoiding . Couples agree to disagree , rarely confronting their differences head-on . Previously , many psychologists might have considered conflict-avoiding and volatile marriages to be destructive . But my research suggests that all three styles are equally stable and bode equally well for the marriage 's future . " HEALTHY " MARRIAGE STYLES One of the first things to go in a marriage is politeness . As laughter and validation disappear , criticism and pain well up . Your attempts to get communication back on track seem useless , and partners become lost in hostile and negative thoughts and feelings . Yet here 's the surprise : There are couples whose fights are as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The following three newly married couples accurately illustrate the three distinct styles of marriage . Bert and Betty , both 30 , both came from families hat were n't very communicative , and they were determined to make communication a priority in their relationship . Although they squabbled occasionally , they usually addressed their differences before their anger boiled over . Rather than engaging in shouting matches , they dealt with their disagreements by having " conferences " in which each aired his or her perspective . Usually , they were able to arrive at a compromise . Max , 40 , and Anita , 25 , admitted that they quarreled far more than the average couple . They also tended to interrupt each other and defend their own point of view rather than listen to what their partner was expressing . Eventually , however , they would reach some sort of accord . Despite their frequent tension , however , they seemed to take much delight in each other . Joe , 29 , and Sheila , 27 , said they thought alike about almost everything and felt " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spent a good deal of time apart , they still enjoyed each other 's company and fought very rarely . When tension did arise , both considered solo jogging more helpful in soothing the waters than talking things out or arguing . Not surprisingly , Bert and Betty were still happily married four years after I 'd first interviewed them . However , so were Max and Anita , as well as e and Sheila . Marriages like Bert and Betty 's , though , which emphasize communication and compromise , have long been held up as die ideal . Even when discussing a hot topic , they display a lot of ease and calm , and have a keen ability to listen to and understand each other 's emotions . That 's why I call such couples " validators " : In the midst of disagreement they still let their partners know that they consider his or her emotions valid , even if they do n't agree with them . This expression of mutual respect tends to limit the number of arguments couples need to have . Anita and Max @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Betty , yet their marriage remained just as solid over time . How can people who seem to thrive on skirmishes live happily together ? The truth is that not every couple who fights this frequently has a stable marriage . But we call those who do " volatile " Such couples fight on a grand scale and have an even grander time making up . More than the other types , volatile couples see themselves as equals . They are independent sorts who believe that marriage should emphasize and strengthen their individuality . Indeed , they are very open with each other about their feelings  --  both positive and negative . These marriages tend to be passionate and exciting , as if the marital punch has been spiked with danger . Moving from a volatile to an avoidant style of marriage , like Joe and Sheila 's , is like leaving the tumult of a hurricane for the placid waters of a summer lake . Not mud seems to happen in this type of marriage . A more accurate name for them is " conflict minimizers , " because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This type of successful coupling flies in the face of conventional wisdom that links marital stability to skillful " talking things out . " It may well be that these different types of couples could glean a lot from each other 's approach  --  for example , the volatile couple learning to ignore some conflicts and the avoidant one learning how to compromise . But the prognosis for these three types of marriage is quite positive  --  they are each healthy adaptations to living intimately with another human being . THE ECOLOGY OF MARRIAGE The balance between negativity and positivity appears to be the key dynamic in what amounts to the emotional ecology of every marriage . There seems to be some kind of thermostat operating in healthy marriages that regulates this balance . For example , when partners get contemptuous , they correct it with lots of positivity  --  not necessarily right away , but sometime soon . What really separates contented couples from those in deep marital misery is a healthy balance between their positive and negative feelings and actions toward each other . Volatile couples , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot of love and passion . But by balance I do not mean a 50-50 equilibrium . As part of my research I carefully charted the amount of time couples spent fighting versus interacting positively  --  touching , smiling , paying compliments , laughing , etc . Across the board I found there was a very specific ratio that exists between the amount of positivity and negativity in a stable marriage , whether it is marked by validation , volatility , or conflict avoidance . That magic ratio is 5 to 1 . As long as there is five times as much positive feeling and interaction between husband and wife as there is negative , the marriage was likely to be stable over time . In contrast , those couples who were heading for divorce were doing far too little on the positive side to compensate for the growing negativity between them . WARNING SIGNS : THE FOUR HORSEMEN If you are in the middle of a troubled marriage , it can seem that your predicament is nearly impossible to sort out . But in fact unhappy marriages do resemble each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , specific , downward spiral before coming to a sad end . Being able to predict what emotions and reactions lead a couple into trouble is crucial to improving a marriage 's chances . By pinpointing how marriages destabilize , I believe couples will be able to find their way back to the happiness they felt when their marital adventure began . The first cascade a couple hits as they tumble down the marital rapids is comprised of the " Four Horsemen "  --  four disastrous ways of interacting that sabotage your attempts to communicate with your partner . As these behaviors become more and more entrenched , husband and wife focus increasingly on the escalating sense of negativity and tension in their marriage . Eventually they become deaf to each other 's efforts at peacemaking . As each new horseman arrives , he paves the way for the next , each insidiously overriding a marriage that started out full of promise . THE FIRST HORSEMAN : CRITICISM When Eric and Pamela married fresh out of college , it soon became clear that they had different notions of what frugality meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , yet as time passed she found that her comments did not lead to any change on her husband 's part . Rather , something potentially damaging to their marriage soon began occurring : instead of complaining about his actions , she began to criticize him . On the surface , there may not seem to be much difference between complaining and criticizing . But criticizing involves attacking someone 's personality or character rather than a specific behavior , usually with blame . When Pamela said things like " You always think about yourself she assaulted Eric , not just his actions , and blamed him for being selfish . Since few couples can completely avoid criticizing each other now and then , the first horseman often takes up long-term residence even in relatively healthy marriages . One reason is that criticizing is just a short hop beyond complaining , which actually one of the healthiest activities that can occur in a marriage . Expressing anger and disagreement makes the marriage stronger in the long run than suppressing the complaint . The trouble begins when you feel that your complaints go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , it becomes more and more likely that your complaints will pick up steam . With each successive complaint you 're likely to throw in your inventory of prior , unresolved grievances . Eventually you begin blaming your partner and being critical of his or her personality rather than of a specific deed . One common type of criticism is to bring up a long list of complaints . I call this " kitchen sinking " : you throw in every negative thing you can think of . Another form is to accuse your partner of betraying you , of being untrustworthy : " I trusted you to balance the checkbook and you let me down ! Your recklessness amazes me . " In contrast , complaints do n't necessarily finger the spouse as a culprit ; they are more a direct expression of one 's own dissatisfaction with a particular situation . Criticisms also tend to be generalizations . A telltale sign that you 've slipped from complaining to criticizing is if global phrases like " you never " or " you always " start punctuating your exchanges : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as I 'd like to . " Criticism : " You never take me anywhere . " Being critical can begin innocently enough and is often the expression of pent-up , unresolved anger . It may be one of those natural self-destruct mechanisms inherent in all relationships . Problems occur when criticism becomes so pervasive that it corrodes the marriage . When that happens it heralds the arrival of the next horseman that can drag you toward marital difficulty . THE SECOND HORSEMAN : CONTEMPT By their first anniversary , Eric and Pamela still had n't resolved their financial differences . Unfortunately , their fights were becoming more frequent and personal . Pamela was feeling disgusted with Eric . In the heat of one particularly nasty argument , she found herself shrieking : " Why are you so irresponsible ? " Fed up and insulted , Eric retorted , " Oh , shut up . You 're just a cheapskate . I do n't know how I ended up with you anyway . " The second horseman  --  contempt  --  had entered the scene . What separates contempt from criticism is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With your words and body language , you 're lobbing insults right into the heart of your partner 's sense of self . Fueling these contemptuous actions are negative thoughts about the partner  --  he or she is stupid , incompetent , a fool . In direct or subtle fashion , that message gets across along with the criticism . When this happened , they ceased being able to remember why they had fallen in love in the first place . As a consequence , they rarely complimented each other anymore or expressed mutual admiration or attraction . The focal point of their relationship became abusiveness . What Pamela and Eric experienced is hardly uncommon . When contempt begins to overwhelm your relationship , you tend to forget your partner 's positive qualities , at least while you 're feeling upset . You ca n't remember a single positive quality or act . This immediate decay of admiration is an important reason why contempt ought to be banned from marital interactions . Recognizing when you or your spouse is expressing contempt is fairly easy . Among the most common signs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * Body language  --  including , sneering , rolling your eyes , curling your upper lip . It is easy to feel overly critical at times , and it is human to state criticism in a contemptuous way now and then , even in the best relationships . Yet if abusiveness seems to be a problem in your relationship , the best way to neutralize it is to stop seeing arguments with your spouse as a way to retaliate or exhibit your superior moral stance . Rather , your relationship will improve if you approach your spouse with precise complaints rather than attacking your partner 's personality or character . THE THIRD HORSEMAN : DEFENSIVENESS Once contempt entered their home , Eric and Pamela 's marriage went from bad to worse . When either of them acted contemptuously , the other responded defensively , which just made matters worse . Now they both felt victimized by the other  --  and neither was willing to take responsibility for setting things right . In effect , they both constantly pleaded innocent . The fact that defensiveness is an understandable reaction to feeling besieged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victim " does n't see anything wrong with being defensive . But defensive phrases , and the attitude they express , tend to escalate a conflict rather than resolve anything . If you are being defensive , you are adding to your marital troubles . Familiarize yourself with the signs of defensiveness so you can recognize them for what they truly are : * Denying Responsibility . No matter what your partner charges , you insist in no uncertain terms that you are not to blame . * Making Excuses . You claim that external circumstances beyond your control forced you to act in a certain way . * Disagreeing with Negative Mind-Reading . Sometimes your spouse will make assumptions about your private feelings , behavior , or motives ( in phrases such as " You think it 's a waste of time " or " I know how you hate it " ) . When this " mind-reading " is delivered in a negative manner , it may trigger defensiveness in you . * Cross-Complaining . You meet your partner 's complaint ( or criticism ) with an immediate complaint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . * Repeating Yourself : Rather than attempting to understand the spouse 's point of view , couples who specialize in this technique simply repeat their own position to each other again and again . Both think they are right and that trying to understand the other 's perspective is a waste of time . The first step toward breaking out of defensiveness is to no longer see your partner 's words as an attack but as information that is being strongly expressed . Try to understand and empathize with your partner . This is admittedly hard to do when you feel under siege , but it is possible and its effects are miraculous . If you are genuinely open and receptive when your partner is expecting a defensive response , he or she is less likely to criticize you or react contemptuously when disagreements arise . THE FOURTH HORSEMAN : STONEWALLING Exhausted and overwhelmed by Pamela 's attacks , Eric eventually stopped responding , even defensively , to her accusations . Their marriage went from being marred by poor communication to being virtually destroyed by none . Once Eric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to repair . Instead of arguing about specific issues , every confrontation degenerated into Pamela screaming at Eric that he was shutting her out : " You never say anything . You just sit there . It 's like talking to a brick wall . " Stonewalling often happens while a couple is in the process of talking things out . The stonewaller just removes himself by turning into a stone wall . Usually someone who is listening reacts to what the speaker is saying , looks at the speaker , and says things like " Uh huh " or " Hmmm " to indicate he is tracking . But the stonewaller abandons these messages , replacing them with stony silence . Stonewallers do not seem to realize that it is a very powerful act : It conveys disapproval , icy distance , and smugness . It is very upsetting to speak to a stonewalling listener . This is especially true when a man stonewalls a woman . Most men do n't get physiologically aroused when their wives stonewall them , but wives ' heart rates go up dramatically when their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of a relationship . But if your interactions have deteriorated to this extent you are at great risk of catapulting even farther down the marital cascade  --  becoming so overwhelmed by the negativity in your relationship that you end up divorced , separated , or living lonely , parallel lives in the same home . Once the fourth horseman becomes a regular resident , it takes a good deal of hard work and soul-searching to save the marriage . The four horsemen are not the end of the line . It is only after they turn a relationship sour that the ultimate danger arises : Partners seize on powerful thoughts and beliefs about their spouse that cement their negativity . Only if these inner thoughts go unchallenged are you likely to topple down the final marital cascade , one that leads to distance and isolation . However , if you learn to recognize what is happening to your once-happy marriage , you can still develop the tools you need to regain control of it . KEYS TO IMPROVING YOUR MARRIAGE When you 're feeling overwhelmed , make a deliberate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be defensive and to stonewall  --  two of the " Four Horsemen "  --  and undercuts the physical feelings that sustain the thoughts that maintain distress . From the data gathered in our lab we 've seen how quickly discussions fall apart as soon as one spouse 's heart rate begins to soar . Learning how to calm down helps prevent unproductive fighting or running away from the important discussions you may need to have . In addition , listening or speaking without being defensive helps to counter several destructive habits . If you happen to be a nondefensive listener , chances are it will make the cycle of negativity much less likely . And a nondefensive attitude on your part also helps to defuse the need to stonewall , particularly for men . But keep in mind that defensiveness is a two-way street ; if you start speaking nondefensively , you will lessen your partner 's need to be defensive . Letting your spouse know that you understand him or her is also one of the most powerful tools for healing your relationship . It is an antidote to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or ignoring your partner 's point of view , you try to see the problem from his or her perspective and show that you think his or her viewpoint may have some validity . When you 've had one successful fight using these techniques , you may think you 've fully mastered the strategies . But these lesson have to be practiced often . So often , in fact , that they become completely automatic . Each time you rehearse being nondefensive or validating is a new and different experience and it 's important to keep trying even when you 're tired and do n't feel like it . The idea is that if you overlearn a communication skill , you 'll have ready access to it when you need it most  --  during a heated argument with your spouse when you are physiologically aroused . EXERCISE : HOW DO WE COMPARE ? This exercise gives you a chance to see the strengths of your marriage by comparing yourselves to other couples in your lives . 1 . Each of you jot down the names of four different couples you both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriages ; two of " good " marriages . 2 . Now share the names with one another and tell why you feel the good marriages work and the bad marriages do n't . Perhaps you admire how one couple is raising their children , or you disapprove of the way a couple berates one another in front of company . 3 . Talk about your own marriage in relation to these good and bad marriages . Compare the way you and your spouse manage to get through difficult times with the way each of these couples handle their challenges . Can you identify behaviors you want to avoid ? Are there things you 'd like to emulate ? 4 . Talk about your own ability as a couple to overcome hardship . Have you weathered episodes or incidents of which you 're particularly proud ? If so , how did you do it ? REPAIRING THE DAMAGE Fortunately , in most relationships , there are ways of fixing things . I call these " repair mechanisms . " Often , they are needed most when people are frustrated and angry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or even accompanied by an insult or threat . But they are repair mechanisms nonetheless . Happily married couples use certain phrases and actions during an argument that prevent negativity from spiraling out of control . In effect , these conciliatory gestures act as a glue that helps to hold the marriage together during tense times . 1 . Try to make comments about the communication process itself , such as " Please let me finish , " or " We 're getting off the topic , " or " That hurt my feelings . " 2 . Comment on what 's happening while it 's taking place , not afterward. 3 . Remind your partner that you admire and empathize with them despite the conflict . 4 . Use phrases such as " Yes , I see , " " Uh huh , " or " Go on . " These are little psychological strokes at which stable couples are masters . <p>                     