@@360399

At a time when science promises such dazzling advances in the practice of medicine , it may be prudent to cast a glance over the shoulder , back to an earlier era when scientists  --  or people who thought they were doing science  --  stirred hopes that better days were only a generation or so away . The rise and fall of the theory known as eugenics is in every respect a cautionary tale . The early eugenicists were usually well-meaning and progressive types . They had imbibed their Darwin and decided that the process of natural selection would improve if it were guided by human intelligence . They did not know they were shaping a rationale for atrocities . <P> The man who in 1883 coined the term eugenics , from a Greek stem meaning " good in birth , " was a cousin of Charles Darwin 's . Englishman Francis Galton ( 1822-1911 ) had a substantial inheritance and a Victorian range of scientific curiosity . He dabbled in a number of fields , including geographical exploration , but his passion was mathematics , particularly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. , the great age of quantification had begun . An unforeseen consequence of industrialized democracy had been the mammoth increase in the measurement and survey of all sorts of things . Galton relished this new flood of data  --  " Whenever you can , count " was his motto  --  and eventually became absorbed in studying the mathematical distribution of what he called " natural ability " among a sample of British subjects . Galton thought natural ability could be tracked down by reading the biographical sketches of eminent Britons in handbooks and dictionaries . When he did so , he discovered that a disproportionate number of these worthies were in some way related to one another . Ergo , he concluded , intelligence and talent were bestowed by heredity . " Could not , " he wondered , " the undesirables be got rid of and the desirables multiplied ? " <P> In fairness to Galton , he came to see the encouragement of " good " marriages as a better way to his eugenic heaven than discouraging or preventing " bad " ones . But the seed of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interest in eugenics grew with the rediscovery and wide dissemination of an obscure Austrian monk 's experiments in breeding peas . Gregor Mendel 's discovery of genetically transmitted dominant and recessive traits seemed to many the key that would unlock the mysteries of human heredity . In the U.S. , biologist Charles Davenport ( 1866-1944 ) established , with the help of a $10 million endowment from the Carnegie Institution , a center for research in human evolution at Cold Spring Harbor , N.Y . A strict Mendelian , Davenport believed so-called single-unit genes determined such traits as alcoholism and feeblemindedness . The way to eradicate such failings in the human stock , he argued , was to prevent their carriers from reproducing . He voiced the hope that " human matings could be placed upon the same high plane as that of horse breeding . " He declared that prostitution was not caused by poverty but by an " innate eroticism . " He advocated eugenic castrations.                     