@@409300

Shadows cast by the early morning sun highlighted the fresh tracks of a side-winding adder in the sand . Following the marks , I climbed the dune slope to where they ended beside a large clump of grass . Expecting to find the snake coiled and ready to strike , I cautiously circled the grass , searching for signs of the viper 's presence , but found none . Frustrated , I removed a pair of long forceps from my pack and prodded the clump . Still nothing . " Where did it go , and how did it vanish so quickly ? It must have buried itself deep into the root zone , " I muttered to myself . During my three years at the Namib Desert Research Station , I spent many days and nights walking in the dunes nearby . I occasionally encountered vipers side winding across the sand , but never did I find one lurking in the shrubs where I expected it t to be . One day , however , one surprised me . Seated at the base of a dune , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sand lizard endemic to the dune fields of Namibia . Slowly it forraged along the bottom of the dune 's steepest face , where food often collects . Stopping periodically , it pushed aside the sand with its broad , shovellike snout , searching for seeds from grasses and succulents , as well as for insects and other small arthropods . Unsuccessful , it continued on . Suddenly the sand above it exploded , blurring my vision . As my eyes refocused , I saw the lizard violently thrashing in the distorted maw of an adder . Soon it was still . The snake unhinged its lower jaw and shifted the lizard from side to side , aligning it for its headfirst passage into the stomach . I had seen many species of captive rattlesnakes and Old World vipers strike prey , and each time their speed amazed me , but nothing had prepared me for the stealth of this attack . Reminiscent of the giant sandworms in Frank Herbert 's Dune novels , Peringuey 's adders , Bitis peringueyi , can lurk beneath the sand and rise up to engulf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes are positioned on the top of its head , allowing the animal to be almost completely buried and still retain a full field of vision . Perfectly hidden , the snake is virtually undetectable . While my research focused on the ecology of the sand lizard , I learned a great deal about the various strategies organisms have evolved to cope with the peculiar climate and topography of the Namib Desert . Compared with other subtropical deserts , the Namib is cool . Its proximity to the sea 's cold Benguela current ameliorates the climate . Nevertheless , surface temperatures in the summer can exceed 140deg F , surpassing the tolerance of most organisms . Such high temperatures increase the metabolic rate and cause severe dehydration . The desert 's shifting sand dunes support very little plant life , which supplies shade and food and is the base upon which all other organisms depend . Here , food is doubly important , for it not only provides energy but is also the main source of water for most desert animals . They must budget their time wisely to obtain sufficiently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ searching for scarce prey . Dune topography further exacerbates the situation . The ridges and valleys run north and south , orienting the east-and west-facing slopes perpendicularly to the rising and setting sun . Consequently , the east-facing slopes heat rapidly in the morning and the west-facing slopes remain hot until the late afternoon . For animals active during the day , surface temperatures are tolerable for approximately two hours in the morning and three in the afternoon . In the Namib , the amount of time an animal can forage during the day is therefore about half what it might be in a flatter , more vegetated desert . Some desert animals gain foraging time and avoid lethal daytime temperatures by switching their activity to night , but Peringuey 's adder is a real opportunist . I found it to be active day and night in every season , although in summer it clearly favors the cooler night hours . It escapes the extreme daytime temperatures by burying itself in the sand . At a depth of eight inches , the sand temperature does not exceed 90deg F. Staying underground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the adder loses heat by rising to a cobralike stance and turning to face the sun . Lifting its body reduces the surface area in contact with the hot sand and promotes cooling the upper body by radiation and convection ( such as the transfer of heat via the bloodstream ) . Facing the sun shades the braincase . In this posture , the adder 's vital organs are elevated into a cooler microclimate . Throughout the year , the sand lizard remains a dedicated day creature , a behavioral rigidity that has its price . In the morning , the dune foraging area has little or no shade . Consequently , the lizard 's body temperature climbs steadily , corresponding almost perfectly to the rising sand temperature . Such " thermoconformity " is rare in desert lizards and has been noted in only a few tropical species that inhabit deep forest where sun spots are as rare as shade is in desert dunes . In both environments , the lizards have no choice but to adjust to the prevailing temperatures . As its body temperature nears 104deg F , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sand or forage a little more on the surface . From a physiological point of view , remaining active is a costly proposition that evaporates precious tissue water . With entomologist Paul Cooper , I measured the summer rate of water loss in a number of the sand lizards and discovered that about two-thirds of the individuals sampled were losing more water than they could gain from their food . Because a negative water balance can be tolerated for only a few weeks , the lizard 's survival may depend on its finding a juicy insect larva or other arthropod . Lizards that stay on the surface use three techniques to keep their body temperature below lethal limits . Occasionally , they ascend the dune slope to its crest , and like the adders , they sit upright facing the sun . Any slight breeze removes heat from their skin , and air temperatures at the height of their head and upper body are slightly cooler than the sand . When this is no longer effective , moving to the west-facing slope offers a brief respite . Because of this slope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperatures remain favorable for about one-half hour longer than on the east-facing slope . When these tactics fail , it is time to dance . The sand lizard 's comical thermoregulatory dance consists of raising the opposite fore and hind limbs , leaving the tail and remaining appendages as supports . When sufficiently cooled , the elevated foot and hand replace those on the sand , which then shoot skyward . And so the dance continues , with limbs rising and falling in a jerky , puppet-like rhythm . When dancing no longer abates the discomfort , the lizard dives into the sand and , using its strong forelimbs , swims downward to the cooling depths . Beneath the sand , the lizard breathes by leaving its mouth slightly open . The broad , overhanging snout prevents sand from entering its mouth . When I first saw a sand lizard dance , I was reminded of the summers of my youth in Phoenix , Arizona . Defiantly , friends and I would set out barefoot for the nearest swimming pool . To reach it we had to cross stretches of gooey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but some days were too hot , and like the sand lizard 's , our burning feet demanded relief . Quickly we sat on the road , raising both feet high . When our feet cooled , off we raced with the tarry signature of our thermoregulatory dance on the bottom of our bathing suits . <p>                     