@@427908

If a stolen purse counts only as trash compared with a good name lost , how shall we view the happily expiring custom of addressing a married woman by her husband 's name ? Perhaps I was an incipient feminist from my cradle , but I do remember wondering , at a very early age , why my mother , Eleanor , often received letters addressed to a Mrs. Leonard Gould . Among several possible redresses , the game of turning tables in favorable circumstances surely has appeal . Samuel Gridley Howe ( 1801-76 ) did good work as an educator of the blind , but I once took great pleasure in identifying him as Mr. Julia Ward Howe to acknowledge his more famous wife , author of the " Battle Hymn of the Republic . " We do not often encounter such an opportunity among married scientists , given the virtual exclusion of women before our current generation . Mme. Curie stands among the greatest scientists of all time , but her husband Pierre was also preeminent and must therefore remain Pierre , not Mr. Marie . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategy of inversion for pairing an eminent wife with an obscure husband  --  and I do feel quite protec tive , for Mr. Sophia Kovalevsky was a paleontologist and a damned fine ( if forgotten ) scientist in his own right . The Dictionary of Scientfic Biography begins its entry on Sophia Kovalevsky ( 1850-91 ) by calling her " the greatest woman mathematician prior to the twentieth century . " She studied abroad , for women could not obtain degrees from Russian universities . In Berlin , she received four years of private tutoring from professors , for women could not attend university lectures . In 1874 , she earned her doctorate in absentia from the University of Goettingen in Germany . Despite the acknowledged excellence of her research , and solely for reasons of her gender , Kovalevsky could not obtain an academic position anywhere in Europe . She therefore returned to Russia  --  to a life of odd jobs , failed business ventures , and stolen hours for mathematical study . In 1883 , following the death of Mr. Sophia  --  we shall come to him shortly  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time successfully . She enjoyed several years of productive work as a professor of mathematics at the University of Stockholm , but died of influenza and subsequent pneumonia at age forty-one , at the height of her accomplishments and fame . Sophia Kovalevsky published only ten papers on mathematical subjects during her brief life ( she also attempted , less successfully , a simultaneous career in literature , writing several novels , a play , and a critical commentary on George Eliot , whom she had met on a trip to England ) . But these substantial works on diverse problems in mathematics brought her much renown . She studied the propagation of light in a crystalline medium , the rings of Saturn , and the rotation of rigid bodies around fixed points ; she wrote several papers on technical matters ( which I do not pretend to understand ) in integral calculus . In 1888 , she won the Boudin Prize of the French Academy of Science for her memoir on the rotation of rigid bodies ( which generalized the work of her French predecessors Poisson and Lagrange ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised the award from 3,000 to 5,000 francs . Vladimir Onufrievich Kovalevsky ( 1842-83 )  --  Mr. Sophia  --  entered his wife 's life in a most unromantic , but eminently practical , manner integral to this tale of Sophia 's career . Single women of intellectual bent languished in Catch-22 in mid-nineteenth-century Russia . They could not study at Russian universities , but they could not travel abroad as independent persons either . To escape this bind , freethinking women often arranged sham marriages with men of similar persuasions . The technically married couple could then travel abroad for foreign study . Sophia wed Vladimir for emancipation and the right to travel . The newlyweds then left for Germany , to live in different apartments and study in different cities . Sophia and Vladimir belonged to the culture of freethinking Russians who , in prerevolutionary times , gave their name to one of the few English words with a Russian etymology  --  the intelligentsia . The men and women of the intelligentsia tended to radicalism in politics , bohemianism in life style ( in such contrast to the proclaimed asceticism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from American and Western European versions of the same phenomenon  --  fascination for science and confidence in its power to transform the world for good . These men and women sought scientists for their idols , rather than the literary or philosophical intellectuals who fronted for similar movements in other lands . Danin , in particular , became their icon  --  and for this reason ( and as a historical curiosity rarely acknowledged or appreciated ) , most late-nineteenth-century Russian intellectuals were strict Darwinians , while to Darwin 's own frustration , other European scientists , although convinced of evolution 's truth by Origin of Science tended to reject Darwin 's favored mechanism of natural selection . As a literary prototype of this movement , we must nominate the hero Bazarov of Turgenev 's Fathers and Sons , published in 1862 , just three years after Darwin 's Origin of Species . This revolutionary nihilist denies all laws except those of the natural sciences . When not engaged in political schemes , he dissects frogs to build his knowledge and center his life . Vladimir and Sophia Kovalevsky were not nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But their lives surely included sufficient adventure for a Hollywood biography . I was particularly struck by the story of Vladimir 's skulduggery in fostering the escape from France , following the fall of the Paris Commune in 1871 , of the imprisoned and politically radical lover of Sophia 's sister . Sophia and Viadimir began their marriage as a sham , but as the world turns , birds fly , and bees buzz , the best laid plans of mice and men often depart from original intentions . When Sophia could not find employment in Europe and Vladimir wished to go home ( where he could work as a paleontologist ) , they returned to Russia together . They had always been fond of each other , and when Vladimir showed special tenderness to Sophia following the death of her beloved father , they did consummate their marriage and eventually had a daughter , who later studied medicine , worked as a translator , and became quite a heroine herself  --  within a very different Soviet system . Their life together in Russia produced little but tension , much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Sophia obtained a good sum after her father 's death . As neither found remunerative work within science ( and since they had chosen a life style far above their means ) , they invested their cash in a variety of ill-considered business schemes , mostly in real estate and public baths  --  and quickly became flat broke . Vladimir then had a stroke of good fortune that eventually became his undoing . He obtained a position  --  at decent compensation  --  as spokesman for a firm that manufactured naphtha from petroleum . The Ragozin brothers , owners of the company , wanted the prestige of Vladimir 's academic degrees and his recognized verbal skills ( arising , in part , from his efforts as a formidable soapbox orator in his political past ) to lure customers and investors . Vladimir spent most of his time on business trips to European cities . Sophia , although happy for the cash that gave her some leisure for mathematical work , became increasingly frustrated at his absences and preoccupations  --  and a serious rift developed . Finally , early in 1881 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ academic dreams . She explained in a letter to Vladimir : You write truly that no woman has created anything important , but it is just because of this that it is essential for me , while I still have energy and tolerable material circumstances , to position myself so that I may show whether I can achieve anything or whether I lack brains . ( I have become intrigued with Vladimir and Sophia and have read everything I could get my hands on for this essay  --  including a veiled biography by Sophia 's sister ; an even more hagiographical set of Soviet documents ; and a fine modern biography , the source of this quote and much else , by Don H. Kennedy , entitled Little Sparrow : A Portrait of Sophia Kovalevsky , Ohio University Press , 1983 . ) After many heart-rending letters and a few meetings for attempted reconciliation , Sophia decided to remain abroad , and the couple entrusted their daughter to the care of Vladimir 's more famous ( and solvent ) brother Alexander the celebrated embryologist who discovered the relationship between vertebrates and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predictable tragedy finally unfolded . Vladimir had been mentally ill for years , and his periods of depression lengthened and deepened . The naphtha firm failed , and the Ragozin brothers , charged with numerous shady dealings , faced judicial proceedings . Vladimir , fearing his own disgrace and prosecution ( although he was apparently innocent and not under official suspicion ) , committed suicide on April 15 , 1883 , by putting a bag over his head and inhaling chloroform . He had earlier written ( but not mailed ) a letter to his brother that functioned as a suicide note : I am afraid that I shall grive you very , very much , but from all the clouds that have gathered from all sides over me , this was the only thing left for me to do . Everything for which I was preparing has been broken up by this , and life is growing terribly difficult . ... Write Sophia that my constant thought was about her , and how very wrong I was before her , and how I spoiled her life which , except for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On learning the news , Sophia was devastated by a complex mixture of grief and guilt . She withdrew to her room and would neither admit anyone nor eat anything . On the fifth day of her fast , she lost consciousness . She was then force-fed by her physician and put into bed . Several days later , she sat up , asked for a pencil and paper , and began to work on a problem in mathematics . Vladimir 's paleontological career was brief and limited , both in quantity and apparent range of material . He worked and studied abroad from 1869 ( the year of his marriage ) to 1874 , attending lectures in several German universities , studying fossil vertebrates at museums in Germany , France , Holland , and Great Britain , and collecting fossils in France and Italy . He wrote six papers in three languages , none in his own ( a few Russian translations appeared later ) . All six , published between 1873 and 1877 , treated the anatomy and evolution of the two great groups of large , hoofed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented today by only the few living species of horses , rhinoceroses , and tapirs ) , and the artiodactyls , or even-toed ungulates ( the greatest success story among large mammals , including the highly diverse cattle , deer , antelopes , sheep , goats , pigs , giraes , camels , and hippos ) . In the late 1970s , I edited an ill-fated thirty-volume collection of facsimile reprints in the history of paleontology . ( The volumes were lovely , but the press went belly up  --  for other reasons , I trust  --  soon after the collection appeared . I assume that most printed copies ended up in the shredder . ) I decided to collect all Kovalevsky 's papers together  --  in German  --  from the journal Palaeontographica ; his English monograph , submitted by T. H. Huxley for publication in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London ; and his famous French treatise on the evolution of horses , published back home in the Memoires de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St.-Petersbourg ( but not in Russian , so that wide readership would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publish their major scientific journals in English for the same reason ) . Kovalevsky 's six papers made up a substantial , but not particularly hefty , volume . Such limited output rarely builds preeminence in a field like paleoncology , so identified ( however unfairly ) as a profession devoted to the detailed description of minutiae . Yet , although Vladimir Kovalevsky may be virtually unknown to the larger intellectual world ( except as the husband of a famous mathematician and brother of a celebrated embryologist ) , he is treasured within my small fraternity as an important innovator and a particularly careful craftsman . His few published papers created a reputation well beyond their literal heft . For fifteen years , I have stared fondly at my modest volume of his totality . Kovalevsky has always won warm accolades from aficionados . Darwin greatly admired his work and singled out his monograph on horses for special praise in a letter that can only make scholars yearn for more in the same ( literal ) style . Darwin had the world 's most abominable handwriting , a serious impediment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passages in his writing , and therefore in the history of Western thought , have yet to be deciphered to everyone 's satisfaction . But he wrote to Kovalevsky in a wonderfully clear hand  --  no doubt laboriously and in deference to a man who usually worked in Cyrillic and might have difficulty with English penmanship . Why did n't Darwin realize that Englishmen might also stumble over his usual scrawl ? ) Darwin had good reason to cultivate Kovalevsky 's favor . Before marrying Sophia , Vladimir had worked as a translator and publisher of scientific books . He translated at least three of Darwin 's most important works into Russian  --  The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication ( 1868 ) , The Descent of Man ( 1871 ) , and The Exression of the Emotions in Man and Animal ( 1872 ) . Vladimir labored so feverishly on the 1868 book ( Darwin 's longest ) that the Russian edition actually appeared before the " original " English version , thereby marking the premire of this important work . In another tale from their eventful lives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Descent of Man through the Prussian lines and into besieged Paris during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870 . Kovalevsky 's reputation has always remained firm in the small fraternity of vertebrate paleontologists . In the first years of this century , Henry Fairfield Osborn , America 's leader in the field ( and longtime president of the American Museum of Natural History ) , marked Kovalevsky 's work as " the first attempt at an arrangement of a great group of mammals upon the basis of the descent theory . " He then added : If a student asks me how to study paleontology , I can do no better than direct him to the Versuch einer natuerlichen Classification der fossilen Hufthiere An Attempt at a Natural Classification of Fossil Hoofed Mammals  --  Kovalevsky 's most important German publication ... This work is a model union of the detailed study of form and function with theory . The Belgian paleontologist Louis Dollo , Europe 's leader in the field , praised Kovalevsky as " the first to study systematically the great problems of paleontology on the basis of evolution .... No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with such an amplitude of concepts . " In his major work ( La Paleontologie Ethologique of 1909 ) , Dollo proposed a heroic epitome by depicting the history of paleontology as a forward march from foolishness to illumination in three progressive stages , each marked by a prototype : the epoque fabuleuse , ou empirique , " centered upon the fanciful early eighteenth-century work of the Swiss savant J.J. Scheuchzer ; the epoque morphologique , ou rationelle , " marked by the great Georges Cuvier in the early nineteenth century ; and the culminating " epoque transformiste evolutionary , ou definitive , " symbolized by the brilliant work of Kovalevsky . We may identify the source of Kovalevsky 's fame , and his enduring place in the history of the natural sciences , in two summary statements . 1 . Kovalevsky made the first substantial application of evolutionary theory  --  specifically , Darwin 's version based on natural selection  --  to lineages of fossil organisms . ( Others had published evolutionary interpretations based on vague and confused views about mechanisms of change , but Kovalevsky rigorously applied Darwin 's theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anatomy with changing external environment and then developing fnctional , or adaptive , interpretations of the evolutionary transformations . ) Moreover , Kovalevsky was a consistent Darwinian at a time when the great majority of scientists , although persuaded of evolution 's truth by Darwin 's arguments , rejected natural selection as an important mechanism of change . ( In fairness , Kovalevsky 's commitment need not record any superior insight or observation based on fossils , but arose largely from Darwin 's exalted status among the Russian intelligentsia , as discussed previously in this essay . ) In his English monograph of 1874 , Kovalevsky wrote : The wide acceptance by thinking naturalists of Darwin 's theory has given a new life to paleontological research ; the investigation of fossil forms has been elevated from a merely inquisitive study of what were deemed to be arbitrary acts of creation to a deep scientific investigation of forms allied naturally and in direct connection with those now peopling the globe . As a good example of his focus on adaptation to changing environments as the motor of evolution , Kovalevsky argues later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toe for life on hard , dry plains ( a new environment that followed the evolution of grasses in the Miocene epoch ) , while hoofed mammals that lived in soft and swampy ground required a broad foot and therefore retained several toes : If the lateral digits are still retained in the Suidae pigs it is chiefly owing to the fact that the Hogs live generally in marshy places and on muddy river-banks , where a broadfoot is of great importance for not allowing them to sink deeply into the mud . But by some geological change , their habitat should be transformed into dry grasry plains , there can be no reasonable doubt that they would as readily lose their lateral digits as the Paleotheroids horse ancestors , in Kovalevsky 's view have lost theirs ... in becoming transformed into the monodactyle Horse . 2 . Kovalevsky documented the most famous evolutionary story of all  --  the transformation of a small , many-toed ancestor with low-crowned teeth into the large-bodied , single-toed , long-toothed modern horse . Moreover , Kovalevsky identified , correctly we still think , the primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ browsing leaves in woodlands and marshes to life as a grazer of grasses and a runner on the dry and open plains . Kovalevsky tied this transition to the Miocene evolution of grasses and the subsequent development of extensive plains and savannas as a new habitat ripe for exploitation . He explained reduction of toes as an adaptation for running on hard ground , and the evolution of high-crowned teeth as a necessary response to new diets of tough grasses with their high content of potentially tooth-eroding silica . Thomas Henry Huxley had also worked on the problem and had proposed the same evolutionary sequence , but Kovalevsky provided so much more documentation that primary credit for this seminal story fell to the Russian scientist ( with Huxley 's blessing ) . Kovalevsky and Huxley reconstructed the evolutionary sequence of horses as passing through a linear series of four successive stages , all based on European fossils : from the Eocene Paleotherium to the early Miocene three-toed Anchitherium to the late Miocene Hiparion to Equus , the modern horse ( see the accompanying evolutionary tree , reproduced on this page from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no misgivings about the factuality ofhis sequence . He wrote about step one in his English monograph of 1874 : " There can be , in my opinion , no reasonable doubt that the Horse descended from the Paleotherium . " He expressed equal assurance about step two in his French treatise of 1873 : " In its skeleton , Anchitherium is a genus so intermediary , so transitional , that if the theory of transmutation were not already so firmly established , this genus would have provided one of the most important pillars of support " ( my translations throughout ) . His German monograph of 1876 exuded confidence in the full sequence of four steps : " Wre have a form in the upper Eocene , which must surely be counted as an ancestor of horses ; and we now have apparently persuasive data that this form , Paleotherium medium , evolved through the Miocene Anchitherium and Hiparion to modern horses . " The French monograph of 1873 made the same claim in a more succinct and forceful manner : " There can be no reasonable doubt that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the horse  --  form a relationship of direct descent . " I would add a third point , more technical and professional and therefore not part of Kovalevsky 's public reputation , to explain his high status among working paleontologists . Kovalevsky won kudos for his meticulous attention to descriptive detail . I have quoted the few general comments from his publications ; the bulk of his text provides exhaustive information about every bump on every bone and every nubbin on every tooth . Moreover , Kovalevsky did not engage in such laborious work for the mindless and obsessive reasons that motivate many practitioners , but explicitly because he viewed this level of detail as a prerequisite for adequate documentation of such grand ideas as evolution , natural selection , and adaptation . Directly following his paean to Darwin from his English monograph ( quoted earlier ) , and as an excuse for such flowery generality , he wrote : " The foregoing observations are intended only as a sort of apology for the somewhat minute osteological details into which it seemed to me necessary to enter in my description @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his most explicit defense of detailed empiricism as a scientific method . He states that he was able to succeed in documenting the intermediary status of Anchitherium only because he had so many more fossils to study : I was able to obtain more complete material than any of my predecessors prossessed . A monographon Anchitherium now offers , following all the beautiful conquests of Darwinian theory , an irresistible charm for all evolutionary naturalists . But Kovalevsky , true to the foremost ideal of objectivity , then denies that any a priori preference for evolution could have influenced his interpretations . In the best tradition of Sergeant Friday  --  " just the facts , ma'am "  --  he states that he had reached an inescapable conclusion by freeing his mind of preconceptions and letting the fossils speak in their undeniable factuality : Nevertheless , one must not think that I began this work with a preconceived aim . Quite to the contrary ; I interrogated the material in an impartial manner , and I give the response that the fossils furnished to me . With this brave claim , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vladimir Kovalevsky from an antiquarian tale for the heartstrings to a lesson of central relevance to the practice of modern science . Kovalevsky developed a case study that remains preeminent as a triumphant tale of evolution documented in the fossil record . ( Does any paleontological museum not include an evolutionary " line " of horses  --  or a more recent correction expressed as an elaborate , branching bush ? ) Kovalevsky expressed complete confidence in his sequence of four European genera . He won his reputation for unsurpassed care in meticulous and detailed description . He strongly espoused the classic dogma of absolute objectivity in observation and claimed that the fossils themselves had dictated an unimpeachable , factual conclusion . And Kovalevsky was wrong  --  for a clear and interesting reason that brings no discredit upon his work . He and Huxley had regarded the sequence of four European fossils as an unbroken lineage of direct transformation  --  that is , as a series of ancestors and descendants . They did not realize  --  and could not have done so in the absence of published evidence  --  that horses had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The three " ancestors " of Kovalevsky 's sequence  --  Paleotherium , Anchitherium , and Hipparion  --  are all side branches that migrated to Europe and became extinct without issue in their new and peripheral home . ( As a historical irony that would cost the Aztecs dearly and greatly facilitate the bloody schemes of the Conquistadores , horses then died out in America , leaving the Old World descendants of yet another migration as the source of all modern horses . ) Kovalevsky 's four genera did represent a temporal series of stages in a trend , but not  --  as he had asserted so confidently  --  a direct sequence of filiation . He had , so to speak , misidentified an indirect series of my paternal grandpa 's brother , my mother 's brother , and me , as a direct genealogy of my paternal grandpa , my father , and me . The denouement occurred in an interesting manner when T.H. Huxley made his only trip to America to give the inaugural lecture at Johns Hopkins University and to participate in several other events  --  including a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  surrounding our centennial celebration of 1876 . He visited the American paleontologist O.C. Marsh at Yale and , in great excitement mixed with a bit of chagrin , saw enough beautifully transitional fossils to know that Europe had been a periphery , and America a breeding ground . Marsh later wrote of his magnificent show and tell : He Huxley then informed me that this was new to him , and that my facts demonstrated the evolution of the horse beyond question , and for the first time indicated the direct line of descent of an existing animal . With the generosity of true greatness , he gave up his own opinions in the face of new truth and took my conclusions . Huxley scrapped his New York lecture and hastily prepared a new version . If science , as a stereotype proclaims , truly operated as an automatic process of objective documentation , then we should castigate Kovalevsky  --  for he firmly advertised his conclusions as factually driven and truly proved thereby . Moreover , if theories rest upon crucial cases , as another stereotype holds , then mus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's horses from the race of life ? Does n't Kovalevsky then become an incubus rather than a hero  --  an unwitting foil for creationists rather than a preeminent student of evolutionary paleontology  --  because his error might give comfort to the enemy ? We need , instead , to reject these simplistic stereotypes and heed Marsh 's wise statement about " the generosity of true greatness . " The only universal attribute of scientific statements must reside in their potential fallibility . If a claim can not be disproved , it does not belong to the enterprise of science . Conclusions arising in new fields ( like evolutionary paleontology in Kovalevsky 's day ) , and based on imperfect data ( the fossil record ) , are especially subject to error  --  and brave scientists must do their best and risk the consequences , secure in the knowledge that corrected mistakes ( however personally embarrassing to the original perpetrator ) bring as much clarity as valid discoveries . Moreover , truly grand and powerful theories  --  evolution preeminently among them  --  do not and can not rest upon single observations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the only conceptual structure that can make unified sense of all this disparate information . The failure of a particular claim usually records a local error , not the bankruptcy of a central theory . Kovalevsky mistook a series of collateral relatives for a true genealogical sequence , but the notion of genealogy itself does not fall thereby . If I mistakenly identify your father 's brother as your own dad , you do n't become genealogically rootless and created de novo . You still have a father ; we just have n't identified him properly . With this tale of Kovalevsky 's fruitful error , we come face to face with the interesting and conjoined issues of the relationship between fact and theory in science , and the phenomenon of being right for the wrong reason . Theory and fact are equally strong and utterly interdependent . One has no meaning without the other . We need theory to organize and interpret facts , even to know what we can or might observe And we need facts to validate theories and give them substance . Vladimir Kovalevsky made an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanatory power of a new and correct theory that would reformulate all of biology  --  and he yearned to apply this idea to difficult but crucial data . He reached a premature conclusion that was only half-wrong when he misidentified collateral relatives as direct ancestors . But he provided the first powerful example of a workable methodology ( inferences about adaptation from anatomical changes in paleontological sequences ) that can , with better data , document and support the most important theory subject to adjudication by the fossil record . Lest anyone doubt the power of being right for the wrong reason , consider the central incident in the intellectual life of Kovalevsky 's hero , Charles Darwin . Thanks to his obsessive habits of record keeping , we can reconstruct the sources of Darwin 's eureka when , in early 1837 , he recognized that evolution must be true . Darwin first learned that he had been wrong in allocating many small birds from the Galpagos Islands to several distantly related families . All , in fact , were finches . How could adjacent islands house separate species of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinctive rhea ( a large , flightless bird ) he had collected in southern Patagonia belonged to a new species ( named Rhea darwinii in his honor by his ornithological consultant , John Gould ) . Why , Darwin wondered , did two such similar birds share contiguous territories , the ordinary rhea to the north and Darwin 's new species to the south ? Darwin therefore pondered two examples of geographical replacement among closely related modern birds . He now made a brilliant analogy . If both finches and rheas replace each other in space , then should n't temporal succession also occur in continuity  --  that is , by evolution rather than successive creation ? Darwin had collected large fossil mammals in South America . He regarded one genus , later named Macrauchenia , as a relative of the modern guanaco . If the two rheas are maximally related and geographically continguous , then the two camel-like creatures , the extinct Macratrchenia and the modern guanaco , as temporally contiguous , must also be joined by blood . In other words , temporal sequence must record evolutionary transformation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " The same kind of relation that common ostrich rhea bears to Petisse the new species , Rhea darwinii , extinct guanaco to recent ; in former case position , in latter time . " What a portentous moment ; what a crux in the history of human thought But Darwin had based his brilliant analogy , and his astoundingly correct general conclusion , on a flub in particulars  --  an error that he could not have recognized and that did not affect the validity of his larger insight . South America had been an island continent for tens of millions of years before the Isthmus of Panama rose just a few million years ago . Several independent orders of mammals had evolved on South America , although most perished following climatic changes and the influx of North American species after the isthmus formed . ( The outstanding set of survivors , South America 's grand indigenous group , includes sloths , armadillos , and anteaters of the unique order Edentata . ) One of these extinct and independent orders , the Litopterna , included creatures uncannily convergent upon unrelated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of convergence , distantly related groups evolve similar forms by independent adaptation to common environments . Ichthyosaurs are reptiles , and dolphins are mammals  --  but both look and work like fishes . ) One group of litopterns evolved an amazing resemblance to horses , including a parallel loss of toes , culminating in Thoatherium , the one-toed litoptern . Another group , represented by Macrauchenia , converged upon the New World camels . Since true camels later crossed the isthmus and colonized South America ( to survive today as Ilamas , guanacos , and alpacas ) , we can hardly blame Darwin for inferring a genealogical tie between modern guanacos and the remarkably similar but unrelated fossil Macrauchenia . Richard Owen , England 's greatest anatomist and Darwin 's friend in these early years , had affirmed the link of Macrauchenia to modern guanacos . Thus , at this most sublime moment in the history of biology , Darwin grasped the truth of evolution by basing a brilliant analogy on a flat-out factual error . Theories rarely arise as patient inferences forced by accumulated facts . Theories are mental constructs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a commanding push from empirical reality ) . But the prods often include dreams , quirks , and errors  --  just as we may obtain crucial bursts of energy from foodstuffs ( or pharmaceuticals ) of no objective or enduring value . Great truth can emerge from small error . Evolution is thrilling , liberating , and correct . And Macrauchenia is a litoptern . The fossil record provides our best direct evidence for evolution at large scales . And European fossil horses are collateral relatives , not ancestors , of modern Equus . As Mrs. Julia Ward Howe  --  the enduringly famous member of the couple  --  wrote , we may obtain our inspiration from a full range ofsources , both " in the beauty of the lilies , " and " where the grapes of wrath are stored , " ( to probe the entire botanical spectrum ) . Any inspiring light can indicate a path in the darkness of nature 's complexity : " I have read his righteous sentence by the dim and flaring lamps . His truth is marching on . " Stephen Jay Gould teaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvard University . He is also Frederick P. Rose Honorary Curator in Invertebrates at the American Museum of Natural History . <p>                     