@@422838

MANY OF YOU SUPPORTED the Republican Revolution because you wanted to see the welfare state dismantled , the budget balanced , and our national debt paid down . But I do n't believe many of you wanted this mandate extended to include the privatization of public rangelands , the exploitation of oil and minerals on every possible national wildlife refuge , and national forests clearcut at an accelerated rate . Just look at how the Congress is handling revisions to the Endangered Species Act Although I 've written before about how a major flaw in this law has allowed the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ( USFWS ) to take private land without compensation in direct violation of the Constitution 's Fifth Amendment , I expected to see this one problem fixed , not the entire law jeopardized . Yet gutting the law is exactly what the House Resources Committee had in mind last October when it passed a measure ( 27 to 17 ) that would make protection of endangered species on private land ( where most are found ) entirely voluntary , overrule the U.S. Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hobble the process whereby new species are considered for endangered species status . The measure also discounts plants and invertebrates as life forms . Those who serve on the House Resources Committee apparently believe that unless a creature has a backbone and is bigger than a breadbox , it is n't worth saving . Another essentially sound law  --  the Clean Water Act  --  is flawed only in its overly generalized definition of wetlands and the tediousness of the permitting process under the Act 's Section 404 . Rather than address these particular problems , however , the House has tried to turn the entire law into what many would now call the " Dirty Water Act . " As we went to press , the fate of the proposed changes in the Senate was still unknown , but there 's hope in the statement of Chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee , Senator John Chafee of Rhode Island : " To help ensure that we continue to protect wetlands , five principles should guide reform of Section 404 . First , reform must be based on sound science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for more consistency , consolidation , and efficiency . Third , willing states should be afforded greater opportunities to take a leading role in administering the program . Fourth , reform should result in enhanced cooperation with and greater certainty for affected landowners . Fifth , the goal of Section 404 , as stated by President Bush , should continue to be no overall net loss of wetlands . ... Efforts to ' reform ' Section 404 , no matter how well-intentioned , must not effectively serve to ' repeal ' the statutory provision that has done so much to advance wetlands conservation . " Meanwhile , one of Senator Chafee 's colleagues , Senator Conrad Burns of Montana , wants to give hundreds of millions of public acres currently administered by the Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) to the states for minimally supervised mineral exploitation as well as for privatization by many livestock permittees whose cattle and sheep are already overgrazing the land . This is not the first effort in the current Congress to divest Americans of public lands . In S. 852 and H.R. 1713 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Oregon tried to give more than 200 million acres of federal rangelands directly to livestock permittees without bothering to go through the intermediate step of transferring control to the states . Then in S. 1031 and H.R. 2032 , Senator Alan Simpson of Wyoming and Representative James Harrison of Utah hoped to eliminate federal oversight on some 268 million acres of mineral-rich public land by arguing that the states would eventually have more qualified people to do the work  --  even if many of them would have to be trained and paid by the mining industry . Senator Burns ' privatization bill ( S. 1151 ) is more subtle than either of the above . It would create a National Land and Resources Management Commission allegedly to reduce administrative overhead , but primarily to eliminate the BLM , the Bureau of Reclamation ( BuRec ) , and the U.S. Forest Service ( USFS ) . The bill suggests that the best way to streamline government is to privatize publicly owned resources . To make sure the BLM , BuRec , and the USFS could never be restored once the Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated to smother all Senate and House debate . Meanwhile , Alaska 's Congressional delegation is openly scornful of the majority of Americans who live in the Lower 48 , but who dream of Alaska as the world 's last , best hope of wilderness . The Alaska delegation also appears to disregard the feelings of tens of thousands of homesteaders who moved to Alaska over the past forty years because they wanted to escape the corporate-dominated world of the Lower 48 . Far from being on the same wavelength with these constituents , the Alaska delegation acts as though its only obligation is to serve the oil and timber industries that contributed so mightily to the politicians ' election campaigns . As a result , clearcutting is to be stepped up in the Tongass National Forest  --  the world 's largest remaining temperate rain forest  --  and oil exploration is being promoted in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge ( ANWR ) despite the fact that the oil industry formerly agreed to stay out of ANWR as a precondition to tapping the oil of neighboring Prudhoe Bay . Furthermore , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caribou herd that migrates between Canada 's Yukon Territory and ANWR , and worse yet , any oil pumped out of ANWR today will be sold cheaply to the Japanese because the world is currently awash in crude . A variation on this overall theme is found in Utah , where Senators Orrin Hatch and Robert Bennett and Representatives Jim Hansen and Enid Waldholz have introduced bills ( S. 884 and H.R. 1745 ) that would allow extractive industries to mine , strip , drill , or develop 20.2 million of the remaining 22 million acres of America 's Red Rock Wilderness . Had a majority of Utah citizens supported the plan , it would have been comprehensible , although still not permissible , since this land belongs to all citizens of the United States . But the Utah delegation is pushing the scheme despite the evident wishes of the overwhelming majority of Utah residents as well as every national conservation , recreation , and educational organization that has examined the idea . The ultimate weapon in all this wheeling and dealing is the federal budget . While most Americans hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar to our own household spending , some members of Congress have used the budget to attach self-serving riders . For example , Senator J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana believes his buddies in the oil industry should n't have to pay royalties on oil found beyond a certain depth in the Gulf of Mexico . Colorado Representative Joel Hefley has slipped in a rider to end federal control of some National Parks . And both Houses of Congress have already approved a rider requiring the U.S. Forest Service to sell public land leased by a significant number of ski resorts . This will allegedly improve the forests ' multiple-use management , but you tell me how much opportunity there 'll be to hunt deer or elk in such places once large-scale development gets underway Is there anything good at all coming out of this Congress ? Yes . Senator Dale Bumpers of Arkansas has introduced S. 1025 to facilitate a land swap between the Weyerhaeuser Corp. , Ouachita National Forest , and the USFWS . Weyerhaeuser would give 125,000 acres to the Ouachita Forest and 25,000 acres of bottomland hardwood forest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Arkansas . In exchange , Weyerhaeuser would receive 40,000 acres of commercially valuable , but ecologically indifferent timberland from the National Forest system . The net gain will be about 110,000 acres of superior outdoor recreational land for the public and profits for Weyerhaeuser and the communities near where the timber will be cut . This is the kind of creative thinking many of us hoped to see in this Congress . Instead , we 've watched Senators and Representatives act as though serving the public means serving the interest groups that funded their elections . Perhaps privatizing some public lands and some kinds of resource management would be good for America . But Congress seems determined to ram these huge giveaways down our throats without the least public debate or even disclosure . Once voters find out what the Congress is up to , the Contract With America may be in for a major change . <p>                     