@@354012

EVEN IF THE NEED FOR JOURNALISTIC DETACHMENT did not preclude my participation , I would not join the Million Man March this week in Washington . That 's not because I disagree with the march 's stated purpose of inspiring a moral and spiritual rebirth among African American men ; to the contrary , I applaud it . But however noble the cause , I will not rally behind any banner hoisted by the march 's main organizers , Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan and Benjamin F. Chavis Jr . As Mary Frances Berry , chairperson of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights , declared in a letter to the Washington Post last week , " I do not trust Louis Farrakhan or Benjamin Chavis to lead us to the Promised Land . " <P> There are plenty of other blacks who share this sentiment , but many are reluctant to voice it for fear of being branded race traitors . Their problem with Farrakhan , like mine , is not only his anti-Semitism but also his habit of selling wolf tickets  --  archaic black slang for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the need for blacks to develop economic independence , for instance , the Nation of Islam 's enterprises are less than impressive : small businesses such as restaurants , the Final Call newspaper and security-guard companies that contract with public housing projects and similar institutions in many cities around the country . In all , the Muslims probably employ fewer blacks  --  perhaps a few thousand  --  than a couple of good-size auto plants . Much is made , and rightly so , of the thousands of black ex-criminals and drug addicts that the Muslims have helped to lead newly productive lives . But black Christian denominations have long worked similar miracles , on a larger scale , and without sinking into the swamp of ethnic scapegoating . <P> It is not that Farrakhan and his followers pose any serious threat to Jewish lives or influence . The real danger of Farrakhan 's anti-Semitic fulminations is that they divert blacks from their real enemies  --  in much the same way that right-wing Republicans like Pat Buchanan blame immigrants and liberals for the declining living standards of average workers  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nation of Islam has done , or not done , to advance racial justice . The simple truth is that the Jews Farrakhan so often reviles contributed more in lives , money and effort to the civil rights movement than has the Nation of Islam . Trapped in a fantasy about setting up a separate black country as a solution to the race problem , the Nation of Islam sat on the sidelines while Martin Luther King Jr . and his followers , black and white and of all religions , put their lives on the line . Even today , Jews continue to vote for black candidates more consistently than any ethnic or racial group except blacks themselves . In contrast , it was not until Jesse Jackson 's first presidential campaign in 1984 , nearly 20 years after the Voting Rights Act emancipated blacks politically , that Farrakhan gave his followers permission to register and vote .                     