@@409303

A midday walk through the Sonoran Desert on a typical summer day can be enervating . The shade temperature shoots up to 105deg F well before noon , and the sun is relentless . To keep cool , you must sweat profusely , and to replace lost fluid , you will need to drink about a half gallon of water an hour . You are not alone in your suffering . Even the plants are hunkered down against the onslaught : deciduous species such as mesquite and paloverde have lost their leaves , the creosote bushes have a sickly yellowish tinge , and the cactuses appear gaunt and shriveled . Flowering annuals that cloaked the landscape with color earlier in the spring have long since died , entrusting their fate to the hardy seeds they produced during the brief growing season . Signs of animal life are difficult to detect . Birds gave up singing hours ago , and no lizards scurry about . The only clue that animate creatures are thriving here at all is an unmistakable sound : the omnipresent , high-pitched buzzing of singing male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mesquite and paloverde trees . Incredibly , they are courting , mating , and ovipositing in heat so inhospitable as to force virtually every other life form into some sort of refuge . How are cicadas able to stay cool enough to be active under such conditions ? The answer to this question came from some unexpected experimental results during my early work on the physiology of cicadas and from follow-up experiments with Neil Hadley and Michael Quinlan , both of Arizona State University . When threatened with overheating , cicadas extract water from their blood and transport it through large ducts to the surface of their body , where it evaporates . In other words , cicadas keep cool in essentially the same way heat-stressed people do : by sweating ! Until our discovery , sweating as a cooling mechanism was known only in humans and a few additional mammals . Its presence in any other animal was completely unsuspected . No other insect , including the cicada 's closest relative , the leafhopper , possesses the ducts required for sweating . The ability to sweat varies among cicada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or cuticle . In hot-desert species , such as D. apache , the ducts are abundantly distributed across the upper surface of the body . Correspondingly , the cicada can reduce its temperature by as much as ten to fifteen degrees below that of the surrounding air  --  a remarkable amount of cooling for any animal . Species from cooler habitats , such as the thirteen-and seventeen-year periodical cicadas so familiar in the eastern United States , have only a scattering of sweat pores and can not significantly reduce their body temperature by sweating . However , their habitat contains thick deciduous forests , so adults can usually avoid overheating simply by moving into the shade . Cicadas that are nocturnally active during cool seasons in alpine forests of Tasmania and southern Australia apparently lack the pores entirely . Sweating allows some cicada species to remain active under heat conditions that are intolerable for their enemies , such as predatory birds , lizards , small mammals , and the provisioning wasps known as cicada killers . Why have n't some of the many other insect species that are found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main reason is that most small organisms can not afford the extremely high rates of water loss required for effective evaporative cooling . D. apache , for example , must lose 20 to 35 percent of its body water each hour in order to stay cool at the air temperatures ( 110deg-115deg F ) it routinely encounters in its habitat . To put this into perspective , humans die if they lose more than 7 to 10 percent of their body water , and most insects can not tolerate losses of more than 15 to 20 percent . Cicadas , however , can afford the luxury of losing water because they feed on the xylem fluid of plants . This liquid provides them with much more water than they need . Anyone conducting field studies under trees containing large numbers of cicadas experiences constant light " rain "  --  actually the rectal fluid the cicadas expel to unload excess water  --  that often soaks field notes and besmears camera lenses and eyeglasses . Thus , cicadas are the exception to the conventional wisdom about how animals adapt to life in hot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Contrary to most experts ' expectations , D. apache and other hot-desert cicada species lose water faster than any other insect known . Access to abundant water was undoubtedly an essential key in the evolution of sweating by cicadas . Did a long-ago " choice " of xylem fluid as a food source put them on an evolutionary path that subsequently conferred special advantages in adapting to hot environments ? Support for this hypothesis comes from the high water-loss rates exhibited by other hot-desert insect species , such as cactus-breeding Drosophila , whose food source also contains abundant water . Another question is , was sweating well developed in ancestral cicadas or did it evolve later as they invaded hotter , drier environments ? Our discovery that cicadas can sweat fills out a remarkably symmetrical array of evaporative cooling mechanisms in insects and vertebrates . In both groups , movement of air over moist respiratory surfaces is one frequently used method , exemplified by panting in dogs and grasshoppers . Evaporation from mouthparts is also widely used in birds and reptiles ( gaping in crocodiles , for example ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extruding a droplet of fluid into their mouthparts and reingesting it after it has cooled . When faced with extreme thermal stress , kangaroos lick their fur , and many species , such as tortoises , vultures , storks , goats , and camels , urinate on their legs . The resultant evaporation can provide life-saving , albeit short-term , cooling in thermal emergencies . Among insects , Australian sawfly larvae smear rectal fluid over the surface of their body and the bodies of nearby kin , allowing them to survive air temperatures as high as 115deg F for more than an hour . With the documentation of sweating in cicadas , we now know that insects have independently evolved the complete repertoire of evaporative cooling mechanisms used by vertebrates . <p>                     