@@360402

There is lots of zip in DNA-based biology today . With each passing year it incorporates an ever increasing fraction of the life sciences , ranging from single-cell organisms , like bacteria and yeast , to the complexities of the human brain . All this wonderful biological frenzy was unimaginable when I first entered the world of genetics . In 1948 , biology was an all too descriptive discipline near the bottom of science 's totem pole , with physics at its top . By then Einstein 's turn-of-the-century ideas about the interconversion of matter and energy had been transformed into the powers of the atom . If not held in check , the weapons they made possible might well destroy the very fabric of civilized human life . So physicists of the late 1940s were simultaneously revered for making atoms relevant to society and feared for what their toys could do if they were to fall into the hands of evil . <P> Such ambivalent feelings are now widely held toward biology . The double-helical structure of DNA , initially admired for its intellectual simplicity , today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for evil as well as good . No sooner had scientists at Stanford University in 1973 begun rearranging DNA molecules in test tubes ( and , equally important , reinserting the novel DNA segments back into living cells ) than critics began likening these " recombinant " DNA procedures to the physicist 's power to break apart atoms . Might not some of the test-tube-rearranged DNA molecules impart to their host cells disease-causing capacities that , like nuclear weapons , are capable of seriously disrupting human civilization ? Soon there were cries from both scientists and nonscientists that such research might best be ruled by stringent regulations  --  if not laws . <P> As a result , several years were to pass before the full power of recombinant-DNA technology got into the hands of working scientists , who by then were itching to explore previously unattainable secrets of life . Happily , the proposals to control recombinant-DNA research through legislation never got close to enactment . And when anti-DNA doomsday scenarios failed to materialize , even the modestly restrictive governmental regulations began to wither away . In retrospect , recombinant-DNA may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my knowledge , not one fatality , much less illness , has been caused by a genetically manipulated organism . <P> The moral I draw from this painful episode is this : Never postpone experiments that have clearly defined future benefits for fear of dangers that ca n't be quantified . Though it may sound at first uncaring , we can react rationally only to real ( as opposed to hypothetical ) risks . Yet for several years we postponed important experiments on the genetic basis of cancer , for example , because we took much too seriously spurious arguments that the genes at the root of human cancer might themselves be dangerous to work with .                     