@@408390

From prostate cancer prevention to sun protection , lycopene is the world 's most powerful antioxidant // Thanks to better nutrition and better health care , a vast majority of the people the world over are enjoying better health and living longer . Despite these statistics , a sizeable portion of the population is afflicted with gastrointestinal problems without showing any distinct clinical symptoms . Increasing evidence suggests that this nondescript intestinal discomfort , and digestive problems associated with it , is due to an imbalance in the intestinal flora . The surfeit of over-the-counter digestive aids , mostly probiotics , bears testimony to this rather disturbing trend . The human intestine is inhabited by billions of bacteria , both good , or " beneficial , " bacteria that promote intestinal health to human , and harmful , or " unfriendly " bacteria , which are detrimental to health . In the healthy intestine and functioning digestive system , there is an intricate balance between friendly and unfriendly bacteria . When this balance is perturbed , and the equilibrium shifts toward an excess of harmful bacteria , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ecology is referred to as dysbiosis . There may be various reasons for dysbiosis . One of the most readily discernible causes of dysbiosis is the use of antibiotics . Antibiotics are efficient " torpedoes " that specifically target microorganisms and other pathogens that invade the body in the wake of an infection . Antibiotics , however , are " equal opportunity " torpedoes : They not only destroy the offending microorganisms but they also eradicate beneficial bacteria with the same efficiency . By the time the antibiotic course is run , which ordinarily should last ten days , people feel drained , exhausted and may also have succumbed to antibiotic-associated diarrhea . Children on antibiotics are particularly susceptible to antibiotic-associated diarrhea.1 Diarrhea may resolve itself of its own accord , which it normally does especially in children , but the transient imbalance does exact a stiff toll . Left unto itself , this imbalance could potentially disturb the intestinal " ecosystem " irrevocably . Epidemiological data suggest that many people do not complete the antibiotic regimen after their symptoms begin to relent . An incomplete antibiotic course in the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the offending bacteria develop resistance to the antibiotics whereas , on the other , they colonize the intestine over time . In either case , it leads to undesirable consequences : Not only do antibiotic-resistant " Superbugs " develop thus , as is increasingly the case , but sub-acute dysbiosis also ensues . Aging individuals are much more likely to suffer from disturbance in the floral ecology and imbalance , which can eventually result in dysbiosis . Persistent dysbiosis , even if it is sub-acute , and therefore not clinically presented , can have serious consequences for health . For certain , it causes digestive problems , but it can also lead to the weakened immune system . As the body loses its ability to cope with invading pathogens , a host of chronic conditions appear , which on the surface have precious little to do with gastrointestinal disturbances . In other words , gastrointestinal health has far-reaching implications for general health . Of late , one of the approaches to anticipate and even prevent dysbiosis has been to supplement nutrition with products called probiotics . Probiotics are beneficial bacteria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the rationale of this remedy rests on the premise that ingestion of beneficial bacteria should maintain intestinal floral ecology . It is uncertain , however , whether live or attenuated bacteria can actually colonize the intestine . First , it stands to reason that , being live organisms , probiotics would not survive the rather harsh acidic environment in the stomach . Further , it has been argued that those organisms that do survive the stomach acid may have been sufficiently damaged making it unlikely that they could possibly colonize the intestine.2 What natural remedy may then support the intestinal flora ? A more effective natural approach must be available , which allows the body to restore intestinal balance naturally as a matter of course . In traditional societies of the Old World , it has been known for generations that dietary measures can do wonders for intestinal health . Thus , a more reliable approach to restore intestinal ecology is to provide the food and energy source as a dietary aid to stimulate the growth and multiplication of beneficial bacteria indigenous to the intestine.3 These dietary food and energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the large intestine where they trigger the multiplication of beneficial bacteria already resident in the colon . Dietary fiber is the most efficient food and energy source for the friendly bacteria native to the colon ; not all dietary fibers , however , fit this bill . Specifically , inulin is the most efficient food and energy source for the intestinal bacteria . What is inulin , though ? Inulin is a soluble fiber that can not be digested by the human body . That is , it is absorbed intact and travels to the colon as fibrous material where it serves as the food source for the beneficial bacteria . Ordinarily , bacteria are quite fastidious in their demands of food and energy sources . To initiate their growth and multiplication , the beneficial bacteria require short-chain inulin . Initiation of their growth alone , however , is not nearly sufficient for the body to reap health benefits . The friendly bacteria must continue to multiply for a certain time in order for the beneficial chemicals , such as short-chain fatty acids and interferon-a , to be assimilated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and long-chain inulins as well . Further , not all inulins are created equal ! Recently , a proprietary blend of inulins isolated from Jerusalem artichoke , called InuFlora , has been formulated that not only improves digestive health but also restores floral balance in the intestine in addition to conferring long-term beneficial effects.5 This is what makes inulins isolated from Jerusalem artichoke unique : A specialized manufacturing process allows recovery of short- , medium- and long-chain inulins to deliver maximal benefits . Importandy , this process allows recovery of inulins as randomly coiled chains . It is this structural property of inulins in InuFlora that not only distinguishes it from other inulins but also confers upon it the unique health benefits to be derived from it . Among its unique properties is its pleasant and sweet taste . Since inulins are not metabolized , the glycemic index in the body is not affected . Hence , unlike refined sugars that are metabolized , it does not change the insulin levels in the body . This has important implications for those suffering from high blood sugar . Therefore , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Jerusalem artichokes are ideal children 's chewable nutritional supplements , because they do not contribute to cavities while providing a superior taste . More important , since children are susceptible to contract a variety of infections in daycare centers and schools , these inulins are a healthy choice to overcome the deleterious effects of antibiotics . In addition , because they are not metabolized , they do not have any caloric value . This is of considerable relevance , since there are concerns that our children are increasingly gaining weight and , disturbingly , are prone to developing symptoms of adult-type diabetes . Jerusalem artichoke inulins furnish the muchneeded answer to keep our children healthy . InuFlora is not just for children , however . As noted above , adults are just as much in need of a natural alternative to maintain the floral ecology and hold dysbiosis at bay . This unique mix of inulins with their specific structural properties make them a natural prebiotic that allows the body to use its own resources in restoration of the floral balance and a strengthened immune system ( for a comprehensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found that tomatoes harbor one of the world 's most powerful antioxidants , a substance with the power to fight cancer and help ward off heart disease . It is called lycopene . Since the discovery of lycopene , a group of scientists in Israel has used conventional cross-breeding methods to develop a strain of tomatoes very rich in lycopene , with up to four times the amount found in regular tomatoes . Even more amazing is that they have developed a way to extract the lycopene from these tomatoes and create an all natural supplement call Lyc-O-Mato(TM) . That 's good news , if you are n't getting an adequate amount of lycopene from your regular diet . Lycopene , a carotenoid in the same family as beta carotene , is what gives tomatoes , and several other fruits , their deep red color . But lycopene is not just a colorant . It is a powerful antioxidant that has shown remarkable fighting power against degenerative diseases . Lycopene linked to reduced risk of cancers Several recent studies have shown that a diet rich in tomatoes and tomato products is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a six-year study of 48,000 male health professionals , Dr. Edward Giovannucci and colleagues at Harvard Medical School found that consuming tomatoes , tomato sauce or pizza more than twice a week , as opposed to never , was associated with a reduced risk of prostate cancer of 21 to 34 percent , depending on the food . Another study published in the International Journal of Cancer said that lycopene appears to protect against cancer of the mouth , pharynx , esophagus , stomach , colon and rectum . Researchers at the University of Illinois report that women with the highest lycopene levels had a five-fold lower risk of developing precancerous signs of cervical cancer than women with lowest lycopene levels . A potential cancer fighter Even more exciting than its cancer-prevention potential is the evidence that shows lycopene may help fight existing cancer . Omer Kucuk , M.D. , professor of medicine and oncology , and colleagues at the Karmanos Cancer Institute in Detroit , Michigan , evaluated the effect encapsulated lycopene had on patients with existing prostate cancer . In this study , Dr. Kucuk and colleagues followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undergo surgical removal of the prostate . For three weeks prior to surgery , the study participants were randomly assigned to receive either 15 milligrams of lycopene ( Lyc-O-Maton(TM) from LycoRed Natural Products , Beer-Sheva , Israel ) as a pure tomato extract twice daily or no intervention . This extract is an ingredient found in lycopene supplements made by a number of leading health food manufacturers . Following removal of the prostates , the glands were analyzed to determine whether there were any differences between the two study groups . The investigators found that the treated group had smaller tumors , which were more likely to be confined to the prostate . Levels of serum PSA ( prostate specific antigen , a common marker used to detect prostate cancer ) were found to decline in the patients who received Lyc-O-Mato(TM) lycopene tomato extract . In addition , the tumors in patients who consumed this natural lycopene showed signs of regression and decreased malignancy . " To our knowledge , this is the first report from a randomized prospective clinical trial showing the efficacy of a lycopene supplement against prostate cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely epidemiological studies showing an association between consumption of tomato products and decreased risk of prostate cancer . Furthermore , our findings suggest that lycopene as tomato extract may not only help prevent prostate cancer , but also may be useful in treating prostate cancer . " Given the results of this preliminary study , Dr. Kucuk concluded that additional studies of tomato extracts effect on prostate cancer are warranted . Defending against arteriosclerosis Aside from cancer , lycopene also defends the body against other lethal diseases like arteriosclerosis . A leader in the study of lipid metabolism , Dr. Michael Aviram of Rambam Medical Center in Haifa , Israel , shared the importance of antioxidants , particularly lycopene , in preventing the beginnings of arteriosclerosis . LDL cholesterol becomes harmful , sticking to the walls of the arteries , when it is oxidized . In their laboratory , Dr. Aviram and his associates have demonstrated that Lyc-O-Mato(TM) , the-all natural tomato lycopene supplement , has been shown to prevent the formation of the arteriosclerotic plaque and stop the progression of the plaque buildup . In a significant percentage of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually able to turn the process around , decreasing plaque buildup . He discovered that LDL fortified with the Lyc-O-Mato(TM) was 90 percent more resistant to oxidation , while LDL fortified with pure lycopene was 22 percent more resistant to oxidation . Beta carotene had only a minimal effect on LDL oxidation . In a separate study Dr. Aviram and his colleagues administered 60mg of Lyc-O-Mato(TM) lycopene a day to six healthy males over a three-month period . " The subjects realized a significant 14 percent reduction in their plasma LDL cholesterol concentrations , " said Dr. Aviram . " LDL cholesterol is cleared from the plasma environment at a greatly enhanced rate when a combination of lycopene and vitamin E is administered to humans . " Based on these findings I believe that blood antioxidant levels should be tested just like cholesterol levels so people can supplement their deficiencies . More of these antioxidant blood tests are becoming available . They 're not easy to find , but physicians are beginning to use them as a testing point to determine the overall oxidative stress in the body . Protection from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beta carotene and natural tomato lycopene ) taken internally can help reduce damaging effects of the sun . A 1995 German study states : " Mixed carotenoid supplements ( 50 mg/day ) protect the skin against the harmful effects of UV radiation . In a human study , erythema ( skin reddening ) was reduced on exposure to UV radiation after ingestion of natural mixed carotenoids . " ( H , Tronnier Oral presentation , " Current Aspects of Light Protection and Skin Physiology . " University of Witten/Herdecke , Germany , March 1995 . ) Many European researchers believe that natural mixed carotenoids are nature 's sunprotecting agents and that they can work for humans as well as plants . Carotenoids are antioxidants that are known to reduce free radical activity that may cause premature aging of cells . A German study states that carotenoids protect against sun damage in the following way : " The UV protection effect of carotenoids is mainly a physical one and due to the light scattering by the carotenoids present in the skin . " ( Heinrich , et al . University of Exp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special tomato patch I was privileged to learn first hand of the work being done to produce all natural lycopene supplements . A company called LycoRed has done extensive work in Israel to create a pure lycopene extract ( Lyc-O-Mato(TM) ) that allows scientists to research lycopene extensively through the use of lycopene supplements . It was a breakthrough in the scientific investigation of lycopene . Until this point synthetic supplements did not fit the requirements needed in experimental models in the laboratory . Dr. Zohar Nir is the visionary who saw the great potential of creating an all-natural tomato lycopene supplement . I traveled to Israel and was escorted through LycoRed 's special tomato patch . There I saw a remarkable difference between the super , lycopene-rich tomatoes they grow there and regular tomatoes you buy in U.S. supermarkets . These are not genetically engineered fruits , they are normal , hybridized tomatoes . It 's quite apparent when you observe them that these tomatoes are different . They are a much deeper red than the average tomato and are much fuller when cut open . I also saw how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create all-natural tomato lycopene supplements . Doctors recommend that adults consume at least five servings of lycopene per day for maximum benefit . Foods rich in lycopene include tomato sauce , catsup and tomato juice , among others . The human body does not produce lycopene on its own , so it is vital that people , especially smokers , drinkers and others in cancer-risk groups , be conscious of eating a lycopene-rich diet . Doctors and scientists say that oils help facilitate the body 's absorption of lycopene . It is important that people look not just at the lycopene content of their foods but at what kind of food it is . Processed tomato products , and those containing oil , are better than raw tomato products or fruits . I also recommend that smokers , drinkers , those exposed to radiation and those at risk for prostate cancer take more lycopene than the average recommended amount . It is important for people in risk groups , and those who do n't get enough dietary lycopene , to take an all-natural tomato lycopene supplement , such as Lyc-O-Mato(TM) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is much more readily absorbed by the body than synthetic versions . We are entering a new era in health care , a real health revolution where patients take an active role in managing their health . In my opinion , doctors will have to change their old ideas about health care , incorporating an integrated , complimentary approach in managing the diseases of the next millennium . I firmly believe this change will push natural substances to the forefront of health care and lycopene is one of these important natural products . Footnote Editor note : Additional information on InuFlora can be obtained from Naturally Vitamins or by visiting their Web site : www.naturally vitamins.com . Reference References 1 . Vanderhoof and Young , J. Pediat . Gastroenterol . Nutr : , 27 , 323 , 1998. 2 . Macfarlane , G. , Cummings , H. , The Large Intestine : Pathophysiology , Pathophysioloogy and Disease , Phillips , et al . ( Eds . ) , Raven Press , New York , New York , 1991. 3 . Macfarlane , G. , Gibson , S. , Human Health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) , Springer-Verlag , London , 1994. 4 . Ballongue et al. , Scand . J. Gastroenterol . Suppl. : 222 , 41,1997. 5 . Ahmed , A. , " Prebiotics : An Overview , " Nutr Res. ( in press ) , 1999. 6 . Ahmed , A. , InuFlora : The Prebiotic of Choice , Freedom Press , Topanga , California , 1999 . Author Affiliation OMER KUCUK , M.D. - Dr. Omer Kucuk is a graduate of Hacettepe University Medical School in Ankara , Turkey . Currently he is a professor in the Department of Internal Medicine , Division of Hematology and Oncology at Wayne State University in Detroit where he is also a member of the graduate faculty in the Cancer Biology Program . As a leading investigator of cancer-preventatives , Dr. Kucuk has received grant support from agencies including NIH , NCI , and the Department of Defense to study the effects nutritive agents such as zinc , soy isoflavones and tomato lycopene have on human carcinogenesis . He has served as an investigator in long running studies of dietary intervention 's effect on lung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BALCH , M.D. - Dr. James Balch is a retired urologist and well-known writer . An early proponent of nutritional approaches to disease prevention , Dr. Balch has immersed himself in the study of tomato lycopene , the powerful antioxidant that has been the subject of intense anti-cancer research studies . In addition to the growing buzz about tomatoes , Balch is an authority on most nutrients and painstakingly describes their effects and interactions with other medications in his best-selling book Prescription for Nutritional Healing . Most recently he has written The Super Antioxidants , 10 Natural Remedies That Can Save Your Life , and the preface to the new book Tomato Power a complete guide to how the popular backyard garden crop helps humans retain their health . // <p>                     