@@397043

AN INTERLOPER who steals property must be caught and charged . Thinly disguised atheism and neopaganism are interlopers in " liberated " church circles . They have engaged in the theft of church property . The stolen property must be reclaimed and the thieves brought to justice . To point this out means raising the issue of heresy . But in the " liberated " church circles of oldline denominations heresy simply does not exist . After centuries of struggle against recurrent heresies , Christians have found a quick way of overcoming heresy : they have banished the concept altogether . With absolute relativism holding sway , there is not only no concept of heresy , but no way even to raise the question of where the boundaries of legitimate Christian belief lie . This is like trying to have a baseball game with no rules , no umpire ; and no connection with historic baseball . Only we continue to insist on calling it baseball because a game by the name of baseball is what most people still want to see played . By " liberated " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compulsive planners of others ' lives , the canonical text disfigurers ; and ultrafeminists ( as distinguished from the great company of godly Christian women who are found at many different points along the scale of feminist reflection ) . The liberated characteristically understand themselves to be free from oppressive , traditional constraints of all sorts and shapes . " Liberated " is not a term applied from outside , but a term they frequently apply to themselves . By liberated they usually imply : doctrinally imaginative , liturgically experimental , disciplinarily nonjudgmental , politically correct , muticulturally tolerant , morally broad-minded , ethically situationist , and above all sexually permissive . I am not speaking merely of liberation theology in its more thoughtful manifestations as argued by Gustavo Gutierrez or Jurgen ; Moltmann or Mary Stewart van Leuwwen . I am referring rather to an engulfing attitude that proclaims : we have been liberated from our classic Christian past , from the patriarchalism of Christian scriptures , from benighted Jewish and Christian traditions , and from their oppressive social systems . As a former full-time liberator , I know from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethos I am describing is not liberal in the classic sense of that word , but intolerant and uncharitable when it comes to traditionalists of any sort , all of whom are capriciously bundled under the dismissive label of " fundamentalists . " I have the dubious honor of having recently been categorized in someone 's computer bulletin board as a heresy hunter . This gives me the comic occasion to embrace the misapplied description in a specific ironic sense : I am earnestly looking for some church milieu wherein the sober issue of heresy can at least be examined . I am looking , like Diogenes with his sputtering lamp , for a church or seminary in which some heresy at least conjecturally might exist . I have sought for some years to find a theological dialogue where a serious methodological discussion is taking place about how to draw some line between faith and unfaith , between orthodoxy and heresy . But almost everywhere that I have asked about the subject I have found that the very thought of inquiring about the possibility of heresy has itself become marked off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one who hints that some distinction might be needed between truth and falsehood , right and wrong . Just at this point , however , we can glimpse a faint sign of hope : a growing recognition among laity of the need for criteria to recognize orthodoxy , which therefore require some reference to heterodoxy . Just as the impatient adolescent is searching for boundaries , so liberated church leaders are unwittingly pressing their constituency for boundaries . This search for boundaries is essentially what was despairingly attempted at the 1993 " Re-Imagining " conference in Minneapolis . The most anxiety-creating fantasy is that there are no boundaries whatever and never have been . The rediscovery of boundaries in theology will be the preoccupation of the 21st century of Christian theology . Some within the church  --  a party I call postmodern paleoorthodoxy  --  are increasingly gaining the courage to inquire : Is pantheism heresy ? Is reductive naturalism as reliable as any other assumption ? Can Christianity make friends with absolute relativism ? What would the church look like if it were apostate ? The word " heresy " derives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ root the word meaning " choice " or " assertive self will . " It implies choosing one 's own personal will over against the truth . It is a term that was early applied to interpretations of Christianity that differed markedly from apostolic testimony . It was a term that became important during persecution of Christians who were willing to die for the truth of the apostolic testimony . Under conditions of severe persecution under state tyranny , Christians found it necessary carefully to distinguish the apostolic recollection of salvation from counterapostolic accounts . BUT WHAT KIND of assertion qualifies as " self-willing against the truth " ? Since the truth is worth dying for , this is not a negligible question , even if it has been largely neglected since the Enlightenment . Anyone attempting to answer this question since then has had first to fend off hysterical assertions that the question itself is unraisable because of the sordid history of abuses committed since the Counter-Reformation Inquisition . The calm defense of the truth , which is embodied in Jesus Christ , truly God , truly human , requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly hostile to classic Christian faith than it is the assertion of fragments of apostolic teaching , an assertion of segments that lack the cohesion and wholeness of classic Christian faith . Heresy occurs when some legitimate dimension of faith is elevated so unsymmetrically and so out of equilibrium as to become a decisive principle of interpretation for all other aspects of faith . To do so denies the unity and equilibrium of the ancient ecumenical consensus . Every hairesis against apostolic testimony gives the church a new opportunity to clarify the equilibrium of faith of the ancient Christian apostolic consensus . As long as the apostles were alive they held church teaching together by their shared memory and variegated but complementary and internally congruent witness . Although they spread in all directions , their testimony under the power of the Spirit attested one Lord , one faith , one baptism . Their witness to the living Lord and the oneness of the body of Christ constituted the center of authority for teaching and community . As the apostles faced martyrdom and death , the need for a continuing , clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention had to be given to the transgenerational guardianship of the sacred testimony to Jesus ' life , death and resurrection . The need for firm governance was increased by the early emergence of divisive heresies , notably Docetism , Gnosticism and Montanism . Unable to trace their origin to the apostles , heresies were by definition later additions or amendments to the apostolic tradition . Tertullian argued that any heresy would " proclaim by its diversity and contrariety that it originates neither from an Apostle nor from an apostolic voice ; for the Apostles would not have diverged from one another in doctrine ; no more would the apostoic individual have put out teaching at variance with that of the Apostles .... This test will be applied to those churches of a later date , which are daily being founded . " Gnosticism , which had its chief influence in the middle of the second century , claimed to pass on the secret knowledge of salvation through mystical knowers who viewed themselves as guardians of secret traditions of sayings of Jesus . The consensual church was forced to declare to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were known to those attestors who stand in succession to the apostles and were not erratically passed on by idiosyncratic prophets or charismatics . The recognized and reliable early church teachers were able to trace their succession in each urban seat of ecclesiastical authority back to the apostles , often within living memory , often through a series of highly public successions over several generations . The reliable record of events surrounding Jesus was thought to be adequately known and remembered by the succession of overseers , not by secretive groups like the Gnostics . In response to the Gnostics ' secrecy and flight from the world , Irenaeus argued that the church had from its beginnings publicly set forth a historically demonstrable succession of overseers in a given locale as a means of ensuring the valid memory of apostolic teaching . The premise of historical succession of apostolic rememberers hinges upon the basic assumption that God came into history . Christianity does not speak of a redemption that takes place apart from history in an esoteric circle of initiates who seek purity by separation from the world . The historic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an implication of historic revelation , and the scandal of particularity , stressing the public , visible transmission of teaching through intergenerational succession . In response to heretical challenges , the church gradually developed a defense characterized by the monarchical episcopate , the rule of faith , and the canon . Heresy is any self-willing choice that departs from apostolic teaching . Wherever a heresy has led to a breach of unity of the body , it is called a schism , meaning either strife within the community or more particularly separation from it . In baptism the rule of faith was learned by heart and personally confessed ( often under great hazard ) by word of mouth . The prototypes of the Apostles ' Creed were memorized baptismal formulae and hymns and summarizing confessional statements . These had received generally accepted form shortly after the last of the writings that became the New Testament canon . Meanwhile the lists of received apostolic writings began to circulate , and in due time became consensually defined . These became the bulwark of the church 's defense against hairesis . Those who did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apostolic teachings and who were not under the discipline of apostolic teachers were not considered reliable guardians of ecumenical Christian doctrine . By the time of Irenaeus and Tertullian the church had a settled rule of faith , a body of documents widely received and repeatedly quoted as apostolic testimony , and well-documented lists of the succession of trustable attestors . IS HERESY discussable ? Yes , certainly . Anything is discussable so long as we do n't come to blows or provide new weapons for the organized absolutisms which afflict our churches today . If such considerable dangers are set aside , then putting heresy on the theological agenda could be one way of reframing a much larger question : whether Christian faith today has an identifiable , articulable , inner coherence . Many have come to doubt that it does in face of innumerable , often divergent attempts to interpret the faith in relation to contemporary trends and ideas . Thus I appreciate Thomas Oden 's concern for the tradition of faith . We do live in an age in which there is need to recover our traditions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to construct a rational public morality have broken down . The great question before us is whether traditions of faith can summon the coherence and substance to make a difference . For that purpose they certainly do have to decide what belongs to their inherent logic and what does n't . But Oden 's way of stating the issue has serious problems . First there is his interpretation of our situation . We need , we are told , to deal with " interlopers , " who have stolen church property . These thieves give us forms of faith-expression under cover of Christian language which amount to " thinly disguised atheism and neopaganism . " I find this idea of stealing " what is " ours , " with its sense of willful , evil intent , very troubling . Moreover , we are treated to a package of characteristics said to represent the " liberated " ones who have committed this theft . The impression is left that people with theological imagination , liturgical creativity , openness to many cultures and the tendency to be nonjudgmental ( not the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , among other things , liable to be sexually permissive . There are many who will resent the implication that this second set of characteristics generally goes with the first . Nor do I think that the sense of being " liberated from our classic Christian past " is predominant for most pastors and constructive theologians . Critical of some aspects of that past , anxious to free it of the infection of old cultural prejudices , yes indeed . But not about to throw it all over . Such may have been true 30 years ago for some of the " death of God " folk , but it 's not what most of are about now . I am afraid that Oden , as a self-confessed " former full-time liberator , " displays the convert 's zeal against his projections of an imagined , even demonized , former self . We all know experimenters who are " intolerant and uncharitable when it comes to traditionalists of any sort . " We all know pastors who try to make their congregations a reflection of their own personal predilections . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say in word or act that the determination of authentic Christian identity has passed to them , who say that their hairesis literally defines what the faith is now to be . But these people are in the minority . To teach he faith effectively today involves both reliable knowledge of tradition and interpretive risk . All depends on the spirit and intention with which the interpretation is done . A few may indulge in a willful attempt to substitute their own authority as an evangelist or prophet for that of the tradition . But most are engaged in an honest attempt to find their way as Christians in the late 20th century . Doctrinal distortions are bound to occur in such a process . They always have . They will be sorted out in time . But if this imaginative and creative task is set aside for fear of " heresy , " we will fail to keep the faith alive in any coherent or contemporaneously connected form . If Oden 's diagnosis of our ills is off the mark , his prescription wo n't be very therapeutic either . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ability to distinguish right from wrong , which betokens a certainty that many of us in all honesty do n't find possible . The view of the " classic Christian past " Oden is offering us is distorted in four ways . First , Oden 's notion of heresy is hermeneutically one-dimensional . It seems to assume that the meaning of classical Christian tradition is transparent . But we can not escape the insight that the social location of the interpreter helps shape the interpretation . Who is in a position to define what is " heretical " ? Our situation today is that no one stands in the center . No one has the right to arrogate to himself or herself a definitive status . We need to determine together where the center is . No literal repetition of formulas coming from any particular place or time in the history of the church can help us now . The Western academic versions of Christianity are not the center and are not in a position either to admit or exclude interpretations coming from , say , the African independent churches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumption that he and his friends have the right to say who the tradition means , and thereby put others in their place . SECOND , ODEN 'S view of the Christian past is historically problematic . The Christian tradition itself is not only pluralistic but deeply ambiguous . No matter where you stand to interpret it , an honest look at the actual history of the first four or five centuries shows a great deal of variation ; of localism , of uneven and uncertain development heavily influenced by imperial politics and the like . The same goes for subsequent developments . What formulation of the faith do you accept as your authority ? Calvin ? The Westminster Confession of Faith ? The Formula of Concord ? The latest papal pronouncement ? And when you accept an authority are you not also making normative the particular moment in the development of tradition at which that account of the faith was written , with the particular interactions with secular thought that were involved at that time ? The influence of " heresy " on what later became " orthodoxy , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to judge , but certainly it has been significant . This fact alone makes the history of doctrine too problematic for us to be able to identify a single " classical " Christianity of the past . Third , we do know enough to say that parts of the tradition were and are oppressive and need to be corrected . The subjugation of women , connivance in slavery , collaboration with totalitarian regimes are parts of the tradition from which we are still trying to escape . We must simultaneously learn from tradition and correct it by its own internal dynamic . By correcting tradition we do not mean to contradict it . Rather we foster its further development as some formulations come to be seen as more adequate , more true to the gospel , than others . In an ecumenical age , we of the patriarchally inclined West are finding some aspects of the tradition better articulated by people other than ourselves . I have felt freed from conceptual oppression by the writings of feminist theologians , liberated from dilemmas by understandings from the Eastern church . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West 's static trinitarianism into a dynamic model of divine community . Augustine 's contemporary St. John Chrysostom had some things right about salvation and the will that Augustine got wrong . Such mutual correction will , and should , continue . Finally , missing from Oden 's account is the Protestant principle , the truly critical element . The most trenchant critic of tradition is none other than the Bible . By tracing the fabric of subsequent faith back to the original biblical stories we stand a much better chance of hearing what the Spirit is saying to us today . Where would we be without Luther 's rereading of Romans and the discovery of justification by faith alone ? No doubt certain traditional lines of argument obscure things the Bible still has to say to us . By being critics of the received tradition we may open ourselves to parts of the biblical witness we had not seen before . Our sense of the Israelites ' passage through the Red Sea , for example , has been permanently enriched by the use of this story in the slave narratives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think that Oden 's concerns are already being met in ways which could save us from setting too much store by the category of heresy . On the one hand , there is a renewed interest in exploring and appropriating the riches of the Christian past . On the other , the moral witness of Christian faith in the world is being seen not merely in ethical but also in decidedly theological terms . In the realm of theological scholarship , we are seeing a movement away from endless methodological prolegomena to works which deal with theological substance . The movement variously represented by Hans Frei , George Lindbeck , Stanley Hauerwas , William Willimon , Richard Mouw and others by now has a well-established position in the larger conversation . New , comprehensive works of systematic theology ( including Oden 's ) have been appearing at a great rate . Some of these are meant as classroom textbooks . Using them , seminaries have been rejuvenating or reintroducing comprehensive courses in theology which look at doctrines of the faith as such , not merely the history of the subject . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Luther , Calvin , John Wesley , Jonathan Edwards and other classical figures , as well as the contemporary writers who draw on them . There is much theological exploration that is new and encouraging . Jurgen Moltmann 's work on creation , imago dei , the doctrine of the Trinity , the Spirit , the church and other topics reaches out to our situation . Michael Welker 's new book on the Holy Spirit reads like a powerful renewal of what we used to call " biblical theology . " It could turn out that William Placher is right : the best apologetics are unapologetic . If , as some say , theological anthropology was the key to the neo-orthodox period , perhaps today we see the coming of a thoroughly biblical vision of humanity in the power of the Spirit which can connect with justice-seeking , peacemaking , social civility and care for the environment in ways we yet can not quite imagine . Such a retraditioning thrust also expresses itself in organized movements having various patterns of ecclesio-political support and representing different practical readings of what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common ground . Here and there we see obvious ties to conservative politics . Several movements more or less on the right have spawned attention-getting journals ( First Things , Pro Ecclesia , New Oxford Review ) . There are also a number of groups within denominations anxious to restore theological substance to the common life of the church . The danger is that initiatives to recover and rethink tradition may be , and sometimes are , captured for specific political purposes which can give tradition a bad name , painting it as insensitive , intolerant and tactically unscrupulous . Some movements seem ready to declare heretical those who disagree with them . The Christian faith can make its own way in the world . If we are serious about its substance , we will be careful in our choice of allies . I am not sure there is any single name for this retraditioning thrust as a whole . The term " neo-orthodoxy " is spoken for , and originally meant something a little different . Oden 's term " paleo-orthodoxy " implies an antiquarian form of the movement which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case , the restorationists , if they can be called that , may be beginning to outnumber the revisionists . This is one of the most interesting developments in years . Maybe the movement should be called neo-neo-orthodoxy , though its variety seems a the moment to preclude any single term . In such a promising , even if still confused , situation I would hesitate to apply the category of heresy . ANOTHER contemporary trend is harder to describe , but it is equally important . It is marked by an awareness that , because the basic development of Christian doctrine ( save that concerning formular Spirit ) is virtually complete ( at least in terms of traditional-language games ) , and because the heresies in these terms and genres are mostly accounted for , we commit the worst heresy when we use an orthodox theological position to aid , comfort or defend that which is unworthy of our faith 's best moral insight . We increasingly think in directly theological terms of what we stand for as a people of God in the world . We hear Paul Lehmann @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a believer in Jesus Christ and a member of his church , to do ? " Secular moral reasoning can not even tell us today what is good for human beings as such , let alone how we ought to act in virtue of our faith . We resonate to Charles Taylor 's effort to retrieve the " moral sources " of our selfhood : the better to restore those " inescapable frameworks " of conviction we need to be complete human beings . In short , we are reminding ourselves that it matters for conduct what a person believes , and belief needs some pattern , some substance , to guide us . It 's worth remembering that the World Alliance of Reformed Churches and the Lutheran World Federation both declared that the use of ostensibly orthodox Calvinist principles to defend South African apartheid occasioned a status confessionis . This term refers to any situation in which a church or its pastoral leadership justifies itself theologically in a way that puts the integrity of its faith-confession in question . Such a situation certainly existed , and some people courageously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the antebellum South , or when " German Christians " theologically defended Nazism in the 1930s . And what other past or present cases could we add ? Heresy in this sense is not merely a well-intentioned but one-sided attempt to rethink the church 's message . It is close to being blasphemy , the sin against the Holy Spirit . So if we are going to discuss the concept of heresy , we need to realize that one of the greatest heresies , in the sense of theologically defending conduct unworthy of the gospel , has been to sacrifice human beings ( impugn their motives , silence them , torture them , kill them ) in the name of allegedly higher principles ( purity of doctrine , integrity of the community , reasons of state ) . In short , the way that we have handled alleged doctrinal deviance has often been heretical itself . Heated rhetoric against one 's opponents can itself be destructive enough to produce a status confessionis , a situation which questions the integrity of our faith confession in the light of the theological justifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this type of willful theologizing of conduct unworthy of the faith Heresy A. It 's not always possible to be sure we 're dealing with it . It can for a while be perfectly sincere : people may honestly not see the contradiction between confession and conduct . But we 're not talking about the complicities with evil that are part of our human lot . We can repent of these , pray to be delivered , bear the burden of guilt , so long as we do n't defend them theologically . Heresy A is rather the hardness of heart that knows something is wrong but seeks to cover it up with doctrinal blustering . It is most often the heresy of the establishment . But it can also be the heresy of the prophet who embraces causes for personal aggrandizement rather than legitimate conviction . Then there is Heresy B , which we discover most often after the tumult and the shouting die and we have a chance to analyze what has happened . Heresy B is the formulation of faith in language , however traditional , that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orthodox language about God 's " fatherhood " which is used to condone the oppression of women would be an example . Here is where the language of tradition itself may need modification . Saying things in the same words as before may not be good enough after we have learned how these words can be misused or misunderstood to countenance practices which contradict their deeper meaning . Getting this right takes a lot of time and much historical experience . But we need to learn where we have turned the gospel into a lie and try to restate it so that this can not happen again . Some may wonder what such a conception of theological work does to our understanding of the tradition as a whole . There are those who will say that in this direction lies disintegration of the corpus of Christian truth . In this perspective , theological work seems always to be reacting to something , going this way and that following the moral sensibilities of each age , instead of building on a firm foundation . But it may be that in this very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it maintains its identity through the vicissitudes and misunderstandings of history . In his magisterial exploration of heresy and orthodoxy in the early church , The Pattern of Christian . Truth , H. E. W. Turner argued for this view , and my hunch is that he is right . But this is not something ascertainable from historical data alone . Each age discerns the " pattern " of faith anew . We are enabled to see what the faith means for our on time by the work of the Holy Spirit bearing fresh witness to Jesus Christ , whose identity " yesterday , today and forever " is repeatedly rediscovered and rearticulated by his people . THERE ARE a few points upon which Lewis Mudge and I agree : First , the issue of heresy is discussable and could , with restraint , become the basis for redefining Christian faith 's coherence . Heresy can be put back on the agenda as long as it respects civil discourse . It may even be able to reframe the question of Christianity 's internal intellectual congruence , which today 's trendier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we need to recover our classic doctrinal traditions and test their relevancy to the world . Third , people of both the political right and left are equally prone to creative tinkering with the fantasy of " improving " the apostolic testimony ( =heresy ) . Heresy is not a political but a theological boundary-making function requiring strict attentiveness to the apostolic testimony . Fourth , heresy is most disturbing when asserted by ordained ministers who are commissioned and salaried to defend the faith . Finally , the social location of the interpreter always influences the interpretation . The heretical hermeneut is never without some such social location . In our society it is most often a defensive role in relation to modern ideologies which are dying , and have no intellectual power to transmit themselves intergenerationally . I would mention , however , that a center without a circumference is just a dot , nothing more . Without boundaries a circle could not be a circle . If the circle of faith is seeking to identify its center , it can not do so without identifying its margins and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of heresy into civil discourse only on terms wholly prejudiced in favor of the ideological biases of modernity . Modernity itself , like all other periods and ideologies , must now stand under the criticism and judgment of the norms that historical orthodoxy has applied to heretical views of all periods . Some might think heresy discussable only in the most tentative way and only if guarded by a thousand qualifiers . But the ancient ecumenical tradition has viewed heresy as a necessary boundary-making category indispensable to the worshipping community . Some would prefer to exploit an apostolic tradition that is endlessly plastic , flexible , correctable . Meanwhile , since the apostolic testimony itself is infinitely pertinent to variable human cultures , it is flexibly capable of correcting human folly in all times and places . Some think that the specifying of boundaries will always be sprinkled with blood , hubris and strife . But the apostolate under the guidance of the Spirit has learned that conflict and hubris are tamed , not increased , by carefully stating where the boundaries are . Some can not approach the arena of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of civil liberties . Some are worried only that the boundaries of faith will become too fixed . Guardians of the apostolic tradition are concerned that the boundaries have been entirely erased and hence have become too permeable and diffuse . Rather than fixate on these last five centuries , we should return to the first five centuries of flourishing ecumenical consent ( as evidenced textually in the seven ecumenical councils received by East and West and the eight great doctors of the church venerated ecumenically ) . A consensual mode of exegesis developed in that period that has pervaded subsequent classic Christian self-understanding . Apostolic consent has been guided significantly by the distinctions ( between consensuality and nonconsensuality , orthodoxy and heresy ) made under the guidance of the Spirit in this formative period . They distinguish irreconcilable differences between what Christianity is and what it is not . For Lewis Mudge , heresy is conduct unworthy of the gospel . But for classic Christianity heresy is a loss of balance in appropriating the apostolic tradition . Mudge 's examples of heresy are ones in which creedal affirmations have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposedly orthodox doctrine . But heresy is that which pretends to improve upon the apostolic testimony . Marcion , Montanus , Praxeus : Arius and the Donatists all were sincerely convinced that they had a better way . Sophia worship is not within this boundary of apostolic testimony any more than Docetism or Gnosticism ever were . Pantheism is just as far outside the pale now as when it was definitively rejected by the Hebrew prophetic tradition . It is only when we begin to have the courage to make negations that our affirmations can be taken seriously . It was not until Barmen specified the offenses of Nazi totalitarianism that its confession of Jesus Christ took on seriousness . It was not until Athanasius ruled out Arian excesses that he became a serviceable theologian . It was only when Luther said no to indulgences that he became a Reformer . Hypertolerationists today seem to be signaling to Luther : Take it easy , be tolerant of indulgence peddlers ; they have such good intentions . Today the confession of Jesus Christ as Lord demands a repudiation of those teachings that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an adequate revelation of God . Irenic theology searches for consensus in the texts of the ancient ecumenical tradition . Polemic theology points out what lies completely outside that consensus fidelium . Both forms of theology are required to tend the vineyard of Christ . Polemic theology needs to be reawakened at the circumference , but wrapped in irenic theology that understands where the center lies , aware that there can be no center without a circumference . The recent explosion of systematic theologies has not yet demonstrated that theologians are well prepared to answer the modern forms of ancient heresies . Irenic theology needs to be accompanied by an active polemic theology to show what classic Christianity precisely is not . Without polemics , irenics is tepid . MY COLLEAGUE is overly optimistic in thinking that my concerns for boundary-demarcation are ready being met , that heresy is already being efficiently confronted by the currently ordained teaching office . I do not see that happening or even beginning to happen . In the " liberated " church there are few if any signs that apostasy is being challenged by orthodoxy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Today the confession of Jesus Christ as Lord requires a repudiation of those views that demean the atoning work of God on the cross . This comes closer to truth-telling than politely to withhold repudiation . The apostolate can not in the name of inclusiveness and toleration honestly allow the implication that the salvation accomplished once for all on the cross is one among many salvations . The notion that an individual 's experience of gender or race or social location private inspiration can become the final arbiter of truth and falsehood in the worshipping community must also be repudiated . To award that fantasy the status of equal legitimation is to reinforce the worst habits of pietism and chronic ignorance of the apostolic tradition . Abortion and homosexuality are not matters to be left merely to situation ethics and private judgment or feeling or sentimentality . They rather require straightforward moral argument as to whether they can find enduring legitimation within Christian teaching . The church 's historic commitment to protect the unborn will never be reversed by votes or court orders or appeals to personal experience or political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is worried about heated rhetoric , it is surprising that my colleague so recklessly plays the South Africa card , the slavery card , the women's-oppression card and even the imperialism card in his effort to marginalize and discredit those who want to talk about any modest level of elementary doctrinal cohesion within the classic Christian tradition . The renewed critique of heresy will not constitute a recovery of neo-orthodoxy but an appeal to those sources that neo-orthodoxy itself has most systematically neglected : paleo-orthodox consensual texts of the first five centuries . Those texts are to be approached gratefully , with a willingness to hear out the historical-critical and sociological studies that approach them out of modern ideological premises . Only after such a hearing will the paleo-orthodox critique of these ideological premises be plausible . Only then can the ideological biases and binges of devolving modernity be rightly assessed . As postmodern orthodoxy is different from neo-orthodoxy , it is even more different from what my colleague calls neo-neo-orthodoxy , which traps the dialogue precisely in the wrong place-in the neo-neo world of fad contemporaneity  --  precisely when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more deeply historically aware orthodoxy that transcends all modern chauvinisms . I am asked , as if from a lofty position of obviousness : " Who is in a position to define what is " heretical ' ' ? Our situation today is that no one stands in the center . " Hence everyone seems equally distant from the center , and all appear to be impenetrably unknowing of the apostolic tradition . But my colleague can not deny that the laity stand in the center when they faithfully receive the Supper and recite the creed . It is especially vexing when the unsophisticated laity stand much nearer the center than do the educated clergy , and when bishops and elite liberal bureaucratic church leaders stand much further from the Christian confessional center than do local grassroots pastors . It is not that we together as modern Christians must now freshly and creatively " determine together where the center is . " Where the center is has been well defined textually for almost two millennia of exegesis and consensus formation . If the modern denomination chooses to vote 99-1 against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classic Christianity , which knows triune reasoning belongs to the very scriptural testimony that remembers the incomparable One who was " with God and was God , " who said " I and my Father are one . " My colleague is queasy about quoting confessional formulas verbatim . Since they are texts , they have a right to be quoted precisely , not raped by contemporary deconstructionist interpreters . I do not have a right to say what the tradition means if I blatantly dismiss or willfully misconstrue the texts of the ecumenical tradition . If one does not attest the incarnation and resurrection as events , then it is difficult to see where such a one has a place in the teaching office of the Christian community . The apostolic tradition has defined itself clearly , even when some generations distort , neglect or deride it . Ancient ecumenical teaching does not make normative some postapostolic " particular moment in the development of tradition , " but rather views all development under the steady judgment of the primitive apostolic testimony , reliably superintended and transmitted by the Holy Spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern interpreter acknowledge that " some aspects of the tradition are better articulated by people other than ourselves , " especially other than we in the West . This is why I quote so regularly from the Eastern tradition , into which I was not born . The modern liberal tradition , by contrast , taught me to be satisfied not merely with the West but with the dying ideological remnants of the modern West . That is why postmodern paleo-orthodoxy is much more broadly based cross-culturally and more socially variable than liberal Protestant Christianity , and more in touch with early Eastern Christianity . Mudge is correct to say : " We must simultaneously learn from tradition and correct it by its own internal dynamic . " But that can not be done by pretending that the tradition is intrinsically unascertainable . He implies that the apostolic testimony is finally unascertainable and forever ambiguous . Rather it seems to me that the narrow way is all too clear , hence some despairingly hunger for some sort of " scholarly research " to make it a little less clear . Unambiguous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " are not the least bit cryptic but all too clear , and we would prefer to make them a little more ambiguous . The problem of the gospel is not that following the resurrected God-man is unascertainable , but , as Kierkegaard knew , the narrowness of his way is all too plain . The beauty of orthodoxy is not that the Holy Spirit speaks only in one voice or one language or through one cultural ethos or in one gender or social location , but that it speaks in all languages , as Augustine exulted , and is becoming by grace incrementally manifested amid all cultures . It has somehow missed Mudge 's notice that a I have relished a sustained interest in the cross-cultural , intergenerational h ; varieties of orthodoxy , with all its exquisite linguistic and symbolic variations . OBVIOUSLY the " literal repetition " of baptismal formulas and confessional documents and creeds is no substitute for faith , but neither does faith need to proceed altogether without them . The search for proximate consensuality in the ancient ecumenical tradition is the sole , modest objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for consensuality can be refuted only by showing textually how and precisely where it is mistaken . Without that refutation , it seems to be implausible to argue that no strains of ecumenical consensuality whatever exist . There is minimal danger today that the " imaginative and creative task " of theology is being scared away or " set aside for fear of " heresy . ' ' " Rather the danger is that classic heresies are now uncritically embraced on the grounds that they seem exceedingly imaginative and creative . By the way , the liberal past I am disavowing is not a projection , It is not a projection that I once was in fact a pretty serious Marxist , a militant pacifist , a psychotherapeutic camp-follower , a sober existentialist and a zealous defender of women 's liberation . I have served my time in those armies . That period of my life has an extensive record of activity and writing . It really did happen . I really do now repent . I am sorry for these my misdeeds . I now reluctantly am convinced that my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the standpoint of the ancient ecumenical tradition . I am not now demonizing my former self , but rather simply recognizing ( like my once communist then later conservative Jewish mentor Will Herberg ) that there a fair amount of the demonic in views I once thought to be wholly benign . Permissive liberals who are intolerant of traditionalists may be rare in some venues ; but they seem repeatedly to show up in the chic bureaucracies and legislative caucuses of old mainline denominations . I spent the first half of my professional career as a liberal latitudinarian . Now as I am gradually growing more able to empathize with classicists and traditionalists , still find my liberal colleagues almost entirely innocent and unaware of their own recalcitrant intolerance . Our problem is hardly that we have masses of leaders in the liberated church ethos claiming that authentic Christian identity has been passed down to them and them alone . Rather the opposite : there are no criteria whatever for making any claim about either Christian truth or falsehood in an environment of hypertoleration where everyone 's experiential truth is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Drew University Theological School . His most recent book is Requiem : A Lament in Three Movements ( Abingdon ) . Lewis S. Mudge is dean of the faculty at San Francisco Theological Seminary in San Anselmo , California . <p>                     