@@409309

As we peered into the tree , we caught sight of her inching forward on the surface of an apple . Moving to within three feet , we saw the small , striped female fly stop momentarily when she became aware of our presence . Undaunted , she resumed her search for the perfect spot to deposit an egg . When she found a possible site , she arched her body and began to pierce the skin of the fruit with her ovipositor . If the fly found the apple flesh to her liking , she would lay a single egg . After that , she would drag her ovipositor across the fruit surface for a minute or so , clean it with her hind legs , and fly off in search of another fruit . But in this instance , as is often the case , the female would have to wait to complete her egg laying . Just as she was about to bore into the fruit , a male that had been lurking a few inches away proceeded to sneak up from behind and pounce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer as we search out these fruit flies , known as apple maggot flies , in orchards of eastern North America . To the detriment of fruit growers , apples are a prime factor in these flies ' growth . There they develop as larvae ; there they feed , mate , and lay their eggs as adults . But the close association between these flies and apples is relatively recent . No edible apples that are infested by the flies are native to North America . Edible apples were brought here by the Pilgrims in the seventeenth century . Two hundred years later , a farmer living in the Hudson River Valley of New York State reported that his apples were being riddled by small , white larvae . The infestation soon spread to surrounding areas . At about the same time , an entomologist in Illinois , Benjamin Walsh , described a small , black fruit fly with white markings and a distinctive wing pattern , a fly that was subsequently given the name Rhagoletis pomonella . This was the same fly that attacked apples in the east , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fruit of native North American hawthorn trees . A pioneer in economic entomology , Walsh was also the first entomologist in North America to apply Darwin 's theory of evolution to the study of insects , and he proceeded to develop several ideas that have a modern ring and relevance . In 1864 , for example , Walsh postulated that insects such as R. pomonella , which infest particular plants , might undergo heritable changes that would predispose them to mate on their preferred host . Walsh suggested that these host-specific populations represented " phytophagic varieties , " currently known as host races , which could eventually evolve into new species adapted to different host plants . Walsh was the first scientist to propose how new species could evolve without being isolated geographically , for example , by bodies of water or mountains . He reasoned that adherence to a new host plant could provide sufficient ecological isolation to reduce cross mating and allow host races to evolve eventually into distinct species . He believed that the population of R. pomonella , which originally infested native hawthorns but spread explosively onto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation of a new host race , one that had switched its allegiance from hawthorns to apples . We have studied apple maggot flies for thirty years and have found many of Walsh 's proposals to be on the mark ; these flies continue to provoke thought on how new species arise . Recent studies conducted by geneticists Jeff Feder , Bruce McPheron , and others have proved what Walsh had hypothesized but could not test : that the apple and hawthorn populations of R. pomonella do not interbreed freely in nature . Just how this insect has come to broaden its host range from hawthorns and to form a genetically distinct host race on apples has been the subject of considerable speculation and controversy . Our long-term study of the life cycle and habits of apple maggot flies has given us clues to this process . For an apple maggot fly , adult life begins underground on a summer morning when it pushes its way through the wall of a cocoonlike shell called a puparium . After working its way up through an inch or so of soil , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to allow its wings to expand and harden . The previous summer , the fly 's mother had laid one of her hundred or more eggs in a fruit produced by an overhanging tree . To survive after hatching from the egg , a larva , or maggot , must escape being parasitized by wasps , and the fruit flesh in which it resides must be sufficiently soft , nutritious , and lacking in harmful chemicals to enable it to grow to maturity . The fruit , partly rotten because of the maggot 's feeding , falls to the ground while the weather is still warm enough for the mature larva to chew its way through the skin and burrow into the soil . There it manufactures the puparium in which it will spend the fall and winter before transforming into a pupa in spring and emerging as an adult in summer . Not all adults emerge on the same day . In Massachusetts and Michigan , for example , emergence may be spread out from June to September . Usually flies emerging beneath the same tree will do so within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ August and September , while hawthorn fruit matures in September and October . Under apple trees , the flies ' peak emergence takes place about two weeks earlier than under hawthorns . Because adult apple maggot flies live only a month or so , a one-or two-week difference in emergence means that mating times might not be synchronized . Thus at least some proportion of the flies living beneath apples and hawthorns would not interbreed . Recently , Courtney Smith and his colleagues at the University of Illinois found that this difference in emergence is partly under genetic control . We believe that the timing of emergence contributes to the process of host race formation . Apple maggot flies are ready to take wing in search of food within a few hours after emergence . Their main sources of sustenance are honeydew-the sugary excrement of sap-feeding insects such as aphids and leafhoppers-and nitrogen-rich bird feces clinging to leaves . During the first week or two of their lives , when they are still sexually immature , both sexes are apt to roam hundreds of yards ( a considerable distance ) from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in particular , search for a variety of plants , since their future egg laying will be affected by their success in foraging at this stage . A day 's intake of high-quality protein fuels only a couple of days ' worth of egg laying . Upon reaching sexual maturity , most apple maggot flies are tens if not hundreds of yards from a suitable host tree . Nearly twenty years ago , we began to wonder how flies locate a fruiting tree , so we designed an experiment to see if the odor of host fruit served as a cue . We chose an abandoned Wisconsin field that had a dozen non-fruiting apple trees at least twenty-five yards apart . Remains of fallen fruit showed that several of the trees had borne a good crop the previous year . Hence , many apple maggot flies , having emerged that summer , were likely to be in the vicinity searching for fruit . We filled six cloth-screened containers with about half a bushel of Wealthy apples , a cultivar favored by the apple maggot fly . The cloth masked the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We put a container with apples on every other tree and an empty container on the rest and placed sticky , odorless traps on each tree to sample fly numbers . More than twice as many flies , males as well as females , were captured on the trees with full containers as on those with empty containers . This was an exciting discovery for us , not only because it was the first time that any Rhagoletis fly had been found to respond to the odor of host fruit but also because both males and females were responding . Subsequent research by Harvey Reissig and his colleagues at Cornell University revealed that a suite of specific esters  --  aromatic compounds that produce fruit odors  --  given off by the fruit of some hawthorn species , and in somewhat variant form by certain cultivars of apples , is indeed attractive to both sexes . Even the most aromatic fruit species or cultivar , however , is not attractive throughout an entire season . Not surprisingly , the period of greatest stimulation seems to coincide with the period when fruit is most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When a mature apple maggot fly that has been hunting unsuccessfully for a fruiting host tree suddenly gets a whiff of the " right stuff , " it must then track the odor to its source . Martin Aluja and Tom Green , then graduate students at the University of Massachusetts , enlisted other students in a study to determine how the flies do this . The students placed empty vials , and then test vials that emitted known quantities of the synthetic equivalent of the natural blend of attractive host fruit esters , at varying directions and distances from females that were released on a nonfruiting potted host tree . An anemometer recorded wind speed and direction every few seconds . Operating in pairs , the students painstakingly followed the movements of nearly 200 females . When the vials were empty , females moved within and between trees at a moderate rate and in apparently random directions . The same was true when vials emitted odor but wind carried it away from the flies . When vials emitted odor and the wind blew gently toward them , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tree in an upwind direction . Even then flies rarely flew more than a few yards at a time before landing on a tree , and they were reluctant to fly into any spaces devoid of trees . The distance over which downwind flies are able to detect odor equivalent to a few bushels of apples is at least twenty yards and may be much greater , so by engaging in bouts of short upwind flights , punctuated by frequent stops , an apple maggot fly follows its " nose " to an attractive host tree . Males are probably no less adept at locating a fruiting tree , because that is where they find mates . To illustrate this point , some years ago in Wisconsin and Massachusetts , we counted fly copulations , or attempts at copulation , that took place on fruiting host trees and on a wide variety of other nearby plants with and without fruit . All forty-one attempted copulations that we saw began on fruiting host trees . Most of these matings were successful . Once together on a tree , females and males @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place right on the fruit , where males patrol in wait for a female . Unlike insects such as moths , female apple maggot flies do not , as far as we know , produce any sort of volatile sex pheromone to attract males . Instead , the odor from host fruit serves this function and alerts males to the possible presence of females . Electrophysiological studies conducted by Jurg Frey at Michigan State University have shown that different kinds of fruit flies respond to different suites of fruit odors and that this response is genetically determined . Host-plant odor determines a fly 's choice of rendezvous site for courtship and mating and , we believe , plays a major role in insuring reproductive isolation between different species of flies . Observations we made some twenty years ago of flies on sour cherry trees in Wisconsin illustrate this point . Like apples , sour cherries were introduced to North America from abroad . About forty years ago , the apple maggot fly began to form populations on sour cherries in a small locale in Wisconsin . These populations proved to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even earlier , however , R. fausta , a species not closely related to R. pomonella , had permanently expanded its host range from native pin cherries to sour cherries . Previously , neither of these fly species had ever been known to infest the other 's native host . In our study , we saw many pairs of R. pomonella and many pairs of R. fausta mating at the same time on the same tree . We became intrigued , however , when we observed nearly as many mixed mating pairs , containing one R. pomonella and one R. fausta . The unrelated species were clearly capable of copulating with each other . Recently Jeff Feder , of Michigan State University , studied hybridization between populations of apple maggot flies and blueberry maggot flies , which are closely related . He found that while these two species mate readily in the laboratory and can produce fertile offspring when mated in hybrid crosses , they rarely if ever hybridize in nature , even when their respective host plants are growing within a few feet of each other . Our observations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inability to mate or hybridize that separates closely related species and host races ; rather the host plant species they frequent serve to isolate them . We also found that at close range  --  within two feet or so  --  a fly 's vision can help it find an appropriate individual fruit . In addition , prior experience may help a fly discover certain sorts of host fruit . For example , females experienced in finding and ovipositing into greenish yellow hawthorns or apples are better able to locate this color of fruit visually than are females experienced only with red fruit . So it seems that in this respect , apple maggot flies are somewhat like honey bees in their ability to learn through practice to find certain kinds of valuable resources . Once having landed on a fruit , a female usually circles for a minute , inspecting the quality of the surface , possibly to ascertain the status of the flesh within . Using real fruit as well as wax models , we and others have found that mature females previously inexperienced with any fruit as adults , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are considerably more likely to attempt to lay eggs in larger fruit than are females originating from hawthorns , a much smaller fruit . We suspect that in addition to fruit size , different fruit surface chemicals may strike a chord among flies of different host origin . Males that emerge from apples are also likely to spend more time in and around apple-sized fruit ( where they will encounter females of their own host race ) than are males that hatch from hawthorn fruit . After her ovipositor has pierced the skin of a fruit , a female may or may not lay an egg . Her decision depends in part on the types and concentrations of sugars and acids she senses with the chemical receptors on her ovipositor . It may also depend on her detection of plant-produced compounds that may be harmful to the larva . One of the most intriguing of all behaviors of the apple maggot fly is the virtually invariable act of dragging the ovipositor across the fruit surface after an egg has been laid . We first noticed this long ago while observing female @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we thought a female was simply trying to dry off her ovipositor after probing the fruit . But simple experiments revealed that following egg laying , a female drags her ovipositor to deposit a trail of feces that contains a subtle pheromone , which serves as a chemical marker signaling that an egg has already been laid in a fruit . Such information is of great benefit to all females , because overloading a small fruit , such as a hawthorn , with eggs is likely to result in the death of all but the first one or two larvae to hatch . We believe that genetic changes affecting responses of both sexes to physical and chemical properties of fruit , coupled with the ability of both males and females to learn to respond to fruit stimuli , are important factors contributing to the origin of the apple race of R. pomonella . Mutations in key genes that influence the flies ' perception of fruit odor and the timing of emergence can profoundly affect mate choice , the selection of an egg-laying site , and possibly also the temporal isolation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emergence time or determine whether an apple maggot fly will move randomly or upwind upon encountering a puff of air bearing the aroma of apples , we offer the following scenario to explain the appearance of the apple race . About a century and a half ago , new mutations or , more likely , the right mixture of preexisting rare variant alleles of genes combined in at least one population of flies originating on hawthorns . The flies with these alleles were drawn not only to the odor of hawthorns but also to the aroma of one or more cultivars of apples . They also were genetically predisposed to emerge early in the season , when more apples than hawthorn fruits were available and ripe for egg laying . Because both males and females responded to the same chemical cues , they would rendezvous on their new fruit , apples , where they mated and where the female eventually laid eggs . Some of the resultant viable larvae carried the variant alleles . When their turn came to reproduce , these offspring also sought apples for mating and egg laying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of restricted gene flow that we now see between populations of hawthorn and apple flies . Any new mutations or rare existing variant alleles that improved host fruit finding behavior , larval survival , or the synchronization of adult emergence with the fruiting period of apples would be incorporated selectively into the genetic makeup of each host race . In time , the two evolving host races would be less and less likely to mate with each other . Eventually , they might evolve into two host-specific species . We recently modeled our scenario on a computer , paralleling in genetic terms what Benjamin Walsh proposed long ago . We are now attempting to identify the pertinent genes and prepare a genetic map of R. pomonella . If we are successful , we will be able to determine what kinds of changes occur at the molecular level in genes controlling such important traits as host selection and emergence time . This would provide insight into the mechanism of host-race formation and of speciation . Such information could also prove useful in future management of apple maggot flies as agricultural pests . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , we had no idea that they led such fascinating lives . They have become , for us , a lifelong passion and have led us from management and behavioral studies into the realm of microevolution and into major questions of how new species originate . Ron Prokopy is a professor of entomology at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst . Guy Bush is Hannah Professor of Evolutionary Biology at Michigan State University in East Lansing . <p>                     