@@393637

The Northwest Clay Symposium , held September 17-19 in Seattle , was convened to " bring together scattered elements of the Northwest ceramics community " and spotlight the region as " a hotbed of activity that has been felt internationally . " Organized by the University of Washington School of Art and Pottery Northwest in Seattle and the Kirkland Arts Center in Kirkland , Washington , the symposium , which attracted around 300 people , featured the usual triad of lectures , panel discussions and workshops , along with an exceptional array of exhibitions . In conjunction with the three-day event , 16 ceramics shows were mounted , including a rare historical survey of Northwest ceramics at Martin-Zambito Fine Art , an exhibition of work from the Archie Bray Foundation at the Bellevue Art Museum , three shows organized by the artists Joyce Moty ( at the university ) , Sandy Simon ( at Pottery Northwest ) and Steve Reynolds ( at Kirkland Arts Center ) , and several gallery presentations . The result was a sprawling , untidy affair , but it provided a grand opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ galleries . The first opportunity followed a keynote address by the sociologist , cultural historian and novelist Todd Gitlin , who confessed that he knew zip about ceramics . Nevertheless , he regaled the crowd with an entertaining discourse on different ways of hating art that are now in vogue : censorship , clubbing to death by critical theory , internal attacks by the avant-garde and the commodification of artistic value . These hatreds undeniably affect visual artists as well as the writers with whom Gitlin is more familiar . Assessing their impact on the broad field of ceramics represented at the conference , however , was a difficult assignment . First of all , far from complaining of critical overkill , most participants were unhappy about the paucity of critical theory in ceramics . With few possible exceptions , none of the work in any of the exhibitions would shock the bourgeoisie , ergo almost none fit the traditional definition of avant-garde art . Reports of censorship were few . Furthermore , production potters and makers of functional ware voiced their respect for the artistic values established by the marketplace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art world and the concerns and attitudes that surfaced at the symposium could be read as a symptom of the insidious workings of modernist ideology . In his essay , " Replacing the Myth of Modernism " ( AMERICAN CRAFT , February/March 1993 ) , Bruce Metcalf observes that " in antithesis to modernism , craft offers no radical critique of bourgeois culture or capitalist economy . " Craft artists , he says , adhere to a " middle-class view of the middle class , acknowledging bourgeois taste as a marketing parameter and recognizing capitalism as a cultural given . " Art that uncritically accepts and serves bourgeois taste is unlikely to inspire hatred : such art forms should be privileged , it would seem , over art that is despised . But Gitlin explained why this is n't so . Art that is despised , he pointed out , is art that is taken seriously ; religions try to vanquish certain kinds of art , for instance , because they are jealous of the competition . To be taken seriously , art must pose some threat or challenge to established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismissed as " hopelessly uncritical , " a charge he attributes to the " strong Marxist influence on art criticism . " Marxist theory , however , works in concert with many co-conspirators . The modernist avant-garde , for example , has its roots in a pre-Marxist disdain for bourgeois philistinism . American puritanism , still alive and kicking , frowns on non-didactic , luxury art . An embrace of Marxism , furthermore , is hardly a prerequisite for discontent with Middle America 's preoccupation with shopping or outrage about corporate greed or institutional racism . There is little doubt that the question Gitlin posed at the end of his talk reflected a widely held concern : what happens to the mission of art ( or craft , Mr. Metcalf ) if folks never leave the mall ? The work of Joellyn Rock , an eloquent ceramist aspiring to rethink the relationship between vessel forms and social commentary , illustrates the tension between modernism 's dismissal of ceramics as hopelessly uncritical  --  an assessment shared in spades by certain postmodernist critics  --  and the current attraction many young artists feel for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most substantial and informative panel of the conference , a discussion of the " palace pot . " She also showed her recent work at the Linda Farris Gallery , along with Patti Warashina 's captivating new teapots and Michael Lucero 's latest colorful zoomorphic figures . A former cartoonist , Rock approaches the vessel format as a three-dimensional text : in her compositions , traditional container shapes serve as a starting point for the construction of narrative . " I like the disarming charm of decorative objects , " she explained , " objects that sneak into your consciousness with their homey nostalgia and then trick you into thinking about more complex issues . One of my favorite authors is Jane Austen . I love the way she uses the social format of the parlor as a stage for larger human dramas . " Rock 's ambition to develop a ceramic counterpart to Jane Austen 's novels was most convincingly realized in vessels closely tied to femininity . In Patience , for example , the bulging body of a vase becomes a pregnant belly ; the shape of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an egg resting on top of the opening . Rock recently moved from Seattle to New York , where she immersed herself in the city 's many collections of historical ceramics . Impressed by the rate at which forms and motifs " pass from one culture to the next with viral ferocity , " she has begun to elaborate her narratives with old-fashioned ewer , urn and trophy shapes . In the new work many of the illustrations refer to ecological themes , and the vessels exaggerate , ever so slightly , the incongruous merger of plant and container forms that often characterizes 18th-and 19th-century French and German high ceramics . Rock 's artistic ambitions match her wit and intelligence , but she might learn a thing or two from Richard Notkin , a major Northwest artist whose work was not discussed by the panelists . Both Rock and Notkin conceive their strategies in similar terms : Rock sees her vessels as " decoy pots " that seduce viewers with their decoration and nostalgia , luring them into the social commentary . Notkin describes his approach as a " bait and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oh , wow " command of veristic detail that encapsulates a social message . He acknowledges , however , that he 'll never make " a teapot that saves the world , " and that such a mission is probably misguided . Notkin and Rock are both accused of trivializing their subject matter because their medium is pottery , but Notkin has deflected this attack to some degree by aligning his most recent production with the venerable Yixing tradition of collaboration between pottery and scholars . A growing sophistication and subtlety also distances his work from that of most of his peers : at the William Traver Gallery , where more than 50 ceramists from all over the United States were represented , Notkin 's latest teapot quietly demolished the competition . This self-portrait/pot combines an unglazed replica of a human brain , which becomes the body of the teapot , with autodidactic references to the artist 's recent preoccupations  --  a spout from his nuke-tower series and the artery/handle from his heart teapots . The tiny lid on top of the brain is a solid reproduction of Harold Edgerton 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Traver show , an engagingly incongruous grab bag of artists and trends , several established ceramists in addition to Notkin dished up the proverbial fruits of long experience . Robert Sperry , for instance , was represented by an outstanding monochromatic black plate that links his familiar low-relief fossil forms with uncharacteristic references to decay and death . Kenneth Price 's recent work could be used as a textbook example of the " vestigal vessel . " Each composition resembles a thunder egg cut open to reveal its colorful interior . Inside these eggs are bright planes of pure color ; tiny openings cut in the planes lead , presumably , into a hollow interior . Mark Burns 's Jolly Roger Teapot set the benchmark for narrative pots . In the center of its heart-shaped body are drawn the heads of two swashbuckling pirates , direct from central casting ; the stereotype is disrupted , however , because these tough guys are coming together for a kiss . This pot might shock an American middle-class viewer , but only one who was militantly homophobic . In his speech , Gitlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misalignment between the ceramics field and the larger art world . " A new form the rage against art in the U.S. has taken recently , " Gitlin observed , " is the onslaught against what is called " elitism . ' " Elitism " has become the charge of choice against those who dare presume that one artist , one movie , one book is better than another , as if this offense were self-evidently as evil as racism or sexism . " Discussion at the symposium suggested that the onslaught against the " E " word has made little impact on ceramics . Nobody fainted when the critic Matthew Kangas pronounced Anne Hirondelle " the most important palace-pot maker in the Northwest " or ranked Betty Woodman as " the most highly respected palace potter in the U.S. today . " In the " Quality versus Convenience " panel , the functional potters agreed that most collectors were ignorant and should be educated about proper standards . Echoing an argument advanced by a tiny group of like-minded critics who specialize in crafts criticism , Kangas assured the audience that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at ceramics , " because the field remains committed to traditional artistic values and high technical standards . Ceramics critics can promulgate this nonsense about " art-world longing " because they speak only to the converted . As Michael Brenson observed in 1990 in the New York Times , " there may be no more divisive word than quality in the art world now .... It 's not that serious artists , critics and curators have stopped believing in quality , or that museums no longer care about the quality of the art they show . What is in question is the way the word is used to compare , select and sort out artists . " The fact that this heightened self-consciousness about relationships between quality judgments and the exercise of power has barely begun to affect the ceramics world is another reason why this field is not taken seriously . A confession by Irv Tepper , who spoke on the last panel , bluntly deflated Kangas 's pronouncements about art-world envy . " Paul Schimmel , the chief curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clay is really the bottom level  --  as low as you can go  --  and you continue to hang down there . ' ' " Tepper 's work , however , like that of many other artists exhibited during the symposium , demonstrates that " hanging down there " does not preclude inspired achievement . A show at the University of Washington School of Art Gallery displayed Tepper 's Cup and Drawing , in which a clay cup and a drawing thereof are paired with a story told from the cup 's perspective  --  a story that might have been scripted by the tableware in Hans Richter 's dadaist film , Ghosts before Breakfast . In his most recent work , Oogie and Boogie , two disreputable vessels that once were proper teapots spoof the current tea pot craze sweeping American collectors . Scorched , melted and tissue-paper thin , their spouts drooping and bodies full of holes , Oogie and Boogie can barely stand up . The School of Art show , organized by Joyce Moty , was dedicated to the legacy of Howard Kottler , a University of Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tepper 's work , the exhibition included a few examples of Kottler 's vases and decal plates and several compositions by Anne Currier , Jacquelyn Rice , Burns and Michael Lucero , all of whom , like Tepper , were Kottler 's students in the 1970s . Among works by Lucero was his 1992 Master Potter , a bow-tied encyclopedia of art-historical commentary . On the body of this pot-figure , among other brightly colored images , are supermarket bar codes and drawings of hands making pots , a homage to Robert Arneson 's plate that demonstrates how to make a plate . Incongruities of scale in the surface imagery on Master Potter reappeared in a completely different translation in a dramatic three-foot-high floor vase by Rice which appeared to be handwoven from small strips of clay . Flanking one side of the vase were Burns 's sculpture and cups , including his marvelous Talking Dummy Cup , 1974 , while Currier 's elegant abstractions were paired with earlier work by Lucero . Gitlin voiced one more observation relevant to the symposium 's proceedings . He condemned anti-elitism , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and break down hierarchies " as " the most interesting and auspicious development of so-called post-modernism . " These breakdowns and splices , however , owe a big debt to the anti-elitism he decries . Anti-elitism has contributed significantly to the collapse of stuffy and racist criticism that once rigidly segregated the highbrow from the lowbrow and " primitive " art from the old masters . Anti-elitism is clearly dangerous if , as Gitlin charges , " it diverts attention from serious debate about the causes and remedies for the astounding degree of inequality in wealth , health and other social goods . " On the plus side , anti-elitism is also dangerous for those who hope the American art world will envy ceramics for remaining in a time warp where established tradition and canons remain undisturbed . My guess , based on the range of work shown in Seattle , is that it wo n't happen . Ceramic artists have already derived too much benefit from the positive side of anti-elitism , beginning with Arneson 's pooh-poohing of the Bernard Leach-Shoji Hamada aesthetic . One day anti-elitism might even create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as seriously as Barbara Kruger 's billboards  --  God forbid  --  are taken today . The uncharted waters of postmodernism may in fact hold great promise for ceramics , despite the warnings of conservative critics , if only more artists would jump in . Patricia Failing is associate professor of art history at the University of Washington , Seattle . <p>                     