@@410503

IN EARLY SPRING the area still looks devastated . Green shrubs have returned , but most of the trees are gone . One tall tree trunk breaks the skyline . Stripped of its branches , it asserts its vitality with a stubble of new growth . Along the highway the shopping malls and strips are alive with activity , but the stores are without signs . In residential areas , vast tracts struggle to return to normalcy . Piles of debris mark the entrance to most driveways . Some homes have been restored with roofs , walls and even flower gardens , while others are boarded and abandoned . House trailers shelter some families in their front yards . In other areas , rows of trailers and tents make up entire subsections . Most of the street signs are still missing . This seems symbolic : communities continue basic functions , but their energy is exhausted and their identity is buried in the effort to survive . In these conditions we met with mainline , African-American and Pentecostal pastors who remained in the area after Hurricane Andrew devastated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pastors left . ) Despite differences in theological orientation , age and gender , these pastors agreed on a few primary elements of faith that sustained them and their people . What they discovered in a crisis may be important reminders for others in more stable times . All the pastors admitted with good humor that the hurricane made old sermon files obsolete . The devastation swept away some of their favorite topics and left standing a few basic commitments , ones these pastors believe will sustain them for the rest of their days . Though their prior themes seemed hollow and thin , they were excited to discover the shared beliefs and behaviors that were rebuilding faith within their congregations . They all agreed that surviving the storm was easy compared with survival afterward . Pastors who were astonished at the low death toll at the height of the wind are now equally shocked and dismayed at the number of parishioners and neighbors who are dying as a consequence of the storm . " Stress-related deaths continue to haunt our congregation long after the storm , " said one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some people simply can not get their lives together in this constant uncertainty . " The spiritual impact of losing control still extracts life and energy from those who survived . Pastors found that stress was reduced with the help of two fundamentally spiritual orientations . The first was humility , the ability to admit we are not in charge . In the face of the mighty wind , everyone experienced a sense of helplessness and vulnerability . Some pastors expected that the impact of the storm would be easier for those who " completely put their trust in God . " In practice , the sense of helplessness was the most pervasive spiritual encounter in the face of Andrew 's awesome power . Everyone received an unforgettable lesson in humility . But the pastors discovered that humility alone was insufficient and can even be dangerous in the aftermath of the storm . People also needed to share their experiences with a community that understood and empathized . Sometimes these were Christian congregations , but just as often these groups were made up of old friends , neighbors or strangers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of shared experience : in Andrew , no one was saved alone . Thus the second spiritual orientation was fellowship : simply talking with one another . Pastors also discovered that lives depend much more on patterns than on possessions , more on habits and assumptions than things we can explain . The destruction of homes , for example , meant more than the loss of shelter . People remembered listening as the wind tore off pieces of their homes , feeling each time as if something had invaded both body and soul . They compared the pounding of the storm with the experience of being robbed or personally violated . One woman recalled , " In the power of that wind , something personal , something private was invaded . " Regardless of whether they owned or rented the property , people found that damage to personal space has a spiritual dimension . They told grisly stories of heightened conflict and slower recovery among homeless families have been forced to live in space that is overcrowded , hostile or simply not their own . Healing began when they acknowledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fences to create a place that they could call their own . In their care of parishioners , the pastors helped families reclaim their psychic space as a family and as individuals . They learned again the biblical story of creation , that we become a people when we know the earth from which we come . Humans are made from the soil as Adam is made from adama in Genesis 2:7 . Andrew also destroyed the pace and rhythm of lives . On the one hand , families needed to devote more time and energy to accomplish the simplest tasks . On the other hand , time collapsed in the exhaustion of the emergency . " The year ended without Thanksgiving , and little recognition of Christmas , " pastors told us . Daily routines were blown away in the great storm , and people needed " to learn to walk again . " Church leaders rediscovered new meaning in old rituals , and re-created sacramental events in a variety of new celebrations . Communion  --  sharing the broken body of the Lord  --  had a fresh meaning in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in worship became significant moments of celebration , hugging , sharing and receiving people home again . With membership dispersed and church attendance down , many pastors felt their worship events were more warmly received and the participants more vigorously engaged . Above all , congregations rediscovered the power of the Sabbath . In their frantic efforts to regain control , both pastors and parishioners had ridden roughshod over the biblical rhythms of life . Pausing for quiet Sabbath moments of thanksgiving and praise for God 's goodness " saved our lives , " they confessed . The Sabbath became an event church leaders needed for themselves , and a gift they could proudly offer their non-Christian neighbors . From their Sabbath celebrations , congregations reclaimed a perspective on life that seemed so real in the face of the howling wind , and so easily forgotten in the urgency that followed . In worship they reclaimed a survivors ' faith  --  the affirmation that this is God 's world and we are not ultimately in charge . Until Andrew removed the simple assumptions of life , these churches had lost their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As usual , property and wealth created special ambivalence for Christians . In the face of the storm , simple survival was the first consideration . As church members recovered their spiritual and psychological stability , possessions and finances became increasingly important , on two levels . Church members most often grieved for the irreplaceable heirlooms that they lost . As they look back on the early moments of their survival , they remember with remorse and sometimes anger their cavalier dismissal of treasured and valuable items . They miss most the things that carried personal significance  --  pictures , diplomas , childhood trophies , memorabilia of an earlier age , symbols of events that can be recalled but never explained . Survivors even found these items hard to discuss because others do not understand . As one pastor lamented , " No one can understand the way I mourn for lost treasures . It 's like going to a funeral where they do not know the deceased . " At another level , church members expressed both appreciation and anger about their search for resources to rebuild their homes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , agencies and individuals . But even the most sensitive outsider can not understand the psychological humiliation and sense of nakedness that results from the process . First , they had to disclose private information about what they had owned , though they had no proof of ownership , and then had to face accusations that their claims were dishonest . Although some members were well rewarded for their efforts , pastors felt that the price was high , the pain was deep , and some of the psychic scars would be long lasting . Gratitude , more than acquisitiveness , tuned out to be the key to survival . Some people were stuck in the receiving mode : they could never get enough to compensate for their losses , and nobody could do enough for them to satisfy their needs . They seemed to regress with every new offering . Others discovered gratitude . They were grateful for their survival , for little things , for people who cared and for small tokens of daily improvement . In thankfulness their strength has been restored and their lives renewed . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't make people grateful . But when they can say " thanks . " we know they are on the road to recovery . " These pastors agree that Andrew came as physical challenge but continues as spiritual threat . The churches and their leaders have become a source of strength for many in both traditional and unexpected ways . Seeking a rock in times of crisis , pastors found new meaning in Job , Isaiah , Jesus in the storm and Paul 's letter to the Romans . Just to reopen a church building provides a witness of hope in the chaos before re-creation . In the mundane activities that linked local churches to the larger world , congregations took on special significance as a source of perspective on the moment , and a symbol of hope for their communities . Pastors and church leaders were often confronted with theological challenges to explain the awesome power of Andrew : Was this storm a warning from God ? Was Andrew punishment for past sins ? Or a trauma to test us ? These compassionate and durable survivors responded with one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stronger communities where members now know that even in a terrible crisis , God is at work sustaining and re-creating the world . Carl S. Dudley is professor of church and community at McCormick Theological Seminary in Chicago . Melvin E. Schoonover is president of the South Florida Center for Theological Studies . <p>                     