@@391104

// Leonardo da Vinci 's secret drawings inspire a space-age robot designer . LEONARDO DA VINCI , the quintessential Renaissance man , drew and modeled a variety of inventions destined for the skies , including gliders and helicopters . But even this prescient genius probably could not have foreseen that one of his concepts would someday travel in space . That 's where a modern version of Leonardo 's " robot knight " will soon be headed . A 20th century inventor has reached back 500 years to find the inspiration for his own space-age robot in Leonardo 's drawings . Mark Rosheim , president of Ross-Hime Designs in Minneapolis , has built and will deliver this September to NASA Johnson Space Center in Houston the Robotic Surrogate , a human-like robot destined to service the international space station and to aid in constructing base camps for astronauts on other planets . All the world knows that Leonardo was the greatest artist of the Renaissance . But his stature as a scientific giant did not become obvious until centuries after his death in 1519 . The reason : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced for his contemporaries , but he committed his ideas secretively-in mirror writingto a series of notebooks that remained relatively unknown until modern times . Rosheim , a self-educated man , is an indefatigable student of Leonardo-and of robots . His 1994 book Robot Evolution is one of the standard texts on the subject of robotics . A few years ago , Rosheim became fascinated by scattered drawings in Leonardo 's notebooks for an armored robot knight , life-size or larger , that was designed and may even have been built between the years 1495 and 1497 . In the late 1950s , the Italian-American scholar Carlo Pedretti proposed that the drawings were plans for a robot , but Rosheim was the first to demonstrate how it would have worked . He saw that some of the drawings represented a system of cables and pulleys that could control the movement of articulated limbs . This would have been , Rosheim believes , the first anthropomorphic robot in the Western world . Made of wood , leather , bronze , and brass , the knight could sit up , wave both of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close its jaws . A rotating cam controlled the engagement of worm gears , which operated pulleys that moved the knight 's body parts in a programmed sequence . Rosheim speculates that the robot was powered by a water wheel . Rosheim 's own anthropomorphic robot-he calls it an " anthrobot " - is much more sophisticated than Leonardo 's but relies on the same principles of design . " My major inspiration for the building of an anthrobot , " Rosheim says , " is the same as in Leonardo 's anatomical and mechanical studies-a machine functioning identical to a man . " Instead of cables , the Robotic Surrogate has electric linear actuators that perform the functions of muscles . The actuators are mounted on the limbs just behind the joints they drive-a design concept , Rosheim says , that directly mimics the human body . This design is in stark contrast to most robots of the past 150 years , which are based on the kinds of joints found in industrial machines . Such robots , says Rosheim , are " bulky , ponderous , immobile , inflexible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robotic Surrogate has human-like flexibility . For example , its shoulder consists of two universal joints , each driven by its own actuator , so that the robot can reach behind its back and over its head . Most other robots , equipped only with a single joint at the shoulder , ca n't do that . The Robotic Surrogate will soon arrive at the Johnson Space Center 's Dexterous Robotics Laboratory , where engineers are studying a variety of robot designs for future missions , such as assembling structures in space . A robot with human-like movements could prove especially useful for this type of work . Here on Earth , the Robotic Surrogate could perform tasks too dangerous for humans , such as handling hazardous waste or disarming bombs . Rosheim says his electrically powered robot could also replace the animatronic figures used in theme parks , whose hydraulic systems are susceptible to oil leaks . In addition to the Robotic Surrogate , NASA may also buy a robot hand built by Rosheim . Its mechanical structure is based on Leonardo 's anatomical diagrams of the human hand . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two fingers are ball-and-socket joints . The palm folds to cup objects , and the uppermost knuckle of each digit is geared to the knuckle below for grasping . The next robot Rosheim hopes to build wo n't be made from wires and stainless steel ; it will be a replica of Leonardo 's lost robot knight . Initially , Rosheim is creating a digital version , which will be part of a CD-ROM portraying the Leonardo drawings and their place in the history of robotics . The fully operable digital knight will debut at an exhibition called " Mechanical Marvels : Invention in the Age of Leonardo , " which opens October 24 at New York 's World Financial Center . Organized by the Institute and Museum of the History of Science in Florence , Italy , the exhibition will feature working models of machines designed by Renaissance artist-engineers . <p>                     