@@410554

The world clearly needs a new model of development for the countries of Eastern Europe , for the developing countries and for the industrialized countries . We need development that is based on a healthy economy , widely shared benefits , effective governance , respect for human rights , and protection of the environment . I call this model broad-based sustainable development ( BBSD ) . It was the failure to attend to one or more of the components of BBSD that led to the collapse of the economy of the Soviet Union and its satellites . The first requisite for BBSD , a growing economy , has four elements : rapid increase of per capita income , relatively full employment , relatively stable prices and external equilibrium  --  that is , a sustainable balance of payments . In order for societies to meet the basic needs of their people , economic growth is necessary . I should hasten to say that it is not axiomatic that economic growth will lead to the meeting of basic needs . But it is clear that without growth in real income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A high correlation exists between human development  --  measured by life expectancy , infant mortality , literacy  --  and per capita income . One can find fairly unambiguous exceptions to this correlation : some low-income countries such as Sri Lanka have achieved high rates of human development , and countries such as Saudi Arabia combine high per capita income with poor human-development indicators . Nevertheless , in general the correlation holds . A second factor supporting growth is that high per capita income countries also tend to be democratic and respect human . rights . Further  --  and this is a third reason in favor of growth  --  it is very costly to clean up and protect the environment : the rich countries are finally beginning to carry out this project , and hey have the resources to do so . Thus , to achieve the other three elements of BBSD , we must have economic growth . The case for relatively full employment of labor and capital is self-evident . On moral grounds alone it is unconscionable to force masses of people to remain idle  --  people who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperately need to work in order to feed their families . Indisputably many people in the formerly communist countries will not find work in the formal sector of the economy  --  in industries and services . Those countries , and those of us who wish to help them , are going to have to pay much more attention to self-employment . Relatively stable prices have proved to be a necessary element of a healthy , growing economy . In case after case in which price increases have become uncontrollably inflationary , the economy has collapsed . But even more modest inflation  --  in fact , any inflation over about 20 percent per year  --  negatively effects investment and therefore a country 's economic growth . The final element required for economic growth is a sustainable balance of payments . The consequences of trying to maintain an unsustainable balance of payments were all too evident in the 1970s and 1980s . Many countries borrowed heavily in the 1970s to maintain living standards rather than make uncomfortable structural adjustments to the oil price increases . When Mexico announced in 1982 that it could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was stopped . Countries could no longer borrow , and the world recession , then clearly upon us , brought on low commodity prices . Subsequently , many countries other than Mexico could not service their external debts . In the 1980s many of these countries went through painful but necessary processes of stabilization and structural adjustment to try to achieve external equilibrium . No one is indefinitely going to lend money to countries that import more than they export . Such loans ca n't be profitable : any profits are lost to consumption . Eventually a country , like an individual , must cut the cloak to fit the cloth . As economic growth in many countries requires real structural shifts , it 's legitimate to ask , what does structural transformation mean ? It means different things to different groups of countries ; nevertheless , all economies are constantly undergoing structural transformation . In former communist countries , such transformation means allowing the market to determine prices and quantities rather than the central government , and creating the governmental and societal setting in which private enterprise and private voluntary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a market economy took centuries , and in no country did the people see the benefits of the transformation in less than a generation . In the volatile circumstances in which these countries find themselves , it 's important to recognize that we are looking at a long-term process . Failure to transform their economies was the Achilles heel of the countries of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe . They were not able to innovate , to create and introduce new technology to keep up with their counterparts in Western Europe . The second necessity in achieving broad-based sustainable development is that the benefits be widely shared . Benefits are measured in terms of income distribution , literacy  --  especially for women  --  life expectancy and infant mortality . The countries of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe have an uneven record on this score . In literacy , life expectancy and infant mortality their achievements were impressive , although performance was deteriorating in some respects in some countries . Income distribution was remarkably equal : the bottom 40 percent of the population received about 25 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . Yet the perception that the elites were getting " unfair " privileges was one thing that brought these regimes down . Unlike capitalist elites , communist elites preached equality . They said communism would bring equality . And when it did n't , there was resentment . Income inequality is growing dramatically in those countries now . This owing inequality is a necessary component of capitalism . In communist economies , people have income only from wages , and policy can make wage income more or less equal . In capitalist countries , on top of wages some people receive profits , interest and rent . Thus income inequality is going to be more unequal that it is in communist countries . There is already resentment of the growing inequality in the countries moving to market economies  --  resentment of those who can buy a Jaguar , Mercedes or Rolls Royce . A high degree of equity has been achieved in some of the countries of East Asia as a result of two policies . One has been the encouragement of universal primary education . The second has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly in the production of export goods . These factories use the skilled labor produced by the education system and generate widely shared wage income . Effective governance , the third component of BBSD , is necessary for achieving a healthy , growing economy . Effective governance means the clear rule of law , clearly defined property rights , transparent mechanisms for changing the rules of the game , clear mechanisms for resolving disputes over these issues , and accountability of government to the people . Also necessary for achieving a healthy , growing economy and important in and of itself is respect for human rights and the encouragement of civil society . Without the rights of free speech and assembly , ideas will not be transmitted that can lead to progress and economic growth . And without the right to form organizations to promote particular interests  --  trade unions , chambers of commerce , tenant groups , women 's groups , parents ' groups , environmental groups and all kinds of private voluntary organizations  --  the creativity and initiative of ordinary people is lost . The former communist countries have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priority , than establishing effective governance systems that respect human rights . The absence of these systems were egregious failures of the former regimes and contributed significantly to their collapse . What about democracy and development ? Are they compatible or are they antagonists ? What do we know on this subject ? First , we know that all the rich industrial countries are democracies . Second , we know that few of the poor countries are democracies . India is a striking exception . What do these two facts tell us ? Does democracy require a certain level of economic development ? Does economic development lead to democracy ? We do n't know . The final component of BBSD has to do with protecting the environment . Environmental optimists and environmental pessimists debate the relationship between economic growth and the state of the environment . The pessimists argue that the link between economic growth and pollution of the air , water and land can not be broken , and that further economic growth will inevitably lead to an ecological Armageddon . They are convinced that it is contradictory to speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth . They have convinced a great many people with their argument . The environmental optimists , of which I am one , argue that the not only link between economic growth and environmental destruction can be , but already is being , broken . It is the countries with the highest per capita incomes that have made the most effective efforts to reduce air , water and soil pollution . If one considers the particulate matter in the air that has the most harmful effects on health , one sees a remarkable decline in such matter in the richer countries over the past 20 years . The great exception is CO sub 2 about which nothing much has been done to date . The countries with the most smog-ridden cities , the most contaminated water and land are the poorer and less developed countries . This is true for two reasons . Environmental quality is a superior good . Rich people want more of it and are willing to spend more of their incomes for it than are poor people . Second , cleaning up the environment is expensive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while poor countries do not . What is the strategy for attaining broad-based sustainable development ? It must include some variant of capitalism . But there are many varieties of capitalism . Can any of them achieve broad-based sustainable development on a worldwide basis ? There are clearly reasons to be pessimistic . Countries in sub-Saharan Africa display the same levels of per capita income that they had in the early years of independence in the 1960s . Many governments in Africa have simply collapsed  --  along with those in Cambodia , Yugoslavia and parts of the former Soviet Union . The countries of East Asia are practically the only economies that have done well over the past decade . The Russian situation today is very similar to that of Weimar Germany in the 1920s . Russians have lost a war , the military has been disgraced , they have lost much territory , the savings of the middle class have been wiped out by inflation , the economy is in shambles , decadence and corruption are rampant , and the West is of very little help . The forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man on horseback to lead them . And it looks as if Vladimir Zhirinovsky is waiting in the wings to be that man . The world economy also seems to be hurtling back to the disastrous state of the 1920s and 1930s . We are insisting that Third World debts be paid as we insisted on debt repayment after World War I ; there is a strong move toward trading blocs and protectionism ; the world economy is slowing down ; and the U.S. is no longer able to see as the hegemonic power in the world economy . The U.S. clearly won the cold war , but it is emerging from that war the way Great Britain emerged from World War I  --  victorious militarily , but weaker than its allies . Although we are the only military superpower , we can no longer make the international economic rules and enforce them . So we seem to be moving back to Versailles . But there is also a basis for hope . Much progress has been made in the past 50 years . Fifty years ago we were in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people and ended one form of international totalitarianism . That war also laid the basis for the end of Western imperialism and for the independence of the colonies of Europe . Fifty years ago , if you had inquired as to the dominant economic system in the world , it would clearly have been feudalism . Now , feudalism has almost disappeared . The 1990s have seen the end of the second international totalitarian system  --  communism . This is something we never thought we would live to see and a source of great rejoicing . Average real incomes in the less-developed countries have more than doubled in the past generation ; child death rates have been halved ; malnutrition rates have fallen by 30 percent ; life expectancy has increased by about a third ; the proportion of children enrolled in primary school has risen from less than half to more than three quarters ; and the percentage of rural families with safe water has risen from less than 10 percent to more than 60 percent . Clearly , there are great regional differences in these statistics ; the gap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gap between the industrialized and the developing countries . Nevertheless , progress has occurred . We are also making progress on the political front . Most of the countries of Latin America and some in Asia and sub-Saharan Africa are attempting to become democracies today . These are extraordinary accomplishments . And we are beginning to take the environment seriously . The treaty limiting chloroflurocarbon emissions is a landmark . There is a new determination to deal with CO sub 2 . Much remains to be done . But much has been accomplished . There is at least a basis for hope that broad-based sustainable development is possible . James H. Weaver teaches economics at American University in Washington , D.C. This article is based on his presentation at a conference in Theology and Economics in the Postcommunist Era . <p>                     