@@409284

Posthumous recognition may be good for the soul , but most artists would prefer a bit of bodily succor during their hours of earthly need . Edgar Allan Poe ( 1809-1849 ) published his first work , Tamerlane and Other Poems , in 1827 at age eighteen . He paid the costs of publication himself and produced but fifty copies . Only twelve have survived , making this work the rarest and most expensive of all American first editions . The latest auction records may be stupendous , but Poe 's pamphlet received neither literary attention nor sales at its debut . Here is a trivia question on the same subject : Can you name the only book by Poe that was successful enough to be republished during his lifetime ? The answer ? The Conchologist 's First Book : or , A System of Testaceous Malacology , Arranged Expressly for the Use of Schools , published in 1839 . The first edition , at a price of $1.75 per copy , sold out in two months , leading to a second , enlarged edition in 1840 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's other work , from the House of Usher to the Rue Morgue , we can only intone the entire vocabulary of his most famous character , the raven : " Nevermore . " No second edition for any other book during Poe 's lifetime . We need not always marvel when celebrated people boast accomplishments far from the source of their fame . Henry VIII wrote quite acceptable pieces of music ; but why not , for he was intellectually inclined and well educated in the various arts of Renaissance humanism . Leonardo da Vinci designed formidable machines of war ; but why not , for princely patrons needed his practical skills even more than his painter 's art . But nothing about Edgar Allan Poe 's life suggests any abiding concern with natural history . We can picture him drunk and penniless in Philadelphia or New York , but who can conjure up an image of Poe wandering through the woods or strolling along the seashore " dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before " ? His various literary creatures  --  the raven , the ape of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no particular knowledge of zoology . His biographers have had a most difficult time trying to suggest any source for Poe 's potential interest in seashells . ( Some have suggested that Poe may have known the naturalist Edmund Ravenel while he was stationed on Sullivan 's Island in Charleston Harbor during an army hitch in 1827 and 1828 . Others point to a description of some shells in one chapter of his novella , The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym . ) We may well conclude that The Conchologist 's First Book is a most " quaint and curious volume , " a true anomaly in the life of a literary man . We may better understand Poe 's methods and motivations in writing the utterly forgotten best seller of his lifetime when we acknowledge the ambiguous status of The Conchologist 's First Book  --  basically a scam , but not so badly done . Poe did n't need much scientific knowledge to fulfill his appointed role as part name lender , part literary man , and part plagiarist . Poe 's friend Thomas Wyatt had , in 1838 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retailing for eight dollars a copy . Sales were predictably slow , and Wyatt wished to produce a shorter edition with uncolored plates at a much lower price . But his publisher , Harper , objected , citing a reasonable concern that its fancy edition would then become entirely unsellable . Wyatt , still wishing to proceed , but fearing legal action should he publish the shorter version under his own name , sought a surrogate to help with his new volume and to serve as name-bearer for a flat fee . Poor Poe , perennially broke and often drunk , seemed ideally suited for the role . Others have shaken the world for thirty pieces of silver , but Poe apparently received fifty dollars for both fronting and helping in preparation of The Conchologist 's First Book . ( Details of the financial arrangements have been lost , but I suspect that the anonymous Wyatt received royalties on the successful product . ) I have tried to survey all the standard biographies of Poe , and they are unanimous in their severe discomfort with The Conchologist 's First Book . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  a quick acknowledgment followed by an apparent search for " respite and nepenthe " ( the drug of forgetfulness ) . F. T. Zumbach states that " it did n't bear even the slightest relevance to Poe 's literary career " ( Edgar Allan Poe : Eine Biographie , Winkler Verlag , 1986 ) . Julian Symons , an excellent writer of detective fiction , as well as a literary biographer , writes that Poe " put his name to a piece of hackwork " ( The Tell-Tale Heart : The Life and Works of Edgar Allan Poe , Harper and Row , 1978  --  ironically , Wyatt 's old publisher ) . David Sinclair describes The Conchologist 's First Book as " a piece of shameful hackwork to which only desperation could have driven him " ( Edgar Allan Poe , J. M. Dent and Sons , 1977 ) . Jeffrey Meyers labels the book as Poe 's " grossest piece of hackwork " ( Edgar Allan Poe : His Life and Legacy , Charles Scribner 's Sons , 1992 ) . I do not write this essay either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the genesis of The Conchologist 's First Book in any substantial way . By modern standards and copyright laws , Poe would either be in jail ( along with Wyatt and other collaborators ) or in the dock awaiting conviction and a fat fine . But I do want to suggest that Poe 's biographers need not be so apologetic and should not treat The Conchologist 's First Book as a curious and shameful anomaly best passed over in near silence . I want to suggest , rather , that Poe 's book succeeded because it filled a need in a competent and at least mildly innovative way ( whatever the dubious circumstances of the volume 's origin ) ; moreover , when we grasp the reasons for its success , we learn something interesting about popular education in nineteenth-century America . To analyze The Conchologist 's First Book properly , we must first understand the genesis of the volume 's various parts , and Poe 's role in cobbling them together . ( Remember that Poe 's name fronted for the efforts of a committee . Wyatt certainly worked on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) We get our best evidence from Poe 's own testimony  --  a typically self-serving letter with an undeniable positive spin , but true in its particular claims so far as I can tell . Poe led a short and tortured life ( following an old quip usually made about Mozart , I am tempted to say that Poe was eleven years dead when he reached my age  --  and I 'm still a kid by my own reckoning ) . Poe created all his own devils  --  the fights , the near duels , the bouts of drunkenness , the endless and debasing pleadings for money , the vituperative literary disputes . He haunted himself with a line from his most celebrated poem : Is there  --  is there balm in Gilead ?  --  tell me  --  tell me  --  I implore : Quoth the Raven , " Nevermore . " Poe counted several charges of plagiarism ( some true ) among his many troubles , and he spent much of his last decade threatening and bringing legal suits against such accusations . The Conchologist 's First Book did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned that a Philadelphia journal had questioned his foray into natural history  --  and he responded with a letter to George W. Eveleth : What you tell me about the accusation of plagiarism made by the " Phil . Sat . Ev . Post " surprises me . It is the first I heard of it .... Please let me know as many particulars as you can remember  --  for I must see into the charge  --  Who edits the paper ? Who publishes it ? etc. etc.  --  about what time was the accusation made ? I assure you that it is totally false . In 1840 Poe is a year off here I published a book with this title  --  The Conchologist 's First Book .... This , I presume , is the work referred to . I wrote it , in conjunction with Professor Thomas Wyatt , and Professor McMurtrie of Philadelphia  --  my name being put to the work , as best known and most likely to aid its circulation . I wrote the Preface and Introduction , and translated from Cuvier , the accounts of animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way . The very title page acknowledges that the animals are given " according to Cuvier . " This charge is infamous and I shall prosecute for it , as soon as I settle my accounts with the Mirror . The Conchologist 's First Book begins with a two-page " Preface , " and I have no reason to doubt Poe 's claim that he wrote this part all by himself . A four-page " Introduction " then follows  --  and now the trouble begins . Poe expropriated much of this text from the fourth edition ( 1836 ) of a British work by Capt . Thomas Brown , entitled The Conchologist 's Text-Book ( Glasgow : Archibald Fullarton and Company ) . Some biographers have claimed that Poe 's entire text is a paraphrase , if not a direct copy , of Brown 's . ( F. T. Zumbach , for example , writes that Poe " copied from Brown almost word for word . " ) By my own comparison between the two books , only three paragraphs ( about one-fourth of the text ) show extensive " borrowings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plagiarism , like pregnancy , does not increase in severity by degrees : beyond a point of definition , you either did it or you did n't  --  and Poe surely did . ) The plot thickens with the next section of twelve plates . The first four , illustrating the parts of shells , are lifted in toto , jot for jot and tittle for tittle , from Brown . No fuss , no pretenses , no excuses  --  just plain stolen . The subsequent eight plates , illustrating the genera of shells in taxonomic order , follow Brown in the more interesting pattern of back to front  --  that is , Brown 's last plate is Poe 's first ( with considerable rearrangement , reorientation , and switching around of individual figures ) , and we then move up through Poe 's book and down in Brown 's , until Poe 's last plate largely reproduces Brown 's first . Others have caught the pattern and even suggested that Poe and Wyatt were now consciously trying to hide their plagiarism . The actual reason is different and more interesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hide anyway after copying the first four plates exactly ? ) Brown 's book follows the pedagogical scheme of the great French naturalist Lamarck , who always presented his discussions in chain-of-being order , but top down rather than the more conventional direction of bottom up . That is , Lamarck began with people and ended with amoebae , rather than the usual vice versa . Brown followed Lamarck and therefore started with the most " advanced " mollusks , but Poe and Wyatt obeyed the usual convention and began with the most " primitive "  --  hence the reversed order . The choice of Brown as victim best illustrates the nature of the scam , or at least the easy-street methods , followed by Wyatt , Poe , and company in producing their cheap edition of a molluscan textbook . The key lies in Glasgow , home of Brown 's publisher . No effective international copyright existed in Poe 's day , and material published in foreign nations could be plagiarized and expropriated without fear of legal reprisal ( moral sanctions existed , just as today , but principles without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persuasion ) . Brown was British and therefore eminently exploitable . ( For the same reason , exactly forty years later , Gilbert and Sullivan brought their entire troupe to America to stage the premiere of the Pirates of Penzance in New York , thus to upstage the theatrical pirates who had made so much money , without paying a cent in royalties , from Gilbert and Sullivan 's previous smash hit , H.M.S. Pinafore . ) Poe must have felt at least minimally guilty , for he penciled corrections into his own copy of The Conchologist 's First Book  --  including the following addition to the acknowledgments : " Thanks also to Mr. T. Brown upon whose excelent sic book he has very largely drawn . " The next section of The Conchologist 's First Book , a ten-page " explanation of the parts of shells , " also derives verbatim from Brown , with a few minimal changes to simplify terminology and eliminate British parochialisms . The body of the book then follows  --  some 120 pages describing each genus , the animal first and then the shell , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genus . This section follows the order of Wyatt 's more expensive book . Poe apparently excerpted material from Wyatt on the shell of each genus and translated passages from Cuvier 's French to supply descriptions for the soft anatomy of the animals within . ( Poe 's redemption , I will argue , comes from this contribution and its rationale . ) The Conchologist 's First Book ends with a glossary and index , apparently supplied by Wyatt . Plagiarism ? Yes , in several parts . Shameless hack work ? I 'm not so sure  --  for Poe did an interesting thing or two that gave the book some value . Evolutionary biologists know , better perhaps than members of any other profession , that historical origin and current utility represent different facets of a biological object and that one need not be correlated with the other ( a frequent theme of these essays ) . We should apply the same distinction to Poe 's book . I will not defend its origin , but the final product had genuine utility ( and at least a dollop of innovation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To appreciate these legitimate reasons for success , we must ask two questions : why did Wyatt call upon Poe and not someone else , and for whom was the book intended ? 1 . POE 'S GENUINE EXPERTISE . Poe gives one reason for his selection as " front man " in his letter to Eveleth , previously quoted : " my name being put to the work , as best known and most likely to aid its circulation . " If this claim can be accepted at face value , then we have some interesting ( if also interested ) testimony that Poe had achieved some measure of literary recognition and was not the abject failure or utterly misunderstood genius of so many later portrayals . But I suggest that Poe 's selection also recorded Wyatt 's good judgment about particular skills for the job required . The Conchologist 's First Book presents , as an explicit and fundamental feature of its organization , a progressive , even innovative , arrangement of material . None of Poe 's biographers have ever picked up on this theme , probably because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume its employment in books about mollusks from all times . Not true . The arrangement was unusual in Poe 's day  --  and I suspect that Wyatt needed Poe 's skills to implement the reform . The name of the phylum Mollusca comes from a Greek word for " soft " ( as in mollify or mollycoddle )  --  a reference to the animal that , without a skeleton inside its body , secretes a calcareous shell for an enclosure . Most collectors and natural history buffs , for obvious reasons , focus upon the preservable shell , not the quickly decomposed body . The study of shells and their classification goes by the separate name of conchology  --  as in Poe 's book . In Poe 's day , most popular books on mollusks treated the shells alone . Wyatt 's original and expensive version only described the shells , as did Brown 's volume , the source of Poe 's plagiarism . Linnaeus himself had based his classification of mollusks only upon shells . As an example , in the popular work on mollusks featured in last month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1834 and therefore a contemporary of Poe 's volume  --  author Mary Roberts begins her text by separating the study of animal and shell and by defending a treatment based only upon shells and ignoring animals entirely : " The elegant science of Conchology , my friend , comprises the knowledge , arrangement , and description of testaceous animals ; a science , according to Linnaeus , which has for its basis the internal form and character of the shell , and is totally independent of the animal enclosed within the calcareous covering . " And Thomas Brown added in 1836 : " It is upon the exclusive shape of the shell , not the animal inhabitant , that the Linnaean arrangement of Conchology is formed . " Wyatt and Poe may have plagiarized Brown , but they did improve upon his organization , and this entailed some effort that deserves more than the epithet of " hackwork . " An arrangement based only upon shells , and ignoring the biological manufacturers of these coverings , must largely represent an exercise in artificial pigeonholing and simply can not provide an optimal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biological discussion must present information about animals and shells together . Wyatt and Poe decided to provide this dual treatment ( even though Wyatt had failed to do so in his more elaborate volume )  --  and not on a whim or as a nice little sidelight , but as the fundamental feature of their new volume . Poe 's two-page preface is little more than a rationale for this defining feature of the new volume . He begins with definitions , contrasting malacology ( study of all biological aspects of mollusks ) with conchology ( consideration of shells alone ) . Poe then states that he will keep the more familiar name of conchology , but introduce the important biological innovation of describing both the animals and shells together : The common works upon this subject however , will appear to every person of science very essentially defective , inasmuch as the relations of the animal and shell , with their dependence upon each other , is a radically important consideration in the examination of either .... There is no good reason why a book upon Conchology ( using the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it proceeds . Poe then reinforces his intent by describing the new book 's " ruling feature "  --  " that of giving an anatomical account of each animal , together with a description of the shell which it inhabits . " ( Incidentally , the most recent biography of Poe , published in 1992 , misses this point by failing to recognize the conceptual reform behind Poe 's focus upon disciplinary names malacology vs. conchology . The author writes that " Poe 's boring , pedantic and hair-splitting Preface was absolutely guaranteed to torment and discourage even the most passionately interested schoolboy . " ) But where to get the descriptions of animals , since neither Wyatt 's nor Brown 's volume contained such information ? They turned to France , the leading nation by far in natural history during the early nineteenth century ( the English would overtake them later ) , and to the work of Europe 's greatest anatomist , Georges Cuvier . And now Poe 's particular skills came to the fore . Poe had no known expertise in natural history , but he was certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Poe was only two , and he had been raised in the home of an intermittently wealthy Richmond businessman , John Allan ( from whom Poe took his middle name , although he was never formally adopted ) . He lived in England and Scotland for five crucial years ( 1815-1820 ) , where he received a classical education in rigorous schools , including a thorough grounding in French . His intense training in ancient and modern languages then continued in Richmond . He attended preparatory schools and then spent a year at the University of Virginia in 1826 , where he probably met Thomas Jefferson just before the great statesman 's death ; and where two ex-presidents , James Madison ( who had succeeded Jefferson as rector ) and James Monroe , examined him for several hours and gave him highest honors in both classical and modern languages . In short , Poe surely knew his French , probably better than anyone else engaged in the project of downsizing and upgrading Wyatt 's book . I do not know how much time Poe spent translating Cuvier 's accounts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material on shells alone . But this effort defined the central , and surely admirable , feature of The Conchologist 's First Book . Poe understood the importance of this task , the key to the book 's distinction and success , for he stated in the letter to Eveleth : " I wrote the Preface and Introduction , and translated from Cuvier , the accounts of the animals . " I do not claim that Poe spent many a " midnight dreary " pondering himself " weak and weary " over Cuvier. but the effort required some time , demanded a linguistic skill perhaps not widely spread in Wyatt 's circle , and provided the central ingredient to the book 's legitimate success . 2 . THE BOOK 'S INTENDED AUDIENCE . But why was Wyatt so eager to produce a cheaper edition of his poorly selling , longer book ? Why did he think that the new volume would succeed ? Why was he so keen that he was even willing to abandon any advantage of explicit authorship to maneuver around the concerns , and the legal arm , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we need to make the right analogy to the most comparable modern phenomenon  --  musical performers who tote tapes and CDs of their work to hawk at intermissions during their concerts . The Conchologist 's First Book did not sell primarily in bookstores ( if many or any existed in early nineteenth-century America ) . Wyatt had a specific , dedicated market  --  and he really needed an inexpensive product to sell . Presenters of popular science now teach in schools or frequent the true " midnight dreary " of our modern age  --  late-night radio talk shows . But a nineteenth-century counterpart to Jacques Cousteau or David Attenborough hit the traveling circuit as an itinerant lecturer to the various lyceums , athenaeums , book circles , and ladies ' and gentlemen 's clubs ( usually separate ) that kept the fire of learning alive in every substantial town of nineteenth-century America . Thomas Wyatt was one such traveling salesman of science  --  and he needed a book to accompany his frequent and popular lecture series on mollusks . I do n't claim that his motives were entirely , or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translated to dollars for his pocket . Lecture fees were small , and the supplement added by heavily promoted book sales to a willing audience probably meant the difference between penury and solvency ( the glitzy expansion of museum shops in our own times has occurred for the same reason ) . Remember that Poe got a flat fee for a little writing , some translation , and the loan of his name ; Wyatt , no doubt , was recompensed on a per-copy basis . Nonetheless , I must again invoke the distinction between reasons for origin and sources of utility . Wyatt may have joined with Poe almost entirely for the money , but they promoted a good and innovative idea  --  elevating conchology from artificial description to integrative biology  --  by insisting that animals and shells be described together . Their product was surely worthy , if not brilliant or pathbreaking ( for Poe lacked the biological knowledge to integrate his translated material on animals with Wyatt 's old description of shells and therefore did little more than list one source of information above the other ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( I could never dream of owning something like Tamerlane and Other Poems , but Poe 's shell book was a success , and therefore survives in many copies at manageable prices . ) I never knew the reasons behind the copious pencil scribblings in my copy until I did the research for this essay . One of the blank pages at the back bears the inscription : " Lectures delivered before the young ladies of Charlestown Female Seminary " ( probably in the settlement just east of central Boston and spelled with a " w " and not in the city of South Carolina , West Virginia , Illinois , or Mississippi , rendered with a letter less as Charleston ) . After the last page of Poe 's joint anatomical and conchological descriptions , the owner has written : " The end of Lectures on Conchology by Proff . Wyatt "  --  the clincher to my search for a source ( I had never heard of Wyatt before writing this essay and therefore had no clue to the meaning of the inscriptions ) . Other jottings largely note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poe 's Latin . The owner , for example , writes " clam " under the genus Mya and , charmingly for its homonymic mix-up , " muscle " when she means " mussel " under the genus Mytilus . I do n't know how else to make the point , except by a simple confession of feelings . It is an enormous thrill for me to know that my copy of The Conchologist 's First Book was toted by Wyatt to one of his lectures on mollusks , and sold to a woman in a neighboring town . I love to think of the book passing from Wyatt 's own hand into the ownership of Ms. Charlestown , probably for two dollars forked over , and a quarter given in change . Chuckle if you will at my imagination , but the lyceum movement in America was one of the most worthy institutions ever spawned in an otherwise nonintellectual nation ( the precursor to later Chautauquas and to all the popular education of our time ) . It also represented one of the few pathways then available to women for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reasonable contribution to this movement , and my copy comes from the heart of a worthy effort . I am therefore led to view Poe 's most famous image in a different light from that intended by the author . Poe opens his window , thus admitting the raven who perches on his white bust of Pallas and never leaves : And the Raven , never flitting , still is sitting , still is sitting On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door . Poe 's raven is an ominous and tragic weight upon hope for psychological peace and dreams of accomplishment . But consider the union in another way . Pallas Athena ( equivalent to the Roman Minerva ) , chaste goddess of practical reason and protector of cities ( also name giver to Athens )  --  symbol of the urban and civilized , as opposed to Artemis , goddess of the outdoors . Does she not represent Poe , or at least his unrealized hopes ? ( Athena 's two designations , pallas and parthenos  --  the Parthenon of Athens is her temple  --  refer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and undoubtedly longed for the unsullied life that she symbolized . ) The urbane Poe , dweller in cities , scholar of languages , no fan of natural history . And the raven , symbol of raw nature , imposed from without , but now firmly joined in a union of opposites : black and white , science and literature , nature and culture . Should we not cherish the juxtaposition ? Stephen Jay Gould teaches biology , geology , and the history of science at Harvard University . <p>                     