@@394666

Astronomers have long sought to understand the dark clouds that loom among the stars in the Milky Way . For more than half a century , they have known that stars are born from interstellar matter . But they still do not know what happens in the earliest stages of star formation , before matter coalesces into the blobs that give birth to stars . By studying the dark clouds in the Milky Way and learning their most intimate secrets , astronomers hope to shed light on this fascinating chain of events . The launch of the Infrared Astronomical Satellite ( IRAS ) in 1983 set the stage . The satellite provided the first clear and comprehensive view of the infrared universe from above Earth 's atmosphere , which blocks most infrared radiation . Astronomers from around the world have been milking the IRAS database ever since to learn as much as they can about the interstellar medium . The story begins in 1984 , when a team of IRAS astronomers led by Frank Low of Caltech announced the discovery of a new component of the interstellar medium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wavelength of 100 microns emanated from much of the sky . At first the astronomers suspected something was wrong with the equipment , but after checking everything thoroughly , they felt confident that what they had found was real . The 100-micron images showed wispy structures that reminded the team of cirrus clouds on Earth , so this stuff quickly came to be called interstellar " cirrus . " The structures spanned huge volumes of space , ranging from light-years to many tens of light-years across . The next step  --  taking a good look at these structures  --  posed unexpected and time-consuming challenges The discovery of cirrus was one thing . Producing clear images of what it looked like was another story entirely . The essence of the problem was that the IRAS designers never intended the satellite to create images . Yet close study of something as widespread as cirrus required pictures to show the full extent of their structure . These pictures could then be compared with optical photographs and radio images of the distribution of interstellar hydrogen in the same direction as the cirrus This would yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the interstellar medium Undaunted , dozens of astronomers accepted the challenge and labored for years to produce pictures of the infrared cirrus Some of their results are shown for the first time on these pages . ( Photos omitted ) This small gallery of cirrus images will give you an inkling of the beauty present in the infrared sky . But it is what the images reveal about the interstellar medium , the birthplace of stars , that drove astronomers to create the images in the first place . WEAVING AN INFRARED PICTURE It took many years to produce these images because of the way IRAS observed the sky . Unlike an imaging system , in which the telescope points to a specific area and then makes an exposure , the IRAS telescope scanned across the sky day after day . This produced a huge raster pattern of the intensity of infrared emission in four wavelength bands , at 12 , 25 , 60 , and 100 microns . Though these data were ideal for measuring the brightness of infrared-bright stars or distant galaxies , they were terrible for constructing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or even days apart . Because individual scans had slightly different background levels due to instrumental effects , stripes appeared across the images . Each change in background level had to be identified , measured , and then removed . Destriping , as the process came to be called , taxed the ingenuity of even the brightest computer programmers . Learning how to do it correctly took years of effort . It actually became something of a fetish among those working with the IRAS data to be able to destripe better than the next person , and arguments broke out over whose computer programs did the best job . At the same time , astronomers at the Infrared Processing and Analysis Center at Caltech were systematically destriping all the IRAS data . That work is only now nearing completion . Another problem faced those who wanted to use the 100-micron data from IRAS to make pictures of the cirrus : dust in the solar system . This dust not only reflects sunlight , producing a subtle glow visible to the human eye and known as the zodiacal light , but also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The glow forms a great swath across the heavens that follows the ecliptic , the apparent path of the planets . This local infrared glow forms a haze through which the infrared radiation from the more distant Milky Way has to shine . Only after subtracting the zodiacal light could astronomers clearly see the cirrus . Once astronomers overcame all the problems , the results proved spectacular . After destriping and removing the zodiacal contribution , the 100-micron data provided a beautiful new view of interstellar matter . Now dozens of astronomers around the world are concentrating on their favorite regions , trying to explain why the cirrus looks the way it does and how it is associated with hydrogen gas , molecules , magnetic fields , and the structure of the milky way . CLOUDS OF DARKNESS Before IRAS discovered the cirrus , dark dust clouds between the stars had been observed only with optical telescopes . One of the best known of these clouds is in the constellation Ophiuchus , where dark lanes of obscuring material block some of the background stars from view . A few clouds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the dark lanes in Cygnus and the almost black void near the Southern Cross known as the Coal Sack . Today it seems almost quaint that for more than a century the dark patches between the stars were believed to be " holes " in the heavens . That notion goes back to Sir William Herschel , who concluded in the late eighteenth century that the holes allowed observers to see into the dark void beyond the stars . In 1910 Edward E. Barnard , pioneer photographer of these dark patches , told of the experiences of an astronomer who one night aimed his small telescope a little north of Antares . " Presently no stars came into the field of his telescope . After watching for some time he finally concluded the sky had clouded over , but on looking out he found it perfectly clear . His telescope had been pointed to this lane ( near the star Rho Ophiuchi ) and nothing but blank sky had passed . " This illustrates how dark these clouds can be . These clouds are in fact vast , swirling masses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and surrounded by water ice laced with organic molecules . These include ethyl and methyl alcohol , formaldehyde , and cyano-acetylene . The grains occupy only a small fraction of the space in a dark cloud , but the clouds are so huge that collectively the tiny particles block starlight from beyond . Thus we see the clouds as dark markings against a bright backdrop of stars in the Milky Way . The photos above compare the 100-micron counterpart of the dark clouds in Ophiuchus to an optical view The bright infrared streamers radiating away from the core of Ophiuchus correspond to the dark dust lanes that intrigued Barnard . Within these filaments , astronomers have observed the infrared glow of low-mass stars in the process of being born . The apparent difference between the dark dust lanes seen in the optical and the bright streamers seen in the infrared arises from the temperature of the dust . Everything in the universe emits some form of electromagnetic radiation . That includes your body which , at a temperature of 295 kelvins ( about 20deg Celsius ) , glows brightly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reveal the presence of enemy soldiers on an otherwise pitch black night Like all forms of electromagnetic radiation , infrared can be generated by the motion of the particles that make up an object because an object 's temperature is above absolute zero , motion at the atomic level is always present and the object will emit some radiation at all wavelengths However , as an object grows hotter , the wavelength at which it emits the most energy becomes shorter . In the case of the Sun 's surface , which glows at a temperature of 5,800 kelvins ( K ) , the radiation peaks in the visible part of the spectrum . Interstellar grains , on the other hand , are warmed by starlight to only about 20 or 30 K. At this temperature , they are expected to radiate infrared energy at a wavelength of around 100 microns , and that 's exactly what IRAS found . BLANKETING THE SKY No one was surprised that IRAS detected the glow of interstellar dust , at least not the emission coming from the plane of the Milky Way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all over the sky . Though interstellar dust is present in small quantities everywhere in the Galaxy , before the age of IRAS , it could only be seen against the bright background of stars in the Milky Way . Diffuse stretches of this material well away from the Milky Way , where the number of background stars is much lower , essentially remained invisible , even in long exposure photographs . In displaying the IRAS data , astronomers typically have assigned each of the wavelength channels a different color and then combined them into one image . In most cases , the long wavelength , 100-micron emission is colored red while the short wavelength , 12-micron emission is made blue . Green is used for the 60-micron emission A blue dot in an image is usually a star that shines brightly in the infrared , often because it is surrounded by dust at a temperature of a few hundred kelvins A Slightly green spot is likely to be a galaxy ( galaxies tend to glow brightest in the infrared at 60 microns ) The wispy red structure in the multicolor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cirrus may produce relatively more 12-micron emission and then appear white in the image . The centerpiece of the photo above is a cirrus structure called the Backdoor Nebula . Its rectangular shape and nearly straight sides have intrigued Lee J Rickard of the Naval Research Laboratory , Fran Verter of the Goddard Space Flight Center , and Barry Turner of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory . The appearance of the structure is purely fortuitous ; still , they have been heard to joke that this doorway may offer us a view into another dimension . The bright area to the left of the Backdoor Nebula contains three carbon monoxide-rich " clouds . " First spotted by University of Maryland graduate student Loris Magnani , these clouds are better understood today because of the satellite 's observations . Before IRAS began its survey , Magnani took a close look at the Palomar Sky Survey plates , searching for and finding many previously unrecognized and very faint veilings of dust cutting off light from distant stars . Next he and his collaborators Leo Blitz and Lee Mundy looked in those directions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio survey turned up carbon monoxide virtually everywhere they looked , in all of the 50 or so previously unnoticed clouds . But it was the 100-micron data from IRAS that revealed the nature of these structures in glorious detail Because carbon monoxide is not a particularly stable molecule , it gets destroyed easily when exposed to starlight . Its presence , therefore , indicates that something is shielding it from starlight , namely , interstellar dust . IRAS conformed the existence of this dust when it found the 100-micron emission from cirrus associated with the carbon monoxide structures observed by Magnani , Blitz , and Mundy . Since then radio astronomers have found in these structures other molecular species , such as ammonia and formaldehyde . Rickard and his colleagues also detected weak formaldehyde absorption at the Nebula 's edge , in areas of apparently low density . Because formaldehyde can only absorb radio signals when it is gathered in very dense clumps , this discovery meant that the cirrus is filled with tiny , dense patches that are invisible in the 100-micron images . Some astronomers think these clumps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when interstellar as and dust are just beginning to swirl around . Gravity would then begin to pull on the gas and dust so as to draw the matter together to the point where star formation can be initiated , perhaps a few million years hence . Among the photos above is a particularly striking one that shows cirrus filaments at the southern end of a huge ring of dust and gas ( about 35deg in diameter ) called the Eridanus shell . At its northern end , Barnard 's Loop , just northeast of the Orion Nebula , defines its boundary . These cirrus filaments are associated with both cold ( 50 K ) and hot ( 10,000 K ) hydrogen gas filaments , the former seen with radio telescopes and the latter with optical telescopes . This complex shell structure apparently was created long ago by the combined action of supernovae in the star-forming region in Orion . Strong ultraviolet radiation streaming out of the young stars in Orion keeps this vast cavity excavated and some of the interstellar matter is pushed into filaments along its outside edge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dust made of ? French astronomers F.X . Desert , F. Boulanger , and J.L. Puget have used the IRAS data in combination with theoretical models of how dust obscures starlight to conclude that a typical cirrus structure contains grains of at least three distinctly different sizes . Most of the grains are relatively large , between 10 and 100 millionths of a millimeter across , through still tiny by human standards . The rest is in the form of even smaller grains ( between 1 and 10 millionths of a millimeter in size ) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons , giant molecules based on carbon chains . Each of these molecules contains hundreds of atoms and is less than one millionth of a millimeter in diameter . The bigger grains are made of silicates surrounded by water ice containing various metals and complex molecules . The smaller grains are carbon-rich . Individual astronomers continue to use the IRAS database to extract the information they need to make images of their favorite regions At the same time , astronomers at the IRAS data analysis centers in the United States and Europe are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light and destriping the data Within a year or so , astronomers will be able to study the 100-micron cirrus as readily as they might photograph an area of sky with a telescope . The main difference between photographing the visible sky and studying the infrared heavens will be that the infrared sky resides inside a computer , which will allow you to produce images on a video monitor . Those images will be like those shown here , and they can be analyzed to provide information on the temperature , density , and structure of the dust . This information will pave the way for a comprehensive understanding of how matter between the stars gathers into blobs that will someday form stars . The saga of producing images from the IRAS data has been one of overcoming obstacles . Astronomers from many nations have collaborated to figure out how to destripe the data and remove the zodiacal emission to produce images undreamed of when the satellite was launched . Their work gives us a wonderful new view of what matter between the stars really looks like Gerrit L. Verschuur is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His last article for Astronomy was " The End of Civilization " in the September 1991 issue . <p>                     