@@408004

THREE - YEAR - OLD Stephen Harvey was a sick little boy . From infancy to toddlerhood , his growing body was tormented by constant stomach pain , persistent ear infections and chronic congestion . At least once a day , " recounts his mother , Bev , " I 'd find him doubled over , screaming in pain . He 'd had colic as an infant and it seemed as though he 'd never grown out of it . " The Harveys " doctor did n't have a lot of answers . As a last resort , he prescribed lifelong medication for Stephen . He warned the Ottawa - region parents of the medication 's side - effects , yet said nothing else could be done . We were not happy with the outlook for our son 's health , " recalls Stephen 's mom . " When a friend recommended a naturopath who specialized in homeopathy , we decided to try him out . Within two months , Stephen was a changed kid . All his symptoms were gone . " That was five years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Harvey home . If a cold , flu , or ear infection hits one of the four children or their parents , the first course of treatment is homeopathy . In fact , homeopathy offered relief from chronic fatigue and joint pain for their 14 - year - old , Paul . " Friends and family see the change in our family 's health and are interested in trying homeopathy too , " says father Bob Harvey . The Harveys are not alone . More and more Canadian families are discovering the benefits of this unique system of medical practice developed more than 200 years ago . Homeopathy differs from conventional medicine in many striking ways . Foremost , the homeopath views all symptoms as an expression of the body trying to fight disease or imbalance . Rather than attempting to suppress a symptom , the homeopath works with a symptom . When a homeopathic remedy is administered , it acts as a catalyst to help activate the body 's own self - healing powers . Sometimes that actually means symptoms are increased slightly before health is restored . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the law of similars , or , " like cures like . " Homeopathic remedies contain substances that in micro dilutions help the body restore health . Remarkably , the same substance , administered in overdose to a healthy person , can create the symptoms it sets out to cure . For example , micro dilutions of ipecac may be used to treat persistent nausea and vomiting , while micro dilutions of bee sting serum may be used to treat localized allergic reactions . Today there are more than 3,000 natural homeopathic remedies available made from plant , mineral and animal sources . Another way in which homeopathy departs from conventional medicine is its holistic , individualized approach . A homeopath chooses a remedy according to all the ways in which an individual reacts to illness  --  including feelings , moods , behaviour , body temperature , appetite and thirst . A homeopath must know all of the symptoms experienced by a person before the right remedy can be found . It 's this " whole person " approach to health care , along with the use of natural , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Homeopathy appeals to me because it looks at a child 's overall health , " says Shelley Gillen , mother of two - year - old Rylan . " But most of all , I just did n't feel comfortable giving such a small child synthetic drugs every time he had a problem . " The Toronto mom first tried homeopathy to relieve Rylan of his teething pains . " With each new tooth , he was in horrible pain . I did n't want to give him acetaminophen drops constantly , so I tried homeopathy . The remedies worked with great success . " Like many young children , Rylan also suffered from constant ear infections . " After his umpteenth ear infection , our family physician suggested we meet with a specialist , " she recounts . " I told her that I would rather look into homeopathy first . I knew the specialist route frequently led to long - term antibiotic use or surgical implantation of ear tubes . " Gillen was pleased with her doctor 's response , which was " very open and supportive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of infection for the following eight months , both doctor and mother were relieved . I am delighted to hear from a patient occasionally that an alternative medicine has worked , " says Gillen 's family physician Carolyn Bennett . " We know that Western medicine does n't have all the answers . I have referred patients to chiropractors and naturopaths in the past . " But safety is a key issue , cautions Dr. Bennett , who feels that conventional medicine is the best choice when dealing with acute childhood illnesses . " I feel much more comfortable when patients try alternative treatments for prevention or maintenance , " she says . Bennett speaks of chiropractic and naturopathic medicine as part of the " big buffet " of patients " choices . Many doctors agree . Dr. J. William LaValley of Chester , Nova Scotia , has a firm belief in the " freedom of choice in health care for patients . " As a general practitioner , he is certainly unique : " I use a combination of standard , orthodox medical assessment and treatment , combined with complementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he explains . He has had particular success in treating asthma , otitis media ( ear infections ) and gastrointestinal disturbances , with homeopathy . Nevertheless , LaValley points out that " none of the treatments , either allopathic or homeopathic , are a panacea and each case requires individualized treatment . " Annie Szamosi provides a telling example . The Toronto mother has tried both allopathic ( conventional ) and homeopathic treatments for her son Daniel 's recurrent ear infections . She turned to homeopathy when Daniel was six . After suffering from ear infections since the age of two , he 'd had ear tubes implanted at the age of five . When the tubes fell out and he was displaying signs of hearing loss , I decided to try homeopathy , " Szamosi explains . " I was hesitant to put him on more drugs or have tubes implanted again . A friend of mine had great success relieving her son 's recurrent ear infections with homeopathy , so I was eager to get the same results . " But after three months of treatment , Daniel 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming urgent , and I could n't afford to try the homeopathic treatments any longer . So Daniel had tubes implanted , again . His ear infections stopped and his hearing improved . " Despite this experience , Szamosi says , " I still believe in homeopathy as a viable alternative . I would try it again , perhaps in another situation . " Dr. Robert Rowan of Metcalfe , Ontario , regularly refers patients to naturopaths because , he says , " I do n't think any one kind of medicine has all the answers . I have referred many of my patients to a naturopath who specializes in homeopathy and there have been lots of success stories . In fact , when it comes to colds and the flu , I turn to homeopathy for me and my kids . " Children , it appears , are perfect candidates for the subtle touch of homeopathy . Like clean slates , their health is yet uncompromised by the abuse many adult bodies have suffered from long - term medications , the environment , stress and poor diets . " They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the Canadian College of Naturopathic Medicine in Toronto . " Homeopathy works with this vitality to bring about healing . Children usually do respond quicker . Homeopathy is well - suited to such minor complaints as teething and colic , but I would n't limit it to that , " he adds . " It also works wonderfully in such common childhood complaints as eczema , asthma , allergies and chronic ear infections along with colds and flu . I have seen significant results . " Still , Warren cautions parents to do their homework and choose a licensed practitioner who will be trained to see the warning signs of a medical emergency , at which point a child will be promptly referred to a medical doctor or the hospital . Find a practitioner who can give you guidance in the early stages , " he advises . " Read and study books on homeopathy . And never self - treat a chronic problem . " Good doctors  --  medical or naturopathic  --  will agree that no remedy offers a cure - all . The human body still harbours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite the unknowns , parents can become informed health - care consumers . Homeopathy is one option that can complement a child 's regular visits to a medical doctor . Many parents are now making this choice and discovering the benefits . RESOURCES Recommended Books Homeopathic Medicine for Children and Infants , by Dana Ullman , Jeremy P. Tarcher , 1992 . The Family Health Guide to Homeopathy , by Barry Rose , Celestial Arts , 1992 . Everybody 's Guide to Homeopathic Medicines , by Stephen Cummings , MD , and Dana Ullman , Jeremy P. Tarcher , 1991 . Includes a chapter on childhood illnesses . Help Your Child with Homoeopathy , by Sheila Harrison , Ashgrove Press , 1989 . Homeopathic Medicine at Home , by Maesimund B. Panos , MD , and Jane Heimlich , Jeremy P. Tarcher , 1980 . Includes these chapters : " A Happier Baby with Homeopathic Care " and " Your Growing Child . " ( f.1 ) For Mail - order Books HOMEOPATHY LEARNING SUPPLY 8160 153A Street , Surrey , British Columbia V3S 7X8 1 - 800 - 663 - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California 94704 ( 510 ) 649 - 0294 Footnotes ( f.1 ) including medical journals on homeopathy How to Choose the Right Practitioner Naturopathic medicine refers to a system of health care that uses natural methods and substances to support and stimulate the body 's inherent self - healing process . Naturopathic doctors commonly use a number of different therapies , including homeopathy . Thus , any naturopath who uses homeopathy as a means of treatment , can also be called a homeopathic practitioner . To complicate matters slightly , not all practitioners who use homeopathy as a means of treatment are necessarily naturopaths . Many practitioners in Canada are trained specifically in homeopathy . But consumers should be cautioned that , at present , there is no law licensing homeopathy on its own . In other words , homeopaths are presently not regulated in Canada . When looking for homeopathic care , it is safest to choose a licensed doctor of naturopathy ( ND ) , who has completed the rigorous requirements recognized by the Canadian Naturopathic Association . These consist of four years of professional training ( including mandatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medicine . Preadmission requirements include three years of premedical studies at a university . If you are seeking information or a referral , contact the Canadian Naturopathic Association , P.O. Box 4520 , Station C , Calgary , Alberta T2T 5N3 ; ( 403 ) 244 - 4487 . The Homeopathic Remedy WHAT IS IT ? Homeopathic remedies are non - toxic and made from very tiny and highly diluted amounts of animal , mineral or vegetable substances . More than 3,000 remedies are available , but practitioners generally rely on a core group of 30 - 50 . Commonly used remedies include pulsatilla ( windflower ) , phosphorous , and apis mellifica ( bee venom ) . HOW IS A REMEDY PREPARED ? The substance being used is diluted and succussed ( shaken vigorously ) as many times as necessary to achieve a desired potency . The most common potencies have been diluted and shaken vigorously as often as three , six , 30 , 200 , 1,000 , 10,000 , 50,000 , and 100,000 times . Dilution alone will not create a homeopathic remedy . It is the combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when matched with the right symptoms . The more dilute a remedy , however , the more powerfully it works . Accordingly , remedies that have been diluted fewer times are considered less potent . HOW IS THE RIGHT REMEDY CHOSEN ? Homeopathic medicine is based on the law of similars : like cures like . Following this principle , the homeopath matches the symptoms displayed by a patient with the " symptom picture " of a remedy , listed in a reference book called the materia medicas . A homeopath takes into account all of the symptoms displayedby a patient , including physical , emotional and mental symptoms . It 's important to note that although two children may share a physical symptom such as an earache , rarely will they share all the other symptoms accompanying an earache . One child may be prone to violent outbursts and want to be alone while the other may feel weepy and want to be constantly held . Although both children suffer from an earache , a different remedy would be chosen for each child , because their total symptom pictures differ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in liquid or pellet form and most children enjoy the taste . It is best to take remedies on an empty stomach  --  no less than 15 minutes before eating or drinking ; and no less than 30 minutes after eating . Camphor and eucalyptus oils are volatile and can antidote the effectiveness of a remedy . Consult your practitioner about foods , chest rubs , perfumes and other items to avoid in order to maximize the results of homeopathic remedies . TO BE SAFE ... Like all medicines , homeopathic remedies should be stored in a safe place , out of the reach of small hands . <p>                     