@@409298

Hominids , or humanlike primates , first appeared in Africa five to seven million years ago , when that continent 's climate was becoming increasingly arid and large tracts of woodland and savanna were replacing the unbroken canopy of the equatorial rain forest . While the ancestors of chimpanzees and gorillas remained in the moist forests , the hominids started to exploit the more open , drier habitats . The exact nature of the transition remains hidden , because the oldest-known hominid fossils ( Australopithecus afarensis ) are only four million years old . But the intense sunshine in the new environment , combined with a scarcity of drinking water , must have severely challenged the ability of early hominids to regulate their body temperature . Many savanna mammals do not even attempt to dissipate all the additional heat they absorb during the day , allowing it instead to accumulate within their bodies until nightfall , when they can cool off without expending precious water ( see " From Its Blood to Its Hump , the Camel Adapts to the Desert , " page 30 ) . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tissues , such as the central nervous system , are protected from surges in body temperature . Most savanna mammals possess special physiological mechanisms to cool the brain  --  notably the carotid rete , a network of fine arteries near the base of the brain , coupled with venous circulation through the muzzle ( see " A Wonderful Safety Net for Mammals , " page 63 ) . ( Page omitted ) Humans , apes , and monkeys , however , lack these features . Although humans appear to have eventually evolved an alternative mechanism to help cool the surface of their enlarged brains ( see " A Good Brain Is Hard to Cool , " page 65 ) , the first hominids could have prevented damaging elevations of brain temperature only by keeping their entire body cool . ( Page omitted ) Any adaptations that either reduced the amount of heat absorbed from the environment or facilitated its rapid dissipation would have proved highly advantageous . Walking on two feet  --  the unique mode of terrestrial locomotion that is widely recognized as the first key development in hominid evolution  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct solar radiation during the middle of the equatorial day . I have placed scale models of early australopithecines in quadrupedal and bipedal postures to measure how the sun would hit them . These experiments show that when the sun is high , bombarding the earth 's surface with intense radiation ( because the rays pass through less atmosphere ) , far less body surface is exposed on a biped than on a quadruped . When the sun is directly overhead , the heat load on an upright hominid is only about 40 percent of that received by a quadruped of similar size . Bipedalism also raises most of the body well above the ground , so that the skin contacts cooler and faster-moving air currents . This favors heat dissipation through convection . Allowing for variation in environmental conditions and vegetation , I calculate that hominids would have lost about one-third more heat through convection by adopting a bipedal posture . Finally , human bipedalism at low speeds uses less energy than does either true quadrupedalism or the knuckle walking used by African apes . This reduces both dietary requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rate at which heat is generated internally as a byproduct of muscular activity . Taking these factors into account in calculating the overall energy and water budgets of the early hominids , I conclude that bipedalism significantly decreased early hominids ' dependence on shade , allowing them to forage in the open for longer periods and at higher temperatures . Bipedalism also greatly reduced the amount of drinking water they needed for evaporative cooling through sweating . I estimate that a knuckle-walking ape , active throughout the day on the savanna , would typically need to drink about five pints of water . Just by assuming bipedal posture and locomotion , a hominid of similar size would get by with three pints daily . Bipedalism appears to be an ideal mode of terrestrial locomotion for a mammal foraging in the equatorial savanna , where food and water resources are dispersed and far from abundant . But if so , why do we find bipedalism only in humans ? Probably because all other mammals of the African savanna , including monkeys such as baboons , are descended from ancestors that were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with chimpanzees and gorillas , probably descended from tree-dwelling primates that brachiated , or swung from branches using their arms . These ancestors were not strongly committed to one particular mode of terrestrial locomotion and may have been predisposed to walking upright . As they moved into more open habitats , the overheating problem they encountered may have tipped the balance in favor of bipedalism . ( An alternative possibility is that bipedalism was first perfected in the forest habitat for some entirely different reason , and that our ancestors just happened to be preadapted for the , problems they would encounter on the expanding savanna . ) Following the acquisition of an upright posture , humans evolved in other ways that enabled them to keep cool . Average body weight rose , slowing dehydration under savanna conditions . Larger hominids would have been able to forage for longer periods , and across greater distances , before needing to drink . Later hominids  --  members of our own genus , Homo  --  are also taller for their body weight than their stockier and rather more apelike ancestors , the australopithecines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had acquired the tall , linear physique , with relatively narrow shoulders and hips , characteristic of many human populations inhabiting hot , arid regions of the tropics today . A tall , thin body maximizes the skin area available for heat dissipation , while minimizing the exposure of these sure faces to the overhead sun . Longer legs help by raising the body still farther above the hot ground . Scientists have long reasoned that one of the most obvious and unusual human features , the loss of insulating body hair , is an adaptation to the hot savanna . Although follicles are still densely distributed over most of the human body , the hairs they produce are so short and fine that the underlying skin is exposed directly to the flow of air , promoting the shedding of excess heat by convection and , when necessary , enhancing the effectiveness of sweating . The problem with this hypothesis has always been explaining why humans differ from other savanna mammals , which have retained dense coats of hair . In environments where mammals are exposed to strong solar radiation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heat before it reaches the skin . For most mammals , the loss of this insulation would create more problems that it would solve : I calculate that on the savanna , naked quadrupeds would actually need to drink additional water to cope with the extra heat load . For a biped , in contrast , a naked skin saves water because so little skin surface is exposed to the sun . Mainly the head and upper shoulders are exposed , and these can be protected by the retention of a relatively small amount of hair cover . Bipedalism and the strategy of cooling the whole body ( rather than just the brain ) probably explain why humans evolved a naked skin , while other savanna mammals of comparable size did not . The stability in body temperature provided by bipedalism and a naked skin may have been an essential step in allowing our large , heat-sensitive brains to evolve further . A parallel to this can be seen in the development of modem computers . Information-processing systems  --  semiconductor as well as biological  --  generate substantial heat and are vulnerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to electronics engineers attempting to build ever more capable machines . The circuits of the Cray 2 supercomputer , for example , are so densely packed that they must be immersed in a tank of fluorocarbon liquid maintained at about 65deg F. As in the case of the evolution of the human brain , the development of such an elaborate cooling system does not inevitably lead to higher-performance machines , but it does make them possible . As humans spread outward from Africa , they encountered different levels of heat , exposure , and moisture . Many studies suggest that these factors determined , at least in part , the variation we now observe in features as diverse as nose shape , limb portions , hair structure , skin pigmentation , and eye color . Modern humans inhabiting savanna and desert environments near the equator , such as the Nilotic peoples of Africa and the Australian aborigines , commonly have tall , thin physiques resembling that of early Homo erectus . Their skin , especially among groups that have traditionally worn little clothing , is generally very dark , owing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from sunburn and the carcinogenic effects of ultraviolet radiation . As humans migrated north into colder regions , where retaining heat became more vital , they evolved proportionately shorter limbs , a trend seen in many other groups of mammals . In these populations the skin has lost most of its pigmentation , apparently because of the milder impact of ultraviolet radiation at high latitudes . The reduction in pigment may simply reflect the relaxation of the need for it , or it may have been demanded to allow sufficient penetration of ultraviolet radiation ( which humans need to synthesize essential vitamin D ) . As they colonized  --  or recolonized  --  tropical rain forests , humans faced another obstacle . Although the canopy affords shade , the humidity inhibits the evaporation of sweat . The resultant dependence on convective heat loss favors a body form with a large surface area relative to volume . Unfortunately , the tall , linear physique that works so well in open equatorial habitats is not practical when negotiating dense vegetation . A better solution may be a small body , exemplified by the Mbuti @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high surface-to-volume ratio and can move with agility across the forest floor . <p>                     