@@352184

Anyone who believes that drugs ca n't help the mentally ill should listen to Dr. Murray Frances . The 44-year-old physician recovered from 20 years of severe schizophrenia after taking the drug Clozapine . As Frances explains in Schizophrenia : Voices of an Illness , a remarkable documentary that will air on National Public Radio stations this week , even her hallucinatory inner voices somehow understood that medicine was their enemy . " You 're not going to take that ! " they screamed years earlier when doctors urged her to take the medication Haldol . " Do you want us to go away ? " Frightened , Frances resisted that drug and others ; she remained ill for another 17 years . <P> Psychiatric patients are generally insulted by contentions that their trouble was brought on by bad parenting , childhood trauma or weak character  --  that they do n't actually have a disease . While experts agree that family problems and other external factors can exacerbate mental illness , most have long ago concluded that the underlying causes are often biological and genetic . None of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In fact , the illness caught many without warning . " I was looking up at the sky , and suddenly it cracked like a mirror , in a thousand pieces , " recalls Laura Young , 31 . " I do n't know why I did n't realize it was an incredibly strong signal that something was wrong with my mind . " <P> The schizophrenia program is the second documentary in a series on mental illness developed by Bill Lichtenstein , a former producer for the ABC-TV show 20/20 . His choice of subject matter had personal meaning : he came down with manic-depressive disease in 1986 and spent four years " struggling with the illness to get it under control medically . " After getting better  --  Lichtenstein is on the drug Tegretol  --  he founded Lichtenstein Creative Media in New York City . Fittingly , his first project was a 1992 Voices program for NPR on manic depression . It was narrated by Patty Duke , who also suffered from the disease . Jason Robards offered to narrate the current schizophrenia program , volunteering that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The series offers a unique window on the interplay of sophisticated new medicines and patients ' agonizing struggles to recover . Though sufferers appear withdrawn and disoriented , they are often painfully aware of themselves . " The person with schizophrenia has literally no emotional strength , " explains Brandon Fitch , 21 , a recovered patient who adds happily that medication has " liberated me from quite a few of my symptoms . " Psychiatrist Wayne Fenton , who treated Murray Frances , laments that people who see a schizophrenic behaving strangely often assume that the patient " is someone who does n't have feelings , who does n't have a memory , who does n't experience pain . " Pioneering researcher Dr. John Kane points out that new drugs have helped patients whose families and doctors " had kind of given up . "                     