@@391101

No audio , video , and animating technologies are making the once-static Web look more and more like interactive TV. // WHEN THE PATHFINDER spacecraft landed on Mars on July 4 , untold millions of Web watchers viewed the other-worldly images transmitted the next day by the craft 's Rover vehicle . Some even took the time to download a special Java program called the Web Interface for Telescience that enabled them to simulate their own Rover missions using real data and images from the Mars probe . That 's today 's Internet : Vast and curious , but fairly flat and more than a little nerdy . For the next Mars mission , slated for 2001 , scientists around the globe will use a similar Web program to actually participate in selecting the Rover 's routes and targets as the vehicle moves across the surface of the Red Planet . They may even be able to issue commands to the Rover via an Internet link with NASA 's Jet Propulsion Laboratory . And millions of us will be along for the ride , listening and watching on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ searches for signs of life and other scientific wonders . That 's the new Internet that awaits us : Dynamic , involving , compelling . As NASA 's plans foretell , the coming Internet will resemble what many once imagined interactive television to be , a medium with real-world vibrancy meshed with the computer world 's depth of choices and information . Five hundred channels ? Try 5 million or so , many with production values that mimic TV and radio . Piece by technological piece , the new Internet is in the process of being constructed now . Photograph // Ironically , many of these new Internet multimedia technologies are in high gear now because the system that delivers the Web to millions is stuck in neutral . As this decade began and the Web took off , many cyber-soothsayers were predicting that many of us would soon have fiber-optic phone wires , cable TV boxes , satellite dishes , or landbased wireless services that would speed Web browsing from a slow crawl to near-instant gratification , and deliver all sorts of audio and video programming . That has n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to the costs and complexities of building high-speed digital networks . So most Web surfers are left to ride the small waves of analog telephone lines and PC modems . But rather than stymie innovation , the challenge of the narrow pipeline has unleashed a torrent of it . Not content to wait for a telecommunications overhaul , today 's Internet entrepreneurs are finding ways to squeeze audio , video , animation , 3-D imagery , automated services , and even complete software programs through the low-bandwidth connections most of us use . Some innovators are even experimenting with ways that would enable you to see the Web with more than your eyes , seemingly reaching out and touching the images you see . Together , these efforts are effectively reinventing the Web , transforming it from a largely passive , static world of words and pictures to a more active , fluid experience that may be the defining medium of the new millennium . Sun Microsystems ' Java may be the most hyped yet least understood of the new Internet 's shaping forces-but surely one of the most potent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it is a language that may rewrite the rules for what we expect a Web site to be and do . Born of a project to create software for handheld devices , Java lets programmers create very small programs called " applets , " which can be transmitted over the Internet and run on any type of computer with a Web browser that supports Java ( later versions of Netscape Navigator and Internet Explorer both do , for example ) . It 's able to be " platform-independent " because a Java-aware browser contains translating software called the " virtual machine " that interprets the universal Java code into machine-specific instructions your Macintosh or Windows PC can understand . A Java applet typically ranges in size from 5 to 200 kilobytesa tiny fraction of a conventional program 's size-and can be quickly downloaded as part of a Web page . The ability to transmit and run programs within Web pages opens the door for all kinds of enlivening and purposeful prospects , from simple animation such as waving a title banner across a document , to complex feats such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Java has another enticing promise : redefining what we call a home computer . Java programs being fed from the Internet could reinforce the notion that you need not have a high-powered PC at home to be part of the Web . You could make do with an inexpensive network computer ( NC ) that has only modest processing power , or a WebTVlike box connected to your TV , or even a handheld Web browser . For all of its percolating potential , Java 's impact is still more perceived than real . Relatively few Java applets are out there yet . But Java is already a hit with programmers and content providers , and it has the backing of more than a few computer companies , including Apple , IBM , and Oracle . Even Microsoft professes its belief in the power of Java , or at least the concept , and is developing its own Web programming system called ActiveX . There 's no more direct Internet corollary to television than the growing number of " push " technologies that are rapidly being developed to bring a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Internet 's content to yousometimes without you specifically requesting it-rather than forcing you to go out and find it on your own , or " pulling " it from the Web . Searching for or typing in the Web address for the Los Angeles Times to check up on the Dodgers is the pull method , for example . Having the Dodgers news delivered right to your PC every morning via the Los Angeles Times channel on an Internet news network is the push method . The push-pull metaphor is overdone ; push is merely a simpler and more discriminating way of selecting the online information you want . But push is a simple idea with enormous ramifications , and the channels concept may finally put a friendly face on the Web . If the Internet is to become a kind of worldwide , interactive TV system with millions of channels , then one or more push technologies promise to become the Web 's TV Guide-with an automated twist . You 'll not only be able to easily extract some of the news and entertainment you want from the depths of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having it sent to you exactly when you want it , or even continuously . Typically , push systems work by letting you select from categories of news or information contained with content " channels , " such as a newspaper , magazine , or stock-quote service . Your PC then dials up the push system at scheduled times and retrieves just the information you requested . PointCast Inc. pioneered the Web broadcasting , or " webcasting , " concept , and continues to expand its content choices and delivery methods . PointCast now has dozens of channels to choose from , and version 2.0 of the software lets you view headlines , scores , or quotes as a scrolling ticker across your screen . The number of webcasters is mushrooming , too . PointCast has been joined by such competitors as After Dark , BackWeb , and Marimba , and channels and news-gathering features are working their way into popular browsers like Navigator and Internet Explorer . AirMedia Live has even " pushed " the concept off the Internet-you can get its news feeds via a wireless PC receiver like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean never having to say www.whatever.com , but that tedium may soon take a back seat to push 's brand of remote control . Five million channels and nothing 's on ? It may seem that way with the earnest but decidedly one-dimensional look of most Web sites today . But this situation is slowly beginning to change thanks to new audio and video " stream ing " technologies . Brief audio clips and video snippets have been available on the Web for years , but to hear or see them , you have to download and then play entire files . And the process of downloading these files , particularly with video , can be painfully slow-it 's not uncommon for a 1-minute video clip to take 15 minutes or more to download , all for a very brief reward . Streaming audio and video techniques employ a broadcast-style approach in which the digitized clips are sent over the Internet as a continuous stream of compressed data packets . Free audio- or video-player software that works with your Web browser then decompresses and reassembles these packets in the correct order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive them . To ensure that Internet transmission hiccups do not disrupt the playback , streaming systems typically use a buffering system that stores an extra few seconds worth of data-not unlike how the shock-protection systems on portable CD players work . This approach already works well enough with real-time audio clips that a wide variety of " radio " format and music-sampling sites are springing up , many of them using Progressive Networks ' RealAudio system , currently the most popular audio-streaming method . Video streaming works decidedly less smoothly . Video-streaming systems such as VDOnet 's VDOLive , Progressive 's RealVideo , and VXtreme 's WebTheatre can all show real-time video clips via a 28.8 modem , but typically at a pretty jerky five to 10 frames per second . ( TV operates at 30fps . ) Still , the real-time transmission of video over the Web is getting better at a remarkably quick pace-and the number of sites taking advantage of streaming technologies is growing even faster . By one count , an estimated 1,000 Web sites a month are adding audio or video streaming to their content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Web , primarily via Macromedia 's Shockwave technology . As with audio and video streaming , the free Shockwave player displays the animation on your PC , or WebTV system , as it downloads it . Many " shocked " sites feature animated games or contests , but Shockwave is also beginning to change the dynamics of how we interact with Web pages . Rather than wading through Web sites searching for the right links or buttons , Shockwave enables developers to offer animated ( and vocalized ) guidance to their sites . The Web , in other words , may soon be looking and talking back at you . Another visual characteristic that will no doubt distinguish the new Internet from the old , and from TV for that matter , is depth-as in three dimensions . As exotic as it still seems , and as rare as it in fact still is , 3-D on the Web is not really new . The virtual reality modeling language , or VRML , standard for creating 3-D scenes on Web pages has been around since 1994 , but not until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ VRML ) has 3-D moved beyond nerdy chat sites and their 3-D characters , or " avatars . " Small bits of VRML 3-D graphics and animation are now showing up on many sites , but this is one 3-year-old technology that 's just getting started . Companies such as Netscape and Silicon Graphics are so enamored of the technology that they 're talking about a " second Web " based on 3-D . As with video , however , transmitting enough data across thin pipelines to accurately represent 3-D images remains a big challenge . But 3-D is also a fertile area of math and computer science research . One prominent example is the 3-D graphics and imaging techniques that are being pioneered at MetaCreations ' Real Time Geometry ( RTG ) lab in Princeton , New Jersey . Its technology builds 3-D images in real time by representing the objects as points in space rather than pre-drawn grids , which consumes lots of memory and results in large data files . The Real Time Geometry approach results in much smaller files , opening the door for more widespread use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its technology to 3-D scanners , which can capture a real-world object such as a human face , creating a digital texture map of the image as a 3-D model . Larger objects can be scanned piece by piece and then digitally stitched together to form a unified whole . Among many other mind-boggling possibilities , such 3-D scanners could put realistic 3-D versions of ourselves online . Most of the new Internet 's technologies are coming together piece by piece as well . Today , you need an assortment of special software to make use of the audio , video , 3-D , animation , Java , and push technologies on the Web . Even then , there 's no guarantee the software you have will play the content you find on any given Web site . But as frustrating as this messy construction phase is , there 's evidence to suggest it is building toward a cohesive whole . Web browsers are beginning to incorporate many of the popular multimedia players , along with Java , VRML , and push technologies . Microsoft and Apple say they plan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too . And emerging audio , video , and push techniques may yet be made compatible ; there 's already a proposal for setting push standards . One way or another , a new Internet will emerge from this cyber-soup . And while it may not have the same impact of finding the first signs of life on Mars , it just might enable us to be there for the first extraterrestrial videoconference . <p>                     