@@481109

Someone once described characters in Hemingway 's novels as people to whom things happen . In studying the American past , historians of the left in academia today tend to depict work-en and even slaves as people who make things happen ; not passive objects but active subjects engaged in organizing an industrial strike or forming a community dedicated to " moral economy . " Yet when the current academic left studies the present rather than the past , an entirely different picture emerges , one in which nearly all possibility of human freedom and morality is gone . To the student of intellectual history , this contemporary eclipse of freedom and virtue seems ironic in several respects . First of all , as a product of the Sixties , the academic left represents something like the second life of the New Left ? the audacious movement of rebellious youth who demanded " freedom now , " whether free speech , free choice , free love , or free pot . It was the Sixties generation that felt free to challenge the political system , defy au-thority , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young faculty members that generation freely and willingly entered the universities they had once set out to bring down , they concluded ? this emergent academic left ? that there existed no authentic freedom and no genuine act of conscious choice . People in the past might be praised for acting ; people in the present are acted on as humankind disappears into the " structures " of domination and discourse , Under the influence of the latest European ideas of critical theory , poststructuralism , and deconstruction , the academic left has chosen power as its object of inquiry rather than freedom . This power , as understood by the academic left , has lost its oppressive , coercive , and arbitrary connotations and has become silent , invisible , and so systematically omnipresent as to be almost indistinguishable from the routines of everyday life . The French philosopher Michel Foucault likened power to a " capillary " phenomenon , not something that is suddenly imposed downward but something that slowly insinuates itself outward and adheres to whatever it touches . Power also has come to be regarded as intertwined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not necessarily consciously submitted to but unconsciously subscribed to in daily practices . The academic left 's preoccupation with power and domination derived from the earlier influence of the German refugee scholars ? Theodor Adomo , Max Horkheimer , and especially Herbert Marcuse ? and their idea of " critical theory . " The aim of critical theory , as first articulated by the Frankfurt school , is to demystify the mechanisms that rule people 's lives under the guise of accepted necessities . All aspects of modem life ? the family , education , popular entertainment , the media ? must be probed to uncover the hidden modes of power and control . This allows the academic leftist to inch away from Marxism and leave behind political economy . The shift from economics to epistemology , from the structure of organization and distribution to the superstructure of representation and communication , explains in part why some academic leftists could make the transition from German critical theory to French poststructuralism ? to Foucault and his " archeology " of knowledge ; and to Jacques Derrida and his belief that all is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not the Enlightenment one of furthering knowledge to advance freedom ; the challenge now is to spread suspicion . he influence French poststructuralism enjoys in American academic life is more than a trendy fad ; indeed , it answers a deep need , if only the need to rationalize failure . In 1968 both the French and the American new lefts felt something like eschatological exhilaration in storming the streets and taunting the symbols of authority . But when the illusion of revolutionary cataclysm passed and the backlash came down , the generation of ' 68 began to feel confused , suddenly impotent , and not a little betrayed by its own misplaced hopes . Entering the academic world , New Leftists would find in various poststructuralist theories ready-made answers to their defeat and disillu-sionment . Unlike the veterans of the earlier Left , they did not look to familiar older villains ( Puritanism , capitalism , nativism ) ; nor did they turn away from Marxism so much as go beyond it for new explanations of their failure and frustra-tion . French poststruc-turalism , which seemed so elegantly intricate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With the thinking , acting " subject " ? the Enlightenment 's engine of liberty and freedom ? gone from history , the poststructuralist knew a good deal about the mechanisms of domination and repression but lit-tle about the human mentality of desperation and aspiration . In a mode of inquiry that saw thought as imprisoned in interpretation and saw action as only replicating power structures , freeand other theories that accord little role to the individual could hardly explain the revolutions of 1989 in Eastern Europe or the protests that year in China . The deconstructionist may have declared the " death of man " and showed students why the subject must now be seen as the object of history rather than its originator , but the chain of events in Eastern Europe took place because a man named Gorbachev desired to initiate change rather than impede it , and because courageous workers in Poland and students in Prague could no longer stomach the lies and repressions their parents had to endure . To the extent that the academic left partakes of various poststructuralist theories , reality eludes its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " domination and discourse " mark a shift from labor to language in which text , speech , and other forms of communication come to be seen as more refined systems of control , with power ubiquitous and anonymous . Much of the academic left assumes that language and communication reinforce the omnipresence of power in unseen " structures " more sensed than understood . Yet in 1989-90 language and communication turned out to be liberating rather than repressive . Television news of events in China and Eastern Europe was beamed from satellite transmitters . The shout of the demonstrators at the 1968 Democratic convention in Chicago , " The whole world is watching , " became a fulfilled prophecy two decades later . The visual and verbal media , rather than being a form of exclusion and repression , became the tools of freedom . Chinese students communicated to the world with computers and fax machines . In Eastern Europe the movement against totalitarianism originated among poets , novelists , historians , musicians , actors , and playwrights . The modernist , antihumanist dictum , however , declares that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can have no object , because the act of thinking can not transcend its own discursive practices to ger at the truth of things in the real world and thereby help change conditions in that world . No wonder those who had lived under the conditions of totalitarianism had no patience with poststructuralism . The Czech leader and playwright Va. - clay Havel spoke of " the miracle of human speech " as emancipatory . Knowing as well as any poststructuralist that knowledge requires a linguistic medium , Havel nevertheless insisted on the " power of words to change history . " If the human subject died in American humanities departments , it remained alive in Prague , where language served spirit rather than structure . the original concept of the Left presupposed a real world apart from mystifying linguistic discourses , and history was seen as rational , logical , and progressive : a worldview born of the Enlightenment . In much of modern poststructuralist thought history becomes a succession of events determined by power and interests and incapable of intelligible interpretation . Freedom was once regarded as either the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least the ability to be aware of one 's historical situation and its contingency . With Foucault and Derrida freedom is an illusion , as human beings undertake ac-tions that either reproduce existing structures of power or create new ones independent of their intentions . The free are slaves trying to escape their bondage by walking up a descending escalator or writers looking for truth and finding only words . Formerly the Left set out to comprehend the world in order to change it and to speak truth to power . The contemporary academic left can barely grapple with the " undecidability " of texts . Should the American Left reject the values of the Enlightenment simply because the French poststructuralists have done so ? If the academic left were to disabuse itself of the critique of radicalism propounded by Foucault and Derrida , and return instead to America 's liberal traditions , it might learn better how to deal with the problem of power . The poststructuralist assumes that the problem remains unresolvable because there exists no rational subject capable of being aware of power . But in The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , a freely conscious agent capable of arriving at " clear and distinct " ideas and using reason to rise above the " interests " and " passions " that mediate and distort all human action . Not only is humankind irrational , The Federalist authors insisted , but political philosophy must pass through the " cloudy medium " of language that renders all discourse " obscure . " Yet the authors of this prepoststnicturalist document knew what it took to control power . Power is not some alien presence contrary to nature . It is intrinsic to the very constitution of men and women contending with the conditions of history . Poststructuralist philosophers have only described a world supposedly lost to the concealed structures of domination . The challenge the Left faces is not to despair about power but to uncover power 's hidden operations in order to control it better with countervailing mechanisms . As to freedom , it is difficult to see how the American Left can halt its decline unless it returns to the values of the Enlightenment . John Adams could teach the Left that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to resist and to act . Knowledge joined to power represents nothing less than the history of life itself , and , as long as life continues , to pronounce the human subject " dead " seems a bit premature .                     