@@359801

After 70,000 pages , it 's hard to imagine that the office of the independent counsel has anything tantalizing left to deliver . But two weeks after his team dumped 18 boxes of evidence on the doorstep of Congress , Kenneth Starr quietly sent something else  --  a 44-word letter that has impeachment handicappers all over Capitol Hill buzzing . It is a plea to handle in confidence the investigative materials related to the President 's alleged groping in the Oval Office of a volunteer and former Virginia campaign worker , Kathleen Willey . The letter was the first official indication from the independent counsel of what both Republicans and Democrats have been anticipating for weeks : that " another shoe " will drop . <P> The Democrats have been worried about the other shoe ever since Starr released his report early last month . The evidence against Clinton was ugly , many of them said , but not ugly enough to launch an impeachment inquiry  --  unless , of course , there was more to come . Republicans , therefore , used the prospect of new charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were well served last week when Starr sent a letter the day before the vote saying he could not " foreclose the possibility " of lodging fresh accusations against Clinton . <P> Starr refuses to say what these might be , but his Sept. 22 letter offers a clue . While Willey is n't mentioned , FBI interviews of her associates are , along with the warning that release of the materials " may compromise an ongoing investigation . " What is intriguing about Willey 's story is that if corroborated , it would parallel evidence of perjury and witness tampering in the Monica Lewinsky case now undergirding several articles of impeachment . Willey has testified that while working at the White House in 1993 , she was groped by Clinton  --  a charge he denied to Paula Jones ' lawyers on Jan. 17 and then to the grand jury eight months later . Starr is also investigating whether Clinton allies tried to keep Willey from testifying truthfully in Jones ' sexual-harassment case against the President . <P> Whether Willey 's allegations ever rise to the level of impeachable crimes is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Starr sought to keep confidential may figure in the process of getting there . Two of them  --  Dan Gecker , Willey 's lawyer , and Marlene MacDonald , a Willey friend and co-worker in the White House  --  were in a position to corroborate her story . They were interviewed by the FBI . The third , major Democratic fund raiser Nathan Landow , is apparently being looked to for other answers . Investigators want to know if Landow , who knew Willey socially , tried to get her to lie . They are also trying to determine if private eyes were used to intimidate her , defense lawyers in the case tell TIME . Landow , who participated in a 1995 golf outing with Clinton in Jackson Hole , Wyo. , has denied any wrongdoing . When called before the grand jury by Starr , he took the Fifth Amendment , the lawyers said .                     