@@397780

In Insider 's Guide to the Future , a brief , readable handbook , strategic thinkers Edith Weiner and Arnold Brown foresee a new economy and a new pattern of relationships within society that they dub " The Emotile Era . " The coined term " emotile " emphasizes the authors " belief that emotion ( a heightened concern for personal well-being ) and motility ( fast movement and rapid change ) will be future society 's dominant characteristics . Without attempting a detailed analysis , Weiner and Brown set out to stimulate thinking about this near-term future by posing questions in three areas : ( 1 ) Work : Where will tomorrow 's jobs be ? ( 2 ) Markets : How will people spend their incomes ? and ( 3 ) Methods : How will products and services reach customers ? Their answers are both suggestive and unsettling . Work . The authors believe that people will increasingly opt to become service providers ( guides to information sources , personal consultants , and freelance specialists ) rather than pursue traditional roles as long-term salaried employees . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Era will make old concepts like job security and company loyalty impractical and partly because workers ' own focus on " personal well-being " will make them less willing to commit themselves to long-term relationships of any kind-including those with employers . Markets . The key word here , say Weiner and Brown , is " edutainment . " Tomorrow 's products must not only do their jobs well , they must aggressively draw customers ' attention . For example : People used to buy " sneakers " for $3.00 , and now we spend from $55 to $150 for " athletic shoes . " What is being bought here ? A great deal of information technology in the design and production of the shoes , education as to which shoes perform best under what circumstances , and the massive amount of entertainment that goes into the branding and marketing of that shoe . The authors take no stand as to whether or not the trends they describe are desirable or even healthy . They simply report what they see , then draw conclusions . The impatience with boredom that young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's personal , professional , and commercial relationships , according to Weiner and Brown . Along with this , the authors note a growing obsession ( particularly among Americans ) with " wellness , " which they define as " feeling good about one 's physical and mental condition . " Based on these two trends , they anticipate no upper limit to people 's willingness to pay for anything that enhances their perceived physical health , sense of self-worth , personal safety , or financial security . Methods . Finally , Weiner and Brown believe that growing computerization will lead to major changes in how goods and services are produced , advertised , selected , and delivered . High-speed communications could make currency trading and other information-dependent transactions too fast for the human brain , and even make wealth itself less tangible . " Embedded systems " of built-in computer chips will make consumer products of all kinds , from cars to vacuum cleaners , able to control their own performance in detail and even communicate with others ( perhaps automatically summoning a technician on sensing that some component is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make personalized products as affordable as massproduced items . As a result , there will be fewer stores stocking " ready-made " consumer goods . Instead , customers will select from simulations of many styles and models that are modified to their exact specifications in advance and delivered to them as needed . As in many other business-oriented books about the future , Weiner and Brown maintain a generally optimistic outlook . The changes they foresee may be dramatic , but they clearly imply that everything will work out well in the long run , that whatever we lose in old-time comfort and stability we will more than make up for in greater freedom and personal satisfaction . - Lane Jennings illegal or unethical behavior were reported most frequently were the computer and software industry and advertising and marketing . The Workplace Pressure Survey was sponsored by the American Society of Chartered Life Underwriters and Chartered Financial Consultants in collaboration with the Ethics Officers Association . Funding was provided by the State Farm and Guardian insurance companies . Most of the employees surveyed believe that pressure in the workplace and its consequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making a more serious commitment to the issues that cause pressure . Source : Insider 's Guide to the Future by Edith Weiner and Arnold Brown . The Boardroom , Inc. 1997.120 pages . Available from the Futurist Bookstore for $20 ( $17.95 for Society members ) , cat . no . B-2077 . Comment : A real plus of this Insider 's Guide to the Future is its brevity . One can only wish more futurists would be willing both to apply critical judgment and to produce short books in clear language for the concerned but over-busy people who need them most . Source : " Sources and Consequences of Workplace Pressure : Increasing the Risk of Unethical and Illegal Business Practices , " American Society of Chartered Life Underwriters &; Chartered Financial Consultants , 270 South Bryn Mawr Avenue , Bryn Mawr , Pennsylvania 19101 . Telephone 1-800-3926900 or 1-610-526-2500 ; fax 1-610-527-4010 . <p>                     