@@357108

It 's like a scene from a bad Washington movie . Squads of investigators are prowling the halls of Justice and the FBI , interrogating officials high and low about a recent spate of unauthorized , though unspectacular , Justice-beat leaks . Some Justice officials defend the plumbing expeditions as necessary to stem revelations of classified and investigative information . Others deride the internal probes as a panicky overreaction by mid-level officials who are making key decisions while the department 's top management jobs ( Deputy AG , Associate AG and Assistant AG for the criminal division ) lie vacant . <P> " It 's a pain in the neck , " says a veteran Justice hand about the proliferation of plumbers ' squads . " Some days , we spend a lot of the day being interviewed . " Among the offending disclosures : a Washington Post story by Bob Woodward and Brian Duffy that detailed U.S. intelligence intercepts of a covert Chinese-government scheme to funnel illicit money into political campaigns ; revelations of plea-bargain negotiations between Justice and Hani Abdel Rahim Hussein al-Sayegh , a Saudi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ car for the truck bombers who killed 19 U.S. servicemen in Dhahran last June ; reports that alleged CIA killer Mir Aimal Kansi gave a confession to FBI agents who snared him in Pakistan ; and the still unsolved leak of Richard Jewell 's name . <P> Attorney General JANET RENO is especially steamed over the stories last month that FBI Director LOUIS FREEH had advised her to seek a special prosecutor to probe possible campaign-finance-law violations by Democratic fund raisers . Reno allies grumble that the leak seemed aimed at shoring up Freeh 's flagging support among congressional Republicans . Freeh allies counter that the leak hurt him more than it did her and must have come from Justice . While the probes are undermining morale and chilling official press contacts , insiders give slim odds that the Justice plumbers will actually catch any leakers . Reason ? Nobody 's talking . <P>  --  By Elaine Shannon                     