@@408010

Every season brings its joys and dangers . Summer is no exception , says Denise Bertrand of the Poison Information Centre at the Children 's Hospital of Eastern Ontario . Summer 's chief poisoning hazards include berries and mushrooms , fuels , and the contents of visitors ' suitcases and handbags . Plants are a major cause of summer poisonings because kids spend so much time outdoors . Many common flowers are poisonous  --  aster , begonia , forget - me - not , hollyhock , geranium , impatiens , petunia , phlox , rose , snapdragon , tiger lily and more . So are garden ornamentals such as honeysuckle , mock orange , mountain ash and spirea . While some plants may cause little more than a tummyache , others are very toxic , even in small amounts . Know which plants in your garden are poisonous and teach children to avoid them . Your local poison control centre can provide you with a list of hazardous plants . The mushrooms that spring up on the lawn after a summer rain are also irresistible to some children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they 've been identified by an expert . Fuels and chemicals are another potential source of danger . Beware of barbecue lighter fluid and gasoline for lawnmowers and outboard motors . Keep them well out of children 's reach and wipe up any spills . Garden chemicals such as pesticides and fertilizers are also hazardous . Do n't apply them on windy days or when youngsters are present . Better still , use safer organic products on your lawn or garden . Pool owners need to be doubly vigilant . Keep pool chemicals away from children , under lock and key . Visitors bring their own set of dangers . At the top of Bertrand 's list are " Grandmother 's pills . " Any time you have visitors is a time to be cautious , she says . Poisoning First - aid Because the average household contains as many as 250 potentially poisonous products , you should always be prepared for a poisoning emergency . Make sure you have the number of the nearest poison control centre or hospital emergency near the phone . Keep a bottle of Syrup of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Available at your pharmacy without a prescription , it 's used to make a child vomit . But , says the CPS , never induce vomiting unless told to by a doctor or poison control centre . Petroleum products can harm the respiratory system if regurgitated , and vomiting of caustic cleaners can burn the stomach , throat and oesophagus . In many cases of poisoning , there are some steps you can take before calling for help . Inhaled poison . Place your child in fresh air . Avoid fumes . If she is not breathing , start artificial respiration and get someone to call an ambulance . Swallowed poison . This is an emergency . Call a doctor or poison control centre immediately . Poison in the eye . Rinse the eye with a steady stream of tepid water for several minutes . You can use a pitcher held three to four inches ( 16 - 19 cm ) from the eye and may have to hold your child 's eyelid open . Do n't let the child rub his eye . Poison on the skin . Remove all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ten minutes . Wash with soap and water , then rinse . Bring the container of poison to the phone when you call the poison control centre . Tell them what was taken , how much , when , and how long the exposure was . You should also know the weight and condition of the child . Hot Barbecue Tips Barbecuing is hot in more ways than one . The outside of both gas and charcoal grills can get intensely hot while you 're cooking and remain hot for a long while afterwards . Keep children well away while the barbecue is in use . And locate the playpen or play area away from the direction of the smoke . Remember , too , that lighter fuels are poisonous and explosive . When you 're finished cooking , clear away all equipment such as charcoal , knives and forks , tongs and dishes . <p>                     