@@428959

RALPH C. WOOD writes that Updike 's " implicit theological assumption is that the world could not be drastically diferent from the way it is , and that to accept this basic fact of life is the basic act of faith " ( " Into the void : Updike 's sloth and America 's religion , " April 24 ) . But Wood confuses the vocation of fiction writer with that of evangelist . Updike has described what he sees , not the dream of how he wishes the world might be . Updike 's eye for describing the " mystery and manners " of life in 20th-century America is particularly keen in In the Beauty of the Lilies ; I am not convinced that what Wood calls " spiritual passivity " is a flaw in a novelist , or that " abstaining from judgment " makes for bad fiction . Flannery O'Connor argued that the writer of fiction " can not move or mold reality in the interests of abstract truth . " Rather , the writer deals with the concrete . " If the Catholic writer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it by describing truthfully what he sees from where he is . " O'Connor also said that " the Catholic fiction writer is entirely free to observe . He feels no call to take on the duties of God or to create a new universe . " This is what Updike has achieved in this superb bit of writing . Richard M. Simpson Christ and Holy Trinity Church , Westport , Conn . Wood fails to acknowledge the possibility of " loss of faith " and the accompanying grief it can cause for its victims and families . Wood castigates Updike presumably because Updike does n't share his own cocksure , narrow faith . If Updike 's work is " slothful , " Wood 's review is irresponsible in that it fails to offer an alternative worldview to the narrator and author whom he condemns . The faith of Clarence Wilmot , Updike 's main character , might have been reframed and redeemed had he encountered the Harvard chaplain who , when told by the entering freshman student that he " did n't believe in God , " responded , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in . Maybe I do n't believe in that God either . " Had Wood offered Updike and his entourage a different picture of God , like the one presented by Paul Tillich and Gordon Kaufman instead of a literal , stick-figured deity , his review might have been balanced by the grace and freedom of Christ . Instead it is an example of the kind of religion that drove Wilmot from his Presbyterian pulpit in the first place . David B. Ramsey Farmville Baptist Church , Farmville , Va . Wood has long lamented the absence of a spiritual dimension in John Updike 's fiction . It 's not enough for Updike to give us fiction that remains , for all its tantalizingly moral and theological reverberations , true to the ambiguities of life . The message needs to be ( in good Baptist fashion ? ) spelled out . Such prescriptions make for better homilies than novels , and in Wood 's review of In the Beauty of the Lilies they come perilously close to producing absurdities . Wood complains about the author 's " passivity " in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " Updike 's minister does not seriously struggle with the collapse of his faith . " What can " seriously " mean in this context but that Wilmot did not bounce back from the abyss the way Ralph Wood might have ? But Updike is not writing about Wood ; he 's writing about a man whose faith , when it collapsed , really collapsed . The message of Lilies seems clear to me . Too much faith is murderous ( killing even , it would seem , the critical judgment of an otherwise fine literary scholar ) , but a little faith is necessary in order to live . John McTavish Trinity United Church , Huntsville , Ontario Updike employs his incomparable verbal skills to describe things as they are . " Is it not the purpose of the novelist to describe how things are ? Updike 's novel encompasses much of the emptiness of current American Christianity . From the first generation 's ability to grow beyond biblical literalism to the fourth generation 's willingness to follow any messiah , Updike covers the scene . He describes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Wood notes , " the disappearance of God is ineluctable and irreversible-just as Updike tells us . Robert G. Partlow Christ Episcopal Church , Springfield , Ohio Ralph C. Wood replies : GREAT WORKS of art always glance and gesture at a remedy-even when they do not overtly announce a cure-to the evils they disclose . If this means that Dostoevsky is an evangelist rather than a novelist , then let his tribe of preachers flourish . It would take a Geiger counter , by contrast , to detect even a faint radiation of hope in John Updike 's new novel . Flannery O'Connor-that great neutral and nonjudgmental writer ! - called Rabbit Run " the best book illustrating damnation that has come along in a great while . " Little did she know that Updike regards protagonist Harry Angstrom not as a study in sure damnation but a fond portrait of ambiguous religious heroism . My lament over Clarence Wilmot 's uncontested loss of his faith was not meant to suggest that a rigid and blinkered certainty is the essence of belief in God . A religion so readily and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with . To appeal to Paul Tillich as an exemplary counterfigure is risible in the extreme , given Updike 's treatment of him in A Month of Sundays , in which the Reverend Thomas Marshfield calls Tillich a great jellyfish of a theologian . Reading him , says Marshfield , is like drowning . Reading Barth , he says , is akin to breathing fresh air and eating thorny leaves from the tops of trees , like a giraffe . Even in his essay praising Tillich 's Christian sensitivity to human pain and guilt , over against Barth 's thundering righteousness , Updike confesses the spiritual flaccidity of Tillich 's notion that God is " present , weakly , in everything . " To be chided for having long lamented that Updike 's work lacks " a spiritual dimension " - when in fact I argued in two long chapters of The Comedy of Redemption ( 1988 ) that he is a deeply religious writer-is to be reminded of the great wisdom announced by a Peter De Vries character : " Let him cast the first stone who has never thrown a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. WALL should have pointed out for the record that nothing in Islam proscribes athlete Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf from standing for the singing of the national anthem ( " Prayer time , " April 10 ) . His decision was not requisite for his faithfulness to Islam . When athlete Eric Liddell refused to compete on Sunday , however , this was requisite at least for his good standing in the Scottish Congregational Church . I wonder , is there any Islamic sect , presumably to which Abdul-Rauf belongs , that is analogous ? If not , why the comparison ? Abdul-Rauf could have quietly stood , while not participating , during the national anthem . But he called attention to himself in his initial protest and refusal , and in his traditional Muslim prayer stance . Thus Abdul-Rauf protested on a nonrequisite religious basis , and in so doing he deliberately created a public stir . In contrast , Liddell had to forego participation due to a requisite religious basis , and wished to do so as quietly as possible , not wanting to call attention to himself . History will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage-play will fade from memory . Liddell also paid a once-in-a-lifetime price for not running in the Olympic 100-meter race , whereas Abdul-Rauf risked only a small portion of his high income and a footnote in terms of his career . John C. Rankin Hartford , Conn . James M. Wall replies : JOHN RANKIN is correct that AbdulRauf had little support from his religious community for his position . My concern was not with his reading of Islam , but with what he did with what he believed . Can we not give him credit for his principled stand ? I doubt that Eric Liddell would have been banished from his church for running on Sunday . Most likely he could have found Scottish theologians willing to support his stand under the heading of " special exceptions . " The issue for me , however , is not institutional support , but personal belief . Abdul-Rauf could have handled this situation in a great variety of ways , as Rankin suggests . I do n't argue that he made a good judgment , but that it was his judgment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not defend is the unusually harsh reaction of the media and the fans-who rarely adhere to the principle of standing silent for the singing of the anthem-and the public , including many in religious communities . Where are the usually tolerant folk when the individual involved is a Muslim ? My comparison of Abdul-Rauf to Liddell was designed not to suggest that they were equal in public significance but to note that the public that respected Liddell ( judging from the popularity of Chariots of Fire ) rejected Abdul-Rauf . Speaking of religion . . IN " Speaking of religion " ( April 24 ) James M. Wall suggests that corporate sponsors believe the Sunday morning talk shows target the " thoughtful , intellectual community " who are home rather than spending time on " less important matters , like worship . " But some members of the so-called " thoughtful community " just might worship on other days . Our nation can proudly boast a growing number of Muslims , as well as a solidly observant Jewish community , as well as others from different religious communions who do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldstein Temple Emanuel , Andover , Mass . James Wall used a number of examples to demonstrate that there is a " bias . . . against religious faith as a basis for rational discourse . " Often the people who decry any encroachment of the religious into the secular culture are blind to their own spiritual presumptions . Here the true God for many is the spirit of the times , and the appearance of any other god ( or God ) makes these believers uncomfortable . Since they are unaware of their spiritual commitment , they cry foul , as if they are somehow above such niggling issues as that of faith . ( That was once called self-righteousness . ) Yet in reality we are believers all . The difference comes in regard to which reality we term our " ultimate concern . " Thomas Dodd United Lutheran Church , Eugene , Ore . James Wall 's " Speaking of Religion " sounds like one more defensive statement from Christians who see their ranks diminishing and do n't have a clue as to how to turn it around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday watching TV ; separate faith from rationality ; and wonder why thoughtful TV segments are aired " during the traditional hours for Sunday worship . " Could it be that TV execs think they have cornered an audience ? Let 's not argue between Enlightenment rationality and Great Awakening emotion . Both rationality and emotion are needed for a balance . Cut my rational-based religion some slack , and I 'll give your faith-based beliefs equal respect . Elizabeth McMaster Coconut Creek , Fla . The CENTURY encourages readers to send letters to the editor . Because we edit letters for space and clarity , succinct submissions stand the best chance of publication . <p>                     