@@393656

Chunghi Choo is an outstanding example of a uniquely American phenomenon : the artist-teacher working in a liberal arts context , one whose independence and simultaneous influence on consecutive generations of artists are made possible by an academic institution functioning as a patron of the arts . The exhibition " Celebration of Creativity , Craftsmanship , and Innovation : University of Iowa Metal Artists , " beautifully mounted at the Joanne Rapp Gallery/The Hand and the Spirit , highlighted the work of this teacher and 18 of her former students . Choo , who served as curator , was represented by a vase and a punch bowl ; the remaining hundred or so pieces were by artists of the several generations she has instructed at the university , in Iowa City , since 1968 . Most of the exhibitors completed their M.A. or M.F.A. degrees in the 1970s and 80s , and all have been working in the metals field , some for years . Choo 's former students are proof that the kind of training she offers produces professional artists and , further , does not necessarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Celebration " participants are self-employed jewelers , sculptors and designers . Although several teach their craft , their options have been varied . Choo 's pedagogic methods aim at success . Educated in Korea and at Cranbrook Academy of Art , where she earned an M.F.A. in 1965 , and herself the master of the widest range of techniques and an ardent innovator , she insists on firm technical grounding for her students . She then provides an environment in which creativity can flourish . She prizes imagination and experimentation , desiring to set students ' minds and talents free . At the same time she encourages a professional attitude , believing that success can become a habit to be carried by the student into later life . The work in the " Celebration " show was remarkable both for its variety and excellence . There was no " Iowa " look , only the artistic personalities of 19 distinct metalsmiths . Choo is not doctrinaire , and her students are encouraged to work from their own strengths and preferences . There were many personal ornaments ( pins , brooches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accessories ( vessels , vases , utensils ) and sculpture . Silver and gold shared the stage with various other metals and materials , both time-hallowed ( gemstones ) and unexpected ( space-age plastics , paper ) . The scale ranged from miniature jewelry to the almost monumental punch bowl by Choo , set in a red lacquer frame . The techniques included raising , casting , forging , fabricating , patinating and anodizing , as well as newer methods , notably , hot-foilstamping on metal and handrolling . Louise Rauh 's baskets and bracelets are shaped from wire-mesh screening that has been covered with brilliantly colored metal foil added by means of a printing technique  --  hot-foilstamping  --  presently being developed as a fine-arts application by Virginia Meyers , professor of printmaking at the University of Iowa . The metal foil , which is available in many colors and finishes , is permanent and waterproof when adhered to metal . Rauh 's use of this technique is innovative and promising . Handrolling is the term applied by Sung Ran Kim to methods she has recently utilized for shaping a series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , she discovered that using nothing more than her hand , she could easily alter its form . Stretching the edges produced one set of possibilities , compressing them another . Two tightly rolled budlike forms were in the show , along with bowls having geometric ( rectangular ) mouths , all made by this technique . Kim writes that this approach " allows the metalsmith to experience a plasticity similar to that of working with clay . " Her pieces in this manner are suave and understated , evoking traditional East Asian associations . Her pouring vessel made by more traditional means seems unexpectedly jazzy by comparison . Another innovator , Sandra VanderMey , uses the products of science and technology . Metropolis and Mona Machine , 1993 , both wall pieces , and some of her jewelry include material from laser discs , videodiscs , printed circuitry , computer chips , holography , Plexiglas and synthetic crystals ( along with silver , gold , aluminum , silk-screening and painting ) . Similar pieces by VanderMey were shown on television in the final episode of the 1993-94 season of Star @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which she combines in complex juxtapositions and layerings produce fascinating works which beguile the eye with reflections and transparencies , peacock iridescence and almost hallucinatory images and effects . On the other hand , tradition can result in work that looks very 20th century ( even if not futuristic ) . David Luck 's hammer-formed , mixed-metal wall sculpture One-Eyed Jack , 1992 , is a formal abstract composition , softened by the subtlety of its low-relief contours and the interplay of copper , brass and silver . It was hung near Mary Merkel-Hess 's contrasting Platter Forms , which consist mostly of handmade paper with metal armatures , intriguing for their complexity-in-simplicity . Anne Krohn Graham 's brooches of mixed metals and semiprecious stones were also displayed as wall pieces . Conceived as miniature collagelike reliefs with images drawn from a landscape/cityscape vocabulary , the brooches are , unfortunately , nearly overwhelmed by their mountings . Jocelyn Chateauvert 's jewelry of silver and paper combines contrasting materials in unexpected ways . Handmade abaca paper , " tough , resilient , waterproof , yet seemingly fragile , " is cut in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines of the housings are carefully simple ; the paper surprises . Delores Chance also uses metal to house or connect unexpected materials . Her functional pieces ( cigarette cases , decanters ) may incorporate Corian , for example . Incidentally , Chance has developed procedures for transferring images to Corian and for altering its surface . Her Message Bottles , Message Books are intimate and enigmatic , inviting viewer participation . They open to reveal tiny scrolls or folios of paper or other miniatures . Some artists showed only jewelry . David Ernster 's silver and gemstone rings are striking , as are his Fish Pins , 1994 , bold designs in strong patterns . Margery Johnson 's pins from her Coil Series , with crisp , flat planes of anodized aluminum in soft colors and matte finishes , look as if they were folded from paper , their spiraling shapes recalling sea creatures . Patricia Knox says that her brooches " send mixed messages " : their bag/pouch forms appear soft but are made of patinated silver and gold . Meiing Hsu 's two brooches , one of anodized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in silver cutout and gold foil , look like paper constructions . Robert Sunderman 's jewelry reveals his fondness for striking contrasts , such as organic forms with technologically derived ones . His sterling silver salad set shows nothing but refinement . Kee-Ho Yuen 's work included limited-edition cast-metal covered vessels strongly reflecting his Asian heritage ( compare them with Chinese ceramics or Japanese tea ceremony utensils ) . His brooches , on the other hand , are mixed-metal collagelike reliefs involving such images as hands and fruit in amusing combinations . Mark Walz 's slightly surrealistic work included potentially functional tableware . One witty combination of invented metal forms and prosaic items ( a glass marble , a hardware-store screw ) is a spouted vessel after Rube Goldberg . His Sugarbowl is a study in off-center , out-of-true rectilinear elements making up a tetrapod box like a small feeding trough , or an ancient Chinese ritual fangding , accompanied by an absurdly long-handled spoon . Talismans , 1991-94 , by Leslie Hollis was displayed as tabletop sculpture , consisting of a base supporting a straight row of 11 units . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from all the others , a variation on a theme . Justine Zimmer 's tabletop pieces suggest both growing vegetative forms and paper constructions . Barbara Nilausen-K 's work , like that of others , raised the issue of function versus nonfunction . Forms of Force can serve as a ladle , but with its rest and streamlined ornamentation , it can also be tabletop sculpture . The pouch/basket forms of Nilausen-K 's Taj Series , 1992 , are refined variations on a theme that Chunghi Choo explored a few years ago : the potential of wire screening to be bent , tied , folded , twisted and ornamented . Indeed , the virtuosity evident in the variety of work in this exhibition , the multiplicity of techniques represented , the kaleidoscopic play of imagination reflected in the forms , lines , colors and textures all attest to the remarkable vitality of this workshop tradition presided over by Chunghi Choo as benevolent muse , and to the continuing mutual support which this teacher and these artists provide for one another . In an age which has learned that eclecticism is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eclecticism as a mother lode of forms and styles and inspiration , mere variety is perhaps not so difficult to imagine . To find it connected with exacting standards of excellence is , however , greatly to be applauded . The Iowa metal artists exhibition was in every sense a celebration of creativity , craftsmanship and innovation . The author is professor of art history at the University of Iowa , Iowa City . <p>                     