@@393635

The diverse stimuli of " Tradition + Transition , " a symposium on fiber art sponsored by the Textile Arts Centre in Chicago , and held in that city October 9-10 , generated broadly appealing themes , which were aired from various perspectives but by no means resolved . Paramount were questions of identity and demarcation of purpose , of self-definition and ambivalence , and of the desire of artists for recognition on their own terms ( with disagreement as to the composition of those terms ) . With eloquence and a sure sense of self , the featured artists , critics and historians ventured opinions often more radical than , and occasionally at odds with , those of their audiences . A FIELD IN FLUX In some ways the event was a paradigm of today 's fiber field and its perceived strengths and weaknesses , a scene clearly in the process of transformation and redefinition . It was a small group as national meetings go , with several hundred participants , predominantly women . Sessions were orderly , friendly and cooperative . No posturing occurred ; no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the audience . People began and ended their presentations promptly , and no one hogged time or attention . More complaints could be heard here than battles . One sensed in this crowd an interest in sharing thoughts and finding out how to get a place in the sun , rather than a desire to fight for ideas or recognition . Yet in this generally tension-free atmosphere , important concepts were articulated and pondered . Divergent beliefs were expressed and , most importantly , conflicting views were allowed public consideration . A disparity emerged between models of cooperation and of competition . Artists appeared torn between a desire to use their work for communal benefit and the realization that , without a tougher attitude toward self-promotion and more rigorous critical standards , their work would never achieve full significance and recognition . The consensus seemed to be that healing and growth must come to terms with critical thinking . Speakers focused on pushing fiber artists toward articulated goals and stronger content in their work , tougher criticism , and a greater engagement in social and political issues in the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis for current directions , but questioned the value of regarding history and tradition as defining features . RETHINKING THE PAST In a panel discussion entitled " Historical Perspective/Future Goals , " Gerhardt Knodel , head of the fiber department at Cranbrook Academy of Art , spoke of " objects of the past " that illuminate possibilities for him . Yet he clearly advocated the dynamism and change , characteristic of human life , that should be mirrored in its crafts . For Knodel , reflection is fundamental . Craft , he said , must no longer be described only as a visualization of intuition and emotion , but rather as " the manipulation of materials combined with thought . " On that same panel , Jan Janeiro and Lou Cabeen , both textile artists and writers , emphasized the multiplicity of influences and cultures that inform the contemporary craftsperson , among them the histories of ideas , fine arts and textiles . Fiber artists , they said , must comprehend and synthesize useful aspects of each history to extend our understanding of the present . In this provocative session , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weekend . Janeiro questioned whether fiber artists can be just artists or just craftspeople , and whether it 's possible to mediate between these extremes . She suggested that certain ideas , generated by modernism and incorporated into a model of the essential nature or integrity of crafts , may need rethinking . Must the craft object , for example , necessarily be an emotionally connected , skillfully created , autonomous object of contemplation ? Cabeen warned against the compliance of artists in uncritically " swallowing whole " various " passively received historical assumptions " which constrict our imaginations and leave out entire areas of cultural production . Her understanding of the importance of craft history to contemporary cultural theory set a tone that resounded in the symposium 's subsequent sessions . Crafts , for Cabeen , are cultural documents that record and transmit histories of the Other . Lamentably , craft can also be a label for marginalized artwork . Janeiro asked the members of this panel ( who also included Lotus Stack , curator of textiles at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts ) who they thought is currently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and criticism ) and how they felt it should be written . Their consensus was that writers come from diverse backgrounds : anthropology , history , studio art , journalism , collecting , dealing . While diversity is generally desirable , they agreed , it has pitfalls when applied to writers . Knodel warned against untrained writers who bring their own agendas and biases to their work . Other panelists took his admonishment further , listing such culprits as artists who write about their friends , and dealers and collectors who promote their own interests . WHAT IS CRITICISM ? Disapproving of much current writing about textiles , Janet Koplos called for tougher criticism . In her particularly cogent talk , Koplos , herself a writer and critic , asked the audience to reflect upon what it wants from criticism . Pointing out an important distinction ( largely ignored in the textile field ) between feature articles and criticism , she emphasized that the latter requires more than an emotional engagement with the work , which yields simple description and contemplation . Distance and objectivity , she said , are necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocated a critical approach that speculates about an artist 's intentions , evaluates them , and judges his or her success in their implementation . Because tendencies in textile criticism reflect and influence actual practice , Koplos 's remarks had particular relevance to an issue that has begun to generate much discussion in the field : how fiber art is defined , and how that definition might be expanded . That fiber criticism is inclined to be vague and general rather than specific , she said , indicates less interest in the concept than in the thing itself . Devotion to the materiality of artwork and its capacity for symbolic and emotional expression overrides critical efforts that refer to an intellectual or historical system . What is lacking , said Koplos , is a personal or societal context for the work  --  discussion of how an artist makes choices , how his or her present direction compares with earlier ones , or with the work of others . She listed some generalizations about contemporary fiber art that not only summarize the perceived nature of this work , but also illustrate how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the larger world and the field itself as outside , or different from mainstream art . It is known for its softness and flexibility , its emphasis on line , density and complexity of surface , domestic familiarity and often modest size . Artists can exploit or overturn its tendency toward order , its structure based on the grid and repetition of modules , its capacity for inducing a meditative state , and the investment of time necessary for its fabrication . Furthermore , while the fiber arts encompass a spectrum of worthwhile modes of being , criticism may not serve all kinds of art production equally well , said Koplos . Decorative and utilitarian objects can not be evaluated on the same terms as artworks having other intentions , and those which depend on emotional resonance for their significance are more difficult for critics to write about than those referring to words and intellectual thought . Yet Koplos rejected the notion that fiber art exists outside language , asserting that " nothing is outside of language . " Nor , for her , is there any truth to the restricting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and symbols to empower art . SEMANTICS AND SELF-DEFINITION Other themes recurring at the symposium had to do with the manner in which artists define themselves . The importance of descriptive words became evident : a distinction between " weaver " and " artist , " for example , shapes how certain makers conceive of their work and how the world treats it . Unfortunately , the schism between those who call themselves craftspersons and those who see themselves as artists using fiber as their medium is limiting for everyone . The latter group expressed regret that they may pay for their choice by losing some of the camaraderie of the close-knit fiber community . Those who claimed craft status , on the other hand , voiced a sense of victimization , of not getting their share of exhibition opportunities and critical attention . The majority of speakers felt that " artist " is the more respectful term , and that it is their own professionalism , self-assurance and ability to expand their options , challenges and expectations that determine how their work is received . One speaker , Bonnie Lucas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delineating specialized fields altogether . She favors the more general classification of " artist " in order to be open to new possibilities , to focus on work rather than on definitions , and to avoid an almost institutionalized feeling of victimization . Although many artists have said they experience less respect and opportunity for women 's work and the crafts associated with it , the symposium speakers repeatedly emphasized that the major limitations come from artists themselves , in their methods of defining their own boundaries and their strategies for pushing beyond obstacles . Every artist must find an audience for her or his work , and audiences differ according to the nature of the work  --  a tautological condition that revolves around self-definition . INTERACTIVE ART Such interrogations into " who speaks , " and " for whom , " leads us into the problematic keynote address by Suzi Gablik . Invited to address this symposium because of her promotion of global interconnectedness and her outspoken devotion to environmental issues , she attracted angry criticism from many participants for appearing to claim these beliefs as her private domain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narcissistic self-promotion with object making , she seemed to be throwing out the baby with the bath water . She confronted an audience consisting primarily of object makers with her own brand of acceptable art , a kind of interactive didacticism , a performatory mode that includes doing " useful " work and making " serviceable " objects ( one artist wryly called it " social-work art " ) . Thus , Gablik reduced complex issues regarding art 's actual ability to effect change to an endorsement of one kind of art over another . Moreover , her obvious and self-professed ignorance of textile arts manifested itself in a lack of understanding of either the problems or the goals of her audience . Most women artists , who comprise an overwhelming majority of the fiber field , are already interactive in their personal and professional lives , not macho individualists . They struggle with finding a voice in the first place , then with making their voices heard and relevant in the larger world . They spend their lives taking care of others , responding to other peoples ' needs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make things that reflect a growing sense of self . In this context , lectures that exhort against object making are unhelpful . It is counterproductive to discourage the development of a shaky " I , " to induce guilt for using scarce resources or devoting attention , after a lifetime of caretaking , to the evolving self . In contrast to Gablik 's construction of acceptable politically engaged art , other speakers pointed out that any work challenging the power structure is activist and risky . It is in itself a political act to create and appreciate societally disdained objects or use unvalued materials and processes , to pay attention to cultural documents from marginalized groups , or to promote unpopular artistic and cultural values . Artists presenting overtly politicized work exemplified a wide breadth of activity . Joyce Scott , in her performances and beaded sculptures , amplifies perceptions of black body types and behavior , thus making white norms problematic in such humorous ways that the stereotype itself becomes ridiculous . Focusing on different issues , Bonnie Lucas subverts the meaning of her materials themselves . Using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crafts , she makes tableaux that suggest violence just below the surface refinement both of the piece and of the class and gender of her subjects . Lucas 's work illustrates a major problem faced by women and by the fiber field as a whole : society 's demand that they be " nice . " Women need to acknowledge violence in themselves and in their culture , she seems to be saying , and learn to demand their due . In yet another example , Arturo Sandoval uses various fiber materials and processes to highlight social problems such as terrorism , AIDS and the nuclear threat . In one body of work he has created facsimiles of the American flag as a structure to symbolically convey complex meaning . For instance , " silence is acceptance ; silence = death " is one message of flags made to look burned . What unites these three artists is a commitment to fiber as a feasible medium for effecting social change in some way , and their optimistic view that change and healing are possible . While they have taken a critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole , other fiber artists have displayed in their work a sense of embeddedness in particular cultures and groups . This conceptual difference illustrates the variety of attitudes , intentions , politics , media and techniques that comprise textile arts today . In a spirit of commitment to their community and to art , and the expectation that their work can make a difference , the artists , critics and curators who took part in " Tradition + Transition " made their statements . Calling for a broader view for textile art , for activism , high standards and critical thinking  --  as well as continued comradeship and cooperation  --  this energizing symposium offered nourishment for thought and action . Claire Wolf Krantz is an artist and critic based in Chicago . The complete proceedings of the " Tradition + Transition " symposium are available on 10 audiocassettes , $9 singly or $80 for a set ( plus shipping and handling , $2 first tape , 50 cents each additional tape ) . To order , contact Sounds True Recordings , 735 Walnut St. , Boulder , CO 80302 ( 800-333-9185 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              