@@357906

Charles Spencer should have been a Tudor . The members of that English royal dynasty , now extinct , excelled at passionate rhetoric , just like that provided by the earl in his unforgettable eulogy at the funeral of his sister Diana . The Tudors too were embroiled in endless marital controversies , though Spencer can not end his with the finality available to Henry VIII  --  the thud of the headsman 's ax . Still , one may wonder if Spencer was trying to display a similarly majestic , if less fatal , gesture  --  whether his righteous bombast against the media , delivered ostensibly to deify his sister , was not a self-interested attempt to raise himself above the prying eyes of the press . If so , he has not elevated himself high enough , as was proved last week in Cape Town , South Africa , where Spencer found himself exposed in a scandal born long before his sister 's untimely death . <P> Spencer 's marriage to the former model Victoria Lockwood fell apart three years ago . But only last week did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether their divorce should proceed in Britain or in South Africa , where both now reside . Lockwood , who wants the case moved back to Britain , claimed that the couple did not expect to live permanently in South Africa and that Spencer had lied about his reasons for moving the family there in the first place . He said , she said , that the move was to allow their children to escape the glare of celebrity and to grow up with a sense of normality . She contends it was really designed to cover his pursuit of Chantal Collopy , a South African whose husband eventually sued Spencer for " enticement and alienation " of his wife 's affection . Lockwood 's brief describes Spencer as a serial adulterer whose unfaithfulness began less than six months into their 1989 marriage ( the British journalist with whom he had that initial liaison sold the story of their affair to the tabloid News of the World in 1991 ) . Lockwood 's lawyer said Spencer had strung together as many as 12 love affairs . He was most recently linked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Borain . <P> Spencer denies the allegations of rampant adultery , with one of his lawyers sneering that Lockwood 's team could dig up the names of just three of the earl 's alleged dozen mistresses . Meanwhile , the earl , who has always been public about his wife 's anorexia and neuroses , has briefed the court on Lockwood 's alcohol and drug dependency , stating bluntly , in response to her demands for a sizable settlement , that " I am most fearful that should Victoria receive significantly more money from me than she does at present , she will be unable to resist the lure of the substances to which she is/was addicted and/or unprincipled individuals who may seek to take advantage of her . " He cited his fears for their four children in such a scenario , even though Lockwood says she has recovered from substance abuse .                     