@@358398

Henry Burton , the campaign aide with a troubled conscience , is lying on a hotel bed watching a movie on TV . It 's the last moment of Shane , the Mount Everest of the heroic western , and a desolate little boy is crying to the hillsides , " Shane , Shane ! Come back ! " Henry cries out in return , " And run for President ! " <P> Well , what can you do but cry when you 've devoted yourself to a candidate like Primary Colors ' Jack Stanton  --  charming , idealistic in some ways , but more than a little slippery ? That 's the kind of presidential timber we 've been getting in the movies lately . Men apt to cut a few moral corners , and then a few more , until all the right angles are as smooth as they are . Men with the scruples of the off-screen President in Wag the Dog , who is caught in a scandal with an underage girl . Or of President Gene Hackman in Absolute Power , who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that she wounds him with a letter opener . That leads his Secret Service agents to burst into the room and shoot her dead . At least for once the cover-up is n't worse than the crime . <P> It 's odd that so much has been made of Bill Clinton 's friendships with the Hollywood crowd . It does n't seem to have done him much good as far as movies are concerned . Whatever else his legacy may be , Clinton will be remembered as the man who was in the White House when Hollywood decided to release one film after another that makes the place a cross between the Playboy mansion and Dracula 's castle . Maybe as some kind of compensatory gesture , the movies have also lately given us the President as cartoonish action hero : Harrison Ford in Air Force One , Bill Pullman in Independence Day  --  the Commander in Chief as somebody who can do a nice head butt . Musclehead or sex fiend  --  that 's not much of a choice . Before long the only guys suitable for the part will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing new for movies to expose corruption in American politics . When Mr. Smith went to Washington in 1939 , he found Gomorrah . But the President , whether real or fictional , used to get gentler handling . In 1942 's Yankee Doodle Dandy , when George M. Cohan , played by James Cagney , meets Franklin D. Roosevelt , the President was played by an actor , seen largely from behind , who sounded so mature and wise that he might as well have been Moses . Two decades later , in Sunrise at Campobello , there is Roosevelt again , this time played by Ralph Bellamy as the last word in ripening decencies . Nobody in those days thought of making a movie about F.D.R. and his sometime mistress Lucy Mercer Rutherford . Or about Dwight Eisenhower and his wartime companion Kay Summersby . Or about J.F.K. and ... well , whomever . The Kennedy film Hollywood did make was PT 109.                     