@@419039

AS RECOGNIZED churches and other Christian groups in China register their places of worship with the government under the new religious regulations , observers are wondering how the growing number of unofficial " house " churches will respond . These independent , often clandestine churches must decide how far they can trust government promises and the rule of law , as well as how much religious persecution the unregistered will continue to suffer . History hardly inspires confidence . Since the 1949 revolution , the government has required churches to shed their ties with the West and become all Chinese-self-governing , self-supporting and self-propagating  --  if they expect to survive . Membership in this so-called three-self movement , which was imposed on churches during the 1950s , also has required embracing the government 's " patriotic " socialist political front  --  a stand deeply repugnant to some Chinese Christians . As resisting pastors were detained or otherwise repressed , organized Christianity declined and virtually disappeared during the Cultural Revolution , except for small groups of Christians who met secretly in each other 's homes without trained clergy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this upheaval and were allowed to resume open worship in some of the old church buildings . But they still were required to follow the three-self line . Some house-church Christians regard this accommodation as a sell-out to the Communist Party and decline to participate in government-recognized churches . House-church Christians frequently fear repercussions for practicing Christianity outside the recognized church . Today more than 8,00O Protestant churches , as many as 4,000 Catholic churches , and 20,000 other meeting points are recognized by the government . They are all crowded . I will never forget the sight of a packed church parking lot where people received communion through the windows because the church was so crowded they could n't get in . Millions of other Chinese Christians meet in houses and apartments , sometimes connected to each other by public address systems . Typically , they have no ordained clergy . Many are located in poor and rural areas . " Small-group fellowship in such house churches and personal evangelism have led to an explosive growth of Christians , up to 10 percent of the population in some districts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in China Today . The largest of these groups is the Little Flock or Assembly Christians , founded in 1922 . Another is the True Jesus Church . Estimates of the total number of Christians in China range from an official low of about 8 million to a maximum of perhaps 60 million in a country with a population of 1.2 billion . Lately people have become concerned that the government 's new regulations may dampen religious participation and drive more of it underground . The first regulation , adopted last January , calls for all church groups to register with the Religious Affairs Bureau , an arm of the government closely tied to the police . Previous registration was with the church-run three-self movement . The second regulation reiterates the long-accepted principle that foreigners may not proselytize in China . Malevolent as these rules may sound to some Westerners , they are basically nonthreatening , argues Jean Woo of the National Council of Churches ' China office . Woo believes the regulations are directed not against open worship , but against groups evangelizing secretly . This is a particular problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a government that fears foreign involvement and regards it as spiritual imperialism and a political threat . Veteran Chinese Protestant church leader Bishop K. H. Ting , who is encouraging all Christian groups to register , calls the registration " protective " because it could give public legitimacy to house churches that have been easy targets for persecution . " I believe that the government 's objective is to ensure social tranquillity , to give protection to normal religious activities and .... to ensure that undesirable domestic and foreign elements have no room for maneuver , " Ting said in a recent interview distributed by the Amity Foundation 's news service . Amity is a Chinese Christian-inspired social service agency that cooperates with the three-self movement and receives wide support from American mainline churches . Ting acknowledges recent religious persecutions and predicts that under the new regulations " there will still be venues of religious activity which are disbanded , but ... these will be a very small minority . " Recently hassled in Beijing was a house-church group called the Beijing Sacred Love Fellowship , which includes some well-known dissidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the summer , according to the Associated Press . Typically it is evangelical fellowships that get into the most trouble with the government . One well-publicized case involved a missionary of a Pentecostal sect , Dennis Balcombe , who , with six colleagues , was arrested and detained for four days in a Henan village while visiting local Christians . He said he and members of his group were " beaten , manhandled and robbed " by the Public Security Bureau before being expelled , according to Hong Kong 's English-language South China Morning Post . China has forbidden proselytizing by foreigners since the 1949 revolution . But Balcombe has for over ten years " been actively conducting a covert missionary " invasion " of China , " says Wendell Karsen of the Hong Kong Christian Council representing mainline Protestants . " He has for years been the organizer of a massive Bible smuggling operation to China known as " Donkeys for Jesus " in direct violation of Chinese law . " Ting strongly supports the prohibition against such foreign missionaries , but he defended some harried indigenous Christian groups to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , editor of Bridge , a well-known bimonthly of the independent Tao Fong Shan Ecumenical Centre in Hong Kong . Some Christians still " would rather sit outside and be condemned as " illegal , ' ' " Deng told a audience at the recent Northwest Regional China Council 's conference on " American Missionaries and Social Change in China , " held at Linfield College in McMinnville , Oregon . The conference is believed to be the first to bring together representatives of the scholarly community and believers with ties to the missionary movement that fostered Chinese Christianity before 1949 . Deborah Brown , an American scholar from the Foreign Policy Research Center in Philadelphia , predicted that many house churches wo n't register under the new regulations out of fear of a new wave of religious repression . But Karsen doubts that such repression will occur , and points to the notable progress in religious toleration made in the past 15 years . It is still unclear why the government wants house churches to be brought into the fold . Knowledgeable China watchers have suggested that government leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of chaos . Some historians note that in the past the end of dynasties has been accompanied by a rise in the number and activity of secret groups . Might this thinking adversely affect Christian groups unwilling to come out of the closet ? In recent years " the central government has been surprised by the growth especially of the indigenous churches , " says Mary Brown Bullock , director of the Asia Program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington , D.C. Apparently local officials in some parts of China allow these groups to function unofficially as long as they are low key . Cooperation also occurs in a number of places between three-self and house churches . According to Daniel Bays of the University of Kansas , some people attend services in both churches , and house churches even share three-self church facilities in some locations . <p>                     