@@419043

Children expect stories to tell them something true about the world . We all enter the world with very little information about life or what 's expected of us . Large , towering people shape our lives in ways and for purposes mysterious to us . Often we do n't have enough experience to comprehend their explanations . So stories supply us with our first information about the big picture . They give us not just details , but show the general shape of human lie  --  that we move through time ; that fortunes alter ; that we too will change one day . Stories tell us which actions are admirable , which bring disgrace . This is why children ask with such urgency , " Is it true ? " They do n't want to know if dragons are a recognized zoological species . What they 're asking is , " Does the universe really harbor powerful , treacherous creatures which can destroy small children ? " Or put more abstractly , " If the world is such a dangerous place , how can I ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ myths to contain their group 's painfully acquired clues as to the overall shape of life . Like a vessel in which seed corn is stored for the next year 's crop or as insurance : against drought , myth held the precious , accumulated knowledge that made it possible to live together and survive . At some point , however , and for reasons still debated , myth turned into something we in the Western world call fiction . And fiction has several advantages over myth . Stories now are filled with lots of interesting details and are marked by their inventors ' individual styles . But fiction ca n't supply shape as well as myth can . Fiction 's contours are indistinct . Sometimes it 's hard to know when you 've come to the end of the story . When anyone asks the old question " Is it true ? " we think the person is naively inquiring whether the details can be verified . The very term " fiction " warns against such a childish question . While we look to myth to tell us the truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to be internally consistent . What we once relied on stories to tell us , fiction no longer promises to deliver . But children continue to arrive in dire need of basic survival training . They are n't yet smart enough to know that " Is it true ? " is a foolish question . And a few storytellers still write with that childish question echoing in the back of their minds . One of these is Walter Wangerin Jr . He believes that " genuinely true stories are the expression , even the manifestation , of their teller 's faith , " and he often uses mythic means to manifest his faith . Wangerin 's own childhood supplied a goodly portion of both his story material and his faith . The eldest of seven children , he grew up in a series of Lutheran parsonages . His family legacy was literacy . His parents ' use of the English language he describes as both " formal and fire-bright  --  the formality my father 's , the sharp shooting of a flaming metaphor my mother 's . " His father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , alcoholism , divorce , death . The church rituals he saw constantly enacted  --  marriage , baptism , confirmation , worship  --  shaped what might otherwise have seemed a chaotic welter of trouble into manageable , or at least ponderable , proportions . Wangerin 's father was a storyteller . On Saturday afternoons after he had finished preparing his sermon he would gather his four eldest children around him in the frigid North Dakota bedroom and tell them tales he had invented about Ambrose , a medieval knight in rusty armor . For young Wally , such tale-telling tamed " chaotic existence by he cosmos of a story . " Walter went away to college and then to graduate school at Ohio 's Miami University . He had all but completed a doctorate in medieval literature when he decided to enter the ministry and to write fiction . At about the same time he met and married Thanne Bohlmann . By the time he was ordained and settled in a parish in Evansville , Indiana , the family included four children . Against this backdrop of family and parish his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mythic shape . By 1978 , Wangerin had written five slim , and in his estimation " unremarkable , " books for children . That year , however , Harper published The Book of the Dun Cow , set in the same kind of meta-time as Edmund Spenser 's The Faerie Queene . Critical notice began immediately . The New York Times voted it the best children 's book of the year . In 1980 the National Book Awards committee gave it the prize for best children 's fiction . Unfortunately , the name of the prize was changed that year to the American Book Award in an attempt to attract the same kind of attention that the Academy Awards receive . When news of the prize arrived only a week before the ceremony to be held in New York , Wangerin , unaware of the award 's prestige , decided not to cancel his scheduled confirmation class . Only when his award check arrived , accompanied by a congratulatory letter from William Buckley , the master of ceremonies that year , did he realize he 'd missed his moment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working at Grace Church and raising a family in Evansville 's inner city , Wangerin laid in another rich cache of experience that would find its way into a series of books for adults . The most notable , Miz Lil and the Chronicles of Grace , alternates between the private world of Wangerin 's childhood and his public role as a pastor . The characters in Miz Lil Swell to enormous proportions ; they have to in order to contain the immensity of their eternal significance . Angels could move among these people as credibly as they could among Abraham 's family . The book has been optioned for a movie by Wind Dancer Productions , with the screenplay by Horton Foote ( Trip to Bountiful , To Kill a Mockingbird ) . Wangerin 's appointment to the Jochum Chair at Valparaiso University in 1991 made it possible for him to devote most of his energies to writing . His Lenten devotional writings were published as Reliving the Passion . Two more children 's books , Elizabeth and the Water-Troll and Branta and the Golden Stone , both illustrated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dancing , in which Wangerin alternates between the voices of narrator and pastor , contains some of his most powerful stretches of narrative . Sandwiched between the stories of his daughter leaving home and accounts of parish wakes , the more discursive sections do n't stand a chance . I suspect that many readers skip over the theological explanations of grief and loss , racing ahead to the next encounter with his characters . Just published are Little Lamb , Who Made Thee ? , which shows the author still very much the pastor-storyteller whose characters are children and parents , and The Crying for a Vision ( Simon &; Schuster ) , Wangering first novel since Dun Cow 's sequel , The Book of Sorrows . If , as Wangerin claims , one can discover a writer 's faith through his stories , then . e can discern several tenets running through his works . First , he believes that children perceive the world unsullied and accept it joyfully  --  at least initially . While they may not arrive trailing Wordsworthian clouds of glory , they do see the glories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is the adults they live among who may imperil their perceptions and defeat their joy . The second item in Wangerin 's creed is that the damage adults do to children can be mended , but at a cost greater than we imagine . A few sessions with a therapist or a class in self-esteem will not set things straight . The loss of innocence is a wound in the world , a deficit in the cosmic economy . The price of causing one of the little ones to stumble is a millstone round the neck . And there is more bad news : those who have to pay the price are often not those who inflicted the damage ; In other words , life 's not fair . The innocent suffer ; the virtuous are sacrificed . But though unfair , this reality makes a certain amount of sense . Why is n't it enough for people who damage children to forfeit their own happiness , their own lives ? Because their lives simply do n't weigh enough to even out the cosmic equation , Innocence is rare and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be made up only by a worthy sacrifice : a grandmother 's life devoted to raising her grandchildren . in place of their drug-addicted parents ; the humble Mundo Cani , not the proud Chauntecleer , loses his life confronting the malevolent Wyrm in The Book of the Dun Cow . In The Crying for a Vision the damaged child himself , an orphaned Lakota boy , becomes the sacrifice . Moves Walking is ostracized by his tribe because it fears his mysterious power to converse with stars and wolves . The people would much rather follow Fire Thunder , a warrior whose hunting and raiding exploits bring the tribe buffalo and ponies . Fire Thunder , who has lost one eye in a fight with the Crow , is a man who feeds on rage . Living " outside himself at the rim of his flesh , " he has learned " that if he banked the anger it would become an inexhaustible source of strength . " Fire Thunder rarely speaks ; silence both imparts power and hides his terrible secret . Early in the book , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cuts off Moves Walking 's left ear . The story soon becomes an account of an unequal contest between this violent giant of a man and the young and vulnerable boy . At first the boy seems more akin to St. Francis than to his ancestor Black Elk , despite his ability to ride ponies and shoot unerringly . Dragonflies roost on his fingers ; swallows rest on his head . He can not bring himself to kill such creatures , even when his irascible adopted grandfather , Standing Hollow Horn , threatens to cast him off in disgust . But Moves Walking eventually ; comes to terms with death when Shunkmanitu Tanka , the wolf , shows him the circle-of-the-world . As she explains this vision to him , " every creature is appointed to serve another . That 's the hocoka , the sacred hoop . If someone for selfishness ceases to serve , the circle breaks and creatures go hungry . The more who hunger , the fewer who serve , until everyone suffers . When everyone suffers the world itself may die . " This is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Wild Kingdom . Life must feed on life . But the hocoka  --  the sacred hoop  --  is more than a food chain . Added to the naturalist 's vision is the spiritual legacy of the Indian hunting : ritual wherein the killer first honors the life he is about to take , recognizing his own dependence on that sacrifice . Only within this circle does death find its meaning , How this conflict between rage and love is played out supplies the story 's drama . It plunges the plains into territorial war and makes all the animals disappear  --  a catastrophe that can be healed only by the death of Moves Walking . The last we see of him , his dead body is stretched on a Lakota burial scaffold , the snow sifting into his wounds . There is yet a third article of faith inherent in Wangerin 's stories . This ongoing savage operation we name sacrifice is both necessary for the survival of the world and efficacious . Many lives have been rescued by the death of Moves Walking , and high above an eagle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wangerin 's knowledge of Lakota spirituality is more than superficial . At the invitation of Marlene Whiterabbit Helgemo , a member of the Winnebago tribe and a Lutheran pastor , he twice visited the Lakota near Rosebud , South Dakota , during their annual Sun Dance . He helped her make coffee and food for the singers and met the ancient drummer whose experience goes back to the early part of the century and whose head is the repository of most of the Lakota ritual songs . In 1991 Wangerin helped cut and raise the cottonwood tree that stands in the middle of the dancing ground as a symbol uniting heaven and earth . During the dance , he helped stoke the fires for the sweat lodges and sat under the arbor with the old women who give spiritual support to the dancers . That year the presence of oyate unma , " other people , " at the Sun Dance was denounced by Ted Means , a leader in the American Indian Movement . But Elmer Running , the wichasha wakan who led the ceremony at Rosebud , defended their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier of all races and all people dancing in the Sacred Circle . Inevitably , Wangerin will be criticized either for appropriating Lakota legend for his own purposes or for borrowing from what some readers will regard as a pagan source . He explains , however , that he used the Lakota mythic world because at least in part it corresponds to the shape of the Gospels . First , both agree that we are to see through the material world to the spiritual , rather than separating them into dual universes . Creation is a lens we use to focus on the holy . Second , both worlds conceive of sin in similar ways , as putting oneself in the center , or , as Luther put it , Incurvitas in se , the individual turning in on himself . Sin may begin by caring for oneself more than for the community , but it ends in considering oneself as God , And third , the " piercing " inflicted by the Sun Dance participants is like the ascesis practiced by monk  --  pain undertaken as participation in the suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oneself before the sufferings of the Redeemer . Christ 's own passion , C. S. Lewis said , makes true all myths which reveal , the necessity of sacrifice as the shape of reality . Perhaps we have shifted our attention from myth to fiction simply because this truth is too hard for us . As T. S. Eliot wrote : in the Four Quarters , " Human kind can not bear very much reality . " So how can Wangerin justify telling such hard tenths to children ? Because lying to them is the ultimate-cruelty . The story , he says , " must not lie . One sort of lying would be to name either the world or the child or some citizen of God 's earth with a false name . " Furthermore , evil belongs in the story " precisely because children have already encountered it but do not know what to d about it .... Bad stories are stories that do bad , like lying . But stories that contain the badness of the world are not bad stories . " They are , in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storyteller as companion , encountering evil with the child . " Otherwise , she meets these things helplessly and alone . " A good bit of what we call children 's literature is devoted to teaching children to " cope " with drugs , divorce , abuse . But in the face of such menace , coping is hardly adequate . The term lowers the stakes by pretending that evil is only an inconvenience or something one can overcome by learning a skill . Wangerin 's stories up the ante by emphasizing the radiance of innocence and the horror of its ruin . His mythic universe also shapes for children a world latent with meaning . It persuades them that they are capable of more than coping , that " they themselves bear strength and goodness into the world , " that they are a necessary part of the sacred hoop , of the meaning of the universe . <p>                     