@@409927

An illusion . An anesthetic . An irrational compulsion . A neurosis . An emotional storm . An immature ideal . These are the descriptions of love that have long populated the psychological literature . Let us not even consider the obvious fact that they are highly judgmental and dismissive . The question I want to pose is , does any one of them , or even all of them together , come close to capturing the extraordinary experience that for most people is an enormous part of the meaning of life  --  an experience that fosters well-being and growth ? As a marital therapist , my job is to help people experience love , to move from distance and alienation to contact and caring . But in order to help distressed couples change , I realized early on that I needed a model of what a good relationship is . For too long , the choices have been contained to two . There is the psychodynamic , or psychoanalytic , view , which holds that adult relationships arc more or less reflections of childhood relationships  --  replays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Love is a rational exchange in which couples make deals based on their needs , and they succeed to the degree that they master the negotiation process . Love is then either a crazy compulsion or , after couples calm down , a kind of rational friendship where the partners make good deals . I CAN ASSURE YOU THAT IF I TRIED TO PERSUADE THE couples I see in therapy to leave with an understanding of their childhood or a rational friendship , they would not be satisfied . The truth is that these conventional descriptions do not adequately reflect the process of marital distress or the rekindling of love that I observe as a marital therapist . Possessing insights as to why you have certain sore spots or honing negotiation skills seems to somehow miss the mark . Neither addresses the intense emotional responses that consume distressed couples . As 1 watch couples , 1 see that raw emotion , hurt , longing , and fear are the most powerful things in the room . Couples seem to have a desperate need to connect emotionally  --  and a desperate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many elements to a relationship . It is true that echoes of the past are present in relationships , but this focus does not capture enough of what goes on and ignores the power of present interactions . Couples do also make bargains . Rut the essence of their connection is not a bargain . It is , rather , a bond . The bond between two people hinges on two things  --  their accessibility and responsiveness to each other . The notion that the tie between two people is created through accessibility and responsiveness is an outgrowth of attachment theory . First put forth by the late British psychiatrist John Bowlby 30 years ago and later elaborated both by him and psychologist Mary Ainsworth in America , attachment theory is only now gathering significant momentum . It promises to be one of the most significant psychological ideas put forth in the 20th century . As many researchers are now demonstrating , it is certainly the most viable way of making sense of the mother-infant ( and father-infant ) bond . VIEWING LOVE THROUGH A LENS Over the past decade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see in attachment theory an understanding of adult relationships . In my experience attachment is the best lens for viewing adult love . When viewed through this lens , love relationships do not seem irrational at all ; we do not have to pronounce them mysterious or outside our usual way of being . Nor do we have to shrink them to fit the laws of economic exchange . They make perfect  --  many would say intuitive  --  sense . And attachment theory goes a long way toward explaining what goes wrong in relationships and what to do about it . John Bowlby observed that the need for physical closeness between a mother and child serves evolutionary goals ; in a dangerous world , a responsive caregiver ensures survival of the infant . Attachment theory states that our primary motivation in life is to be connected with other people  --  because it is the only security we ever have . Maintaining closeness is a bona fide survival need . Through the consistent and reliable responsiveness of a close adult , infants , particularly in the second six months of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place and come to believe they have some value in it . The deep sense of security that develops fosters in the infant enough confidence to begin exploring the surrounding world , making excursions into it , and developing relationships with others  --  though racing back to mom , being held by her , and perhaps even clinging to her whenever feeling threatened . In secure attachment lie the seeds for self-esteem , initiative , and eventual independence . We explore the world from a secure base . Thanks to Mary Ainsworth , a large and growing body of research supports attachment theory . She devised a procedure to test human attachment . Called the " strange situation , " it allows researchers to observe mothers and children during a carefully calibrated process of separation and reunion . Ainsworth found that whenever children feel threatened or can no longer easily reach their attachment figure , they engage in behavior designed to regain proximity  --  they call , they protest , they seek , they cry , they reach out . Closeness achieved , they do all they can to maintain it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact , they cling  --  and , that all-time pleaser , they smile . AINSWORTH NOTICED THAT CHILDREN DIFFER IN their attachment security and their patterns of behavior sort into three basic " attachment styles . " Most children are securely attached : They show signs of distress when left with a stranger , seek their mother when she returns . hold her for a short time then go back to exploring and playing . These infants develop attachment security because they have mothers who are sensitive and responsive to their signals . On the other hand , she found , 40 percent of kids are insecurely attached . Some are anxious/ambivalent . They show lots of distress separating , and on reunion , they approach and reject their mother . Their mothers usually respond inconsistently to them , sometimes unavailable , other times affectionate . So preoccupied are these infants with their care-giver 's availability that they never get to explore their world . The third group of children have an avoidant attachment style . They do not seem distressed during separation , and they do n't even acknowledge their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; though they appear to dismiss relationships entirely , internally they are in a state of physiological arousal . These children are usually reared by caregivers who rebuff their attempts at close bodily contact . These responses are not arbitrary but universal . Evolution has seen to that because they serve survival needs . Some researchers are busy identifying the neurobiologial systems that underlie attachment behavior and mediate the response to attachment threats . They are finding specific patterns of changes in biochemistry and physiology during experimental separation experiences . Attachment bonds are particularly durable , and once an infant is attached , separation  --  or the threat of it  --  is extremely stressful and anxiety-producing . In the absence of attachment danger , children explore the world around them . But if the accessibility of a caregiver is questionable or threatened , the attachment behavior system shifts into high gear . Facing the loss or unreliability of an attachment figure , infants typically are thrust into panic and they mount an angry protest . Eventually , however , the protest dies down and they succumb to a despair that looks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extraordinary and extend to the deepest corners of our psyche . Attachment impacts the way we process information , how we see the world , and the nature of our social experience . Our attachment experience influences whether we see ourselves as lovable . Research now shows that we carry attachment styles with us into life , where they serve as predispositions to later behavior in love relationships . WE SEEK CLOSE PHYSICAL PROXIMITY TO A partner , and rely on their continuing affections and availability , because it is a survival need . What satisfies the need for attachment in adults is what satisfies the need in the young : Eye contact , touching , stroking , and holding a partner deliver the same security and comfort . When threatened , or fearful , or experiencing loss , we turn to our partner for psychological comfort . Or try to . The core elements of love are the same for children and adults  --  the need to feel that somebody is emotionally there for you , that you can make contact with another person who will respond to you , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love is a partner responding to a need , not because it 's a good deal  --  but even when it 's not . That allows you to sense the world as home rather than as a dangerous place . In this sense , we never grow up . If is growing dear that the dynamics of attachment are similar across the life span . Implicit in the anger of a couple who are fighting over everything is the protest of the child who is trying to restore the closeness and responsiveness of a parent . In the grief of adults who have lost a partner is the despair of a child who has lost a parent and experiences helplessness and withdrawal . THE MUSICALITY OF EMOTION Attachment theory makes sense of a matter that psychology has just begun to puzzle over  --  how we come to regulate our emotions . We regulate feelings , specifically negative one 's  --  fear , sadness , anger  --  through the development of affectional bonds with others , and continuing contact with them . Through the lens of attachment we also come to understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in relationships ; it 's how we adjust closeness and distance . Emotion is the music of the interpersonal dance . And when attachment is threatened  --  when we feel alienated from a partner or worry about our partner 's availability  --  the music either gets turned way up , into the heavy metal of angry protest , or way down , shut off altogether . The lens of attachment sharply illustrates the dangerous distortion personified in a popular icon of Western culture : the John Wayne image of the self-contained man , the man who is never dependent and never needs anyone else . Our need for attachment ensures that we become who we are as individuals because of our connection with other people . Our personality evolves in a context of contact with other people ; it does n't simply arise from within . Our attachment needs make dependence on another person an integral part of being human . Self-sufficiency is a lie . A PLACE FOR VULNERABILITY The most basic message of attachment theory is that to be valid adults , we do not need to deny that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life , vulnerable children . A good intimate adult relationship is a safe place where two people can experience feelings of vulnerability  --  being scared , feeling overwhelmed by life , being unsure of who they are . It is the place where we can deal with those things , not deny them , control them , or regulate them , the old John Wayne way . Relatedness is a core aspect of our selves . Yet Western psychology and psychiatry have often labeled feelings of dependency as pathologic and banished them to childhood . Our mistaken beliefs about dependency and self-sufficiency lead us to define strength as the ability to process inner experience and regulate our emotions all by ourselves . Attachment theory suggests that , not only is that not functional , it is impossible . We are social beings not constituted for such physiological and emotional isolation . For those who attempt it , there are enormous costs . A great deal of literature in health and psychology shows that the cost of social isolation is physical and psychological breakdown . Under such conditions , we simply deteriorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ someone else to comfort you . We need other people to help us process our emotions and deal with the slings and arrows of being alive  --  especially the slings and arrows . In fact , the essence of making intimate contact is sharing hurts and vulnerability with someone else . You allow someone into a place where you are not defended . You put contact before self-protection . In marital distress the opposite happens , self-protection comes before contact . If you can not share , then a part of your being is excluded from the relationship . The couples I see have taught me that it is almost impossible to be accessible , responsive , emotionally engaged with someone if you are not able to experience and express your own vulnerabilities . If you can not allow yourself to experience and show your vulnerability , you can not tell others what you need and explicitly ask others to respond to you . But troubled couples naturally want to hide and protect their vulnerability , although that usually precludes any satisfying kind of emotional contact . Like psychoanalytic theory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationships later on . But unlike Freudian theory , it sees our view of ourselves and relationship styles as subject to revision as we integrate new experiences . This capacity makes growth possible . The past influences the present , but we are not condemned to repeat it . The attachment system involves attachment behaviors , emotional responses , and internal representations , or models . In our psyches , we create working models of attachment figures , of ourselves , and of relationships . Built from our experience in the world , these internal working models are at the same time cognitive and affective , and they in turn guide how we organize our experience and how we respond to intimate others . The reason our behavior in relationships is relatively stable is that , although they are susceptible to revision , we carry these internal working models into new social situations . They write the script by which we navigate the social world . Our internal working models of ourselves , our relationship , and our close ones create expectations of support and nurturance  --  and become the architects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of self-fulfilling prophecies . But the existence of internal models also explains why you can have very different experiences in two different relationships . Essentially , you meet a new potential partner who brings a different behavioral repertoire . This allows you to engage in a different dance of proximity and distance  --  she is home to receive your phone calls , he does n't react with veiled hostility when you call him at the office . Being accessible and responsive , your new partner does n't ignite your anxiety and launch you into attachment panic . What 's more , with a different set of internal working models , your new partner appraises your behavior differently and then offers a different response . From such new experience , a tarnished inner vision of relationships or of your sense of self can then begin to change . A NEW WAY OF CONTACT That may be what passionate love really is  --  we find someone who connects with us and alleviates our attachment fears , which opens up a whole new possibility of acceptance and responsiveness . Love is transforming  --  not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find a whole new way of contacting another human being , and this emotional engagement opens up new possibilities of becoming ourselves . That is the intoxicating thing about the relationship . It modifies how people experience themselves and how they see other people . From my point of view , attachment theory also redefines the place of sexual behavior . For the past 40 years , we seem to have come to believe that sex is the essence of love relationships . That is not my experience in working with couples . Sex per sex is often but a small part of adult intimacy Attachment theory tells us that the basic security in life is contact with other people . We need to be held , to be emotionally connected . I think that the most basic human experience of relatedness is two people  --  mother and child , father and child , two adults  --  seeing and holding each other , providing the safety , security , and feeling of human connectedness that for most , in the end , makes life meaningful . Many people use sex as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection they are needing . I would guess that many a man or woman has engaged in sex just to meet a need for being held . So perhaps now the mystery of love is becoming dear . We fall in love when an attachment bond is formed . We stay in love by maintaining the bond . We use our repertoire of emotions to signal the need for comfort through contact , the need for a little distance . We help each other process our inner and outer worlds and experience each other 's pain , fear , joy . What , then , goes wrong in couples ? As I see it , healthy , normal attachment needs go unmet and attachment fears begin to I take over the relationship . We know that distressed couples settle into rigid interaction patterns . Perhaps the most distressed pattern is that of the disappointed , angry , blaming wife demanding contact from a man who withdraws . Couples can stay stuck in this for years . We know from the research of John Gottman that this is a sure killer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attachment that we come to understand what makes such patterns of behavior so devastating . The answer is , they block emotional engagement ; they stand in the way of contact and exacerbate attachment fears . As partners howl anger and contempt at each other or withdraw , emotional engagement becomes more and more difficult . Patterns of attack-defend or attack-withdraw are highly corrosive to a relationship because they preclude a safe way for a couple to emotionally engage each other and create a secure bond . What couples are really fighting about is rarely the issue they seem to be fighting about  --  the chores , the kids . It is always about separateness and connectedness , safety and trust , the risk of letting someone in to see the exposed , vulnerable self . Marital distress , then , is not a product of personality flaws . Nor is anger in relationships irrational . It is often a natural part of a protest that follows the loss of accessibility and responsiveness to a partner . It is an adaptive reaction  --  anger motivates people to overcome barriers to reunion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to discourage a partner from further distancing . A COMPELLING EMOTION But fear is the most compelling emotion in a distressed relationship . Hostility in a partner is usually a sign that the fear level has gone way up  --  the partner feels threatened . Attachment fears  --  of being unlovable , abandoned , rejected-are so tied to survival that they elicit strong fight or flee responses . In protecting ourselves , we often undermine ourselves as a secure base for our partner , who becomes alarmed . Our partner then confirms our fears and becomes the enemy , the betrayer . Such fear sets off an alarm system . It heightens both the anger of those experiencing anxiety in attachment and the dismissal of emotional needs by those given to avoidance . A NEW FRAME FOR BEHAVIOR The lens of attachment puts a whole new frame on our behavior in relationships . The angry , blaming wife who continues to pursue with blame , even though she understands this behavior may drive her husband away , is not acting irrationally . Nor do her actions necessarily reflect a lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensification of attachment behaviors  --  hers is an entreaty for contact . She perceives her husband as inaccessible and emotionally unresponsive : a threat that engages the attachment behavioral system . Of course , the defensiveness and conflict make safe contact increasingly less likely , and the cycle of distress escalates . It keeps going because the person never gets the contact and the reassurance that will bring closure and allow the attachment fears to be dealt with . In working with couples , my colleague Les Greenberg and I have elaborated a therapy , " Emotionally Focused Couples Therapy , " that views marital distress in terms of attachment insecurities . It recognizes that relationship problems are created by how individuals react to , cope with , and disown their own attachment needs and those of their spouse . A major goal of therapy is owning and validating needs for contact and security , helping people to expand their emotional range , rather than shut their feelings down or constantly control them . It is not about ventilating feelings , but about allowing people to immerse themselves more deeply in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against  --  the desperation and loneliness behind anger , the fear and helplessness behind silent withdrawal . The most powerful change agent in a distressed relationship seems to be the expression of the tender , more disarming emotions , such as longing , fear , and sadness . It is the most powerful tool to evoke contact and responsiveness from a significant other . If I help couples create contact , couples can then solve their own problems . Most couples begin by declaring how incredibly angry they are . They have good reason to be angry . As they come to feel more of their anger , not justify or contain it , they usually begin to explore and experience more of what it is about . The experience starts to include elements they do n't usually focus on , which they may even as inappropriate . In fact one reason for feeling so angry is that they feel totally helpless and unlovable , which scares them . Soon one partner begins talking to the other about what happened one second before lashing out  --  an incredible sense of helplessness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " I 'm not going to feel this way . I refuse to feel so helpless and needy . This is unacceptable . " And now the experience has been expanded beyond anger and partners start to contact hidden parts of themselves  --  in the presence of the other . This is a new and compelling experience for them that enables one partner to turn to the spouse and confide , " Somehow , some part of me has given up the hope of ever feeling cherished , and instead I 've become enraged because I am so sure that you could never really hold me and love me . " This kind of dialogue redefines the relationship as one where a person can be vulnerable and confide what is most terrifying about him or herself or the world . And the partner , with the therapist 's help , is there both for comfort and as a validating mirror of those experiences of the self . BUILDING A SECURE BASE The relationship is then starting to be a secure base where people can be vulnerable , bring out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ask for their attachment needs to be met . In this safe context , the husband or wife does n't see the partner as weak but as available  --  not dangerous . I may hear one say : " That 's the part I fell in love with . " In a sense , the language of love is the language of vulnerability . While Western psychology focuses on the value of self-sufficiency , in our personal lives we struggle to integrate our needs for contact and care into our adult experience . Attachment theory is an idea whose time has finally come because it allows us to be whole people . It views behavior gone awry as a well-meaning adaptation to past or present experience . And it views the desire for contact as healthy . Secure attachments promote emotional health and buffer us against life 's many stresses . Love then becomes the most powerful arena for healing and for growth , and from this secure base , both men and women can go out and explore , even create , the world . AFTER THE FIGHT Anger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partner as rejection . They are felt as distancing behaviors , and set off attachment alarms ; you respond as if your life is threatened . But hostility itself is often an outgrowth of feelings of fear ; your partner is perhaps feeling threatened . It is important to recognize that it may be an attempt to bring you back into contact rather than to control you . In some sense , the appropriate response to hostility may be a a hug rather than a return of verbal barrage . But we fight for our life when threatened ; we defend ourselves with anything that comes to mind . It 's after the fight that you have a real chance to reprocess the events more accurately , to enlarge the experience to include elements that were left out of the argument while you were trying to win . An attachment lens on relationships encourages us to look at aggression in intimate relationships as a common way of dealing with fear . It also implies there 's nothing wrong with dependency needs ; it gives us permission to have feelings of wanting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " dependent . " After the fight , you need to recapitulate the events with the inclusion of these feelings . After a fight , in non-distressed relationships , the immediate emotionally reactivity dies down . ( The problem in distressed relationships is that it never quite dies down . ) When it does die down , if you have a secure base in a relationship , then is the time to talk about fears and attachment concerns . This creates the opportunity for real closeness . As in : " When I heard you saying that you wanted to go away with your friends for a golfing vacation , I just got scared all to hell . You 're saying that you do n't need to be with me as much as I need to be with you . I get totally terrified if I think I 'm hearing that . " If I have a secure base , I 'm much more likely to allow myself to access the feeling that I 'm afraid . I 'm much more likely to tell my partner I 'm afraid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear . My fear level will be reduced . My partner 's response will help me see myself as lovable , and that exchange also then becomes a positive intimacy experience in the history of the relationship . This kind of sharing is what adult intimacy is all about . You and your partner find each other as human beings who need comfort , contact , and caring . <p>                     