@@410505

Christian social thought has evolved into a rich and irreducible pluralism ( some would say cacophony ) of voices . This is nowhere more evident than in ethical reflection on economic life . The recent , nearly global collapse of socialism signals a new era in modern history , an era whose assumptions , structures and practices beg for new ethical reflection and response from our traditions and churches . Two recent documents provide the first major official glimpses of how Roman Catholicism and ecumenical Protestantism have begun to chart their courses through the terrain of new economic realities . The first is Centesimus Annus , Pope John Paul II 's encyclical issued in May 1991 . The second is the ecumenical study document Abundant Life for All : Christian Faith and the World Economy Today , issued in August 1992 by the World Council of Churches ' Commission on the Churches ' Participation in Development . Previously , modern papal social thought and ecumenical social thought have had to make economic judgments in the midst of a bipolar world , locating their prescriptions somewhere between two extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ecumenical thought tending , ambiguously , toward socialism . In light of global changes , these two recent documents reflect some noteworthy continuities and discontinuities . In Centesimus Annus John Paul accomplishes three things . First , he affirms his direct continuity with the tradition initiated over a century ago by Leo XIII 's Rerum Novarum . He reinvokes central ethical components of that tradition ( human dignity , the right to private property , the universal destination of creation , the right to a just wage , the right to unionize , subsidiarity ) and places them within an explicit christological and incarnational framework : " There can be no genuine solution of the " social question " apart from the gospel . " John Paul defines the common thread of this inheritance in terms of its focus on safeguarding human dignity . For John Paul , this inheritance includes evaluations of systems of political economy , judgments which he believes have been vindicated by recent history . Communism has always been unequivocally condemned in papal social teaching for its atheistic perversion of anthropology , its denial of humanity 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private property and its rejection of political values such as self-determination , subsidiarity and the common good . The papal tradition has also been fairly clear in its critique of capitalism  --  a critique that includes some notions of capitalist theory ( " unregulated capitalism , " " laissez-faire capitalism " ) and certain aspects of capitalist practice ( consumerism , extremes of wealth and poverty , violations of workers ' rights , persistence of Third World poverty ) . This posture toward democratic capitalism has nevertheless affirmed most of its central institutional components such as private property , market exchanges , individual rights , democracy and limited government . Second , John Paul embraces the collapse of Soviet-imposed socialism with unambiguous affirmation . His disgust at and condemnation of socialism are unabashed . Soviet socialism proved to be an evil solution " which , by appearing to reverse the positions of the poor and the rich , was in reality detrimental to the very people whom it was meant to help . The remedy would prove worse than the sickness . " He firmly repudiates socialism as a method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in political economy . It was a collection of " oppressive regimes " violating the rights of workers and producing severe economic inefficiency . " For a long time the most elementary economic relationships were distorted , and basic virtues of economic life , such as truthfulness , trustworthiness and hard work , were denigrated . " Socialism is perceived not merely as inferior to capitalism , but utterly antithetical to human well-being , economic and social development , and the common good . John Paul unambiguously interprets the theological meaning of the collapse of Soviet socialism in Eastern Europe : " The events of 1989 ... are opportunities for human freedom to cooperate with the merciful plan of God who acts within history . " Third , in a style and with an enthusiasm reminiscent of the early 20th-century Protestant social gospel movement , John Paul sees the hand of God acting in history in ways that point toward a better future for humanity . The political economic embodiment of this vision consists of the wedding of democracy and capitalism . In general terms , John Paul advocates political-economic arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong cultural orders that permit religion and morality to flourish . His social goal is a democratic society inspired by social justice . The economic components of this vision include private property , market exchanges , private capital and labor , and managerial and entrepreneurial expertise . Business organization is affirmed for its efficiency in generating goods and services for human use , its contribution to meeting basic human needs of creativity , and its capacity to generate opportunities for association with others . " Its basis is human freedom exercised in the economic field . " Business is an important community of work . Profit is affirmed as a morally legitimate ( but not sufficient ) measure of how well a business is functioning . " When a firm makes a profit , this means that productive factors have been properly employed and corresponding human needs have been duly satisfied . " At the same time , the pope asserts that there are other morally relevant measures such as the dignity and well-being of the employees of a firm : " The purpose of a business firm is not simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its very existence as a community of persons who in various ways are endeavoring to satisfy their basic needs , and who form a particular group at the service of the whole society . " The political components of this vision include democratic , limited governments , founded on law , that respect the relative autonomy of other social sectors through application of the principle of subsidiarity , but also regulate them in order to protect human dignity , individual rights and the common good . This task entails regulating the economy so that economic freedom is " circumscribed within a strong juridical groundwork which places it in the service of human freedom in its totality and sees it as a particular aspect of that freedom , the core of which is ethical and religious . " Appropriate market regulation aims to create " a society of free work , of enterprise and of participation ... so as to guarantee that the basic needs of the whole of society are satisfied . " The instrumental political means toward such an end include guarantees of individual freedom and private property , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Paul the principle of subsidiarity means , however , that public policy ought not to intervene directly into important aspects of the economy in which it has no special competence , such as job creation . While the state must intervene to prevent monopolies and , on occasion , might intervene " when the business system is too weak or just getting under way , " it must generally leave economic matters to competitive markets . The state has the duty to create the conditions that will ensure job opportunities ( through monetary and fiscal policy , for example ) but not to fulfill the task of an economy itself . This vision extends beyond nation-states to a global context . John Paul clearly sees the development of the Third World ( as well as of the formerly socialist countries ) as the primary moral task for the new order . In the Third World , " the advancement of the poor constitutes a great opportunity for the moral , cultural and even economic growth of all humanity . " He acknowledges the pervasive reality of marginalization . " Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the means which would enable them to take their place in an effective and humanly dignified way within a productive system in which work is truly central . " He claims that , as experience has demonstrated , Third World nations will overcome such marginalization not through economic isolation but through strategies of economic integration into the global economy . " On the level of individual nations and of international relations , the free market is the most efficient instrument for utilizing and effectively responding to needs . " This strategy must include consideration of fair trade and access to markets , flexibility on the part of wealthy nations in restructuring Third World debt , increased coordination among powerful nation-states , and an expanded role for effective international agencies . John Paul urges a constructive embrace of economic " globalization , " since it can create " unusual opportunities for greater prosperity . " In sum , his global , political-economic framework is one of democratic nation-states embodying market mechanisms working together to create a world of authentic interdependence manifesting the common destination of material goods and the development of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered global political economy fall within the sovereignty of God and under the transcendent truth of the gospel . The World Council of Churches document Abundant Life for All : Christian Faith and the World Economy Today is a product of the Programme Unit on Justice and Service in the WCC 's Commission on the Churches ' Participation in Development . As a study document resulting from member churches ' participation and input , it does not hold the same authority as Centesimus Annus . Longer and more detailed , it provides a distinctively different picture of the global economy . Like the papal encyclical , ALA acknowledges its place within the ecumenical tradition by briefly highlighting major historical trends in ecumenical Protestant social thought 's approach to economics . The document claims to offer " a framework for a Christian interpretation of the world economic situation today . " Where the pope speaks authoritatively for the Roman Catholic Church , the WCC acknowledges the multiplicity of voices within its community . It proposes a " **25;27;TOOLONG " model for thinking about economic matters . The document asserts that " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Christian faith into universally valid and applicable political economic models or blueprints for society . " Nevertheless , John Paul II would echo the WCC 's claim that " there are principles and criteria which can function as anchors and compasses in each and every context and culture . " In its theological-ethical method , the WCC document suggests a return to the " middle axiom " approach first espoused by J. H. Oldham in the 1930s and prevalent in earlier periods of Protestant ecumenical thought . Such axioms are " ethical criteria mediating between the fundamental convictions of Christian faith and the specific challenges of contemporary ethical issues . " Specifically , ALA proposes the following as fundamental convictions of Christian faith : the essential goodness of the created order and humanity 's responsibility for it ; the innate value and freedom of each person ; God 's covenant with all humanity ; and the primacy of God 's justice , to be discovered through a " preferential option for the poor . " This last point is decisive for organizing and understanding the document , which asserts " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and poor remain the most shocking and unacceptable consequences of the ways in which dominant powers organize society . " The document proceeds to identify " middle axioms , " including the health of the natural order , the need for human restraint , the value of participative decision-making , the importance of work and social security , accountability , the need for market regulation , the need to balance competition and cooperation , and the need for international regulation and strengthened international institutions . Like John Paul , the WCC devotes considerable space to describing and analyzing the new social context . But here we see neither John Paul 's joyous celebration of the death of socialism nor his embrace of capitalism 's moral possibilities . While the WCC acknowledges that we are living at a turning point in history , with some opportunity to realize " what we can dimly see as its promise , " our more likely prospect is to " rush headlong into what seems our future 's all too probable doom . " For John Paul , socialism is the primary illness ; for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterioration in relations between the richer nations of " the North " and the poorer nations of " the South . ' ' " Though most of the world has decisively rejected the socialist experiment in political economy , this fact seems to have little affected the WCC 's basic diagnostic and prescriptive agenda . While the critique is no longer set within the larger context of a bipolar world , its terms and arguments remain fairly constant . The economic problem is a conflict between North and South , " primarily to be explained in terms of the unequal distribution of power which reinforces the gaps . " A primary cause of this chasm is the continuing , dramatic fall in world prices of the South 's products , determined " either by strangle-holds on the producers of primarily raw materials by the big user-groups in the North , or by the invention of new artificial goods  --  almost always in the laboratories of the North  --  which allow the Northern economic powers simply to drop their partners in the South . " This old " conspiracy theory " continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmful factor increasing the chasm between rich and poor and whose increased concentrations of economic power further erode any real freedom in global markets . It also helps to explain the global debt crisis as yet another episode in the centuries-long saga of " Northern economic domination . " Consequentially , the document not only condemns the widespread strategy of making Third World public-sector structural adjustments as conditions for loan relief , but it also advocates forgiving Third World loans . " Under any just accounting system , the Third World debt has already been paid given the excessive debt payments made due to high real interest rates and deteriorating terms of trade , and capital flight from South to North . " Given its sharp critique of the global economic system and in light of the practical collapse of socialism , which no longer serves as an alternative model , the document to a large extent lacks a coherent vision of global political economy . In this respect , John Paul and the WCC diverge , in spite of considerable shared theological and ethical commitments . Among the important points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; human dignity ; appeals to freedom , justice and community , and foundational claims about the proper ordering of political economy ( at least some affirmation of markets ; the need for political regulation of markets ; the need for strengthened international governance and collaboration ; affirmation of democratic polities and the value of political participation ; the moral imperative of rich nations to help foster justice and development , especially in the Third World ) . Where they quickly part company is in their radically divergent interpretations of the contemporary global economic context , most notably their understandings of markets and capitalist institutions . For the WCC , market institutions are largely the problem ; for John Paul they may be the solution . Hence , while both acknowledge the reality of economic " globalization "  --  enhanced competition and integration of economic activity worldwide  --  John Paul sees the trend to be one full of promise , especially for the world 's poor , while the WCC surmises that the likely outcome will be a moral " spiralling downwards . " What can we make of these two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embedded within their respective traditions . John Paul illustrates his church 's tendency to construct substantive ethical edifices , backed by assumptions that assert the human capacity to know and do such things . The WCC document illustrates Protestantism 's tendency to engage in a more critical , deconstructive enterprise , backed by its own assumptions about God , the limits of human knowledge and the role of sin in the world . Viewed this way , the two documents may serve as useful and appropriate countervailing interpretations of reality , each with its own truths , limits and deficiencies , yet both together offering a richer and more nuanced view of reality . Second , both reveal much about the social location of their authors . We should not be surprised that a Polish pope condemns socialism , celebrates its collapse and hopes to extend the best of democratic polities , market economies and pluralistic cultures that permit religious expression . Of greater concern is the WCC 's stance . Its generally negative critique of capitalism is more a consequence of the WCC 's social location and ideological inheritance than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realities . We see virtually the same litany of criticisms of Western capitalism that pervaded the WCC 's thinking prior to socialism 's collapse . While some of its negative critique is grounded soundly in biblical theology , much of it is a function of a worn-out sociology and economics , a remnant , to some extent , of quasi-Marxist and dependency theories . It is no coincidence that the WCC document is virtually silent on such questions as : How do poor people generate wealth ? What are the empirical factors that have permitted numerous Third World countries substantially to raise the standards of living of most of their people ? Many of the moral conclusions and policy prescriptions that result from the WCC 's economic ethic are not necessary deductions from or even compelling inferences from its own rich and vital theological and ethical foundations . In this sense , ecumenical ethics would do well to identify social-scientific tools that permit it to see the world in a more balanced and objective fashion . Critical to this task will be a more open economic debate that seeks a fuller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually perform . Christian economic ethics , and ecumenical ethics especially , should maintain its commitment to a " preferential option for the poor " without latching on so quickly to social and economic theories that view the world in economically conspiratorial ways . The constructive task of Christian economic ethics will be to assess the compatibility of Christian ethical commitments with contemporary capitalism . Both documents provide resources for such a task . The WCC document rightly warns of the dangers of idolizing capitalism . With appropriate precautions , John Paul 's humanist vision of an integrated global economy regulated by liberal democratic polities and other multilateral institutions is worthy of consideration . Such a civilization of worldwide interdependence ( peace ) would aim to develop all persons , reduce poverty and marginalization , especially in the Third World ( justice ) , and sustain the environment ( the integrity of creation ) . This constructive vision requires the kind of critical probing provided by the myriad of ethical concerns that are the strength of the WCC document  --  gender , race , power and accountability , poverty , land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim that moral debate needs to focus less on markets themselves than on the proper mix of conditions that will encourage morally desirable outcomes . The WCC document concludes with pragmatic suggestions for Christians in a variety of individual and institutional contexts . Such grass-roots activities are beginning to flourish throughout the churches . If capitalist business organizations are to be the dominant institutional mode of production and distribution within market-based economies , then the church must articulate a theology and an ethic that permit its participants to order and make sense of those activities . As James Gustafson writes : Multinational corporations may appear to be the root of much injustice to many Christian prophets , and they like to condemn such businesses . But that condemnation is of no moral assistance to a responsible executive in such a corporation , who seeks to direct its powers toward the public good . The need for a theology and ethic of the corporation is an invitation to theological ethicists to take business ethics more seriously . Substantive issues within the field include the environment , political regulation , corporate culture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and issues of race , gender and multiculturalism in the workplace . Without confusing the kingdom of God with any imperfect human institution or practice , churches today have a unique opportunity to craft theological ethics that are both faithful to the gospel and that exert constructive and strategic influence on new economic systems and institutions that will have a lasting impact around the globe . David Krueger holds the Charles E. Spahr Chair in Corporate and Managerial Ethics at Baldwin-Wallace College in Berea , Ohio . <p>                     