@@427909

With the opening this June of the Hall of Vertebrate Origins at the American Museum of Natural History , the world 's most comprehensive exhibition of vertebrate fossils is complete . Interconnecting with the two halls of dinosaurs and two of fossil mammals , the newest hall is the final link in a spectacular necklace of bone . Of the six recently renovated galleries , the Hall of Vertebrate Origins may have been the most difficult to plan because of the sheer scope and number of fossils involved . Of the more than 600 vertebrate fossils on the Museum 's fourth floor , 250 of them are here . Vertebrates some 400 million years old are represented , as are many animals alive today . In fact , this one hall encompasses all backboned animals with the exception of dinosaurs , mammals , and early relatives of mammals . The gallery housing these fossils has high ceilings , bright natural light , and two rows of tall , slender columns . Ten life-size casts and models of fossil animals  --  including the sixteen-foot armored fish Dunkleosteus , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creature Thalassomedon  --  are suspended from the white-and-blue ceiling . They appear to be gliding through the ocean depths . Through the Hall of Vertebrate Origins and continuing around the fourth-floor circuit , a visitor follows an evolutionary pathway  --  a many-branched tree of life . This path , known as a cladogram , derives from cladistics , a relatively new , scientifically rigorous method of grouping creatures both living and extinct according to their evolutionary relationships . Rather than a single time line that leads from older to newer forms of life , the cladogram reflects the hierarchical nature of these natural groups , or clades , with smaller groups branching in profusion from larger ones . The curators of the halls have pioneered the application of cladistic methodology as the organizing principle for the exhibits . If the new halls have a message , it is that evolution is not a straight narrative line but a happening . Rather than being progressive in terms of always producing better organisms , it is a process that through reproduction and evolutionary change produces a great variety of organisms . This variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how or why things happened , are what the halls present . The cladogram path is punctuated by a score of vertical kiosks  --  milestones that constitute the major evolutionary branching points , called nodes . These nodes represent the evolution of new or advanced features , such as a backbone or jaws . Visitors can learn the evolutionary basics simply by sticking to the center of the hall and going from node to node . Or they can leave the main pathway and enter alcoves , each of which traces in greater detail the evolutionary branching of a clade , a group of animals that share particular characteristics and are more closely related to one another than to any other animals . Computers are available for help along the way , with forty hours of software programs to watch and listen to . The first milestone  --  the Vertebrate Node  --  is just outside the hall 's doorway , in the Orientation Center . Right away , it spells trouble of the sort that plagues paleontologists , evolutionary biologists , and the designers of exhibitions : The earliest vertebrates did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinct heads with a braincase and external bone evolved first . Since heads , not backbones , are the basic defining feature of all that follows , John Maisey , a dark-haired , dark-bearded curator of vertebrate paleontology and fish specialist , who is responsible for the first third of the hall , wanted to replace the word vertebrate with craniate . However , a Hall of Craniate Origins did not have the recognition factor of Hall of Vertebrate Origins , and hence the misnomer remains . Anomalously , therefore , the first animals after the Vertebrate Node  --  early relatives of hagfish and lampreys  --  have a braincase-bearing head ( without jaws ; their mouths are like suckers ) but no vertebrae . Beneath the spinal cord , however , they have a fluid-filled notochord , as did their immediate ancestors , the chordates . In the earliest vertebrates , neither the notochord nor the spinal cord was supported by bone . What is most significant to Maisey is that , on the genetic level , the chordates have only one series of what are called Hox genes , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among other things ) where an animal 's front and back will be and the position of its appendages , if any . The most primitive living craniates , the hagfish and lampreys , have more than a single series of Hox genes . " This is a profound evolutionary step  --  it is not just an incremental change , " Maisey says . " There is a fantastic difference between a hagfish or lamprey and its primitive relatives , such as Amphioxus , a little transparent thing with a notochord , no head and no eyes or ears , no bone , no nothing  --  and only one set of Hox genes , like a fruit fly . " Entering the hall proper , the visitor confronts the Jaws Node . Jaws apparently evolved from the front set of gill arches in early relatives of lampreys and hagfish . In fishes , there can be as many as seven of these cartilaginous structures for supporting the gills ( although most have five or fewer ) , and the front ones may be able to move in order to pump water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to becoming jaws . Notably , with the evolution of jaws , the number of Hox gene series jumps to four . " Subsequent to the development of jaws , there has been no change in the number of Hox gene series , " Maisey says . " Every craniate since then has the same four Hox gene series . Nothing that has occurred since then  --  not the development of four limbs , not the impervious egg , not the evolution of dinosaurs , birds , or mammals  --  has been as basic . From then on , there are changes within those genes , and in the way those genes are expressed  --  but nothing as basic as their multiplication . " When more is known about the genetics of evolution , Maisey feels , a genetic overlay could be added to the information in the fourth-floor halls . The first four alcoves on either side of the pathway beyond the Jaws Node  --  all Maisey 's work  --  are , alternating from left to right : Placoderms ( armored , jawed fishes ) ; Chondrichthyans ( sharks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again , Actinopterygians ( ray-finned fishes ) ; and on the right again , Coelacanths , Lungfishes , and the Extinct Relatives of Tetrapods . ( Going down the hall is like lacing a boot or slalom skiing , progressing from side to side . ) Although the wordfishes crops up in the exhibit from time to time , it is not , Maisey points out , correct , cladistically speaking . A clade is a monophyletic group , that is , a group of animals that contains the common ancestor and all its evolutionary descendants . Advanced features that arose in the common ancestor , such as a braincase in the common ancestor of vertebrates , are inherited by later evolutionary descendants . In contrast , fishes form a paraphyletic group , or an assemblage of animals that contains a common ancestor and some  --  but not all  --  of the ancestor 's descendants . ( To be a clade , fishes would have to include all the descendants of the first fish ; that would mean including the amphibians , reptiles , and mammals . ) " The best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is " a vertebrate without limbs , " and that 's not a scientifically meaning definition . " For Maisey , tetrapods are simply finless " fishes . " Placoderms are fishes ( the word will not die quietly ) with armored heads and trunks . The bone is embedded in the skin  --  indeed , bone first evolved as plates in the skin , particularly the skin of the head , forming an exoskeleton ; later , bone also formed within the cartilaginous inner skeleton . In the placoderms ( their name means , literally , " plated skin " ) , the plates are large and heavy , extending back over the upper torso ; a big joint at the base of the skull allows some movement . Placoderms moved by swishing their sharklike tails from side to side . Abundant during the Devonian , 412 million to 354 million years ago , they died out at about the end of that period . " They are one of the first major groups of vertebrate predators to have become extinct , " Maisey says regretfully . Among the placoderms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like an aquatic battering ram  --  although it likely did not use its skull in this way  --  with an armored head and a mouthful of serrated , toothlike blades . In the hall , two Dunkleosteus skulls glare from a glass case , while a full-scale model glides like a flying boxcar overhead . In this airspace , Maisey had initially wanted to launch a model , equipped with real fossil teeth , of Carcharodon megalodon , a fifty-foot relative of the living great white shark . Sheer space being a problem , Dunkleosteus got the nod instead , and the Carcharodon jaws gape toothsomely but headlessly from the shark alcove like a giant pair of dentures . The next alcove , the Actinopterygians , or ray-finned fishes , was a special problem ; Maisey had enough fossils of ray-finned fishes to fill the entire hall . The more than 25,000 extant species of actinopterygians include virtually all the fishes we are familiar with today , including bass , trout , and perch . " In the actinopterygian alcove alone , there is more modern species diversity represented than on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I have fun with the other curators about my fish  --  I tell them I ought have the whole floor , and I 'll give them my alcove for all their dinosaurs and mammals . " Coelacanths , Lungfishes , and Extinct Relatives of Tetrapods , in the fourth of Maisey 's alcoves , were once diverse but can boast only a few representatives alive today . Their lobed fins  --  unlike the delicate bony rays of the actinopterygians , which are designed for swishing in water  --  are thick and rather stubby , with an internal bone structure more readily adaptable , eventually , to load bearing . Modern lungfish can use their fins to flop along on muddy shores and , presumably like their ancestors , can breathe air as well as water . One group of lobe-finned fishes has long been considered close to the ancestry of tetrapods , which include all four-limbed creatures ( including humans ) . Earlier in this century , some scientists thought that legs evolved at a time of drought when oceans , lakes , and rivers were receding , allowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they were able to flop successfully from one dwindling puddle to another . This view changed with the discovery of a 360-million-year-old fossil animal now known as Acanthostega . The first fossils of this creature were found in the 1930s . In the 1980s , English paleontologists Jenny Clack and Michael Coates , working in Greenland , found additional Acanthostega remains . Their research on this ancient tetrapod suggests that legs did not evolve for walking or even flopping on land . Rather , the evolution of limbs may have been an arbitrary occurrence , but one that Acanthostega would , incidentally , have found useful in paddling along the bottom of shallow bays and estuaries and maneuvering through debris in bogs and brackish waters . A modern analogue would be a newt , which can barely stand on four legs and is a pretty hopeless swimmer . A creature that might evoke J. R. R. Tolkien 's Gollum , Acanthostega is about two feet long and has a skull like a plow , a tail obviously meant for swimming , and limbs ending in eight delicate fingers and clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tetrapod known . With this early four-legged animal , we pass the Tetrapod Node and leave the realm of John Maisey for that of Gene Gaffney , a white-haired , white-bearded man ( beards clearly are a shared feature of the vertebrate paleontologist clade ) . As Maisey is known especially for his work with early sharks , Gaffney is the leading expert on the evolutionary history of turtles . All three curators  --  Maisey , Gaffney , and Mark Norell , who is in charge of the last third of the hall  --  tend to be outspoken crusaders against what they consider popular misconceptions about evolution . The word amphibian , Gaffney says in a manner reminiscent of Maisey condemning loose words like fishes and vertebrates , is another cladistically inaccurate term . While it is appropriate for living frogs , salamanders , and apodans ( secondarily legless animals ) , the term is imprecise when applied to fossils because it lumps together animals that are not closely related to one another . Gaffney is a stickler for authenticity not only in language but also in specimens . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not real but sculpted ; the original fossil is in Denmark . The curators are proud of the Museum 's many genuine fossils and want to protect each specimen 's integrity by never causing a visitor to wonder whether it is real or not . One of the more spectacular of the real , complete fossil skeletons on display is Buettneria , an ancient relative of frogs and salamanders . The bones of Buettneria are the centerpiece of the Hall of Vertebrate Origins and are surrounded by a circular bench from which a foot-weary visitor can ponder this early four-footed creature . Buettneria is mounted in such a way that it appears to be swimming downward  --  rooting around in the bottom of a swamp , perhaps . At a length of seven feet , Buettneria looks like an overgrown Acanthostega , except that its head is flatter , looking more like a shovel than a plow ; it has four serious-looking legs and a long spine . Beyond the tetrapods , the Amniote Node is a milestone in the history of vertebrate life on land . Some early tetrapods crawled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for reproduction because their eggs , in porous membranes , could not survive on land ; hence , frogs and salamanders lay their eggs in water as did their ancestors . The amniotic egg , which contains a watertight membrane called the amnion , ended this dependence . At the Amniote Node , the mammalian lineage splits off-from the reptilian , or sauropsid , lineage . If you wish to pursue the mammalian branch of the animal kingdom , you can skip the sauropsids and the archosaurs , which come next , give a miss to the dinosaur halls , and pick up the Synapsid Node in the Halls of Mammals and Their Extinct Relatives . Synapsids are characterized by a hole in the skull behind the eye socket  --  the same hole that exists between your cheekbone and the side of your face . While some of the nodes are associated with obviously essential features ( backbones , jaws , four limbs , the watertight eggshell ) , other characteristics that define a clade are not as striking . Frequently they are , to the layperson , unspectacular and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the case for the Synapsid Node and for the remaining nodes in the Hall of Vertebrate Origins . The next one along the path , the Sauropsid Node , for example , contains creatures characterized by a pair of holes in the roof of the mouth . This defining trait is shared by turtles , snakes , lizards , marine " reptiles , " crocodiles and their relatives , pterosaurs , and dinosaurs , including birds . In the precladistic era , all but the last member of this great assemblage were designated as reptiles . However , when scientists established that birds were a surviving group of dinosaurs  --  and when it was further recognized that these warmblooded , feathered creatures did not fit most people 's idea of a reptile-Gaffney took the lead in promoting the use of a term deemed more appropriate for this giant clade  --  sauropsid . Turtles are also the most primitive living sauropsids . They occupy an alcove under the soaring shell of Stupendemys , a turtle that lived some six million years ago in what is now Venezuela . According to Gaffney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Triassic , about 220 million years ago , has been in the head and neck , which in the case of Stupendemys do not retract directly into the shell , but sideways , curling around the edge . The sauropsids also include plesiosaurs and the dolphinlike ichthyosaurs , thought to be descendants of terrestrial animals that returned to life in the sea . A notable representative on display is the suspended skeletal cast of Thalassomedon , a huge plesiosaur that weaves its long , Loch-Ness-monster neck around the foliage of a Corinthian column as if the pillar were some gigantic seaweed . The mounters spent months putting the 140 pieces  --  each the cast of a real bone  --  together to make Thalassomedon " fly . " Following the Sauropsid Node should come a node ( left out because there is n't room ) for diapsids , which include lizards , snakes , crocodiles and their relatives , and dinosaurs , including birds . Diapsids are defined by a pair of holes behind each eye . Aside from serving for the attachment of jaw muscles , further functions of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subtle is the defining trait of the last group in the hall , the archosaurs . Members of this clade have an opening between the snout and the eyes ; once again , no one knows what these holes do for the archosaurs . Archosaurs are the province of Gaffney and Mark Norell . The third of the triumvirate of curators , Norell is a brown-haired , brown-bearded scientist known for his excavations in Mongolia , particularly for the recent discoveries of the fossils of an Ovirator ( a theropod dinosaur ) atop a clutch of eggs . Of the three curators , he is perhaps the greatest purist with respect to rigorously avoiding unjustified evolutionary scenarios . He does not use the word selection , as in " natural selection , " preferring the word sorting . " Selecting implies a pressure that selects change , whereas sorting is a process in which things just happen , " he said . In addition to dinosaurs , archosaurs include crocodiles and their relatives and the winged pterosaurs , represented in the gallery by spectacular fossils . From the primitive archosaur Prestosuchus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the living crocodiles , alligators , and gavials , these nondinosaurian archosars are a rogue 's gallery of predators , with the shapes of their heads , jaws , and teeth giving clues to their dining habits . Many of these carnivores could probably get around quite fast  --  alligators have been clocked at twenty miles per hour . Although their posture is not as sprawling as a lizard 's , their hip and shoulder sockets are at the side . ( In contrast , the dinosaurs , next door , have hip sockets that allow their legs to come straight down , giving them an upright stance , at least compared with their ungainly archosaur relatives . ) At the rear of the hall , Pteranodon longiceps hangs out at an angle from the wall , so that its twenty-foot wingspread seems about to envelop you . This sharp-beaked pterosaur may be familiar because it used to be at the entrance to one of the dinosaur halls , but it has been cleaned and its background painted white so that you can easily see that the bone structure for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finger . ( Flight has evolved at least three times among the vertebrates ; in birds , the wing is supported by the whole arm ; in bats , by all the fingers . ) Fittingly , the pterosaurs , the closest relatives of dinosaurs , point the way toward the next gallery , the Hall of Saurischian Dinosaurs . An astute visitor will have gathered that this is not a progressive leap forward , but another branch in the ongoing evolution of vertebrate life . Such an awareness  --  in essence , scientific literacy  --  on the part of the public is one of the goals of the exhibits . According to paleontologist and project director Lowell Dingus , " The cladistic arrangement of the fossils illustrates how scientists measure the diversity of life and how Museum scientists are actively contributing to the current body of evolutionary knowledge . By showing not just the fossils themselves but how we study them , we can also give visitors a window on how science operates . " The study of evolution itself is an evolving science , with plenty of unanswered questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to its practitioners , is that the patterns of evolutionary relationships on the cladograms are subject to change in the light of new data . Signs throughout the galleries highlight remaining questions . " It 's important that people know there 's a lot we do n't know , and that that 's all right , " associate project director Melissa Posen says . " Maybe the kids who come to the exhibit will find the answers someday . Generations of children , many of whom later became scientists , were first inspired to pursue science at the American Museum of Natural History . It is hard to imagine a greater incentive for children than these fossils and the forthright underscoring of what remains to be discovered . <p>                     