@@402765

Impact : Ground Zero Bamboole , Inc. , 1702-H Meridian Ave. , #102 , San Jose , CA 95125 . CD-ROM for MacOS and Windows 95. $24.95 . THE THREAT OP ASTEROID IMPACTS was big news in 1998 with the release of two major Hollywood motion pictures . Prolonging the wave of interest is this CD-ROM that provides background information on things that strike the Earth and what happens when they do - but not in detail . The disc has four main sections and a reference library . The library is perhaps the best part , consisting of scores of interesting documents such as testimony before congressional hearings on asteroid hazards , NASA fact sheets , and 61 pictures ( without descriptions ) of famous and not-so-famous impact sites . I often complain that programs on CD-ROM do not take advantage of the space available to provide a full set of references , but Impact : Ground Zero does . The main part of the program , Dinosaur Impact , begins with a dramatic reading from Walter Alvarez 's book T-Rex and the Crater of Doom that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( K-T ) impact that ended the reign of the dinosaurs . The reading is accompanied by short interviews with three researchers who elaborate on the demise of the dinosaurs . Impact Timeline provides a few sentences each for 34 dates throughout history from ancient times to the near approach of the media sensation asteroid 1997 XF " in 2028 . Most dates are very recent . A typical entry tells that in 1687 Isaac Newton declared that comets are outside the Moon 's orbit . One can read them all in five minutes . Impact Files are short , narrated slide shows and videos that present the most basic information on comets , asteroids , meteors , impact craters , and space missions . Allow 10 minutes . One error : a comet 's tail will not fit in a suitcase . Impact Today asks , " Who is protecting us ? " Well-known researchers such as James Scotti and Clark Chapman provide firsthand commentary in short interviews that give the latest on asteroid searches . To test your knowledge a quiz asks you to decide what to do about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was insulted for my ignorance ) . Impact : Ground Zero is attractively produced . The interviews are interesting , the graphics are great , and navigation through the menus is intuitive . However , other than the references ( my favorite part ) , there is little depth . The disc is worth an hour or possibly two and is an alternative to watching a television documentary or reading a very thin book . Photograph Most of Impact Ground Zero is narrated slide shows and videos or pictures with ( brief ) captions . The narrator pronounces the asteroid 's name as if it were spelled " Gaspara . " Impact : Ground Zero includes interviews with prominent astronomers . Here David Morrison explains the difference between meteors and meteorites . Author Affiliation JOHN MOSLEY is responsible for the production of planetarium shows and other educational activities at Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles . He can be reached via e-mail at jmosley@griffithobs.org. // <p>                     