@@425107

On a warm , overcast August evening in Big Lake , Alaska  --  a town so small it does not appear in my atlas  --  Martin Buser looks at me after feeding the last of his eighty huskies and asks , " Do you want to hear me howl with them ? " Almost before hearing my answer , he tilts his head back and , starting low , raises his pitch in a long howl . The dogs join in in twos and threes until the entire yard is harmonized . After about a minute , they quit abruptly , a full orchestral stop . Buser 's huskies howl after meals , at dusk , when excited , and whenever barking alone will not suffice . On the trail , Buser  --  record-setting winner of the 1,159-mile-long Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race in 1994 , his second win in three years , and three-time recipient of its award for humanitarianism  --  huddles and howls with his dogs to build morale and team spirit . During the course of a four-day visit , I watched Buser train and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line of Alaska sled dogs . In harness , they are a line of fluid energy , reaching forward with their forelegs , driving with their hindquarters . By modern definition , the Alaskan husky is not an official breed because there is neither a stud book ( a closed registry " guaranteeing pure bloodlines ) nor a written standard defining phenotype , or appearance . Even many mushers and veterinarians call the Alaskan huskies mutts . They have emerged from the genetic melting pot of twentieth-century Alaska to put all officially recognized northern breeds  --  for example , the malamute and Siberian husky  --  to shame in the world of sled dog racing . They have run to records in sprints of 30 miles or less ; middle distance events of 90 to 400 miles ; and ultramarathons of more than 1,000 miles . Arleigh Reynolds , an assistant professor of clinical sciences at the Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine , has shown that Alaskan huskies possess three times the oxygen-uptake capacity per unit of body weight of the best human athletes . ( Comparisons with humans are used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physiology of human athletes . ) While other dogs , including Labrador retrievers , can match that result when properly conditioned , none have yet shown the combination of physical and mental toughness possessed by the Alaskan husky . The Alaskan husky is a generalist runner , reaching about twenty-two miles per hour in a sprint of twenty to thirty miles , cruising at ten to fifteen miles per hour over long distances . By comparison , a racing greyhound will exceed forty miles per hour in a sprint ( usually a quarter to three-quarters of a mile ) . Nearly all the muscle fibers in a greyhound 's legs are fast twitch  --  for producing energy anaerobically  --  compared with 50 to 65 percent for the huskies . Dogs racing in an ultramarathon like the Iditarod consume 10,000 to 11,000 calories a day , 65 percent of them in animal fat , which they metabolize quickly into energy . New studies at Harvard and Cornell Universities , as well as at the Medical College in Bern , Switzerland , have shown that a high-fat diet significantly increases the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ATP ) , which , in turn , fuels the muscle cells of physically trained dogs . Although Alaskan huskies are officially mongrels , everyone involved with sled-dog racing knows them when they see them . Like the curs of the American South  --  and unlike many purebred dogs , which are frequently bred only for appearance  --  they are a type easily identified by function and overall form . " An Alaskan husky , " Buser says , " is any dog that runs fast and pulls hard . " It is also distinguished by its good feet that withstand the cold , its competitiveness , and its sociability , a necessity for teamwork . Distance racers must have a good appetite , a strong cardiovascular system , and the stamina to trot or canter for long periods , then accelerate into a lope . Conversely , sprinters must sustain their top speed for the whole race . In appearance Alaskan huskies are balanced dogs , deep chested , with powerful hindquarters and solid shoulders . Most have the double coat distinctive to northern breeds , with rough guard hairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parti-colored in red , white , black , tan , gray , and shades between , with blue , brown , or pied eyes . Some are the classic husky type , with medium to long guard hairs , curled tails , and prick ears . Others are " houndy , " meaning they have fuller , more rounded muscles , a sloping croup ( rump ) , an angulate front , sometimes thinner , shorter coats , and flop ears . But those are points on a continuum , not hard distinctions . Their weight ranges from forty to seventy pounds , averaging forty-five for females and fifty-five for males . The Alaskan husky is a destinctly modern dog with deep roots in arctic prehistory . Stanley J. Olsen , an anthropologist at the University of Arizona and author of Origins of the Domestic Dog ( 1985 ) , posits that northern North America was one of several regions where paleolithic hunter-gatherers domesticated various subspecies of wolf 10,000 to 15,000 years ago ( the other regions being northern Europe , the Near East , and China ) . Specifically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in Alaska during the early 1930s , were the progenitors of the Eskimo dogs , or huskies . Although we do not know when people began using dogs as draft animals , archeologists speculate that the forebears of the Eskimo , who appeared along the Alaska coast 1,000 or more years ago , had sled dogs . The gold rushes across Alaska and Canada 's Yukon Territory between 1880 and 1908 changed the country and the dogs . The great Klondike strike on the headwaters of the Yukon River in 1896 brought gold-crazed men to Dawson , their sleds and carts hitched to anything that moved  --  other men , horses , goats , dogs , wolf hybrids , even turkeys  --  most of them ending up dead in mountain ravines or rivers . Carnivores being more easily maintained than herbivores in that environment , dogs quickly became the draft animal of choice . Boatloads of dogs came from the states-setters , collies , Saint Bernards , Newfoundlands , Airedales , bull terriers , retrievers , spaniels , pointers , hounds , German shepherds  --  many of them stolen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most followed a basic dictum : Dogs that worked were well fed and bred ; those that faltered were killed or abandoned . Those that survived the brutal conditions interbred with the native dogs . This mixed canine corps hauled everything from mail to gold to people on sleds , toboggans , carts , and railroad cars . Traffic jams in towns like Fairbanks quickly became dog fights involving thirty or forty animals and continuing until the drivers , or " dog punchers , " broke them up with whips and boots . Sometimes the dogs attacked children . The dogs ' howls and barks filled the air ; their excrement , the streets ; their carcasses , the rivers . The newcomers and native Alaskans raced dogs for fun and profit . The first organized contest was the 1908 All Alaska Sweepstakes , a 408-mile round trip from Nome to Candle . When a team of huskies from the Chukchi Peninsula across the Bering Strait won the following year , other mushers began importing them . Many of those dogs were absorbed over the years into the indigenous stock , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known today as the Siberian husky . Similarly , the Alaskan malamute was originally one coat style of the Eskimo dogs found from the Bering Sea to Greenland . After a hiatus precipitated by the First World War , when Alaska sled dogs served in the Alps , racing  --  mostly sprints  --  resumed in 1927 . Johnny Allen , an Athabascan Indian from the lower Yukon , dominated the races with his own line of dogs , a mix between wolves , huskies , and Irish setters . ( At that time , the setters were setting records in Idaho sled-dog sprints . ) In the late 1930s , Allen 's dogs became the first to average fifteen miles per hour for thirty miles . During World War II , racing was again suspended when the Army bought almost every available dog in the territory . Starting in the late 1940s , a young Fairbanks native , Gareth Wright , set out to re-create the dogs of his hero , Johnny Allen ; they had nearly disappeared during the war . Wright crossed the daughter of a field-trial champion Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line . Then he bred in a Siberian husky for its small size and good feet . From those breedings came his foundation dogs , Queenie and Satan , whose offspring he dubbed Aurora huskies . Periodically , Wright crossed in village dogs belonging to racers along the Yukon , but he mainly engaged in close line breeding ( inbreeding )  --  mating siblings , parents and offspring , grandparents to grand offspring , and first cousins  --  to fix the traits he wanted . Native dogs chosen for racing were light , leggy , and energetic , whereas the ones deemed best for working trap lines or hauling freight were placid , heavy , and strong . The advent of the snowmobile in the 1960s rendered dog sleds obsolete as a form of transportation , so the most desirable native dogs became those suitable for racing ; the larger dogs moved into the show ring or hung on in isolated areas . According to legend , targhee hounds from Idaho , a cross between staghounds and Irish setters , also figure in the Aurora husky . Wright says , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were failures , the offspring being " quitters " and " sneaky . " In fact , Wright lost Satan when a wolf killed him after they mated . The wolf produced no puppies . Wright 's huskies became famous in the tightknit world of sled-dog racing , and he finally began to sell them . George Attla , a young Athabascan who became the most successful sprint musher in history , crossed his native Huslia village dogs with Wright 's Auroras in 1972 . " The Huslia dogs were strong and had more endurance : ' he says . " But Gareth had a faster dog than anyone else . You ca n't escape Gareth 's breeding Doug Swingley , who won the 1995 Iditarod in record time and has extensively researched Alaskan husky pedigrees , agrees : " If you go back four or five generations in any musher 's kennel , you come up with the same dogs  --  Wright 's and Attla 's with village dogs . " The village dogs came from a 100-mile stretch along the Yukon from Tanana to Galena , with spurs off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hounds were crossed into particular lines for speed . The result was the Alaskan husky . Like Wright , many mushers engage in close line breeding in an effort to perpetuate the good qualities of their best dogs and eliminate the uncertainty of outside bloodlines . They believe they can spot and weed out those canine genetic ailments that are recessive and often fixed along with positive traits through inbreeding . But the best mushers recognize that inbreeding is potentially dangerous and consequently look to maintain hybrid vigor  --  having dogs from distantly related lines , crossing in another breed such as a border collie , or obtaining an old-style native husky , which might not have much Aurora blood , from a remote village on the Bering Sea . The pressure to produce superior dogs is intense . Sprint mushers strive to have " a whole team of super animals : " Attla says . Not fully mature until two years old , sprint dogs are at their peak for about five years . Then , according to various descriptions , they burn out or wise up , meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attla say they used to sell their older dogs and less than exemplary sprinters to " Iditaroders " in the early years of that race , first run in 1973 . Much has changed since then . With her four victories in the late 1980s , Susan Butcher brought to the Iditarod international visibility and an emphasis on dog care , which in many quarters had been indifferent at best . With the success of his houndy huskies in 1992 and 1994 , Martin Buser shifted the focus to speed and the mental attitude of the dogs . " It used to be that geographical divisions accounted for differences between dogs , " Buser says . " But now there is so much traveling and interbreeding that good breeders are following natural selection at its finest . People are breeding to their likes and dislikes . " Buser wants happy , outgoing , eager dogs with good locomotion , having calculated that each foot of each dog completing the journey from Anchorage to Nome will touch the ground 1.3 million times . Also , because he believes that big dogs often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal size , about fifty-four pounds  --  an idiosyncrasy not shared by other mushers . But like most successful mushers today , Buser prefers to have as many trained leaders on his team as possible , should one or more falter . A walk through Buser 's Happy Trails Kennel , nestled in a region of lakes , near the Little Susitna River , with mountains looming in the distance , reveals a range of personalities and phenotypes , from his to lop ear , short-coated houndy. dogs to the more traditional husky look of leaders D2 and Dave . When the time comes to run , even in front of the all-terrain vehicle used for training during August , Buser 's dogs are ready and eager to log a few of their 2,000 annual miles . Buser , who knows intimately the gait , habit , and personality of each dog , issues commands in a normal tone of voice . He stops when the dogs are performing well to congratulate and pet each one . This positive reinforcement , representing a new wave among mushers , pays off . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have greatly improved the health of the Alaskan husky , providing the dogs with a better life than many house pets have and certainly better than those of their forebears . Excellent Alaskan huskies are now available to almost anyone with the money to buy and maintain them . But money alone can not purchase victory . All else being equal , the top mushers in any race will be those who share a deep , inarticulate bond with their dogs . O The Controversial Iditarod Traversing Alaska from Anchorage to Nome , the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race is a rugged test of human 's and animals . Whiteouts  --  fierce blizzards with hurricane force winds that turn snowflakes into projectiles  --  snow drifts bitter cold , accidents , and injuries , as well as the responsibility of caring for as many as sixteen dogs , all contribute to the challenge and the allure of the race . Unquestionably , the Iditarod is the most famous sled dog race in the world , the mushing equivalent of bicycling 's Tour de France . But the Iditarod is also one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in recent years of animal-rights groups , including the powerful Humane Society of the United States , which charge that dogs are being run to death in the name of entertainment . Although there is no proof to support that charge , each year of the race , dogs have died from various causes : moose attack , broken necks , collisions with snowmobiles , heart failure , and a condition called sled-dog myopathy , involving a fatal breakdown in muscle tissue . In the early days of the race , many mushers were careless , but that is not true today . Nearly everyone involved sees the death of a dog as tragic and tries to prevent it . Partly in response to the pressure , the Iditarod Trail Committee has established standards of dog care and put in place a team of veterinarians that checks each dog at periodic intervals during the race . While making the Iditarod perhaps the best-supervised event in the sport of sled dog racing , the changes have neither ended the deaths nor mollified critics . In the wave of negative publicity , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Iams . But the Iditarod Trail Committee enlisted local sponsors and has been authorized by the state of Alaska to conduct a fund-raising sweepstakes . The race is scheduled to start on March 2 amid high hopes for a fast , safe run . If their teams stay he and the weather is good , Doug Swingley and Martin Buser , who finished first and second respectively , in the 1995 Iditarod , should engage in a tight , well contested race . Last year some of Buser 's best dogs were at home . If they run this year , I would place my money on him to win in record time . I also would predict that the tide of publicity will turn in favor of the Iditarod and its do . The Dog-Wolf Connection Popular and even scientific lore holds that the husky is closer to the wolf than any other breed , but mushers who have crossed their huskies with wolves quickly bred away from the wild genes because they found the hybrids unpredictable . Specialists seeking to compare dogs and wolves frequently disregard the significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to discount the abilities of the dog , arguing that it is a neotenic , or perpetually juvenile , wolf in appearance and behavior . Whether the dog owes its evolution to paedomorphosis  --  early sexual maturity and delayed development resulting in retention into adulthood of certain juvenile characteristics of the wild progenitor ( neoteny )  --  has yet to be proved . Even if it is , that would simply mean that altered timing of development helps account for the differences between dog and wolf , which are generally of degree , not kind . Among working dogs , those changes have led to specialized behaviors  --  swimming , running , herding , pointing game  --  which probably arise from combinations of traits found in wolves . As ethologist John P. Scott observed nearly a half century ago , dogs are specialists while wolves tend to be generalists . The most significant difference may be social . Wolves exist in wolf society ; dogs in dog , that is , human society . The wolf pack is an extended family organized in an age-based hierarchy , which is far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yard " and team operate under the direction of the driver in more or less egalitarian fashion . There are leaders on the gangline or tow line and a subtle sort of social order , as ell as strong friendships , but hierarchies based on dominance are discouraged , since does fighting for position can injure or kill each other . Similarly , humans decide  --  or try to  --  which dogs will breed and when , and humans assume much of the responsibility for raising the puppies . In fact , male dogs ( except : the dingo , a feral dog gone fully wild ) are unique among canids for their noninvolvement in nurturing and educating their young . As a general rule , wolves do not inbreed in the wild . Humans , on the other hand , encourage the inbreeding of captive wolves and of dogs . Whatever comparisons are made , a paradox remains . The dog  --  whether a four-pound Chihuahua or a 220-pound mastiff  --  is genetically a wolf , as Robert K. Wayne , of the University of California at Los Angeles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will run like a husky , and no one knows quite why huskies run . They appear to enjoy it , as a look at a team being harnessed will show . They bawl and bark , straining to run . Greyhounds chase a mechanical  --  or real  --  rabbit ; huskies pursue nothing visible . They can not be compelled to run ; they must want to do it . <p>                     