@@409289

The line of five birds stopped when the front female crouched in a posture that signaled her sexual readiness . Her father , who was also her mother 's father , then mounted her and they completed the act of copulation while the other birds  --  her mother , brother , and uncle  --  watched intently beside them . For a mating scene , it was exceptional . Not only were the coupling pair the closest of relatives but the other males did not fight or even jostle one another for the right to claim the female . The birds we were studying were pukeko , New Zealand 's native gallinule , and for them it was a typical scene , one this group would repeat many times that day . Unusual as their sexual behavior may be , pukeko themselves are not exotic or rare . Also known as swamphens  --  pukeko is their Maori name  --  they live in southern Europe , Africa , Asia , Australia , and on many islands in the Atlantic , Indian , and Pacific oceans . Long-legged , stout-bodied rails @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gulf Coast  --  swamphens are usually found in marshy habitats , where they habitually climb about in dense vegetation . They feed mainly on roots , seeds , and the shoots of grasses and leaves , and occasionally on small fish , frogs , and birds . Pukeko often eat parrot-fashion , holding long shoots with one foot while stripping off the outer layers with the beak to get at the tender pith within . We were first drawn to study pukeko because they are communal breeders , a life style that seems to challenge classic Darwinian theories about competition and survival . Unlike most birds , which go off two-by-two to raise their young in separate territories , pukeko are part of a small avian minority ( which includes acorn woodpeckers , dunnocks , and anis ) that live and breed in social groups . In this arrangement , two or more males and one or two female breeders share a single nest . Several nonbreeding " helpers " may assist in rearing the young and in defending a common territory . We wanted to find out why pukeko lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tolerate sexual rivals . Luckily , pukeko are not difficult to observe . Unlike other rails , which are more often heard than seen , pukeko are fairly conspicuous . About twenty inches long from beak to tail , their large scarlet head shields and iridescent black-and-purple plumage stand out against the surrounding vegetation . The species is usually found in swamps , bogs , or drains , but New Zealand pukeko are also commonly seen in open pastures adjacent to wetlands , being among the few native bird species whose populations soared with the clearing of forests for agriculture . For more than a decade , we and our colleagues have been studying pukeko , with the bulk of our research carried out in Shakespear Regional Park , about fifteen miles north of Auckland . Our study area is a combination farm and wildlife refuge . With hunting prohibited and lots of good nesting habitat , the pukeko population in the park is relatively dense compared with those on private land . At Shakespear , territorial groups usually include three to five breeding males , two breeding females , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broods . In the early spring , males build several trial nests ; breeding females eventually choose one in which to lay their eggs . Nests are situated in clumps of rushes or tall grass and are usually surrounded by water . Birds that do n't win good territories are forced to breed away from water and in less dense vegetation . As a result they suffer more attacks on nests by the local marsh hawk  --  the Australasian harrier . Nests are shallow depressions when first constructed , but the males add more material throughout incubation , and if the nest is threatened by rising waters from heavy rain , material is quickly added to raise the level of the nest bowl . Individual females lay from three to six eggs and sometimes produce another clutch when the chicks are half-grown . Each female 's eggs have their own distinct pattern of dark-brown spots and blotches on a buff background and can easily be told from another 's . All the male and female breeders incubate the eggs , which takes about twenty-three days . Although able to walk and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be fed and brooded , and every member of the group helps out in these tasks . ( First-clutch chicks even help feed second broods . ) To identify individual pukeko for study , we catch them in walk-in funnel traps baited with barley and corn . Adult pukeko are marked individually with colored leg bands and wing tags and then released . Because they spend most of their time in the open and rarely fly , we can observe them almost continuously . Furthermore , they rapidly learn to associate colored flags with a small quantity of provided grain . Thus , we are able to draw them to specific locations to observe how they defend territories and compete for food . We soon learned that pukeko feeding etiquette is extremely ritualized . Males dominate females , and older birds dominate the younger , resulting in a linear hierarchy that remains constant from year to year . The top , or " alpha , " male dominates all others in the group and regularly displaces subordinates with its beak and feet in disputes over food . Social status , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other activities , such as changing of incubation shifts , territorial defense , and even preening ( a service solicited by dominant birds from subordinates ) . To acknowledge rank , pukeko adopt various postures in accord with their status . ( Aggression , for instance , is signaled by holding the head high ; submission involves a sort of " bow , " in which the head is held close to the ground . ) Such posturing assures that out-and-out fighting within the group is rare . According to Darwinian theory , competition between individuals for the opportunity to reproduce should be particularly intense because natural selection favors those who can best perpetuate themselves genetically in future generations . Males and females compete differently , however . Because males are constantly producing millions of spermatozoa , a male 's breeding possibilities are limited only by the number of times he can get to a female in time to fertilize an egg . Therefore , competition for females is usually the rule among males . On the other hand , a female 's reproductive success is sharply limited by the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to compete over resources  --  such as food or nests  --  that are essential for producing eggs and for bringing young to maturity . Like birds that breed in pairs , most communally breeding birds follow the typical pattern . Male acorn woodpeckers and dunnocks closely guard females to prevent other males from copulating with them , especially just before and during egg laying . Female anis and acorn woodpeckers are often fiercely competitive , destroying or tossing out of the nest eggs belonging to other females . We expected that among pukeko , too , dominant males would attempt to monopolize females and that dominant females would attempt to insure that the greatest number of eggs in a communal clutch are theirs . But the behavior of mating pukeko surprised us in several ways . The alpha female somehow manages to lay at least one more egg per nest than the beta and to produce more clutches within a breeding season . Yet breeding females did not compete for the use of the shared nest . And we found no evidence that eggs were being destroyed or tossed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when hatching began . We did , however , see one type of interaction between the alpha and beta females that could be interpreted as an assertion of reproductive dominance by the alpha . An alpha female occasionally mounted a beta when the latter was alone or when both were being courted by one or more males . About a quarter of these attempts resulted in a " complete " copulation act . ( Copulation in birds is achieved by the male pressing his genital opening , the cloaca , against the female 's cloaca and releasing sperm . In female-female cases , the two birds make cloacal contact . ) All such " matings " occurred just prior to or during the egg-laying period and may have had something to do with the beta 's laying fewer eggs . If we thought that the lack of overt competition among females was unusual , our observations of males competing for receptive females surprised us even more . Pairs may copulate as much as two months before the start of the egg-laying period , but sexual activity is most intense in early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time , males hound females relentlessly  --  following and enticing them into a receptive posture by raking their large feet across the females ' backs . A male initiates courtship by walking behind a female in a characteristic upright gait and emitting a loud humming call . Several other males may join in at this point , forming a line behind the first male . If the female is receptive , she assumes a hunched posture , and the male steps onto her back and slowly positions himself to make cloacal contact . Among the males themselves , however , things are relatively peaceful . We saw no outright hostility and , remarkably , found no relationship between a male 's status and the number of times he copulated with a female . Still , we could see that social status played a subtle role in mating attempts . Most commonly , males simply look on while other males court a breeding female . But the odds are ten to one that a male that does interrupt a courtship will be the alpha male . And the mode of interception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the courting male and crouches in a hunched posture . At this , the males stop following the female , and the male closest to the crouched alpha male mounts him . Occasionally , the subordinate male makes cloacal contact with the " decoy female " and ejaculates . In seducing his rivals , the alpha appears to be taking advantage of the hunched posture  --  a stimulus to copulation that apparently is so strong that males ca n't resist it , regardless of the sex of the signaler . When it comes to interrupting a copulation , the alpha male 's behavior is again not what we expected , as he interferes with the female , not with the male standing precariously on top of her . The interrupter typically pecks at the copulating female 's head and neck area . This invariably causes her to come out of the hunched posture , toppling the mounted rival . Yet such interference was relatively uncommon . More often , alpha males made no attempt to interrupt a mating of a rival male but instead stood aside and watched the copulating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pair after the other male had dismounted , but she rarely responded to his gestures . We did wonder , however , whether alpha males were being selective and only interrupting subordinates at the critical moment when eggs could be fertilized . We designed new experiments , only to find that when the female was most likely to be ovulating , alpha males did not monopolize matings or actively prevent others from copulating . As many as three males might copulate with the same female during the three hours when she is most fertile . Overall , individual alpha males were more likely to allow a mating to occur than they were to interrupt it . Furthermore , there was no indication that alpha males interrupted or ignored some males more than others or that females were only receptive to certain males within the breeding group . Matings in general seemed to operate on a first-come , first-served basis , regardless of social status . Given all the couplings that were going on , we reasoned that all group males had a good chance of fathering one or more offspring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University have subsequently carried out DNA fingerprint analysis , a molecular genetic technique using blood samples that assigns paternity and maternity to each offspring with a high degree of accuracy . They found that almost all pukeko broods are fathered by more than one male , with alpha males fathering more offspring , on average , than subordinates do . Why , then , are pukeko so diplomatic in their mating behavior , and why are they so accepting of their relatives as mates , when few other animals are ? We believe it has to do with why pukeko live in groups in the first place . Most juvenile birds eventually disperse from their parents ' territories to find a mate and breed . This pattern assumes plenty of empty breeding habitat , which is the situation of the pukeko living on New Zealand 's South Island . Because that island 's climate is harsh , pukeko adult mortality is high , and juveniles regularly leave their natal territory to breed as yearlings . In Shakespear Park , however , new nesting habitat is extremely limited . With few natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , making breeding vacancies in good habitat rare . Thus , any pukeko parent that pushes an offspring out of its territory might be putting its own reproductive fate into a cul-de-sac . ( In Darwinian terms , it 's not just the surviving offspring that count but whether those offspring leave descendants to carry on their genes . ) So letting offspring remain in the safety of the natal territory would be an advantage to a parent when habitat is scarce ( and assuming that food is not in short supply ) . In return , the breeders would have a reserve of territorial defenders on hand . This is important since stringent defense of nesting habitat appears to be vital for breeding pukeko . These extra birds can also help feed dependent chicks . Even though offspring become potential breeding competitors as they grow older , losing out to one 's offspring on reproductive opportunities may be a lesser evil since offspring share about half of each parent 's genetic material . Becoming the sexual partner of a relative or allowing a relative to breed in your place would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genetic defects . Close inbreeding potentially increases the chance of inheriting lethal recessive genes that would normally be unexpressed . Yet in a population where inbreeding is strong , selection pressure usually weeds out these harmful genes in a few generations . Thereafter , deaths caused by genetic factors may be rare or no more common than death from other causes . For pukeko , the high costs associated with dispersal may actually promote inbreeding  --  or at least lessen the need to avoid it . In fact , seven years of data have shown that between 70 percent and 90 percent of pukeko at Shakespear Park remain in their natal territory , and 67 percent breed incestuously ( father with daughter , mother with son , or brother with sister ) . The last has been confirmed by genetic analysis . The rare bird that leaves a natal territory is usually an adult male that moves to neighboring turf . This suggests that the relatedness of the entire population is also very high . Of the 223 birds we have banded , only one has ever been sighted outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure , the total number of young that can be raised in a group is limited , and hence the per capita reproductive success is always greater for birds that breed in pairs rather than a group . However , as in human society during an economic recession , pukeko parents may have little choice but to allow their children to stay at home . In so doing , the offspring inevitably seem to join in the family business of reproduction . <p>                     