@@358301

In the sixth-grade humanities class at New York City 's Mott Hall , the noise level has reached cacophony . It 's mostly animated chatter among the students as they put final touches on oral reports they will deliver in a few minutes . But another sound adds to the din : the staccato clicking of keys on computers . In this hard-knocks Washington Heights school , where a substantial number of the students qualify for free lunches , a hardwired revolution is taking shape . All the students in the class work on their own Toshiba laptops , cutting-edge machines bought by the school district last year and leased to the students for $30 a month . The reports they are about to present are high-speed , full-color Power Point jobs . And when teacher Janice Gordon wants her class 's attention , she commands , " Screens at 45degrees ! " At the end of class , the students will close their laptops , put them in backpacks and take them home . <P> In early 1995 , Newt Gingrich casually suggested giving tax credits to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposal and called it " a nutty idea . " In this low-income Manhattan neighborhood , the idea of 11-year-olds toting $1,500 laptops to school is so nutty that the school district plans to expand its laptop program from Mott Hall 's 30 sixth-graders to more than 200 students in the next month . Not long ago , laptop computers were a luxury even administrators could n't afford ; now the district wants to make them as common as spiral notebooks in its classrooms . Superintendent Anthony Amato predicts that laptop computers will be on most American students ' desks within five years . " I 'd put my reputation on it in a minute , " he effuses . Since last year , Amato has fielded " calls from superintendents across the country " who want to replicate his district 's model . <P> These days laptops , once the accessory of bicoastal businessmen , are right at home next to grade-schoolers ' lunch boxes . A program launched by Toshiba and Microsoft that offers software-loaded laptops to schools at discount rates has grown from 52 public and private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The private Cincinnati Country Day School requires all 500 of its students from grades 6 through 12 to carry laptops ; the school pays half the cost , and parents chip in one-third . The public school district in Beaufort , S.C. , leased laptops to 300 students last year , and after a swell of parent demands , expanded the program this fall to 1,000 . In Texas , state-school-board president Jack Christie is pushing a proposal to junk textbooks and outfit 4 million students with portable computers complete with Internet access and a CD-ROM drive . He has n't converted everyone yet , but vows it 's " just a matter of time . " Says Christie : " There are pockets of resistance  --  in the same way that people opposed the space program and said we could n't get to the moon . "                     