@@404428

Gavin Miller ( not his real name ) has always been a rough-and-tumble kind of kid , reared in a boisterous household with brothers five and seven years his senior . He 's an impulsive child with a passion for sports  --  he was the big kid on the T-ball team leading the scuffle to snag infield hits . Trouble is , when Gavin started senior kindergarten , his aggressive behaviour did not translate well onto the playground . He 'd knock kids over in his zealous game-playing and retaliate with shoves , fists and not-so-nice language when another child brushed against him . By grade two , Gavin 's mother was getting calls from the school almost daily . Today , Gavin is in sixth grade , and calls from the school are few and far between . When a playground clash with a classmate threatened to erupt last September , Gavin 's mom helped him devise a strategy to defuse the situation : Invite his competitor to join his team . The solution worked and the problem disappeared . What Gavin learned between grade two and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , teachers , counsellors and , most importantly , his parents  --  was to reflect on the effect his impulsive behaviour had on others , take responsibility for his actions , and seek out socially acceptable solutions . Simply put , Gavin has grown in emotional intelligence . Emotional intelligence " is the latest buzzword in child-rearing , a concept popularized by New York Times writer Daniel Goleman in his 1995 bestseller of the same name , and one that is spawning a shelf full of parenting guides . It encompasses a wide array of life skills , including the ability to motivate oneself and persist when frustrated , to control impulses and delay gratification , regulate one 's moods , solve conflicts , empathize and hope . In his book , Goleman synthesizes decades of child-development and brain-function research and argues , quite convincingly , that emotional intelligence is a better predictor of a person 's success than IQ . Take the marshmallow challenge , for example . Beginning in the 1960s , Stanford University psychologist Walter Mischel tracked a group of preschoolers through to adolescence . At age four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marshmallow immediately or , if they could wait 15 minutes while the examiner left the room , they would get two when he returned . In the follow-up study a dozen years later , Mischel found that the children who were able to wait as youngsters had developed into socially adept teenagers . They were more assertive , confident and dependable , better able to cope with frustration and stress , and embraced life 's challenges . The group who grabbed the single marshmallow , on the other hand , tended to be more stubborn and indecisive , more easily frustrated and irritated , prone to jealousy and resentment , and more likely to think themselves unworthy . What Mischel 's work and that of other researchers indicates is that if we teach our children to be emotionally competent , they 'll lead happier , more productive and successful lives . But the theory raises the question : As parents do n't we already do this ? Sure we do . Toronto more Odette Mendelovits , for example , uses the squabbles between her toddler , Raymond , and his four-year-old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When Raymond gets upset that Loretta has taken away his toy , " she explains , " he tugs at her hair , and she comes complaining to me . " Mendelovits " response is to acknowledge her daughter 's feelings ( " It must hurt when Raymond pulls your hair " ) ; teach her to read cues ( " Pulling hair is Raymond 's way of saying , " You are getting me annoyed ' ' " ) ; express her feelings ( " Tell him , " That makes me angry ' ' " ) ; respect others ( " If Raymond is playing with something , you must ask him for permission to take the toy " ) ; and settle conflicts ( " You must take responsibility for your own actions . Please leave me out of the loop " ) . As Dr. Katharina Manassis , head of the anxiety disorders clinic at Toronto 's Hospital for Sick Children , says , " Emotional intelligence is a trendy name for something parents have been doing for generations  --  pulling together the things that kids need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already , why do we need books to tell us how to do it better ? There are a couple of reasons . First , our children do n't seem to be coping as well these days . In Canada , violent youth crime is growing , and teen suicide has almost doubled in the past 30 years . In addition , today 's youth appear to be more pessimistic . According to American psychologist Martin Seligman , author of The Optimistic Child , as many as 25 percent of children will experience a period of depression between the ages of eight and 13 . The second reason has to do with the way society has changed . Says Goleman , " There is an old-fashioned word for the body of skills that emotional intelligence represents : character . " But in the past , family or community gatherings provided parents with ample opportunity to reinforce " character-building " lessons . But as those traditional support structures dissipate , today 's parents need to work consciously to counter the trend toward increasingly isolated relationships . There is one structure that has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , principal at Ripley Elementary in Ripley , Ontario , believes that emotional intelligence is " the cutting edge of education in the future , " a tool that fits comfortably with such holistic concepts as learning styles and multiple intelligences ( for more , see " Touch , Look and Listen " in this issue , p. 30 ) . " What 's really exciting , " he says , " is that when I look at things we 're doing in school now , I realize how much is already based on emotional intelligence concepts , " A lesson on the War of 1812 , for example , teaches students the historical facts but then goes a step further by asking them to explore how they would feel if their country were at war . This contemplative approach to learning may be criticized as an indulgence in the current back-to-basics public education climate . But there is ample research to indicate that kids who are emotionally adept do better academically . Argues Steven Stein , a clinical psychologist and president of Multi-Health Systems Inc. , the Canadian firm that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Testing EQ , " p. 60 ) , " You ca n't learn the basics if you have problems getting along , do n't like yourself and ca n't control your impulses . Kids with these skills do better in school because they 're more receptive to learning . " Still , the question remains : Is n't there a danger of squashing our children 's individuality as we ply them with all this social mastery ? Is a shy person a " failure " because she is uncomfortable in group settings ? Absolutely not , says Nancy Turner , an early childhood educator with the Discoveries Child and Family Centre in Scarborough , Ontario . " We all come with a blueprint , a genetic plan that is exactly the way we are supposed to come . A person can be shy and still manage her emotions , still be motivated , sensitive , and handle relationships . " But some kids , no matter what their temperament , simply lack emotional smarts . Often they can pick up missed skills through anger-management courses offered by their schools and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cunningham of Essex , Ontario , a grassroots activist and certified teacher of children with learning disabilities , was prompted by the difficult behaviour of her ten-year-old son , Andrew , to devise a three-week summer " camp " to build children 's emotional intelligence . Andrew has no idea about how he appears to people , " she explains . " He has an inability to monitor his talking , body language and feelings . He 'll say he 's happy , but everything about him shows anger . " At camp Andrew learned to identify , abstract feelings by making them visually concrete . In one exercise , for example , the children moulded plasticine into faces expressing such common emotions as sadness , anxiety , surprise and pride . The children also developed social problem-solving skills . Modelled on pioneering u.s. programs , children were taught to assess problems in six steps : 1 . Say the problem . 2 . Define the goal . 3 . Stop to think . 4 . Think of as many solutions as you can . 5 . Evaluate each solution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't teach a lifetime of skills in three weeks , concentrated lessons such as the ones Andrew took can show kids a more productive approach to their problems . Cunningham describes her son 's progress this way : " Traditionally , whenever Andrew came home from school , everything was negative . He 'd throw his books across the floor and say , " You know what so-and-so did ? " Now , he 'll come to me and say , " Mom , I have a problem . " He recognizes that he has the problem . It 's not what someone else has done to him . " The results of programs like this are clearly encouraging . But they are , for the most part , reactive  --  targeting " problem children " after the fact . What emotional-intelligence advocates trumpet is a proactive approach that will , to use a term coined by Optimistic Child author Seligman , " immunize " our children against the vicissitudes of daily life . " These things can always be taught , " says Turner . " But it 's easier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Indeed , she says , research suggests that if children do n't have a foundation in emotional-intelligence skills by age six , they 'll struggle with them for the rest of their lives . That 's because the skills build on each other . The ability to share , which children typically do n't master until they are six , requires that they learn , first , to take turns and , later , to trade . As children become young adults , their sharing nature will evolve into empathy , which in turn leads to altruism and compassion  --  in other words , attributes of a caring society . And the best people to provide that foundation , adds Turner , are parents . " As educators , we are there to support parents , to work in partnership , " she explains . " But children learn best when they see something in action rather than separated out of life . " So what 's the bottom line ? Emotional intelligence , says Steven Stein , " is not rocket science . A lot of these things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That does n't mean we could n't all benefit from a little emotional fine-tuning . If we are more adept ourselves , we may , as parents , be better able to give our youngsters an edge . Dennis and Lorraine McKay of Victoria , B.C. , who have raised eight kids of their own , think so . They recently took a parenting course , which incorporated many of the emotional-intelligence concepts , to help them with their second large family of foster children . Says Dennis , " It 's too bad we did n't have more of this when we were raising our own . The things we did by gut instinct were right . But we could have done such a better job if we 'd had this background . " RESOURCES Emotional Intelligence , by Daniel Goleman , Bantam , 1995 . Goleman 's bestseller persuasively argues that emotionally intelligent people will be more successful than those with a high IQ . The Heart of Parenting : Raising an Emotionally Intelligent Child , by John Gottman with Joan DeClaire , Simon &; Schuster ( Cdn. distributor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goleman 's concept of emotional intelligence , helps readers assess their parenting style and provides pointers on nurturing their child 's emotional development . The Optimistic Child , by Martin Seligman , Houghton Mifflin Company , 1995 . Seligman offers ideas on raising optimistic and stir-reliant children . Teaching Your Child the Language of Social Success , by Marshall Duke , Stephen Norwicki and Elisabeth Martin , Peachtree Publishers ( Cdn. distributor E.A. Milley ) , 1996 . The authors help parents improve their children 's social skills through identifying and developing nonverbal communication skills . How to Raise a Child with a High EQ : A Parent 's Guide to Emotional Intelligence , by Lawrence Shapiro , HarperCollins , 1997 . Testing EQ Emotional intelligence , says Daniel Goleman in his bestseller of the same name , is a better predictor of success than IQ . The bonus is that , unlike IQ , which we 're pretty well stuck with from birth , emotional intelligence can be acquired . But where to begin ? One place might be the Emotional Quotient ( EQ ) Inventory , a test of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Multi-Health Systems Inc . By asking people how 152 statements apply to them , the test measures their EQ in 15 areas , including assertiveness , social responsibility , problem-solving , stress tolerance and happiness . The adult version is now available . After taking the test ( my EQ is average ) , I asked Multi-Health president Steven Stein about the dangers of putting a number to something as elusive as emotional intelligence . " We did struggle over whether to assign it a specific number , " he says . " But this is not about a single number . It 's about a variety of life skills . These are the factors that have some research behind them and that have been found to be important to kids and adults to get along , to be happy in life and to contribute to society . We celebrate successes , then we turn to look at areas that could use work . " It may take awhile to convince everyone that the testing is a good thing . Dr. Katharina Manassis , head of the anxiety disorders clinic at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testing may have some of the same methodological problems , such as a cultural bias , that IQ testing had in its early stages . Some of the statements on the EQ test are : I 'm good at understanding the way people feel . It 's difficult for me to begin new things . I like to do things on my own , without outside help . It 's fairly easy for me to tell people what I think . I like to have fun . Two children 's versions of the EQ test , one for 12 years and under and one for over 12 , will be available before the end of 1997 . <p>                     