@@393644

The good times rolled as 2,500 devotees of clay , 50 from abroad , converged on New Orleans , Louisiana , for the 28th annual conference of the National Council on Education for the Ceramic Arts . With its enchanting French Quarter , jazz , fabulous food and 80-degree weather , the Big Easy proved an irresistible backdrop to the combination family reunion , networking and pulse-taking of the field that NCECA conferences always are . Fitting the conference theme to the ambience of the host city , the organizers planned a program of more than 70 presentations and exhibitions that stressed diversity of aesthetic approaches , multiethnicity , blending of cultures and music , music , music  --  a " Gumbo Ceramique " to equal Louisiana 's culinary specialty , that ubiquitous spicy soup , contrived from whatever ingredients come to hand . More than 60 percent of those attending were students , the highest percentage ever . Whether this statistic holds significance for the future of ceramics beyond the coincidence of spring break and an alluring city remains to be discovered . In any case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than teachers ' conference . The insouciance of a young woman with " NCECA " shaved into the back of her buzz cut seemed to say it all . At the opening ceremonies conference chair Jeremy Jernegan , professor of ceramics at Tulane University , NCECA 's host , reminded the gathering that 100 years ago , Tulane 's Newcomb College was the first U.S. school to include ceramics in its curriculum . He pointed out that many issues important to ceramists in 1894 remain the same today : the economic role of crafts , the personal empowerment of individuals as artists , the potential of influencing culture , the design and integrity of production . NCECA members love a good party and this year they did n't have to wait for the final night . Instead of a keynote speech there was a keynote performance , by Boozoo Chavis and the Magic Sounds . Known as the " King of Zydeco " ( a southern Louisiana sound that mixes rhythm and blues , traditional New Orleans jazz and folksy creole ) , Chavis in short order had the crowd blissfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night ( the Ted Randall session featuring the joyful noise of the John F. Kennedy High School Gospel Choir ) , and the next ( the band Sunpie and the Louisiana Sunspots for the final dance ) . And few could resist late-night pilgrimages to Bourbon Street or the House of Blues to soak up more jazz at the source . Ethnic Ties , Ethical Order , Women , Diversity Foremost in sounding the theme of ethnic diversity was the NCECA invitational show , " Emigres , " handsomely installed at the New Orleans Museum of Art , which focused on nine artists who are either recent immigrants to the United States or linked by strong ethnic ties to another culture . Though the ethnic references were obvious in the works , the stronger influence was current trends in American art and ceramics , a view borne out in the panel " Cross Cultural Clay , " featuring artists from the show . Kwabena Ampofo-Anti , who was born in Ghana , showed how the constructed shapes of utilitarian vessels from different parts of Africa influenced his ceramic and mixed-media sculptures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says , but he also wants to reach people of his background . Beth Lo , a second-generation Chinese artist who teaches at the University of Montana , describes her influences as " 80 percent art world , 20 percent ethnic . " Her work incorporates oriental brush painting , origami forms and Chinese socialist realism , but she also owes a debt to Jack Earl , Rudy Autio and cartoonists George Herriman and R. Crumb . The art world is her audience , but she admits to toning down the irony to reach her ethnic community . As if attempting a philosophical underpinning for the multicultural theme , the talk by Jim Hersh , professor of philosophy at Salve Regina University , Newport , Rhode Island , made a case for ethnic art as a political necessity without which society is reduced to ethnic violence . Intoning a roll call of places torn by such turmoil  --  Sarajevo , Hebron , Crown Heights , Los Angeles , Belfast  --  Hersh maintained that postmodern society is pluralist and pluralism demands the artistic expression of ethnicity for the sake of ethical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ulysses , Hersh declared , " Racism is the Cyclops . We are this Cyclops , and we are also Odysseus , the hero who blinds the Cyclops . It is possible to blind the Cyclops with postmodern , ethnic art . " In the light of the violence erupting daily around the globe , it seemed wishful thinking , gratifying but unpersuasive . There were a number of all-female lectures and panels , perhaps not surprising , given that women outnumbered men two to one at the conference . Marylyn Dintenfass 's international panel described the artistic collaborations possible between ceramists and ceramics factories , with examples drawn from Israel , Denmark and the United States . Nobuho Nagasawa , assistant professor of art at Scripps College , California , who has done many public art projects , discussed her use of materials in relation to nature in her Earthworks . In " Site , Time , Viewer , Movement , " a panel on conceptual approaches to ceramic sculpture and installation , it was interesting to hear Canadian artist Mireille Perron explain her concept of " interactive art . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominant masculinity , " " brazen and sexist , " of American clay art as it became established in the late 50s , and proposed instead an art of " generosity and complicity . " In some of her museum projects , for example , she invites visitors to create works from the components she supplies . ALT CRIT , ED CRIT Although they never quite answered the questions she posed , the panel moderated by Judith Schwartz , professor at New York University , proposed different roles critics might play in a post-post modern art world . Starting from the assumption that modernist criticism 's stance of objectivity has long been called into question , Diane Douglas , director of the Bellevue Art Museum , suggested that the critic could be a sleuth unveiling the explicit histories imbedded in artworks , could make judgments but " fess up to subjectivity , " or be a poet , turning criticism into a parallel form of expression to shed light on a work . Ron Glowen remarked that a critic could become a spokesperson for a movement  --  in his own case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from living in Seattle . Such a critic might find himself taking activist stances like those in the political realm . By contrast , Village Voice writer Peter Schjeldahl insisted on a " natural antagonism " between critic and artist . " My ally is the reader , " he said . " You should have your head examined to come to criticism for views on society . What matters is , Is it well done ! Worth doing ! " Schjeldahl suggested that the influence of the marketplace is not necessarily bad : " Without fashion , we would have to know everything about everything all the time . " In one of the few panels involved with education , ceramist-teachers Christina Bertoni , Ron Nagle and Judith Salomon dealt with issues arising from changes in college art and design programs that have integrated ceramics into the three-dimensional area . Mentioning the pitfalls of " academic channel surfing , " Bertoni discussed the matter of structure versus freedom of expression . Because students usually come to college without art training , she said , they need structure before they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceramics may now be in " a quiet period , a natural regrouping pattern after the highs of the 80s . " Nagle shocked the audience when he derided the Leach-Hamada influence on American ceramics . He has a much higher regard for Rosanjin . As teacher and artist , Nagle said , " you are a model by devoting yourself to work , taking risks , showing willingness to change and grow . " SCHMOOZES AND DEMOS Although some of the panels were engaging , as a whole they lacked focus and intellectual depth , failing to generate much response from the audiences or much debate . Participants may have found more to chew on in the small group discussions arranged to satisfy specific interests and foster intimate exchanges . The " Artists of Color " session , for example , drew some 15 individuals eager to form a network and enunciated the goals of getting more minority young people involved in ceramics and in NCECA . For many , technical information was the name of the game . An overflow crowd heard Bruce Breckenridge and Richard Shaw explain methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  used in decorating clay surfaces with photographic images . Mornings and afternoons the demonstration room was a cross-cultural three-ring circus in which one browsed among Mexican ceramics , Jamaican pottery , Kurt Weiser 's china painting and Adrian Arleo 's figurative sculpting , to name a very few . GALLERY GOING The 32 related exhibitions ( fewer , some complained , than in previous years ) drew conferees to picturesque areas around the city : Julia Street in the refurbished warehouse district , funky Magazine Street , the ravishing French Quarter , the lush City Park setting of the New Orleans Museum and , reachable by old-fashioned streetcar , Tulane 's bucolic campus . The work tended to fall into categories  --  animals , fetishlike figures with twigs protruding , glazed realistic life-size figures , stacked pieces , industrial look-alikes , matte finishes , chalky colors , mixed media , architectonic forms , ironic vessels and the occasional straight pot-and it was eerie to see most of these trends represented competently , albeit without supreme mastery , in the " NCECA Regional Student Show , " juried by Dan Anderson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that made an impression in the whirl of gallery visits included Frank Fleming 's humanoid animals , Jean-Pierre Larocque 's rugged use of clay in archaic-looking animal figures , Jeremy Jernegan 's and Bryan Steinberg 's large-scale stacked vessels , and what seemed like magic realism in the figurative sculpture by Robert Brady , Arthur Conzales , Anne Perrigo and Lisa Rienertson in the show at Tulane . Extremely appealing , though not of clay , was Therese Chabat 's floor piece of dried flowers in a mandela pattern in the mixed-media show at the Contemporary Arts Center . GOODBYE , POSTMODERNISM ! HELLO , SPIRIT ! Multiculturalism proved to be a curiously amorphous theme , allowing variety yet failing to provide a sharp focus . Until the closing program , that is . " Art and Ceramics in the Black Atlantic World , " Robert Farris Thompson 's mesmerizing lecture , galvanized the winding-down audience , bringing together in a thrilling and profound way the multicultural currents that until that moment seemed merely stated rather than deeply felt . A professor of African and African American art history at Yale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and music . " The airwaves belong to persons of African descent , " he reminded us . What followed was a performance with drumbeats , translations of African words  --  water , river , clay , cool  --  images of bands in New Orleans beating rhythms on tin cans and hubcaps , as Thompson brought to life in slides and film the work of the great Nigerian potter Abaton  --  a majestic woman swathed in blue cloth , with " fingers like pencils "  --  and demonstrated how pottery was " the shape of her belief . " He had connected clay with music , what we all wanted from this conference , giving a glimpse of a genius of African culture that all could grasp at the gut level . It was the defining spice that catalyzed all the flavors of the ceramic gumbo . NCECA officers inducted were Anna Callucori Holcomabe , president ; James Tanner , president-elect ; Linda Arbuckle , direct-at-large ; Elaine Henry , student director-at-large . NCECA will next convene in Minneapolis , MN , March 22-25 1995 . <p>     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       