@@427215

Opposite page : Union workers at New England Laborers Training Academy , Pomfret Conn. , being trained for retrieval and disposal of toxic waste materials . Can the private sector be relied on for such cleanup projects if not under government mandate // IF the Republican-controlled Congress ' efforts to pass assorted statutes that would affect Federal environmental controls succeed , there would be compensation for regulations that cause a substantial drop in the value of private property ; cost-benefit and risk analyses may be required in devising new environmental regulations ; and the Clean Water Act might be modified slightly . Environmentalists are claiming such reforms would gut environmental regulation and roll back 25 years of progress . Only Chicken Little would peer at the pending reforms and pronounce environmental collapse . The move to protect private property rights was revolutionary 200 years ago , but hardly should be so today . As recently as during the Reagan Administration , the government paid when private land was desired to protect wildlife and wetlands . A requirement for benefit-cost and risk analyses was called for in Reform of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a study by the Center for Risk Analysis at the Harvard School of Public Health . This kind of reform is evolutionary , not revolutionary . Environmentalists know this . The plaintive cries heard from the environmental community reflect a deeper distress . Things environmental no longer are out of bounds for rational debate . When examined with emotions stripped away , the Federal record for protecting the environment is weak at best . While the air is cleaner than it was 25 years ago , more miles of rivers are swimmable , and lots of contaminated soil has been dug up at one site and moved to another , the gains have come at huge costs that could have been significantly lower . Environmentalists know this , too . Their enterprise is threatened , however , and that is why they are nervous . It is an interesting bit of history that , when the environmental statutes were written during the Nixon Administration , the environmental groups played little role . The biggest polluters spent years lobbying , so the environmental statutes were drafted in such a way as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed . It is common knowledge that the government is a terrible steward of the environment . When a government controls all property , as it did in the former U.S.S.R. , the result is that almost the entire country becomes a Superfund site by American standards . Yet , how much better is the U.S. 's record ? Recent General Accounting Office estimates are that the cost of cleaning up just the radioactive messes on Department of Energy land will run a minimum of $300,000,000,000 to as much as one billion dollars . Government handling of such materials has been so careless that cleanup costs are nearly impossible to estimate . Private handlers of radioactive materials never allowed such massive problems to occur . The situation is not unique to the Department of Energy . The Army Corps , which claims to be the protector of wetlands , has been a major destructive force , as has the Forest Service , Bureau of Reclamation , Department of Agriculture , and other agencies that maintain they are environmental guardians . As one review of government treatment of the environment summarized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should avoid relying heavily on government to provide it . " The proposed revisions of environmental statutes hold the promise of reducing costs and targeting resources to higher-risk situations , all in the existing blueprint of command-and-control regulation . What if the slate were wiped clean and the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) became a monitoring and research agency and returned environmental control to its pre-1970 status ? Would we all drown in a sea of toxic wastes and suffocate from chemical-laden air ? Hardly . In fact , we feel the environment is safer under the rules of common law ( a part of state law ) than under the control of one Federal agency . Making the case for markets and the rule of law never has been easy . If people used to having their daily bread provided by government agencies are told to forget that and try the free market , would they cheerfully give up command-and-control ? What if none of the people even could remember how markets under a rule of law worked ? Discussing common law solutions to environmental protection encounters a similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environmental quality seems to win hands down . Government planning is attractive because of its simplicity . Congress writes a law and the EPA enforces it with regulations about how much of this or that is legal or illegal . That is so much easier to understand than a free society relying on people to protect their rights through private arrangements of their devising that are enforced through the courts . The role of government is limited to providing a well-functioning judiciary that helps enforce contracts , protect property , and resolve disputes . While those who support Federal command-and-control environmental regulation usually pay homage to the notion of private property , it routinely is asserted that governmental controls are needed to protect public health and the environment , because individual abuses of property leads to environmental destruction that injures other people and natural resources . That is , if not constrained by regulators , private property owners will impose pollution on others . Private control of land may be economically efficient , but the common law of property fails to protect the environment adequately . Water pollution . Americans have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remember that , a generation ago , the Federal government played just a small role in water quality . Instead , citizens and communities protected their waters , via enforcement of common law rights and through various state and local water quality regulations . The primary rights that were enforced were those , under tort law , not to suffer a nuisance or a trespass . Most states also enforced riparian law , which provides that all who have property abutting a waterway or body of water have the right to normal use of the water , but may not reduce its use and enjoyment by others and downstream users . A few cases illustrate the process that was at work . In Carmichael v. City of Texarkana ( 1899 ) , the Carmichaels owned a 45-acre farm in Texas , with a stream running through it , that bordered on the state of Arkansas . The city of Texarkana , Ark. , built a sewage system connected to residences and businesses . The sewage collected in the city was deposited " immediately opposite plaintiffs ' homestead , about eight feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Carmichaels sued the city in Federal court in Arkansas . The court found that the " cesspool is a great nuisance because if fouls , pollutes , corrupts , contaminates , and poisons the water of the creek , depositing the foul and offensive matter . . . in the bed of said creek on plaintiffs ' land and homestead continuously . . . , " thereby " depriving them of the use and benefit of said creek running through their land and premises in a pure and natural state as it was before the creation of said cesspool ..... The Carmichaels were forced to connect their property to a water system to obtain water for " their family , dairy cattle , and other domestic animals , fowls , and fish . " The cost of the water hookup and use was $700 . They claimed the value of their property was reduced by $5,000 , the lessened enjoyment of their homestead over the past two years was valued at $2,000 , and the dread of disease was valued at $2,000 . Besides the claim for damages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against " said open sewer , cesspool , and nuisance . " The judge found that the city was operating properly under state law to build a sewer system , but that there was no excuse for fouling the water by the Carmichaels ' property , regardless of how many city residences benefited from the sewer system . Citing other cases , the court found that the action at law for damages was proper , as was the request for an injunction : " If a riparian proprietor has a right to enjoy a river so far unpolluted that fish can live in it and cattle drink of it and the town council of a neighboring borough , professing to act under statutory powers , pour their house drainage and the filth from waterclosets into the river in such quantities that the water becomes corrupt and stinks , and fish will no longer live in it , nor cattle drink it , the court will grant an injunction to prevent the continued defilement of the stream , and to relieve the riparian proprietor from the necessity of bringing a series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a single proprietor to an injunction , the court can not take into consideration the circumstance that a vast population will suffer by reason of its interference . " The judge wrote : " I have failed to find a single well-considered case where the American courts have not granted relief under circumstances such as are alleged in this bill against the city . .. " In Whalen v. Union Bag &; Paper Co. ( 1913 ) , a new pulp mill polluted a creek . A downstream farmer , Whalen , sued the mill for making the water , which he used for livestock and crops , unfit for agricultural usage . The trial court awarded damages of $312 per year and granted an injunction against the mill to stop harmful pollution within a year . The appellate division denied the injunction and reduced the damages to $100 . The court noted that the mill was an important economic asset to the area . It cost more than $1,000,000 and employed 500 people , which was worth far more than the water was to the plaintiff . The New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Although the damage to the plaintiff may be slight as compared with the defendant 's expense of abating the condition , that is not a good reason for refusing an injunction . Neither courts of equity nor law can be guided by such a rule , for if followed to its logical conclusion it would deprive the poor litigant of his little property by giving it to those already rich . " To make clear that its decision went beyond a case involving serious destruction of water quality , the court cited an earlier Indiana court holding in a similar case , Weston Paper Co. v. Pope : " The fact that the appellant has expended a large sum of money in the construction of its plant , and that it conducts its business in a careful manner and without malice , can make no difference in its rights to the stream . Before locating the plant the owners were bound to know that every riparian proprietor is entitled to have the waters of the stream that washes his land come to it without obstruction , diversion , or corruption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by those similarly entitled , for such domestic purposes as are inseparable for and necessary for the free use of their land ; they were bound also to know the character of their proposed business , and to take themselves at their own peril whether they should be able to conduct their business upon a stream . . . without injury to their neighbors ; and the magnitude of their investment and their freedom from malice furnish no reason why they should escape the consequences of their own folly . " This holding does not mean that there could be no pollution . It meant that there was no excuse for uninvited pollution that caused real injury . To avoid water rights litigation , the mill owner could have contracted for riparian rights from downstream landowners or bought the land along the stream . Land pollution . The primary problem caused by land pollution is water pollution due to seepage from improperly disposed toxic wastes . Hence , there are few cases that only concern the pollution of one 's own land . After the Love Canal case in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regulate the cleanup of toxic waste sites . How the common law might have dealt with this issue appears in a small number of cases that have occurred despite the Superfund law . In Village of Wilsonville v. SCA Services ( 1981 ) , the Illinois EPA , backed by the U.S. EPA , supported the right of a chemical waste landfill , which was alleged to be causing damage to a nearby village , to remain in operation . The Illinois Supreme Court found that the landfill caused groundwater contamination and that there could be a chemical explosion , given the disposal technique used . The court held the landfill was a public and a private nuisance ; the village residents had been there first . The landfill was built with state and Federal approval , thus encouraging the landfill owner to ignore consequences to its neighbors . The court noted that toxic landfills were legitimate , but held that they had to be constructed so as not to impose costs on surrounding landowners who had not agreed to the intrusion : " Where individual rights are unreasonably interfered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not outweigh the individual right , and the facility 's use will be enjoined or curtailed . " The court issued a permanent injunction against the landfill and ordered that the toxic wastes be dug up , moved , and the land restored . In New York v. Schenectady Chemicals , Inc. ( 1983 ) , the firm , during the 1950s and early 1960s , had hired an incompetent company to dispose of its toxic wastes . The hauler dumped 46,300 tons of chemical wastes in a swampy 13-acre site that drains into an aquifer serving thousands of persons . Prior to this action , it became clear that there was damage being done to some wells in the aquifer . Of the waste , 82.2% came from General Electric and Bendix ( which already had agreed to pay up ) ; Schenectady Chemicals ( SC ) contributed 17.8% . The state sued for SC to pay its share of the remediation costs , and asked for assorted penalties under New York 's Environmental Conservation Law ( ECL ) . The court held that the ECL did not apply . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so no penalties from that law were relevant . The cause of action that applies is the concept of public nuisance , defined by the Court of Appeals of New York as " A public , or as sometimes termed a common , nuisance is an offense against the State and is subject to abatement or prosecution on application of the proper governmental agency ... Further , the court noted , " One who creates a nuisance through an inherently dangerous activity or use of an unreasonably dangerous product is absolutely liable for resulting damages , irregardless of fault , and despite adhering to the highest standard of care . " SC was liable for its nuisance and was ordered to pay its pro-rata share of the cleanup expense . In Wood v. Picillo ( 1982 ) , neighbors sued a farmer who maintained a hazardous waste dump on his property . The plaintiffs claimed the dump emitted noxious fumes and polluted ground and surface waters . Holding for the plaintiffs , the Rhode Island Supreme Court overturned a 1934 decision that would have held for the defendant because groundwaters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had held that plaintiffs in pollution cases had to show that defendants should have " foreseen " the consequences of their action-that is , were negligent . The 1982 court held that , since 1934 : " the science of groundwater hydrology as well as societal concern for environmental protection had developed dramatically . As a matter of scientific fact the course of subterranean waters are no longer obscure and mysterious .... We now hold that negligence is not a necessary element of a nuisance case involving contamination of a public or private waters by pollutants percolating through the soil and traveling underground routes . " Here , a rule of strict liability was imposed on polluters who cause damage to ground and surface waters . This standard of care is consistent with old common law tort rules imposing strict liability in case of hazardous materials . Liability is imposed if there is evidence of injury or potential to cause injury . Advances in knowledge of the effects of toxic substances means tougher standards today than in years past . Air pollution . Few common law air pollution cases are found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air pollution comes from multiple sources , making it more difficult to identify the defendant . The following cases , though , make it clear that the courts long have recognized liability for air pollution . Since passage of the Clean Air Act of 1970 , the EPA has been the primary controller of air quality . That agency , and various state pollution agencies operating under EPA supervision , issue pollution permits to major pollution sources and determine pollution limits on vehicles and other emission sources . In Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co. ( 1907 ) , the state , on behalf of its citizens , sued two companies that operated copper smelters in Tennessee near the Georgia border . Chief Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes noted that a public nuisance had been created because the " sulphurous fumes cause and threaten damage on so considerable a scale to the forests and vegetable life , if not to health , within Georgia . . . The plaintiffs argued that they recently had constructed new facilities which reduced the scope of the problem , but the Supreme Court held for Georgia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable time to build more emission control equipment , but that , if such equipment did not reduce emissions adequately so as to protect plant life in Georgia , the state could ask for an injunction to shut the plants down . In 1915 , the parties returned to the Supreme Court . Defendant companies showed that their new , very expensive equipment reduced emissions by more than half . Georgia argued that this was not enough and demanded that the plants be closed . The Chief Justice appointed a scientist from Vanderbilt University to spend six months , at company expense , studying the emissions and the likely effect of new controls . In the meantime , the Court ordered the companies to cut back production so as to reduce emissions further . Based on the evidence presented by the scientist , the companies either would be allowed to continue operation with more emission control equipment in place or , if that could not reduce emissions sufficiently , an order to shut the plants would be issued . In H.L. Renken et al . v. Harvey Aluminum , Inc. ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dalles , Ore. , sued on the basis of trespass and nuisance for air pollution emitted by the plant ( fluorine and other toxic gases ) . Harvey Aluminum was the largest employer in the town , with 550 workers . During the 1950s , the plant had installed various emission control devices , including scrubbing towers and sprayers , which stopped over 90% of the emissions . Nevertheless , about 1,300 pounds of fluoride escaped during daily operations . The company asserted that nothing more could be done . Experts testified that emission controls could be tightened , but only at substantial cost . The court ordered the company to pay surrounding orchards for damages to their crops caused by the trespass of the damaging gases . The company also was told to install the new emission control equipment within one year , or an injunction against any further emissions ( i.e. , plant shutdown ) would be issued , as requested by plaintiffs . In Bradley v. American Smelting and Refining Co. ( 1985 ) , the Bradleys lived on Vashon Island , Wash. , four miles from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They sued ASARCO , a New Jersey corporation , in Federal court in Washington for damages , charging trespass and nuisance from the deposit on their property of airborne particles of heavy metals from the company 's smelter . The smelter had operated since 1905 , was regulated by state and Federal air pollution laws , and was in compliance with all regulations . The gases that passed over and landed on the Bradleys ' land could not be seen or smelled by humans-they required microscopic detection . The Federal court , which would use Washington common law to determine the case , was uncertain as to what that law was since there were so few cases in the area . The court asked the Washington Supreme Court to tell it the status of that state 's common law of nuisance and trespass as applied to air pollution . The court held that ASARCO " had the intent requisite to commit intentional trespass . " Even though no harm was intended , and even though ASARCO did not know the Bradleys , the company knew particles were being emitted from its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intentional deposit of microscopic particulates , undetectable by the human senses , gives rise to a cause of action for trespass as well as a claim of nuisance . " Hence , the ASARCO emissions created a nuisance and a trespass . The court noted that , for a cause of action for nuisance or trespass to be successful , there must be " proof of actual and substantial damages . " Under the statute of limitations , the plaintiffs had three years to file the action once the injury becomes known . It further held that the case was not prohibited by the Washington Clean Air Act , the state equivalent of the Federal Clean Air Act . Upon return to Federal court , the case was dismissed for lack of evidence of damage to plaintiffs or their property from the air pollution . Common law vs . Federal regulation One can not know how common law liability rules for pollution would have developed in the last several decades had their evolution not been largely precluded by statutes and regulatory controls . Nevertheless , other areas of law offer some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding the consequences of pollution , as well as changes in society 's attitude about the acceptability of pollution , would have led to a rule of strict liability under the common law for polluters , as has occurred in product defect law . Even in its limited role , the common law often sets standards far tougher than those set by statutes . The common law does not evolve the most economically efficient or even the most " just " rules . Still , the decisions of hundreds of independent judges , responding to thousands of cases filed independently by private parties seeking to protect their common law rights , are far more likely to produce sensible principles than are legislative bodies that generate rules greatly influenced by special interests , or rules that may reflect a crisis of the moment , but make little sense for the long term . The principled nature of the common law lies in its evolutionary and competitive nature . The weakness of statutes is in their being influenced by special interests and lack of competitiveness . Had citizens and states been allowed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuisance actions against polluters , litigation would have resulted in a more considered approach of the consequences of alternative rules of law . It is not clear that pollution regulations have produced better environmental protection than what might have emerged from the common law in the absence of Congressional interference to " solve " an alleged crisis . Of even greater significance is the loss of a key freedom-the control of private property-in favor of centralized control . It is not clear that the environment is better ; it is clear that some freedom has been lost . The environment is protected better by individuals seeking to guard their rights than when such matters are determined by technologically driven command-and-control standards determined by legislators and regulators . Author Affiliation The authors are , respectively , professor of law and economics , University of Texas at Arlington , and Alumni Professor of Economics and Legal Studies , Clemson ( S.C. ) University // <p>                     