@@393647

Silk eloquently speaks the language of luxury . Soft and lustrous , it has long been associated with elegance and privilege . But those who work with the material also know that silk is strong , resilient and absorbent . Similarly , the artist Jason Pollen 's fused-silk wall hangings at first seem to represent an art of pure visual pleasure . With their luscious colors and seductive textures , his collaged compositions have an air of aesthetic delectation , perhaps even aesthetic hedonism . But a closer look suggests that his textile art is informed as well with a spiritual awareness grounded in deeply held beliefs about the nature of the world and the intricate workings of the human mind . A professor in the fiber department at the Kansas City Art Institute in Missouri , Pollen studied painting . His work takes inspiration from contemporary art as well as from the vibrant designs of traditional textiles . Behind the delicate , luminous Terra Ephemera , 1990 , with softly inflected patterns of repeated leaves and stones , one can sense Pollen 's love for the meticulously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrast , Revelation , 1993 , with exuberant color and patterning , brings to mind the dyed silks of India and Tibet . Whether he paints with pigment on fabric or builds a textile composition from fragments of colored silk , Pollen frequently gravitates toward a modular , pointillistic method of constructing an image . His hangings are made of cutout pieces of silk that are arranged on cloth backing , then heat-fused to the fabric ground , with interfacing as the bond . " I think it 's very common in textile processes to work with a unit and build it into a larger thing , " says Pollen of his accumulative method . " Stitching , weaving , building something up layer by layer , row by row , knotting , making carpets  --  it 's the same thing . " Although this process is repetitive , it can be mindful rather than mindless . " When you deal with something as small as these units , you zoom into a different time frame . When you get quiet and just do one stitch at a time or one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this great energy , that can come through . " In contrast with fiber art that concentrates on sculptural form , Pollen 's work is intimately connected with marking the surface of cloth . More often than not , he hand-dyes , prints and paints the lengths of silk that he cuts up to form his palette of shapes and colors . Right now he is particularly fascinated with resist-dyeing techniques and manipulating textures , as with pleating . Occasionally he incorporates snippets of his commercially produced fabrics into his artwork . For more than two decades , he has been a prolific designer of fabrics for the fashion and home furnishings industries , working for clients as diverse as Jack Lenor Larsen , Oscar de la Renta and Burlington Mills . Pollen 's most recent work , shown last winter at the Dolphin Gallery in Kansas City ( December 10-January 7 , 1994 ) , exhibits an earthier sensibility than his efforts of only a few years past . The signature piece , Terra Luminosa , 1993 , was inspired by the rolling Missouri countryside of dark , plowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of the ground , this fused-silk composition suggests a boundlessly flowing but endlessly subdivided landscape churning with interior life . More heavily layered than most of Pollen 's pieces , Terra Luminosa cultivates a sense of determined , deeply rooted activity . Other works in that show hint at different earthly pleasures . The muscular Tango , 1993 , with its freewheeling composition , brings to mind a wild carnival dance . Forbidden Fruit , 1993 , offers a joyous vision of a pineapple . Rendered in tropical shades of green , gold and copper , the succulent work bursts with light and color . As Pollen explains it , this piece sprang from " a true revelation one day in a supermarket . " While buying produce , he suddenly noticed a pineapple . " It was as if I had seen one for the very first time . " He began to draw and paint pineapples , mulling over why he had been so moved by a simple piece of fruit . Gradually , he realized that he saw the pineapple as a symbol of the exuberant life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fruit and exploding in a spontaneous growth of greenery at the top . It also reminded him of the human tendency to become stuck in conditioned structures of mind  --  mental body armor , as it were , that can be transcended only with great effort . " So I felt that in this epiphany , in this revelation of greenery out of a pineapple , was the potential for all human beings to do that too , " Pollen says . " To break through all of what holds us down . And then to offer up something through that gift . " Pollen 's previous work has often explored celestial realms , in contrast to the terrestrial focus of his recent show . Unum , 1991 , draws on a primordial vocabulary of cosmic geometry-circles , spirals , diamonds and squares  --  to evoke a mood of mystical awe and contemplation . Tantra , 1989 , luxuriates in the decorative . In it , Pollen employed his arsenal of techniques : the silk is dyed , appliqued and reverse-appliqued , airbrushed , painted , and screen-and block-printed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abundance of surface embellishment contributes to its sensual yet spiritual aura . Moreover , both Unum and Tontra , which incorporate diamond shapes that signify permanence in Tibetan Buddhist iconography , offer an implicit reminder to Western viewers that what we perceive as decoration or geometric patterning in the arts and crafts of other cultures frequently has a communicative function . Decoration can be symbolic , protective or informative to those who understand its code . " I think as an artist I started way off the ground , " Pollen says . Indeed , the otherworldly slant of Pollen 's art derives in large part from his absorption in Tibetan Buddhist teachings , an interest sparked by his trips first to India and later Tibet . Urbane and well-traveled , Pollen seems to have found his spiritual home during these sojourns . His earthly home , a comfortable place in Kansas City that includes one of the two studios Pollen uses , has been furnished with the bounty of his travels : Mexican folk sculptures , textiles from Asia , Africa , Central America and the Caribbean , American braided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and former students ' artwork . In a sense , Pollen 's journey began the day after he received his M.A. in painting in 1966 from the City College of New York . He left for Paris on a one-way ticket , and for four hungry years " peddled paintings in the shadows of Picasso and Modigliani . " ( 1 ) Then one day the veteran American textile designer Jack Prince called Pollen and asked if he would show Prince 's portfolio to French fashion designers . " I did , " Pollen says . " I showed his portfolio throughout Europe and learned how that world functions . It was intriguing to me because I knew nothing about it and because it touched the world of art in a way which was not indifferent to me . I proceeded to teach myself something about how to design textiles both for fashion and the home , and have done that more or less ever since . " During those years , Pollen studied yoga in Switzerland . When the teacher returned to India , Pollen eventually followed . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says , " everybody was off to India with the Beatles . I joined the bandwagon-studied with a Kundalini master and so on . But more important , I met Tibetan people , very simple Tibetan people , and recognized a resonance in myself . " Although Pollen did not visit Tibet until 1987 , in the early 70s he was invited to spend time with the Dalai Lama , the Tibetan secular and religious leader , who was living in exile in Dharmsala , India . " Through being with him and watching people close to him , I just felt at home with it all , with what they were doing and how they were doing it . I 've continued with a specific Tibetan meditation practice ever since . " This practice , which Pollen terms " an utterly nonreligious awareness meditation technique , " is expressed through his artwork in fundamental ways . Two pieces that were shown at the Dolphin Gallery , for instance , refer directly to the artist 's contemplative activities . The more spectacular is a 44-foot-long scroll , Meditation , 1993 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thin , vertical strips of fabric  --  Pollen calls them " pick-up sticks "  --  laid side by side . Meditation thus forms a hypnotic pathway of brilliantly colored silk that invites the mind and eye to wander freely . In some sections of the piece , the colors look almost radiant . The luminosity of the juxtaposed strips of dyed fabric recalls stained glass and the medieval equation of light with spiritual illumination . The Kansas City Star art critic Alice Thorson called the scroll " a marvel of obsessiveness. " ( 2 ) But it is more than that . Pollen describes Meditation as an emotional diary . He worked on it daily , in small sections , for a month , using the rainbow-hued strips of fabric almost seismographically to track his changing moods . The reverent feeling and open-ended structure of Meditation offer perhaps the most direct traces of Pollen 's contemplative practice . But , in one way or another , all of his work is affected by the cast of mind that meditation encourages . He describes the process as a way of paying attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  " seeing what it 's all about as well as you can , and just kind of letting it go . " As Pollen notes , " I think it informs the work a lot , because I make little distinction between being an artist and paying that kind of attention , sitting on a cushion meditating . Working with color and light , texture and cloth really is just observing the properties of those ingredients and making choices as to what goes where and in which manner . " The opticality of Pollen 's work , which depends on a series of small , specific , moment-by-moment decisions about the juxtaposition of shapes and colors , has laid it open to the charge of being " merely decorative . " The headline of Thorson 's review labeled the work in the Dolphin allery show " eye candy , " a phrase that stung him . And it 's not hard to see how , in the context of a contemporary art world that is deeply suspicious of visual pleasure , Pollen 's flair for surface decoration might be regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kansas City Art Institute 's Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art and Design , who has followed Pollen 's career since he arrived in Kansas City in 1982 and organized a show for him in 1991-92 , has observed that the very strength of Pollen 's work lies in its beauty . " It is more about the songs of life than the laments of life . " She regards Pollen 's art as rooted in self-knowledge as well as in a sense of the continuity of life in the world . " It comes through to me that Jason has a grasp of something universal about the life cycle , about the cycles of nature . " At this point , Pollen is a mature artist , equipped with the experience and self-knowledge to pick and choose his activities . ( He is currently president of the 2,000-member Surface Design Association , an organization of artists and educators involved with coloring , patterning and designing fabric and related materials . ) So what lies ahead ? One current project is a commercial venture . He is the signature designer for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cayman Island in the British West Indies , for whom he is creating a line of block-printed and screen-printed fabrics . Another project is , for the moment , just an aspiration . Pollen has long dreamed of establishing a textile design center in Kansas City to bring together artists and industry in creative synergy . " I care very deeply about textiles that people make and sell , " he says , " and I 'm astonished and mystified and appalled at the resistance of people to contemporary American textiles . In the marketplace we 're still looking at Victorian approaches to fabric . " The design center he envisions would allow textile artists " to develop a much more indigenous and contemporary type of textile , trusting our own creativity to work in the present . " The top priority , of course , remains his own art , though Jason Pollen does not pretend to see exactly where he is headed . Just as he has carefully tracked his thoughts and feelings over the years through meditation , so has he closely followed the thread of his artistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says in describing his own working process , if you do n't know where you 're going , you ca n't fall asleep in the middle of the journey . 1 . Jason Pollen , artist 's statement in The Surface Designer 's Art ( Asheville , North Carolina : Lark Books , 1993 ) , 36. 2 . Alice Thorson , " Dolphin Show by KCAI Professor Overflows with Eye Candy , " Kansas City Star , December 24 , 1993 , C21 . Janice T. Paine is art critic for the Milwaukee Sentinel and Wisconsin regional editor for New Art Examiner . <p>                     