@@409431

When Dr. Wendell Belfield first started in veterinary practice 30 years ago , a migrant worker brought him a dog with distemper . Belfield thought that the dog was too far gone to cure , so he recommended putting it to sleep . The migrant worker looked at him in utter disbelief . " You 're the doctor , " he said . " I brought my dog to you to fix him ! And now you want to kill him ? " You have to meet Wendell Belfield to understand how profoundly this experience influenced this man of such intrinsic kindness . And that was just the beginning . Time and time again the drugs of choice were not working or not working well enough on his patients . Either that , or the drugs ' side effects were intolerable . Belfield was curing most animals , but it was the minority that he did n't cure  --  or that suffered too much or too long  --  that troubled his conscience . He took to racing over to the county hospital library during lunch hours . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might provide alternative cures for animals . Belfield was looking for innovative approaches . That meant he quickly learned that he could n't give all of his attention to the more popular and " safe " conservative journals . He realized that by the time leading-edge studies were proven often enough to be published by conservative journals , he might be too old to practice . The smaller journals were current . With the consent of his patients ' owners , he could prove or disprove these new findings himself . It hurt his income , of course , as he would n't charge when learning , but he found himself successful with things that most of his colleagues would n't try until decades later . One of the first experiments was with vitamin E. Belfield learned that E strengthens an animal 's uterus and helps it contract . Today , most births under Belfield 's care are routine . The few Caesarean operations he performs are on animals belonging to new clients . Vitamin C was discovered in 1928 and produced commercially about 10 years later . Belfield first learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who had faced the 1940s polio epidemic without vaccine or cure . Klenna had tried large doses of C and saved quite a few people . When he wrote about it , the conservative journals refused to publish his paper . Belfield read it in a nutritional journal and met the innovative man in 1978 . Equally innovative , Belfield tried massive intravenous doses of C on dogs with high fevers . It was difficult to establish effective doses , as there was nothing in the literature . But Belfield persisted . And it eventually worked  --  without the side effects of drugs . Encouraged , Belfield tried vitamin C as a distemper cure . By this time he was aware of the high doses necessary , and he was using the sodium ascorbate form of C ( as opposed to ascorbic acid ) exclusively . He was making his own injectable C fresh daily from crystals because the commercially available intravenous C contains sodium bisulphate ( a preservative that can cause nerve problems , if given in large quantities ) . At a dosage of one-half gram twice daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That was the subject of my first paper back in 1967 , " Belfield told me . " Larry , unless you 're the only one on the planet saying this thing , you do n't know how lonely it can be . I was excited about my discovery and wanted to share it . I wanted to make it easier for the dogs . I thought others would be eager to try it . Instead , I was the laughing stock of the profession . " At one point in my work with vitamin C , a Cornell University professor said to me , ' Come on , Belfield , tell me the truth . That stuff does n't work , does it ! ' He did n't try it . He did n't ask about my experience . He just knew it could n't work , if it was n't thought up at a university . " Angrily , Belfield told his wife , Marlene , that if he had it to do over he 'd kill his curiosity and go for the money like everybody else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand the heat , he should get out of the kitchen . He did n't , of course . In fact , he went on to use the distemper dose of C to cure parvo . Not long before we talked , a woman had brought to Belfield a dog that she 'd taken to the emergency clinic . The dog had the parvo virus , and the woman had been told to take the animal to her regular veterinarian . " What will you do , " she 'd asked Belfield , " put it to sleep ? " " No , we 'll get it well . " " I was told they do n't get well from this . " " This one will , " Belfield had said ; and three days later the dog was fine . Belfield gives no fluids  --  nothing to stop vomiting  --  just the massive doses of intravenous C. He administers the doses with a large syringe , and does it slowly ( otherwise , alarge " plug " of liquid C in the veins would briefly knock the dog out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first . Diarrhea ends the next day . " On the third day  --  four , at most , " Belfield said , " they leave here running . " Belfield has also successfully used vitamin C in the prevention of hip dysplasia . I reported that in my April 1988 column ( " Dysplasia 's End " ) . A whole class of veterinary students going for their master 's degrees wrote to me to explain why this would n't work . One student would not trust data 13 years old . I wondered if she believed in the law of gravity , or if only veterinary truth had a shelf life . I wondered , too , how many of these students would go straight from college to teaching  --  with no experience  --  already " knowing " what would not work . But Belfield said that the better reverberations from my article have n't yet ended . Lots of people  --  a few veterinarians included  --  are demanding that someone give this method serious investigation . Prove it or disprove it ; but at least try it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I hope to address progress on this in the near future . Though Belfield has done some marvelous things with vitamin C , he is not simply a C freak . He is , however , heavily into nutrition , because he has discovered so many benefits that can be achieved without side effects . He has used B complex to cure seizures . He treats liver and kidney problems with antioxidants  --  and this is today 's big one . Again , it started way back in the ' 50s , but conservative journals ' resistance to nutritional cures and preventions delayed public understanding for about 35 years . At the time , Dr. Harmon , a researcher at the University of Nebraska , identified " free radicals , " which are molecules formed by body enzymes trying to deal with foreign and toxic substances . The new molecules  --  or free radicals  --  are highly unstable because they possess extra electrons . ( Molecules are more stable when electrons are paired . ) So these free radicals run around trying to steal electrons from molecules in body cells . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the liver or kidneys , fat spheres protecting the organ cells are penetrated . The fat goes rancid , and the organs die . So does the animal . Not all toxins and their resulting free radicals behave alike . The now-banned industrial cleaner carbon tetrachloride has been well-researched . Its free radicals enter the molecule core , or nucleus , stealing from  --  and thereby altering  --  the genetic material of the cell . This upsets normal cell division . The resulting rampant growth is cancer . Free radicals from chemicals , and sometimes from foods , are also responsible for hypersensitivity of the body . These are allergies causing coat problems and endless scratching in dogs . They eventually become more and more prevalent and baffling , as do the cancers and liver and kidney failures . The reason , says Belfield , is that these are not natural diseases . They are environmental diseases caused by environmental toxins . Marlene Belfield says that her husband and veterinary medicine are the perfect marriage  --  so pure that she 'd never try to break them up . Imagine how Belfield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he knows about environmental diseases , yet must use an antibiotic to exact a cure . Antibiotics are just one of the toxins that must be removed from the body by the liver and kidneys . Kindness suddenly becomes a two-edged sword . The truth is , our dogs are exposed to a multitude of chemicals daily . We let our dogs live with us in houses built and furnished with materials loaded with formaldehyde . We further treat our dogs with tobacco smoke , and let them absorb lawn chemicals through their skin and from licking their paws . If we really love our dogs , we take them for rides in the car  --  their lungs helping ours remove acetaldehyde , acrolein and formaldehyde from the smog . We kindly kill roundworms , tapeworms , hookworms and whipworms by shoving insecticides down our dogs ' throats . Another insecticide prevents heartworm . Poisons are dusted on , sprayed on , buckled on , bathed on and poured on to control fleas . Dog foods contain the preservatives BHA ( butylated hydroxyanicole ) and BHT ( butylated hydroxytoluene ) ethoxyquin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rendered as meat and bone meal are sprinkled with charcoal dust or chemically denatured to prohibit their entry into human foods . These are just more chemicals that can cause allergies in some dogs . Fortunately , there is a defense system in place . Free radical electron theft is called oxidation . ( For comparison , iron oxidation is rust . ) And an army of antioxidants works to protect body cells from free radical molecules . The soldiers are vitamins A ( or the safer beta-carotene ) C and E ; enzymes such as glutathione peroxide , superoxide dismutase ( S.O.D. ) and catalase ; and the minerals selenium , manganese and zinc , which promote those enzymes . N.R. DiLuzio demonstrated the power of antioxidants in his 1967 carbon tetrachloride studies . Ninety percent of the rats fed high doses of the chemical died . A second group that was fed the same high dose but that was first given vitamin E survived . Unfortunately , however , the body defense that could probably handle each toxin by itself is being overwhelmed in many dogs by sheer numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cautiously and sparingly , and to feed premium or home-cooked foods . But even Belfield ca n't avoid using the antibiotics . His solution is to supplement with the antioxidant vitamins and minerals . Better dog foods do claim to be " complete and balanced , " and their makers usually oppose supplementation ; but it should be noted that these food formulas are intended for normal , healthy dogs . Sick dogs or dogs overwhelmed by environmental toxins may need greater fortification . And because toxins are routine today , Belfield advises routinely supplementing diets with doses of antioxidants that effectively protect dogs . " Most of my practice is now routine , too , " Belfield said . " I see little of those terrible chronic and baffling diseases among the dogs owned by clients who follow my nutritional advice . " For more information on Dr. Gelfield 's program , contact him at Box 32232 , San Jose , CA 95152 . <p>                     