@@352388

I hope this reaches you at whatever resort exists in heaven ( or the other place ) for former Presidents of the U.S. Not knowing how closely you watch events in the world you left behind , I want to bring you up to date on the consequences of an ideal you so energetically championed : national self- determination . Today it is militantly invoked in many places , from the former Yugoslavia to the former Soviet republics , including North Ossetia and Nagorno-Karabakh . ( You do n't know where those new states are ? Well , very few people do . ) Rival claims to the same land have led to bloody battles , and the U.S. is apt to be involved . Your present successor in the White House has pledged 25,000 troops to help keep the peace in Bosnia . When you proclaimed the right to self-determination , it sounded noble and progressive , although not everyone cheered . Your own Secretary of State , Robert Lansing ( you never did like him ) predicted that the concept would lead to unfulfillable expectations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote , " that the phrase was ever uttered ! " <P> In fairness , you did not invent the idea  --  nationalism had become a religion , but you gave it a mighty push , resulting in new maps that were not much more logical than the old ones . The multinational Austro-Hungarian Empire , for instance , was followed by new constructs  --  Czechoslovakia , Yugoslavia  --  containing as many disparate and often hostile peoples . Hence today 's tribal conflicts . All too often , a mistreated minority achieves independence and then mistreats other minorities in its midst or tries to " rescue " its brethren who live on the other side of a national frontier . Thus self-determination for one people becomes aggression against another . <P> Before the international community recognizes a people 's claim to sovereignty , at least two factors should be kept in mind . One is economic viability , which is often missing . The other is history , including the questions of whether a people has a clear national tradition and has been independent in the past . Without condoning the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said that we acted prematurely in recognizing some of the former republics of Yugoslavia , including Bosnia . This recognition transformed a civil war into an international conflict . America is surely the last country in the world to deny captive peoples the right to go their own way . But the process has got out of hand . Boutros Boutros-Ghali , the Secretary-General of the United Nations ( you know about the United Nations ; it 's close to what you hoped the League of Nations would be ) puts the problem precisely : " If each minority will ask for self-determination , rather than 184 nations around the world , we may have 500 to 1,000 countries , and that is not in the interests of peace or economic development . "                     