@@354105

ON THE WALL OF BILL LACY 'S office at Dole campaign headquarters , a huge calendar keeps track of the strategist 's obsessions . In each box , for each day , is a handwritten note of where Bob Dole will be campaigning . Chicago Bulls games are marked in red ink . And at the top of the page marked November , there appears in green , handwritten letters a haunting apparition : ? ? POWELL ? ? <P> It was n't much fun last week for the Dole brigades , watching their leader juggle the chain saws of the budget battle in Washington and next week 's straw-poll showdown in Florida , only to have the spotlights beam around the clock on a man in a basement on the phone . That Colin Powell in seclusion could upstage Bob Dole in full throttle , and every other candidate as well , said as much about the front runner 's weakness as about the reluctant general 's strength . In the privacy of the Dole camp , the realization is growing that unless they recruit some new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vision thing , the unofficial front runner is going to remain None of the Above . <P> Though Powell 's close friends and advisers insisted last week that this was no clever striptease , that the general truly had n't made up his mind about running , they also agreed that he had better do it soon . " He ca n't let this go on , ' ' fretted one intimate . By the end of the week rumors were growing that an announcement might even come this week . The bookmakers had assumed that Powell would n't declare before the Nov. 18 Florida straw poll , since so many delegates are already committed , and an entry immediately after would either spoil a Dole win or capitalize on a surprise loss . But the pressure to move sooner was coming from all sides . While some friends urged him to jump in so they could get the fund raising and organization going , a group of conservatives including Dole crony David Keene called a press conference to denounce him not just as a closet liberal who would split @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even though most of the clamor is wildly positive  --  coming from hopeful voters , eager party activists and a press corps desperate for a more interesting race to cover  --  Powell is not a man who likes to rush his decisions . His heuristic method , as he described it in his autobiography , is to " dredge up every scrap of knowledge I can ... call people and read whatever I can get my hands on . ' ' Notoriously  --  even obsessively  --  cautious , he has played this game deftly so far . By consulting with the pillars of his party , with former Presidents Bush and Carter , with campaign veterans like Jack Kemp and Bill Bennett , with his Pentagon mentors Caspar Weinberger and Frank Carlucci , he has gained their insight while also enlisting their troops .                     