@@355008

This was clearly not what Boris Yeltsin expected . On May 3 , a bright and unseasonably warm day , the President of Russia traveled about 160 miles northeast of Moscow to Yaroslavl , an industrial city known as part of the " golden ring " of ancient fortified towns that formed the historic heart of Russia . Before the 10-hour tour , Yeltsin 's campaign handlers described Yaroslavl as " one of the nation 's most stable " places , code for an area presumed sympathetic to Yeltsin . Yaroslavl was the first town outside the capital that he visited after the unsuccessful 1993 rebellion failed to dislodge him from the Kremlin . Back then , conditions in the city were improving after decades of shortages , but residents still remembered taking the four-hour " sausage train " to Moscow simply to purchase basic foodstuffs , and the old Soviet-era joke was retold regularly : " Do you have meat here ? " a customer asks . " No , " says the shopkeeper . " Here we do n't have fish ; it 's at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yeltsin was nevertheless the triumphant victor over revanchism , and in Yaroslavl that day he was hailed joyously . <P> Two and a half years later , with the shops well stocked and the streets clean , a fit and rested President assumed that a similar reception awaited him  --  and with it the chance to demonstrate his appeal beyond the reform-minded enclaves of Moscow and St. Petersburg . Instead Yeltsin was clobbered . From his first stop until his last , the cries went up  --  from an old woman wagging her finger in the President 's face : " Yes , there 's food in the stores , but who can afford it ? " ; from a young factory worker : " Where are our salaries ? " ; from a middle-aged electrician : " Our savings are worthless ! " More quietly , a well-dressed man said , " All we ever get from you are promises , but nothing ever happens . " <P> Complaints about crime , unemployment , corruption and the growing disparity between haves and have-nots rounded out the chorus of distress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He seemed to have been unaware of the passion of discontent outside Moscow , a city about as representative of Russia as New York is of America . Yeltsin himself is partly to blame for being so out of touch . Suffering from an apparently serious heart ailment , the man many Russians liken to a modern-day czar has for the past two years been a virtual Kremlin recluse . And his inner circle of aides , forever jockeying for position , seem to have concluded long ago that bearing bad news to their boss is the least career-enhancing service they can render . Given his insularity , the President 's wide-eyed wonder at the pounding he took in Yaroslavl was not surprising . " The complaints here , " a dejected Yeltsin told a local television interviewer , " they 're everywhere . These were n't just single cases . The people complained en masse. "                     