@@425108

A few years ago , paleontologists exploring the desertlike Karoo region ' of South Africa came upon some curious coiled tubes in the area 's 250-million-year-old rocks . Some twenty-four inches in length and six to eight inches in diameter , these fossilized corkscrews led to enlarged chambers within the rocks . The most common fossil animal found in the area 's rocks  --  and the right size to have occupied the corkscrews  --  was Diictodon galeops , a far-distant relative of mammals . Thanks to its abundance in Karoo fossils , this creature is one of the best-known extinct vertebrates . Diictodon adults were the size of small dogs and had rather long , slinky bodies . Thousands of specimens of young as well as adults and of rare body skeletons as well as numerous skulls , have been unearthed . The corkscrews appear to be the spiral entrances of burrows that led to the animals ' sleeping or brooding chambers . Although we do n't know for certain whether Diictodan excavated the burrows or borrowed them from other animals , scratch marks within the burrows are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horny beak to dig the spiral passages . Diictodon belonged to a group of animals known as dicynodonts . Unlike the polecat-shaped Diictodon , most dicynodonts were squat , barrel-bodied , lumbering beasts that ranged from rat size to hippo size . Their front legs sprawled out from the chest , while their back legs were more upright and pulled in partly under the body . Not built for speed or agility , they were most likely capable of powerful movements , such as digging or burrowing . In the prime of the dicynodonts , other groups such as mammals , birds , and dinosaurs had not yet arisen . The forebears of such reptiles as crocodiles and lizards had appeared , although not in large numbers . Dicynodonts were members of a larger group that had diverged much earlier from reptile ancestors . Often referred to by the unenlightening and not very distinctive name " mammallike reptiles , " these creatures could not be classified with either the cold-blooded , scaly-skinned reptiles or with the warmblooded , hairy mammals . Rather , they were seen as bridging an evolutionary gap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so-called mammallike reptiles , the dicynodonts , eventually gave rise to true mammals . But most , including the once-abundant , diverse , and widespread dicynodonts , eventually became extinct , leaving no direct line of descendants , only fossils as evidence of their existence . Success story By whatever criterion for success one chooses  --  numbers of individuals , diversity of species , geographic range , or duration through geological time  --  the dicynodonts stand out as one of the most successful groups of animals that have ever lived . The earliest dicynodonts known are from remains discovered in Russia and South Africa and date back some 260 million years , to the middle of the Permian period . At this stage , dicynodonts were rare , but within the next ten million years they became common enough to have left the abundant remains found in Karoo rocks and to have colonized several continents . The dicynodonts also have the distinction of being the first vertebrates to have become diverse and efficient herbivores . Before the advent of dicynodonts , the most important plant eaters were insects and other invertebrates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lush realm for feeding , at least seasonally . Today the arid Karoo landscape is broken only occasionally by the odd bush or the flat-topped hills known as kopjes , but some 250 million years ago , the area was a vast plain crisscrossed by rivers the size of the Mississippi . The climate was warm to hot , and dry periods were interrupted by seasonal rainfall that caused flash flooding . ( Diictodon burrows , dug into the banks of Karoo rivers , would have been subject to intermittent inundation . This may account for the abundance and fine preservation of fossils of this creature ; many may have perished within the sediment-filled burrows . ) Vegetation fringed the great watercourses and formed bamboolike stands in the water itself . Grasses and flowering plants had not yet made an appearance on earth ; conifers , ferns , horsetails , and now-extinct plants such as seed-ferns dominated the well-watered habitat . A competitive edge Why had no previous vertebrates taken advantage of this green world by specializing in herbivory ? Some predecessors and contemporaries of the dicynodonts , such as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only chop off pieces of plants and bolt them down , leaving the gut to salvage some nutrients during digestion . Dicynodonts were the first land vertebrates to evolve sliding jaws for crushing plant tissue and quickly extracting nutrients . In short , they were able to chew . Surprisingly , despite their jaw mechanism , most dicynodonts were toothless , except for two large , caninelike tusks in the upper jaw . ( These tusks give dicynodonts their name , which means " two doglike teeth . " ) The tusks do not seem to have been involved in food shredding ; that job was handled by an extensive covering of tough , horny material on the jaws . This horn was often built up into ridges and platforms , rather like the horn in jaws of some present-day turtles , and provided a constantly renewed surface against which plants could be pulverized . Dicynodonts speeded up the extraction of nutrients by starting the process in the mouth . This meant that they could obtain more nutrients from fewer plants ; in a seasonal environment like the Karoo , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their ways of dealing with the plants they fed upon . These variations on the successful feeding theme led to the possibility of diversification , and , indeed , dicynodonts occupied a variety of niches in the ancient Karoo , depending on whether they were browsers or grazers , choppers or grinders . Some fed on roots , some on leaves , some on fruiting bodies of plants . Others may have supplemented their plant diet with an occasional insect . Modern analogues If we had to choose a modern-day counterpart to dicynodonts , the best candidate would be the rodents . Basically herbivorous and diverse , they range greatly in size while retaining the same general skeletal framework , and are abundant and widespread . While the dicynodonts echo these traits , they certainly did not make their way around their habitats with rodentlike rapidity . Even the relatively slender Diictodon was better suited for tough work such as burrowing . We can not tell whether Diictodon , or indeed any dicynodont , laid eggs or produced live young , or whether parents looked after their offspring . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ females were distinguishable , or sexually dimorphic . In a sample of hundreds of Diictodon skulls from one fossil locality , almost equal numbers of skulls with tusks and skulls without them were found . Apparently one sex  --  we ca n't be sure which  --  had tusks , perhaps to attract the opposite sex or to brandish in contests for securing territory or mates . Preliminary studies of Diictodon jaws suggest that they functioned rather like wirecutters and would have been appropriate for cutting up resistant vegetation such as stems or roots , possibly encountered during the animals ' subterranean activities . Survival tactics Baby and juvenile Diictodon skulls have been found , the smallest of which are less than an inch long . As smallish herbivores with no obvious defenses against the predators of the day , individuals may well have banded together in some kind of loose herd to reduce the chances of being caught and possibly to protect their young . Some paleontologists have suggested that some of the later and much larger ( hippo-sized ) dicynodonts also congregated in herds as they roamed a landscape that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dicynodonts might have had to wander farther afield in search of sufficient forage . Although the adults might have been large enough to be effectively predator-proof on these journeys , the young may have been more vulnerable to attacks from contemporary predators , probably the newly emerging carnivorous dinosaurs and their relatives . Theme and variations Many dicynodonts appear to be variations on a basic theme , while others depart radically from the picture of a generalized dicynodont such as Diictodon . Cistecephalus , for example , had a body only about eight inches long . Both its head and body were modified in ways that resemble adaptations to digging seen in present-day animals such as moles . Its robust forelimbs could have produced a powerful digging stroke . Cistecephalus had a solid head with enormous eye sockets , quite unlike those of moles . Scientists have therefore speculated that Cistecephalus spent much of its time above ground , rooting around after dark , using its large eyes to watch for predators . At the end of the Permian , about 255 million years ago , a total of thirty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of the Triassic , about 245 million years ago , the sole genus that persisted was Lystrosaurus . Dicynodont diversity had diminished , but extraordinary numbers of Lystrosaurus roamed the earth . Their remains have been found in rocks worldwide . After the heyday of Lystrosaurus , dicynodonts never became common again , and by the end of the Triassic , 210 million years ago , after 50 million years on earth , they were gone . Many theories have been advanced to account for the dicynodonts ' extinction . Competition with new , up-and-coming animals  --  the cynodonts ; the weird , beaked herbivores known as rhynchosaurs ; and early dinosaurs  --  was a popular theory until scientists noticed that the rise of these groups did not coincide with the fall of the dicynodonts . Nor can a catastrophic event , such as a meteorite hitting the earth , be invoked to explain times of dicynodont crisis . Dry demise More likely , climatic changes that increased aridity also affected the vegetation on which dicynodonts fed , thus leading to their demise . As the supercontinent Pangea drifted northward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more and more arid . Some plants must have died out , while others adapted to dryness in ways that made them less accessible or less palatable to herbivores . Dicynodonts would have had to adapt or die . At the end of the Permian , they managed to adapt to enough new niches , or to hold on to enough old ones , so that the group survived into the Triassic . But finally , increasing aridity and higher temperatures must have undermined these creatures , which had evolved for successful colonization of fairly moist , temperate niches . After developing the apparatus for efficient chewing , these masters of plant eating in the Permian-Triassic world died out when that world changed . Of the so-called mammallike reptiles , only dicynodonts ' distant cousins , the cynodonts , left descendants . Today , mammalian grazers and browsers carry on the great tradition of herbivory . <p>                     