@@361101

How can we hit Slobodan Milosevic harder ? Last week that was the key tactical question for NATO and U.S. war planners . The only measure that matters in air war is how many bombs are delivered on target , and last week 's score paled alongside the explosive power that rained down on Saddam Hussein 's forces during the Gulf War . NATO 's 400 warplanes are launching roughly 100 strikes against Yugoslav targets every day . But foul weather has kept about half those warplanes from releasing their weapons . The resulting 50 effective daily strikes fall dramatically short of the 1,000 launched each day during the first week of the gulf conflict by 2,700 warplanes . This week NATO proposes to try to close the gap . The tally still wo n't come close to the gulf numbers , but Pentagon sources say the air assault will be far more substantial  --  and lethal  --  than anything so far . <P> For starters , clench-jawed officials promised an increased bomb load this week . " No targets are off limits that are involved in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Improved weather could by itself double the daily sortie count , and additional planes now en route to the Balkans will drive it even higher . Tacitly acknowledging their predicament , the allies  --  especially the U.S. , which is flying more than 80% of the attack missions  --  are hurling more firepower at Yugoslavia . B-1 Lancers are letting go with 500-pounders and the Combined Effects Munition , a particularly macabre bomb filled with 202 tank-busting , flesh-shredding bomblets that can turn acres of land into plowed fields . B-2s , flying 31-hour round trips from Missouri , are dropping more discriminating satellite-guided bombs across wide areas of Serbian-held territory . <P> Months of B-1 computer programming were compressed into less than 100 hours last week , as Air Force officers and contractors crammed the bombers ' onboard computers with the latest intelligence on the radar and surface-to-air missiles they are facing over Yugoslavia . After a B-1 with the new software passed a critical flight test last Tuesday night in Florida , two B-1s were ordered into action two days later . The same night the B-1s debuted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to relay targeting and bomb-damage data to commanders . <P> Thirteen additional F-117A Stealth fighters left Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico for Italy over the weekend . It 's not a fun flight : the jets will have to refuel in air 18 times during the 14-hour journey . Stealth target lists include dozens of deeply buried bunkers in and around Belgrade . Though the Serbs are gloating that these Tito-era nuclear-bomb shelters are impregnable , they may be in for a surprise : the Nighthawks are specially trained for such missions . Navy F-18s from the carrier U.S.S. Theodore Roosevelt are expected to see action . And the U.S. Army may get a chance to unleash its AH-64 gunships against Serbian targets . The choppers could also help take out Serbian special-forces units operating inside Kosovo  --  units the Pentagon is starting to believe engineered the " snatch " of the three Army scouts last week .                     