@@419044

Hispanic Catholics in North America are abandoning their church at the rate of 60,000 a year , according to Andrew M. Greeley , the Catholic priest , sociologist and novelist . Some remain unchurched , but many have found a pace in the pews of evangelical congregations . Twenty-five years ago North America was home to fewer than 100,000 Hispanic Protestants . Today there are slightly more than 5 million . Catholicism , once the overwhelmingly dominant religious tradition among Hispanic Americans , is no longer automatically their Christian community of choice . Many observers believe that this shift signals a change laden with profound implications for U.S. culture , politics and society . In an indication of their growing numbers and sophistication , 500 Hispanic evangelical leaders gathered in Long Beach , California , in mid-November to launch the Alliance of Evangelical Ministries , known by its Spanish acronym , AMEN . Organizers hope AMEN will streamline their unwieldy , fast-growing religious movement and give it the visibility they think it deserves . Hispanics account for almost all recent growth in evangelical churches , even in predominantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miranda , a professor of theology at Azusa Pacific College near Los Angeles . Hispanic Americans come to evangelical churches for a variety of reasons . Some critics say Latinos become Protestants because they have been lured away by what Pope John Paul II has called " rapacious wolves , " the mostly Anglo-American evangelical missionaries in Latin America . But others say that to speak of Hispanics leaving the Catholic Church assumes that they were once really in that church . " I think most are really only cultural Catholics , " says Jose Cintron , an Hispanic evangelical missionary . " They are nominal Catholics , Catholics in name only . " Given that fleeting attachment to Roman Catholic doctrine , it is no surprise , in Miranda 's view , that many immigrants move easily into evangelical church 's . " Some recent immigrants think Latin America is Catholic and that North America is Protestant , " says Miranda . " They identify Protestantism with their new land , so they join Protestant churches . " Like most members of new religious movements ; Hispanic evangelicals face serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics and national origin . Even language is a point of conflict ; not all young Hispanics can or want to speak Spanish . The movement 's ministers are often " long on enthusiasm but short on education , " as one observer put it . The role of women has set conservatives against their liberal evangelical brethren . Also hobbling the movement 's growth is widespread poverty and a cacique  --  or boss  --  mentality that pits church leaders against one another in the competition for status and authority . If that is n't daunting enough , evangelicals say they also . face a dominant Hispanic Catholic culture that shuns them . Alma Arias is one of those who contend that Catholic prejudice is a fact of life for America 's Hispanic evangelicals . Born and raised in Guadalajara , Mexico , Arias was 14 when her father led the family from the local Catholic church into a newly established evangelical congregation . Relatives and friends were not pleased . " It was very hard at the beginning , " she remembers . " It was very strange . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends called her family hermanos separados  --  separated brothers . Others used less genteel descriptions . Cousins , uncles and aunts told her she had been brainwashed ; Other evangelicals argue that the tension between Hispanic evangelicals and Catholics has more to do with events in Latin America where , they say , a dominant Catholic majority , backed by the power of national governments , is working to eradicate the evangelical movement . " Working with Catholics here in Chicago would be like neo-Nazis working with Jews , " says Andreas Panasiuk , an Hispanic evangelical born and raised in Argentina and now a Chicago broadcaster . " We have to resolve the tension we have in Latin America before we can work together in the United States . " But Hispanic evangelical leaders in the U.S. are clearly more concerned with building a movement in North America than with healing Catholic-evangelical divisions in Latin America . At their Long Beach conference they discussed the need to educate ministers , implement economic-development programs in their communities and reach out to youth . An abiding interest in social causes marks a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to emphasize the personal relationship between each believer and Jesus , and to discount  --  often as Catholic heresy  --  any emphasis on good works as a means of salvation . But Hispanics say an approach that de-emphasizes good works neglects the realities of their communities in the U.S. " The needs of the Hispanic churches are more liberal , perhaps , than those of the Anglo churches , " says Miranda . In his view , some Hispanic evangelicals are uneasy about being associated with their more conservative Anglo counterparts . " They do n't even want us to call ourselves " evangelicals , " but evangelicos "  --  the Spanish version of the same word . Miranda dismisses the works-and-faith split as an Anglo phenomenon . " Ours is a civic spirituality , demonstrating divine grace on Sunday and good works on Monday , " he said at the founding of AMEN . Miranda believes that the growth line of Hispanic evangelicals will flatten out or possibly decline " as immigration slows " sometime in the next two to three years  --  but not before Hispanic evangelicals number some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <p>                     