@@362097

Thousands of sports fans jammed the streets of Cooperstown , N.Y. , a sleepy lakeside village ( pop . 2,200 ) in the foothills of the Catskills , to watch as George Brett , Orlando Cepeda , Nolan Ryan and Robin Yount were inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame . But there was another all-star team playing in Cooperstown that weekend : eight miles up the road , Glimmerglass Opera was presenting the world premiere of Central Park , a trio of one-act operas with librettos by three top playwrights : A.R . Gurney ( Love Letters ) , Terrence McNally ( Master Class ) and Wendy Wasserstein ( The Heidi Chronicles ) . It was quite a lineup for a one-stoplight town  --  but nothing out of the ordinary for a summer opera festival that is increasingly regarded as the best of its kind . <P> Old-time buffs for whom opera means Pavarotti on an elephant may be puzzled by a company in which the sets are simple and the voices not always of the very highest octane . But Glimmerglass , which produces four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 23 ) , is not about gleaming high Cs ; instead , the show is the star . Artistic director Paul Kellogg and music director Stewart Robertson hire young artists who know how to move as well as sing and directors and designers with a knack for knocking the rust off tired masterpieces . Add to this the special pleasure of watching opera in a theater small enough that you can see Rigoletto 's eyebrow twitch from the back row of the balcony , and you get productions so bold and vivid that they make you remember why you fell in love with opera in the first place . <P> " Astonishing stage pictures can be wonderful , but they 're not enough , " says Kellogg , 62 , who , by all accounts , has been the prime mover in turning Glimmerglass into a major force in American opera . " We keep our productions spare so that the audience can concentrate on what is happening between the characters onstage . We look for singers who are really good actors  --  and then we give them room to act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in charge of the New York City Opera , which performs at Lincoln Center in a 2,700-seat house whose stage is identical in size to that of Glimmerglass 's 900-seat Alice Busch Opera Theater . This makes it possible for productions to be opened and polished in Cooperstown , then moved to New York City , where they can be seen by bigger audiences ( and telecast over PBS ) . The two companies also share an ensemble of theatrically savvy young American singers , foremost among them soprano Lauren Flanigan , whose Olivier-like immersion in her roles has won her a well-deserved reputation as the thinking person 's diva . Flanigan sings two sharply contrasting parts in Central Park  --  a frustrated divorce in The Festival of Regrets ( book by Wasserstein , music by Deborah Drattell ) and a desperate bag lady in The Food of Love ( book by McNally , music by Robert Beaser )  --  and brings them both off with staggering assurance .                     