@@394011

From the perspective of 1993 , nearly four years after the fall of the Soviet Union , one might be tempted to pose the question of Cuba 's economic future as a sardonic , " Whither Cuba ? " The island is in crisis , and the chances of the current regime creating a viable independent economy do not look promising . The outcome is , however , far from determined . Fidel Castro has a plan . The real question is : Does he have the time ? ECONOMIC CRISIS . When Castro came to power in 1959 , Cuba freed itself from over four centuries of economic domination imposed first by Spanish mercantilism and later , briefly , by U.S. capitalism . Cuba was able to achieve this feat because of the historical circumstance of the clash between capitalism and Communism . Cuban economic interests and Soviet political interests dovetailed . To say Cuba escaped its long history of economic exploitation is not to say that it achieved independence . As a Soviet satellite , it remained economically and politically a vassal . Whereas previous foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest was in exploiting the island politically . This change in the underlying nature of its dependence brought dramatic and positive change to Cuba . While political liberties fell short of the ideal , as they had under Batista , it would be hard to argue against the economic benefits this change produced for most Cubans . During the 30 years of Soviet sponsorship , Cuba reduced its illiteracy rate from 25 percent to 4 percent . It extended health and education services to all citizens . Cuba has ranked second behind Argentina in per capita food consumption in Latin America . Cuba 's infant mortality dropped over this period from 75 per 1,000 to 15 per 1,000 . Finally , the life expectancy in Cuba rose to virtually the same level as that of the United States . To understand the severity of Cuba 's present crisis one needs to appreciate the scope of Soviet assistance to Cuba and the near absolute dependence it represented . Castro 's early decision to chart a socialist course for the island led to the nationalization of all industry and nearly two-thirds of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cuba 's sugar industry and a higher percentage of other industries and utilities , this decision also led to an inevitable clash . Unwilling to tolerate a Communist foothold in the hemisphere but reluctant to risk a direct military intervention , the United States sought to topple Castro through economic warfare in the form of the near total blockade of the island imposed in 1960 . At the time , the United States was Cuba 's dominant trade partner , accounting for roughly 70 percent of its total trade . This was the enormous void that the Soviet Union moved to fill . Thirty years later , the same gross imbalance characterizes Cuba 's trade relations and may indeed have worsened . The generally accepted figure for the Soviet share of Cuba 's trade falls between 70 and 85 percent of the total  --  representing 40 percent of Cuba 's entire economy . An analysis of Cuba 's 1988 trade figures published in The Cambridge Economic Journal found that the Soviet bloc purchased 82 percent of Cuba 's export items , compared to only 10 percent purchased by capitalist countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviets supplying 85 percent of Cuba 's imports compared to the only 5 percent provided by capitalist countries . A look at the products Cuba imports and exports shows that the problem is not simply a lack of diversity in trade partners but also an undiversified export portfolio and a near total dependence on foreign suppliers for strategic resources . In 1990 sugar accounted for 70 percent of Cuba 's entire export earnings  --  earnings artificially raised by Soviet subsidies that have been described as gross overpayments . Now that the Soviet subsidies have been eliminated , Cuba finds its economic lifeblood greatly devalued by market forces . Whereas a ton of sugar once brought Cuba 6 to 7 tons of oil , its value now is equal to only 1.3 tons of oil . The weakness of Cuba 's economy is evident on the import side as well . Cuba is dependent on foreign suppliers for an alarming number of strategic items , and in some cases the dependence is nearly absolute . For example , the Soviet economic bloc provided Cuba with 100 percent of the island 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplied 90 percent of Cuba 's wheat flour , diesel engines , tractors and agricultural equipment . Considering Cuba 's near absolute dependency on Soviet economic support , its lack of export diversity and the strategic vulnerability of its import needs , it is hard to understand how Cuba has survived since the fall of its patrons . Certainly , a more developed economy of complex infrastructures and complicated interdependencies would have collapsed under such a blow . A third-world economy like Cuba 's is smaller , simpler and can better absorb such a shock . Poorer economies of subsistence living and improvisation breed an economic culture of strong survival skills in which many people operate outside the official economy . So while Cuba is down , it is not quite out . It has been able to sustain the loss of 40 percent of its economy but at great cost . STRATEGIC RESPONSE . In the summer of 1991 , the crisis led Fidel Castro to declare " a special period in time of peace , " meaning that the Government was activating a contingency plan originally designed to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wartime analogy aptly captured the desperate state of affairs . The plan 's first goal was to stop the hemorrhaging of the economy by reducing all imports by 60 percent . This included cutting oil imports in half . Cuba 's imports dropped from $8.1 billion in 1989 to $2.2 billion in 1992 . At the same time oil imports were reduced , a series of draconian conservation measures were introduced . State fuel quotas were slashed in half . Household electricity consumption was cut by 10 percent , and the supply of private vehicle fuel was cut by 30 percent . Bus-route mileage was cut by over 60 percent , tractors used in agriculture were replaced by oxen , factories were closed , construction projects canceled . In Havana , pushcarts replaced garbage trucks and water was supplied to residents for only five hours each day . To complement conservation efforts , the Government initiated a series of measures designed to maximize productivity in essential sectors . The most drastic of these was the reduction by one-half of the state bureaucracy , many of whose workers were reassigned to agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fields . Changes have also been introduced to increase agricultural productivity . Castro has approved the principle of " incentive " and allowed the formation of small bands of agricultural workers paid exclusively according to their production . But the reduction of imports , especially oil , has greatly reduced productivity on the island . Cuba 's gross domestic product fell from $32 billion to $20.3 billion in 1989 . The scarcity of fuel , fertilizers and spare parts explains the 1991 sugar harvest of only 6 million tons , the worst since 1975 . Cubans experience these statistics in the form of a severely reduced standard of living . Factory closings and canceled projects contribute to growing unemployment . Shortages of basic products first began in mid-1989 and became so acute that 28 new items were added to the list of rationed goods by the end of 1991 . At that time , consumers were limited to four eggs and two rolls per week . By 1993 , malnutrition was being blamed for 12,000 cases of a rare ailment called optic neuropathy as well as numerous cases of beriberi  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " special period in time of peace " were designed for the strategic short term . They aimed to lower Cuba 's standard of living as a way of guaranteeing the survival of the regime during the difficult transition from subsidized economy to self-sufficiency , buying enough time to allow for the important work of reinventing the economy . In the new economic world order , Cuba finds itself an orphan in the marketplace . In order to survive , it must develop a strategy for earning hard currency . Cuba must enter the global market economy , and to do so it must heed the call of many economists within the country who argue for introducing market mechanisms and increasing privatization . As for Castro 's understanding of the nature of the crisis , most observers would agree that , unlike his fallen Communist colleagues , he is an intelligent leader , fully in touch with reality , who knows that he must adjust Cuba 's economic structures . His own words speak best for his flexibility : " I am ready to ... admit elements ... of capitalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book of Marx , Engels or Lenin is it said that it is possible to construct socialism without capital , without technology , without markets .... In the case of a small island like Cuba ... it is especially difficult to develop , using only one 's own resources . It is for this reason that we have no alternative but to associate ourselves with foreign companies that can bring capital , technology and markets .... We are dealing with ... a world where a large part of the socialist system has collapsed . " Castro hints here at his strategy for economic transformation . Broadly stated , the plan calls for a " semi-mixed " economy , with some privatization and market mechanisms permitted . Central to the plan will be the effort to gain hard currency by entering joint ventures with foreign firms . In a nutshell , Castro hopes to achieve the neat trick of attracting capital without attracting capitalism . While sugar will continue to be central to Cuba 's survival , the Government hopes to revolutionize the economy by replacing the island 's single-crop culture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nascent industries the Government believes have the potential to generate long-term , hard-currency earnings . Of these four , the most important is tourism . This industry has had an immediate impact , infusing millions of dollars into the economy during Cuba 's critical transition period . In fact , only two years after the collapse of the Soviet Union , tourism had generated nearly one billion dollars in investment . Under new rules , Cuba allows foreign firms majority ownership in tourist ventures . It also permits the repatriation of profits and allows foreign firms control over hiring and firing . The prospects for Cuba 's tourist industry are sunny indeed . In the 10 years between 1981 and 1991 , tourism increased in Cuba by 400 percent . In 1988 , 225,000 tourists visited the island . By 1992 , the number more than doubled to 500,000  --  a figure twice the highest pre-revolutionary total . In 1993 , the new hotel complex Tuxpan , located 90 miles from Havana , reported operating at 85 percent capacity with a gross operating profit of 48 percent . Foreign investment is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planners expect Cuba 's total hotel room capacity to more than double in the next five years , rising from 13,000 to 30,000 . Cuba 's tourist industry is managed by two state-run agencies : Cubanacan , responsible for overseeing the Government 's joint venture projects with foreign investors , deals strictly in the resort and hotel field . The other agency is Gaviota , owned in equal parts by Cuba and by foreign interests . Gaviota develops its own projects , which are far more specialized than those of Cubanacan . Gaviota 's primary function is to serve as a bridge between tourism and another of the industries on which Cuba is pinning its hopes  --  the health industry . Cuba 's health care system is among the best in Latin America , and its health professionals are highly regarded . Havana hopes to use the good name of Cuban medicine to generate hard currency in two ways . First , through Gaviota 's efforts in promoting " medical tourism . " Gaviota 's offerings include trips to health resorts and spas , trips packaged as " stress breaks " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travel tripled in two years , from the 2,000 visitors of 1990 to 6,000 visitors in 1992 . A second way Cuba hopes to generate income through its medical industry lies in the research and development of new medical products . In 1986 Cuba opened the Center of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering . This research institute has been responsible for developing a number of highly marketable products , including a recombinant interferon sold internationally , a new vaccine for hepatitis-B and a drug that washes cholesterol from the blood . In a recent $100 million swap with Brazil , Cuba traded its meningitis vaccine for petroleum products . The third sector Cuba will tap for hard currency is oil and mining . Foreign companies have jumped at the opportunity to sign joint venture agreements to help Cuba explore for oil . As of 1992 , Cuba had signed such deals with French , Swedish , Brazilian and Canadian corporations . TOTAL , the French consortium , agreed in 1990 to drill four wells off Cuba 's northern coast . That deal granted TOTAL a six-year exploration contract . Its terms provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partnership  --  of which TOTAL enjoys a 49-percent ownership . Since it often takes five to six years to bring in an oilfield , Cuba is considering other ways its oil industry might provide income . Havana has been trying to negotiate agreements with Caribbean crude producers to refine their regional export product at its new Soviet-built refinery in exchange for price concessions . Cuba has also approached Iran for help in developing its refinery industry . While Cuba 's other mineral resources do not offer the dramatic make-or-break revenue potential of hoped-for oil reserves , they have the advantage of being a sure thing . Cuba is a major exporter of cobalt and nickel ores . Perhaps the guaranteed profits from Cuba 's mining sector will help buy enough time to see the oil speculation through to success . The fourth industry the Cuban Government hopes will play an important role in transforming the island 's economy is the future-oriented computer technology industry . Cuba 's hardware industry dates back to the 1970 's and 1980 's and grew out of Cuba 's relationship with the C.M.E.A . ( the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop high-technology factories . In turn , Cuba provided C.M.E.A . members with with low-cost , high-quality products . While Cuba 's hardware industry has the capacity to produce microcomputers , minicomputers , terminals and other electronic equipment , the disappearance of the C.M.E.A . market has left it doomed unless it can find foreign partners to help transform its technology and open markets . Cuba 's real hope in the information industry lies with software . The Government would like to make Cuba a Center for software engineering and development . Development of a software industry has a special attractiveness for Cuba because it requires modest start-up capital , promises technology transfers and applications to other sectors of the economy and would allow Cuba to tap its oversupply of university graduates . The Government is also pursuing a plan to export trained workers to other countries . In a practice called " body shopping , " the Government would contract with foreign firms to provide information professionals as contract labor . There are problems with such plans . Cuba 's isolation from the world computing community and the lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals difficult . One bright spot is that Cuba recently received a UNESCO grant for a research and development center to create a technology protecting software from viruses . CHANCES OF SUCCESS . An evaluation of Castro 's response to Cuba 's present crisis must begin by acknowledging that he has a serious plan . The model he envisions  --  of a diversified , semi-mixed economy with ties to global markets  --  has the ingredients necessary for establishing a viable economy and perpetuating his rule . Economically , the plan can work , but it will require a number of years . If political events were to overtake Castro , then the merits of his plan would be academic . For various reasons , such a scenario does not seem likely . For starters , the Cuban economy bottomed out in 1992 . So , while things are bad , they should not get worse . In addition , despite the economic crisis , most Cubans are still generally well-disposed toward their Government . A recent poll on the island saw high numbers criticize the Government 's transportation and food policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on health and education services . The image often promoted in the United States of a population bristling under oppressive rule has never been a faithful rendering of political reality . Even in the context of the present economic hardship , Cubans seem inclined to trust their fate to Fidel . They see that neither schools or clinics closed because of the economic crisis . Their standard of living still places them above that of most people living in Latin America . Another factor contributing to the stability of the Castro regime is the nature of the political opposition itself . The opponents of the regime now living in Miami are not even a serious option in the minds of most Cubans on the island , who are afraid of those in Miami . The internal opposition has more credibility but is not positioned to challenge Castro seriously . In fact , its aims are surprisingly modest  --  more along the lines of perfecting socialism than destroying it . The indigenous reform movement is not seeking violent revolution . It recognizes the positive aspects of the regime and seems intent only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading dissident , recently summed up the opposition 's modest aims by saying , " We do not want a power vacuum nor do we predict a violent uprising . " Nor has the crisis strengthened the opposition as one might expect . It seems the daily grind of economic hardship has left Cubans too worn down and focused on survival to have energy left for political activity . Given the opposition 's anemia and the general public 's preference for " the devil they know , " the only group left that could challenge Castro is the island 's political and military elite . Yet here , too , the likelihood of an internal coup seems as remote as that of a popular uprising . The Cuban Government has made much of the problems that have befallen Eastern Europe : civil wars , crime , unemployment and inflation . Would-be reformers are given a specific message : Look what happened over there . Furthermore , there is little motivation for Cuba 's military leaders to challenge Castro . They enjoy a standard of living well above that of the average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Economic self-interest argues against rocking the boat . Political ambition does not offer much incentive either . The military is between ( in the phrasing of the proverbial Spanish ) the wall and the sword . An unsuccessful challenge to Castro promises the swift retribution accorded war hero Arnoldo Ochoa . He was executed before a firing squad in 1989  --  charged with corruption and drug-trafficking . The ouster of Castro could provide an opening for the Miami Cubans who have promised " Nuremberg-style trials " for Cuba 's military leaders . With these kinds of options , it is no wonder the military remains loyal to the regime . Current predictions about the ultimate outcome of Castro 's strategy are varied and often seem to reflect political willfulness or wistfulness . What seems clear is that those who wrote off Castro did so hastily . The evidence suggests that Castro 's plan , while facing long odds , has the potential for reinventing Cuba 's economy . And what seems clearer still is that the Cuban people are committed to letting Fidel take his best shot at overcoming the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is director of Friends of Central American Learning . <p>                     