@@393649

The distinctions between technical innovations and the aestheticization of form in lathe-turning are beginning to fray , to judge from " Challenge V , " the traveling exhibition organized the rough the nonprofit Wood Turning Center . Preponderant in the show of 68 works  --  by 55 artists from seven countries  --  are wood and metal objects with a curious hybrid look . They derive equally from imagination and process , and comment on functional and aesthetic form through contrasting elements . This can be seen in a comparison of Virginia Dotson 's Light Show , 1993 , with Mike Shuler 's Madagoscar Rosewood Bowl #692 , 1993 , both wooden bowls . Light Show contrasts white and black spirals of laminated wood with each other and with spiral , pointed openings-actual splits-in the bowl . In Shuler 's work , the designs formed by intersecting spirals of rare woods internalize the light and dark elements into brilliant accents ; the splits occur in the laminated segments that are assembled into the final pattern . Other works use the concavity of the form as a stage , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neil Donovan and John Vahanian and Myotis Exodus , 1993 , by Michael Kehs depict , respectively , birds on the shallow of a dried pond , and bats exiting the enclosure of a cave . No longer a self-contained entity , the bowl has become , in these instances , a setting for other beings to inhabit , an element in an assemblage . And this exposes one of the curious unifying aspects of " Challenge as much as these works claim an identity as turned objects , they also take on the nature of assembled objects . The most obviously assembled pieces , which also are some of the most whimsical , nonetheless retain a strong rotational form . The two figurative components of Laura Marth 's Sweet Dreams , 1993 , of anodized aluminum , are confectionary and surreal , alluring because they are split off from the real world by the peculiarity of their coloring , and their hybrid , alien nature as odd cartoon-like creatures . The works of Steve Loar , Charles and Tami Kegley , Mark Allen Blaustein and Stephen Hughes inhabit similar worlds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are arguably the best of the exhibit but are difficult to categorize . They share the qualities discussed above , i.e. , they are often segmented or assembled . And they comment on functional turned form and sculptural form , but seem to be both and neither . They are surreal yet concrete . Hans Joachim Weissflog 's delightful Saturn " Damaris Cortes " and Drunken Box , 1993 , belong to a world separate from us , but familiar . Richard Hooper 's Untitled , 1990 , is an idea made solid by careful additions and subtractions . Frank E. Cummings 's Passion Fire , 1993 , is both flesh and wood , alive and inert . Philip Moulthrop 's White Pine Mosaic Bowl , 1993  --  concentric rings of wood embedded in black epoxy and turned into a bowl  --  contains and separates ideas of growth , dissolution and continuance . Jon Sauer 's Zig Zag Bottle , 1993 , twists through an eccentric motion of its own logic . Connie Mississippi 's Sacred Sexuality , 1992 , parallels organic growth and the growth of form through lamination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And Shuler 's Madagoscar Rosewood Bowl #692  --  which brings us back to where we began  --  reveals surface , depth and process through its internal assemblage . " Challenge V : International Lathe-Turned Objects " is at the Fine Arts Museum of the South , Mobile , Alabama ( April 22-June 12 ) , and will travel to the California Crafts Museum , San Francisco , California ( August 1-September 29 ) , and seven other venues through January 1997 . A 74-page catalogue , edited by Albert B. LeCoff , with artist and selection committee statements and 71 color photographs , is available for $22 ( including shipping ) from the Wood Turning Center , P.O. Box 25706 , Philadelphia , Pennsylvania 19144 . Tom Csaszar , an artist and writer based in Philadelphia , contributes to New Art Examiner , Sculpture and Art in America . <p>                     