@@362796

Abdollah Nouri does not look like a dangerous counterrevolutionary . In a nation run by clerics , he ranks among the most senior , not quite an ayatullah but a hojatolislam , or " proof of Islam . " Over dates and tea in his office , the diminutive religious scholar turned newspaper publisher spoke with tones of bureaucractic conformity . But his words were far from blather . " Transferring power to the people was an objective of our revolution 20 years ago , " he told TIME in a rare interview . But , he added candidly , " power has a tendency to create authoritarianism . " <P> And that kind of outspokenness is one reason the powers that be in Iran wish to destroy him . <P> This week Nouri will be called before a court to answer a 44-page indictment . He stands accused of dishonoring the Ayatullah Khomeini , undermining the authority of Iran 's ruling clergy and promoting relations with the U.S. If he is convicted , he faces a hefty fine , lashes of the whip or a dozen years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be disqualified from heading the reform ticket in next February 's elections , thus ending any chance of his becoming the powerful speaker of Iran 's 270-seat parliament , the Majlis-e-Shura . A victory by Nouri is crucial to his chief ally , the embattled reformist President of Iran , Mohammed Khatami , and his efforts to promote moderation , expand freedom and normalize Iran 's relations with the outside world . " The court is trying to get rid of me , " Nouri told TIME last week . " But the trial is really a trial of the reform movement . " <P> This is not Nouri 's first scuffle with hard-liners : in an impeachment trial last year , parliament ousted him as Minister of the Interior for permitting student demonstrations . Since then , his main vehicle of dissent has been the national daily Khordad . The newspaper has published defiant antiregime opinions by prominent clerics , notably Grand Ayatullah Hossein Ali Montazeri , who has been under house arrest since 1997 for questioning velayat-e-faqih , the absolute authority of the clergy . In an explosive article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the royalist tendencies of the clerics and their treatment of Supreme Leader Ayatullah Ali Khamenei as a shah . Hard-liners feel particularly threatened , explains newspaper commentator Akbar Gangi , because the reformers have impeccable revolutionary credentials too and thus can not be lightly dismissed or called traitors . Says Gangi : " We have a saying in Persian , ' Only stone can break stone . ' " <P> Being the patron and publisher of such notions has made Nouri one of the most popular politicians in Iran  --  and has led to expectations that the reformists may wrest control of the Majlis from hard-line conservatives allied with Ayatullah Khamenei . The prospect of getting shut out of power , maybe for good , frightens the conservatives . Lawmakers have ignored Khatami 's proposals to make elections fairer by eliminating a candidate-screening procedure , and are pushing to tighten press restrictions . Besides shutting down newspapers and jailing editors , the courts have imprisoned Khatami supporters on corruption charges .                     