@@409279

" Buddha banded peacock approaching the garage , " shouted our lookout . His voice sounded faint ; he was posted as far away as possible to give us maximum advance notice , and the Buddha banded peacock was a real prize . The year was 1954 ; I was ten years old , at boarding school in the Nilgiri Hills in southern India , and the annual butterfly migration had just begun . It lasted for more than a month , a continuous stream of more than twenty species , all flying relentlessly in the same direction . They maintained their chosen direction so precisely that our lookouts were able to alert us to anything special . And we saw many special kinds of butterflies , since most of the migrants did not breed at 6,000 feet , the elevation of our school . Where the butterflies came from , and where they went , were mysteries to us . With varying intensity , this migration was repeated every year , and I left the Nilgiris at the age of fourteen thinking that this was a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lanka are along the pathways of an exceptional migration . Many years later , just before his death , I told C. B. Williams  --  a pioneer in the study of butterfly migration  --  about my experiences . He urged me to publish them . Despite my protests that childhood reminiscences of this nature had no place in the scientific literature , he was insistent , and I began to gather data from the margins of my old butterfly books and from the many letters that I had been forced to write to my parents . I even tracked down my former headmaster , who still had a collection I made at the time , with many specimens marked " migrant . " I eventually produced a decent , although tentative , paper . Only thirty-two years later did I return to the Nilgiris to shed more light on the matter . How does one recognize a butterfly migration ? On the scale at which it happened in the Nilgiris , no one could be in doubt . Millions of butterflies cascaded down our mountainside , across the valley , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same direction , sometimes even vertically up cliffs . No obstacle will stop migrants . Once I stayed on the ninth floor of a hotel in Nairobi , Kenya , during a migration . All the butterflies flew over the roof of the hotel , none making the slight detour that would have allowed them to bypass the building . Even when a migrating butterfly is trapped on a porch , it appears to be trying to batter down the house , and will persist in its chosen course rather than retreat a few yards or deviate from it . At the risk of being anthropomorphic , I find that migrating butterflies really do seem to have a " gleam in their eyes . " Most butterfly migrations are low-key affairs that go unnoticed . However , an alert and patient observer can recognize even " thin " migrations . I often spot what I take to be a migrant and then keep watching . Sure enough , after a minute or two , or five , I see another , and yet another butterfly . They are out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same direction . From 1970 to 1975 , I lived in Lebanon and wrote a book on the butterflies there . I began to realize that migration of some sort was very important to the butterfly fauna as a whole . Of the 136 butterfly species in Lebanon , at least 26 ( or 19 percent ) migrate to some extent , although most do so only in low densities . Several major migration patterns could be detected in Lebanon , however , and these patterns also hold true for other parts of the world . One migratory group consists of species that breed high in the mountains of Lebanon and then migrate to hibernate as adults lower down the mountains and on the coast , where winter is milder and hiding places easier to find . Their uphill return flight is one of the first heralds of spring in this part of the world . Art Shapiro , a professor of biology at the University of California at Davis , tells me that very similar migrations of related species are seen in California . Although the distances traveled by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profound . A second group , of which the red admiral is typical , migrates due north in spring from the Mediterranean , occasionally reaching the Arctic Circle and breeding there . By autumn , the red admiral may be common all over northern Europe , but those that do not eventually set off south will perish . No red admiral life stage  --  egg , larva , pupa , or adult  --  can survive a northern European winter . At the other end of their range , red admirals occasionally breed in winter as far south as the Nile Delta , where summers are much too hot for their survival . The third major group , of which the African monarch is characteristic , consists of tropical species that in good years push their frontiers northward . They sometimes establish breeding populations for several years before a severe Mediterranean winter kills them . During the 1980s , the African monarch established many breeding colonies in Spain and elsewhere , strongly extending its usual breeding range . Many of my colleagues believe they are now permanent residents , and some even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warming . Although one Danish humorist has said that " predictions are always dangerous , especially about the future . " I 'm still ready to wager that a series of severe winters will restore the status quo ante . The final group consists of the eternal nomads typified by the painted lady . In early November 1974 , tens of millions of these butterflies hatched in and around Cairo only to leave immediately . I spent much of the year 's end looking for them either as larvae or adults , but I found only a handful . In 1947 , George Popov , a specialist in grasshoppers of the dry zone , saw countless painted lady larvae advancing across the Saudi Arabian desert with young hoppers of the desert locust , gorging and leaving no trace of the lush green spring vegetation that had sprouted after the year 's unusually good rains . Some migrating painted lady females had found this bounty and laid their eggs . Their offspring would have to migrate soon after hatching , as the desert would again be parched . And from this desert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . North would lead them to spring on the Anatolian plateau ; south to lush pastures of the Yemem mountains , east to the Zagros Mountains of Iran , where conditions would be perfect for breeding : and west , to the Nile Valley . Since the painted lady does not hibernate or estivate ( lie dormant in summer ) , probably very few places exist where it can be certain to survive year round . Because of its nomadic life style , the painted lady is the world 's most cosmopolitan butterfly . Except for South America and some rain forest zones , it is found practically everywhere . Mass migrations of painted ladies are also common in the southern United States and Mexico . More than a hundred years ago , S. B. J. Skertchly recorded the beginning of a migration of painted ladies at Suakin on the Sudanese Red Sea coast : At the foot of the high country is a stretch of wiry grass , beyond which lies the rainless desert as far as the sea . From my camel , I noticed that the whole mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wind . On dismounting , I found that the motion was caused by the contortions of pupae of V cardni the painted lady , which were so numerous that almost every blade of grass seemed to bear one . The effect of these wrigglings was most peculiar  --  as if each grass stem was shaken separately , as indeed was the case , instead of bending before the breeze .... Presently the pupae began to burst and the red fluid that escaped sprinkled the ground like a rain of blood . Myriads of butterflies , limp and helpless , sprinkled the ground . Presently the sun shone forth , and the insects began to dry their wings and about half an hour after birth of the first , the whole swarm rose as a dense cloud and flew away eastwards towards the sea . I do not know how long the swarm was , but it was certainly more than a mile , and its breadth exceeded a quarter of a mile . After my work in Lebanon , I began to research the butterflies of Arabia . I still remember @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piece of information : " But surely there are no butterflies in Arabia ! " But there are  --  150 species in all  --  and , as is the case throughout the arid zones of the world , migration is an essential part of their life history . The driest parts of Arabia support about forty butterfly species , of which twenty-three ( nearly 60 percent ) are known to migrate . I saw my first real migration outbreak near Rostaq in northern Oman in May 1981 . In a number of small wadis  --  valleys gouged out by occasional heavy desert showers  --  caper trees grew in profusion . But while they should have been in prime spring condition , these trees bore no leaves . On closer inspection , I saw that they had all been defoliated by pupae of the caper white butterfly , a mass migrant . The word defoliated is meant quite literally . Not a leaf was left . Thousands of pupae clung to every tree ; I plucked off 2,500 from a very small one . As the temperature climbed toward 113degF , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of pupae in them . I concluded that , conservatively , at least ten million butterflies were waiting to hatch in a place where no food would be available when they emerged . I was able to investigate only a few of the smaller wadis ; I dared not guess how many pupae might have been harbored in larger , neighboring ones . Soaring temperatures and the glare of the white granite cliffs had made difficult an otherwise satisfying day ( and , geography notwithstanding , led to a frightening attack of snow blindness ) . I had , however , gathered several thousand pupae and loaded them into my Land Rover to take home so that upon their hatching I could determine their sex ratio ( proportion of males to females ) and the degree of parasitization , which may reach 50 to 80 percent in resident populations . Within a week , the pupae hatched . The sex ratio was normal , but not a single pupa was parasitized . Probably mass breedings like this one , undertaken at irregular intervals , can not be " tracked " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northward migration duly started . My experience in Oman is similar to that described by C. R. S. Pitman in northern Uganda in 1926 : One can only describe as amazing the vast breeding-grounds encountered . I have never before seen such countless myriads of butterflies , and as far as the eye could see there was a shimmer of white just above the surface of the ground . The majority of the food shrubs ... seemed practically leafless  --  larvae and chrysalises were everywhere . After this migration descended on Nairobi , an isolated , three-foot-tall caper bush was found to contain 57,000 eggs and newly hatched larvae . I also saw a migration of the caper white in Kenya in December 1975 . In one day , more than four million passed in a " front " only about twelve miles wide . I was puzzled by the narrowness of the front . Study of a map suggested that the butterflies were being funneled between the Aberdare range and Mount Kenya , but migrating butterflies generally do not allow themselves to be influenced by geography once they have set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I made for the Aberdare range . I drove through a steady stream of migrating caper whites , and as I reached the plateau at almost 10,000 feet , clouds began to gather . I suddenly found myself in a rain of caper whites , which fell limply out of the sky by the thousands . As they reached the plateau and came into the shade of the clouds , their body temperatures dropped to the point where they could no longer fly . No funnel effect had deflected them ; those flying over the Aberdare range and Mount Kenya were simply physiologically stopped in their tracks . Migrating butterflies can travel long distances over water . In April 1988 , I encountered a moderate migration of painted ladies in southern Portugal , flying north-northwest . I knew they must have come from Morocco ; April is too early for them to breed in Portugal or anywhere else in Europe . I tracked their path on a map , and they seemed to be heading for Ireland . Responses to a letter I wrote to some of the Irish newspapers confirmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but many were being sighted at the time , particularly in the southwest . The total distance traveled was about 1,200 miles , including 600 miles nonstop over water . Very rarely do painted ladies reach Iceland , but that year a number arrived there at the appropriate time , having flown 2,100 miles from North Africa , perhaps resting in Ireland on the way . A long-distance traveler well known in North America is the monarch butterfly . Every autumn , monarchs begin to fly south from eastern Canada and the United States to hibernate in a few huge roosts in the mountains of Mexico 's Michoacan province , a flight of more than 2,400 miles in some cases . The largest of these roosts may contain more than sixty-five million individuals . After spending several months , flying and feeding only occasionally , they begin to fly back north in spring , laying eggs along the way , then dying . Few , if any , make the entire return journey , but their offspring recolonize the northeast every year . In many respects , this is like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breeding ground to hibernate under very different ecological conditions , although the distances covered by the monarchs are much greater . I visited the main Mexican roost at Rosario in December 1990 . I had read most of what had been published on monarchs and had seen films about them , but standing alone among sixty-five million butterflies was one of the most breathtaking experiences of my life . Because the localized mountain roosts are vulnerable to human disturbance , conservation efforts are aimed at safeguarding the monarchs and the phenomenon of monarch migration . In February 1991 , my wife and I were conducting entomological research in the extreme southwest of the Kalahari in Botswana . We were lucky ; January had brought abundant rains in what is essentially a desert . Plants were green and butterflies plentiful . Locals had not seen such lushness for fifteen years . The most numerous butterfly was the African emigrant , often attracted to mud puddles in large numbers . On the first of March , we were delighted to see the start of a migration of this species . They passed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minute over a 330-foot front , but at times the density reached 400 per minute . The direction was always east-northeast , wholly independent of wind direction or angle of the sun . The females were of two main forms , one yellow and one white ; we discovered that all the nonmigratory females of the parent generation were white , while all the migrant females were yellow . More subtle differences existed between nonmigrant and migrant males . Migrant males were not sexually active , but migrant females were often waylaid by old , well-worn , nonmigrant males . During the next month and a half , we saw this migration in all parts of Botswana and received much additional evidence from elsewhere in southern Africa . When the time came to estimate the numbers involved , the total , based on deliberately modest assumptions , came to 1.5 billion butterflies , one of the largest butterfly migrations ever recorded . ( A related butterfly , the Neotropical sulfur , is also known to migrate en masse . ) Data from Zimbabwe indicate that African emigrants regularly migrate in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such small numbers that they are not usually recognized as migrants . A regular return migration may take place as well , but in normal years , breeding conditions in the Kalahari are poor , and the migration scant . With the unusual January rains , however , the butterflies appeared in such numbers that they sometimes blocked the vision of people driving cars ; a pilot even complained that he had had trouble landing at a Kalahari airstrip . While the scope of this migration was the largest I ever witnessed , the densest one I ever experienced was in southern India in my childhood . We were traveling by car toward Mysore when the sky was suddenly darkened by a huge migration of butterflies known as common crows , related to the monarchs . Driving became impossible : the windshield was soon smeared thick with dead butterflies , and the car radiator , gummed up with juicy corpses of freshly hatched common crows , boiled over . No one has ever succeeded in following a migration from its outbreak point and along its entire path to its destination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually covering a large area ) . One really needs a helicopter for that . As the examples given show , butterfly migration involves several different phenomena . Most migration takes place in areas with great seasonal differences  --  summer and winter in the temperate zones , wet and dry seasons in the tropics . Migration is generally rare in the true rain forests with their equable and predictable climate . My research in the Nilgiri Hills in 1986 showed that the migrations there allowed butterflies to spread into most of India to take advantage of the advancing southwest monsoon , and the migrations in Kenya are always just before the two main rainy seasons . In Botswana , migrants arrive when rains are due ( although these often fail ) , and the return is well after the rains peak . However , much migration seems to be basically opportunistic . In addition , some migrations consist almost exclusively of a single species , while others are mixed affairs of up to twenty species , all flying in the same direction , despite differences in size , strength , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction , and what unerringly maintains it remain unknown . Over the years , I have become convinced that direction is maintained with the help of the earth 's magnetic field , but I have never been able to test this hypothesis ( some moths are now known to have electromagnetic sensors ) . The angle of the sun has been suggested as a guide for migrants , but in Kenya , India , and Botswana , migrations continue steadfastly with the sun directly overhead . Visual navigation through the use of successive , prominent landmarks has found favor with some researchers , but in the flat vastness of the Kalahari , no such landmarks exist . Some butterflies can and do migrate in amazing numbers and for surprisingly long distances . Without migration , some species , like the cosmopolitan painted lady , might well be limited to a few areas where it could survive year round . I believe that , particularly in the dry tropics , migration is much more important for the population dynamics and species composition of butterflies than is often recognized . Migration , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is not a chance event , but a finely tuned evolutionary adaptation . As a natural phenomenon , it is always a delight to observe . <p>                     