@@409304

Galileo 's telescope was not much superior to a modern birder 's field glasses , but he magnified the heavens for the first time and therefore discovered the four large moons of Jupiter , the phases of Venus , and the fine structure of lunar architecture . What could possibly serve as a better example of the dream for which any scientist would kill , die , or sell his soul  --  an opportunity for pure , unsullied observation of the utterly unknown and the mightily important . In one night , and one peek , the wisdom of a thousand years might be reversed and reconstituted . Galileo 's telescopic observations therefore stand as a paradigm for our primary scientific ideal of objectivity  --  freedom from the constraints of culturally biased expectation , combined with obedience to nature 's factual dictates . After all , you ca n't be much subject to the shackles of anticipation if you have n't the slightest idea of what you are going to see . But Galileo also turned his telescope on Saturn  --  and made a fascinating error that also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rigorous objectivity . We must approach nature by asking questions of her , and we can not pose a question without some structure of anticipation . Galileo looked at Saturn , observed the rings as through a glass darkly ( for his optics were no great shakes ) , and thought that he had seen three spheres in a line  --  a large central body surrounded by two smaller globes . Following a peculiar custom of his time , Galileo encoded his conclusion in a Latin anagram , which he then sent to his friend Johannes Kepler . ( Priority in discovery has always been a touchy issue in science . Seventeenth-century standards were even more fluid and confused than in our own day , and copyright protection scarcely existed at all . Scientists wanted to record their discoveries without fear of usurpation , but with minimal damage should their claims subsequently prove wrong . Hiding a message within a difficult anagram provided a ready solution . With luck , no one would decode the claim properly , and an incorrect hypothesis could therefore remain forever hidden . But if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publish the dated anagram with your intended solution  --  and prove your priority . ) Kepler may have been the most brilliant man of his age , but he misread Galileo 's anagram as a statement about the planet Mars . Galileo had encoded the following message : altissimum planetam tergeminum observavi  --  " I have observed that the furthest planet is threefold . " ( Saturn is the most distant of the visible planets ; Galileo referred to his misperception of three spheres by designating the ringed planet as tergeminum . ) As refutation of a myth , this example has always struck me with particular force . Galileo is so clear and so sure . He does not say " I infer , " " I suppose , " or " I reason . " He states simply : " I have observed "  --  observavi . I have seen it with my eyes , and that is that . But Galileo viewed Saturn through his brain , for we can not bypass this central focus and filter , this magnificent device crammed full of biases both evolutionarily encoded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had any conceptual space for planets with rings . He was a brilliant and adequately flexible man . Excellent optics might have revealed a ring too obvious to be denied . But Galileo read a fuzzy Saturn in the light of his preexisting knowledge . Planetary masses are spherical . Symmetrical bulges on either side must be subsidiary globes . All good and useful observation must be embedded within a theory . Science gains its strength by structuring observations as continual tests of a theory 's power . Objectivity does not reside in theory-free perception ; such a pipe dream can lead only to spheres in a line or some other fancy falsely construed as secure because we have not scrutinized our constraining biases . Objectivity lies in the flexibility to reject a cherished theory when an anticipated observation can not be affirmed , and a perception of contrary meaning  --  a ringed planet , for example  --  delights us instead . Theory must guide observation . If we do not cast our theoretical net widely enough , we will not see what lies before our eyes , for the conceptual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a story of observations that could not be made because a fine scientist could not formulate the theoretical structure that held the right question . He did not query nature properly and therefore could not see her forms . In the generation before Darwin changed biology forever , most British naturalists interpreted the anatomy of animals as proofs and expressions of God 's wisdom and benevolence . Animals were viewed as marvels of biomechanical design , with each feature meticulously adapted in all details to the organism 's ecology and mode of life . Only an omnipotent God could have created such organic perfection . This " argument from design , " or " natural theology "  --  the inference of God 's existence and attributes from the products of his creation  --  had been the mainstay of British natural history from John Ray in the seventeenth century through an apogee in William Paley 's Natural Theology ( 1802 ) to a last gasp ( more accurately a whoosh ) in the eight Bridgewater Treatises of the 1830s . ( I have frequently discussed natural theology in these essays if only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific refutation of this previous orthodoxy . ) While natural theology dominated in Britain , a very different approach to morphology arose in France and Germany and provoked an interesting debate that the formulation of evolution would later resolve . These " structural , " or " transcendental , " morphologists tried to explain the differences between organisms as expressions of " laws of form . " All animals of a related group can be represented as graded variations of a single archetype . Structures may be reduced , intensified , specialized , or altered in function , but the fundamental relationships of order and position among parts are maintained , and the sequence of changes among organisms follows simple rules of transformation . Thus , the fin bones of a lungfish match the leg bones of a horse , while the jawbones of a reptile may correspond with hearing bones of the mammalian middle ear . The two schools differed primarily in their attitude toward adaptation . For natural theologians , adaptation served as the basis of organic form . God made organisms with optimal designs for their functions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomenon , not as the source and raison d'etre of creation , as the natural theologians insisted . Laws of form and rules of transformation govern the graded series of related animals , and adaptation can represent only a subsidiary fit . Laws of form imply " slots " for certain anatomical arrangements , and animals so endowed must then find an environment to put their forms to good use . In other words , form comes first and must then seek its function . ( For natural theologians , function comes first , and God creates optimal anatomies for appointed roles . ) In practice , natural theologians denied graded order and interpreted related animals as functional variations on a common theme . Among mammals with the same bones , some swim , some run , some fly , and some burrow , but no axes of gradation unite these creatures . Each is a paragon of adaptation in its own functional world . Structural morphologists , on the other hand , sought to represent mammals as sequences of gradational changes along a few axes of transformation . The laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ epiphenomenal and must often remain far from optimal ( as constraints of the ordered series preclude tinkering to optimal adjustment ) . Theoretical structures can act as mental prisons when the most productive question can not be asked or even conceptualized within an accepted world view . In such cases , new theories must break the mental lock , for " pure " observation is a myth and the perception of vital facts requires the conception of novel questions . In this essay , I will take two puzzles from the last great work of natural theology and show that the factual solution seems to stare the author in the face , yet remains unperceived as outside the range of questions that natural theology could ask . Sir Charles Bell ( 1774-1842 ) was the greatest neurologist of his day . His New Idea of Anatomy of the Brain , first published in 1811 , is revered as a founding document of the profession . Bell was a pioneer in establishing the fundamental distinction between sensory nerves that convey impulses to the brain and motor nerves that send neural messages to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bridgewater had specifically requested a volume on the " construction of the hand of man " as a contribution to his endowed series of treatises " on the power , wisdom , and goodness of God , as manifested in the Creation , " Bell seemed an obvious choice  --  for he was an artist with words as well as with bodies , and he certainly understood the coordinated functions of brain and hand . Bell 's 1833 Bridgewater Treatise , The Hand : Its Mechanism and Vital Endowments as Evincing Design , is the last great statement of natural theology applied to anatomy . I discussed this work in my column of March 1993 to contrast Bell and Darwin on nature 's grandeur . In this essay , I will take two specific examples from Bell 's book to illustrate a question that natural theology could ask , thereby foreclosing the possibility of grasping an important side of nature 's construction . What other sides are we missing today because theoretical " certainties " preclude the posing of other fruitful questions ? Bell 's book certainly holds the orthodox line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God 's benevolent creation of the organic world . Bell begins by writing : If we select any object from the whole extent of animated nature , and contemplate it fully and in all its bearings , we shall certainly come to this conclusion : that there is design in the mechanical construction , benevolence in the endowments of the living properties , and that good on the whole is the result . He then continues by stressing adaptation as the primary proof of God 's action and intent : The principle then .... is , that there is an adaptation , an established and universal relation between the instincts , organization , and instruments of animals on the one hand , and the element in which they are to live , the position which they are to hold , and their means of obtaining food on the other .... We have seen no accidental deviation or deformity , but every change has been for a purpose , and every part has had its just relation . We have witnessed all the varieties molded to such a perfect accommodation . Bell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gaining popularity in continental Europe . He writes of the opposition : It is proposed that the same elementary parts belong to all animals , and that the varieties of structure are attributable to the transposition and molding of these elementary parts . I find it utterly impossible to follow up on this system .... I object to it as a means of engaging us in very trifling pursuits  --  and of diverting the mind from the truth . He then expresses his perception of truth in the credo of adaptation and the argument from design : " The function or use of a part determines its form . " As an example , Bell contrasts adaptational and structural approaches for interpreting the two long , thin splint bones surrounding the so-called cannon bone ( actually an elongated foot bone ) that forms the lower part of a horse 's leg . We now know that these splints are vestiges of full ancestral toes . Horses once had three functional toes on each foot ( more distant ancestors maintained the full mammalian complement of five ) . In a classic story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three to a single , strong central toe  --  while vestiges of the two side toes remain as the splint bones , now invisible from the exterior , and making horses effectively one-toed animals . But this evolutionary solution did not exist in Bell 's conceptual world ; such an interpretation could not enter his thoughts or inform his questions . For Bell , all features of anatomy required an explanation in terms of immediate , optimal function . He therefore had no alternative but to ask his usual question : All structures exist for a purpose . What , therefore , do the side splints do ? When I discover what they do , I will know why they exist . Bell begins by ridiculing the structuralist alternative  --  actually correct in this case  --  that splint bones should be interpreted as part of a gradational series comparable with fully functional toes of other mammals : Lovers of system ... delight to trace the gradual subtraction of the bones of the hand ... To me , this appears to be losing the sense in the love of system . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adapting , as I have often to repeat , the same system of parts to every necessary purpose . Bell then proposes to prove the superiority of natural theology by showing that all bones of the horse 's foot , including the splints , are exquisite adaptations : In a comparative view of these bones , we are led more particularly to take notice of the foot of the horse . It is universally admitted to be of beautiful design , and calculated for strength and elasticity , and especially provided against concussion . Bell 's entire discussion then focuses upon the search for a functional explanation of splint bones . He never considers any possible alternative reason for their presence . He cites some disagreement among experts , but only within the adaptionist paradigm . He states , for example , that some " veterinary surgeons ... imagine that these movable splint bones , by playing up and down as the foot is alternatively raised or pressed to the ground , bestow elasticity and prevent concussion . " Bell denies this view , for he can conceive of no mechanical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the foot . " He proposes , instead , that the splints " act as a spring to throw out the foot , when it is raised at the knee-joint bend . " But he never asks a crucial question : suppose that the splints are present for a reason other than optimal function for present purposes ? And you can not get the right solution until you pose a problem within the framework of a proper theory . In an even more striking example , Bell considers the two small bones ( called quadrate and articular ) that form the jaw joint in birds and reptiles . Bell confronts the following problem : Mammals employ a strikingly different system by articulating the jaw between two large bones , called squamosal ( upper ) and dentary ( lower ) , that also form major portions of the upper and lower jaw . ( The dentary builds the entire lower jaw in mammals , whereas several bones form this structure in reptiles , including the tiny articular at the joint itself . ) Moreover  --  and now the story becomes even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two bones in the mammalian middle ear , the malleus ( hammer ) and the incus ( anvil ) . ( The third mammalian hearing bone , the stapes , or stirrup , then seems to correspond with the single hearing bone of birds and reptiles . ) Bell 's nemesis , the continental structural morphologists , had therefore proposed that the jaw-articulation bones of birds and reptiles are the same structures as mammalian hearing bones . We now know that this view is correct ( but we attribute the differences to historical transformation , or evolutionary change , rather than to abstract rules of gradation among a series of created objects , as most structural morphologists held ) . Bell therefore begins his discussion by ridiculing the structural view ( now considered clearly correct in this case )  --  I mean , after all , who could possibly credit such a reverie as comparability between bones of such different function : chewing and hearing . The morphological resemblance can only be accidental . Bell writes of structural morphology : This new theory has been brought forward with the highest pretensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mark the moment of its conception as the commencement of a new era ! They speak of ... " a new principle of connection , " and " a new theory of analysis .... " The hypothesis essentially is this , that when a part , which belongs to one animal , is missed in another , we are to seek for it in some neighboring organ : and on such grounds they affirm , that this surpasses all former systems as a means of discovery . Bell then poses the specific problem and pooh-poohs the proposed solution of his enemies : The matter to be explained is simply this :  --  the chain of bones in the ear , which is so curiously adapted in the mammalia to convey the vibrations of the membrane of the tympanum to the nerve of hearing , is not found in the organ of hearing in birds ; but there is substituted a mechanism entirely different . They the structural morphologists choose to say that the incus , one of the bones of the chain , is wanting in the bird . Where shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in the apparatus of the jaw ; in that bone which is called os quadratum quadrate . I believe that the slight and accidental resemblance which this bone in the bird has to the incus , is the real origin of this fancy . Bell then contrasts this supposed nonsense with his own , righteous way . He asks once more in ridicule : " Shall we follow a system which informs us that when a bone is wanting in the cavity of the ear we are to seek for it in the jaw ? " He then reasserts the only and proper way to truth : we must " on the contrary , take the principle that parts are formed or withdrawn , with a never failing relation to the function which is to be performed . " Finally , in a statement almost eerily reminiscent of Galileo 's claim for theory-free objectivity in pure observation , Bell states that adaptation represents evident truth , whereas structural morphology can only be a mindblocking impediment : The only effect of this hypothesis structural morphology is to make us lose sight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the observation of such curious structures , as well as of the conclusions to which an unbiased mind would come . In his technical discussion , Bell raises only two points to support his adaptationist perspective , and supposedly to deny that the jaw bones of birds could be compared with mammalian hearing bones : 1 . Birds hear as acutely with their single bone as mammals do with three : The first step of the investigation ought to be to inquire into the fact , if there be any imperfection in the hearing of birds . That is easily answered  --  the hearing of birds is most acute ; the slightest noise alarms ; and the nightingale ... in a summer evening , will answer to the note of his rival .... The sense of hearing is enjoyed in an exquisite degree in birds : the organ of the sense is not imperfect , but is adapted to a new construction , and a varied apparatus  --  suited to the condition of the bird . 2 . The jaw articulation of birds works remarkably well for its immediate function . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower jaw opens and shuts against a rigid upper jaw , usually fused to the skull  --  whereas , in birds , both jaws are mobile . Bell imagines , no doubt correctly , that this additional mobility has adaptive value in birds . The bird 's jaw , he states , is withal a fly trap  --  hence , its motions must be rapid : and the velocity is increased by the most obvious means imaginable ,  --  that is , by giving motion to both mandibles , instead of to one . Bell then argues that the presence of two small bones at the articulation aids in this most useful mobility . Satisfied that he had slain the enemy of structural morphology , with its implication of absent or less-than-optimal adaptation , Bell reasserts the real motive behind his own advocacy  --  and the Earl of Bridgewater 's largess in commissioning , at handsome fees , such a set of treatises on divine wisdom displayed in nature : It is , above all , surprising with what perverse ingenuity men seek to obscure the conception of a Divine Author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather clinging to the greatest absurdities , or interposing the cold and inanimate influence of the mere " elements , " in a manner to extinguish all feelings of dependence in our minds , and all emotions of gratitude . Readers may be forgiven for some puzzlement in considering Bell 's two arguments for lack of correspondence between mammalian hearing and bird jawbones . From a modern perspective of evolutionary theory , Bell 's points are potentially true but entirely irrelevant . Yes , the hearing of birds may be acute ; and , yes again , the two jaw-articulation bones may have eminently useful function . But how do such observations preclude an evolutionary origin for these bones or their later transformation into hearing bones in mammals ? After all , the bones may work well in a bird and still be transformed to some other function in a set of evolved relatives . My hands are doing a good job in typing this essay , but their ancestral structures worked quite well for navigation ( and still do ) in fishes . We can resolve this puzzle by considering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he could not ask and the resolutions that therefore and necessarily eluded him . History and evolutionary transformation did not exist as an option for Bell . In his world , all parts of organisms were created as we find them . Therefore , Bell faced only two possibilities for interpretation : an organ was either created to be used in a certain way or created as one step of gradation in a larger plan for sensible relationships among species . Bell thought that perfection of design proved the former alternative  --  for creation in the interest of graded order would necessarily fill the world with suboptimal structures , made to hold a place in a series , not to function in intricate and exquisite ways . In Bell 's limited world , one need only illustrate excellence of function to prove the adaptationist side of the dichotomy . If the splint bones work well , if the jaw-articulation bones of a bird do something important , then God must have made them as adaptations for their current use . Then Darwin stepped in and changed Bell 's world forever . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave science the most precious gift of new questions that could not have been posed , or even imagined , before . Just add the possibility of history and genealogical change , and a novel world opens . The old dichotomy  --  function versus graded order  --  may now be collapsed into a single , integrated explanation : a structure may arise for adaptive reasons in an ancestor and then be retained ( often in a reduced or vestigial state ) by simple inheritance in descendants . Thus , we may note a graded series , with limited or even absent adaptation in descendants , yet the organ in question may have originated as an optimal adaptation in the ancestor that anchors the series . The side splints of a modern horse may have originated as fully functional toes in ancestors and may now be vestiges of limited utility , retained by inheritance . An evolutionary explanation may  --  in fact , usually does  --  include both adaptation and gradation . The two warring sides of Bell 's dichotomy are harmonized in Darwin 's world . Darwin probably had the side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage on this subject in the Origin of Species ( pages 199-200 of the first edition of 1859 ) : But by far the most important consideration is that the chief part of the organization of every being is simply due to inheritance ; and consequently , though each being assuredly is well fitted for its place in nature , many structures now have no direct relation to the habits of life of each species .... We can not believe that the same bones in the arm of a monkey , in the fore leg of the horse , in the wing of the bat , and in the flipper of the seal , are of special use to these animals . We may safely attribute these structures to inheritance . I find this story particularly compelling because it illustrates the nub and essence of intellectual revolution in such an incisive , almost joyous , manner . Consider the two possibilities of Bell 's conceptual domain as a classic dichotomy  --  opposite ends of single line . His world is one-dimensional . An organ is either created for function at one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an ordered series at the other end . Darwin 's revolution is so simple in one way , so profound in another : he literally added a new dimension  --  the dimension of history . Darwin freed himself from the restricted world of Bell 's line : he lifted himself above , into a space that did not exist for Bell . By adding a dimension of historical change , Darwin realized that an organ might arise as an adaptation and then , in descendants , be transformed to some other function ( jawbones to ear bones ) , or inherited as a vestige of reduced utility ( splint bones of horses ) . Our literature 's best illustration of conceptual revolution as added dimensionality may be found in a great classic of nineteenth-century science fiction  --  E. A. Abbot 's Flattland . The inhabitants of Flattland live on a surface in a two-dimensional world . They have no concept of our third dimension or of anything else beyond . They know their own world adequately well , though often by means that seem inefficient or indirect to those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , Flattlanders can not " see " the shapes of objects all at once , and must learn which of their members are squares , and which pentagons or hexagons , by feeling their way all around . ) One day , a sphere from the world of three dimensions visits Flattland . ( He enters by passing through their plane and is therefore perceived by them as a circle that first grows bigger and then smaller . ) The sphere eventually lifts the leader of Flattland off the surface of his world into the third dimension , where he can view the entire plane of his former universe all at once . Imagine the thrill , and the confusion , of such a novel perspective ! Darwin added this new , bird's-eye view to the domain of biology . Evolution gave us the dimension of history , thereby enriching our conceptual world through one of the most elegant and beautiful revolutions in all human thought . We are still struggling to make our peace with this new dimension of nature 's truth . What else are we missing  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ multifaceted nature with that genealogically restricted , yet somehow remarkable , tool called the human brain ? Stephen Jay Gould teaches biology , geology , and the history of science at Harvard University . <p>                     