@@349934

Does the right know anything about First Amendment rights ? Does it have any of its own ? The experts of moment on these questions should be the management and staff of WTTG-TV , Washington 's Channel 5 , the Fox network station in town . <P> Last month Joe Robinowitz , the news director , was composing a memo to the chairman of Fox Television in Los Angeles on the prospective replacement of employees who were " inept , " " shallow " or " politically correct . " In preparation for this task , he wrote , he had been consulting with conservative media critics , including L. Brent Bozell III , chairman of the Media Research Center , and Reed Irvine , head of Accuracy in Media . Singling out ineptitude and shallowness presumably would not have raised eyebrows , but hunting down political correctness in the company of Messrs . Bozell and Irvine was distinctly incorrect . Alas for Robinowitz , he left his thoughts on the office computer system ( in a file named " Fugitive Slayings " ) . From there , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bulletin board , the Style section of the Washington Post , where staffers described themselves as " stunned " and " demoralized , " and Robinowitz climbed down so fast he scorched his pants . " I was having a bad-hair day , " he explained to the Post , " and I 'm totally bald . " <P> This little tale tells us a good deal about the way journalists live now . It reminds us yet again of the death of the press lords  --  the Hearsts , the Luces , the Lord Copper of Evelyn Waugh 's barely fictional Fleet Street  --  men who knew their own opinions and imposed them on the media they ran . Rupert Murdoch , buccaneer owner of Fox and much else of the world 's communications business , seemed to be a throwback to those spacious days ( spacious for owners ) . But even his empire is so segmented and authority in it so delegated that the people who run its component parts have to call in outsiders to tell them what they do n't like , and they are embarrassed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money men really control these days is the money . <P> Into the vacuum left by the retreating clout of the owner has flowed the pretensions of the journalistic class . This is a relatively new thing in American journalism , because only in the past half-century have journalists had anything to be pretentious about . Some of the great names of American writing cut their teeth in the press  --  Edgar Allan Poe and Ernest Hemingway . But until well into this century , most reporters fit the Duke of Wellington 's description of the English soldier  --  " the scum of the earth . " They were lively but ignorant , and often venal . The spread of college education affected even them , however , until by now all journalists know something , though perhaps less than everything . With skills came pride . Journalists no longer submit to having their take on reality circumscribed by the people who happen to sign their paychecks.                     