@@410553

Among the first tasks in the field of theology in my country  --  the Czech Republic  --  is overcoming the ghetto mentality that both the churches and theology adopted under the communist regime . This task applies to both the Catholic and Protestant churches in the Czech Republic and Slovakia . This ghetto mentality grew gradually over the years of communist rule as the regime intensified pressure on the churches . Only one area of the churches ' activity was exempt from this process : the so-called Marxist-Christian dialogue in the early 1960s . Enlightened Marxists at the time were moved to dialogue because they felt an " anthropological deficit in their own doctrine ; Christians , for their part , believed that they could learn a bit about the structural aspects of socioeconomic life which they had traditionally interpreted , or rather misinterpreted , in their theological ethics by using inadequate , individualistically oriented concepts . The theology of those years corresponded to the churches ' confinement  --  it focused exclusively on congregational , parochial activities . Consequently , theology reflected a ghettoized life  --  something quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church reflecting on the universality of faith . At that time we witnessed a reductionist form of theology ; it developed into a harmless means of consolation in times of persecution . Or , perhaps even worse , while the wording of theological statements still claimed to be universal , the churches ' practice was becoming very limited  --  focused only on survival . To be sure , within these limits , some remarkable work was achieved : a modern Bible translation was produced , as well as a new Protestant hymnbook . Not least , many laypeople and clergy carried out a faithful ministry under daunting circumstances . In order to overcome a ghetto mentality in a completely changed society , Christian churches have to resume their universal responsibility based on the universality of the biblical message . Commitment to political and socioeconomic life is an essential part of that responsibility . Yet there are some temptations on the path of sociopolitical ministry . The Roman Catholic Church , the majority religious body in our country , shows signs of a pre-Vatican II orientation . Neither the Catholic Church nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggiornamento strategy ; instead , a prejudice seems to prevail in that communion . Since Marxist ideology and the system based on it has revealed its powerlessness and collapsed , many Roman Catholics argue that their church 's doctrine and spirituality should fill the immense spiritual , cultural , and social vacuum created by the previous system 's demise . Yet Roman Catholicism can not fill this void easily . Today 's Catholic theology and mission basically picks up where it left off  --  say , 40 years ago  --  as if nothing significant had happened morally and spiritually in the meantime . Perhaps even more troublesome , it picks up as if important moral and spiritual forces had not changed the face of society before communism came to power in our region . Secularization was not invented and set in motion by the communists alone . Intellectually prepared by the Enlightenment , existentially strengthened twice in this century by great military conflagrations , secularization in its atheistic version was simply adopted by the communists as an official state ideology . In the context of Czech history , however , secularization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time of the Austrian monarchy . It achieved this dominance through an ecclesiastical and political symbiosis symbolized by the uncritical unity of altar and throne . No wonder that millions of Czechs left the Catholic Church after World War I and continued to exit up to World War II . The close connection between this church and a foreign political dynasty ( the Austrio-Hungarian Empire ) created a climate of public mistrust of the Roman Catholic Church . Seeing itself as the national church of the Czech Republic and Slovakia is the Roman Catholic Church 's temptation ; envisioning the faith in terms of religious individualism is the Protestant temptation . To speak merely of internal personal conversion to a faith living in intimacy with Jesus Christ  --  as is currently the case with many charismatic missionaries  --  without also speaking about the implications of this faith for the political realm is ineffective . Merely to recognize that these implications exist does not suffice either . If the implications between faith and politics are not properly studied and understood through interdisciplinary dialogue , our Protestant doctrinal statements become little more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by all Christians in what was formerly Czechoslovakia is the phenomenon of power . Ironically , the communists seemed to be faithful followers of a longstanding and tragic Christian misinterpretation of the idea of God  --  one that represented the Almighty God as a sovereign monarch . Functionally , the communists developed nothing more than a secularized version of that idea : the result was a one-party system that possessed a monopoly on ideology and political power . After the devastation caused by two totalitarian systems in Europe ( Auschwitz and the Gulag are the points of departure for any legitimate theology today ) , one question is irrepressibly present in any theological discourse : to what extent has a coercive theological monotheism contributed to the escalation of violence and the illegitimate use of power in our century ? This question is crucial because the credibility of Christianity and theology is at a stake . It is completely erroneous to believe that the people of the postcommunist era will eagerly and joyfully accept the biblical message even though they are seeking a deeper life orientation . The Christian churches ' past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , credibility must be restored . Theologians must address their problem with patience and dedication . The top theological priority in the countries of the former Czechoslovakia is to remain in a consistent dialogue with other thinking people  --  in our context with the secularized majority . Only on this path can theology find its new identity and thrust . Our present economic situation can be characterized by a broad attempt to launch radical reforms . As the process of dismantling the previous system goes forward , our whole society is in transition . Western nations have never had to cope with such a transition . For centuries they have enjoyed more or less uninterrupted continuity in their socioeconomic development . Even after the devastation of the world wars their economies picked up almost at the point they had been before the wars ; some countries benefited economically from the wars . The reverse is true in Central Europe . We had a " short " history , as some of our historians used to say , and now face enormous challenges . Great commitment is required of those who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national economies . For churches and theologians to think that these economic and political efforts are alien to their intrinsic tasks would be a grave mistake . To be uncommitted would mean a betrayal of the human , and therefore religious , dimension in economy and politics . Economics is a matter of faith , as is political policy . In our transition from an inefficient and devastating command or planned economy to an economy that will meet basic human needs and also be environmentally friendly , my country is facing a number of tasks . First of all , and especially from a Christian perspective , some form of protective legislation in the social sphere must be an essential aspect of our social commitment . In my opinion , the only kind of market economy that is acceptable in Central Europe is a mixed one  --  one that includes , alongside charitable and nonstate aid for the needy , effective legislation providing for state subsidies . Market economies have no built-in mechanisms that would automatically correct their structural blindness regarding social issues . Another blindness of market economies also needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues . Any compensatory provisions that would redress damages caused by destructive technologies represent extra expenditures which , given the norm of maximizing profit , market economies by definition are likely to avoid . It is the responsibility of a vigilant public and dedicated political leadership to make the necessary adjustments . Churches should play a role too in achieving such modifications of market forces for a larger common good . Last but not least , market economies tend to be blind to cultural values . Due to their nature they appreciate only what can become an object of market operations . Even creators of cultural value are subject to the mechanisms of market valuation . Markets presuppose participants who control a certain amount of purchasing power . Anyone devoid of purchasing power is viewed as an outsider and consequently as one who can be neglected . After the collapse of planned economies most people in Central Europe no longer respond favorably to a call frequently voiced in the worldwide ecumenical community for a so-called " third way . " We no longer wish to be experimental . Such experiments would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a series of discontinuities of a kind that have proven to be quite harmful . What we are obliged to do , however , as Christians and theologians is to serve society by being both critical and loyal . Surely , market economies must be modified . Corrections are inevitable . But after the frustration we experienced living under centralized economic authority that included a monopoly of power by one party and its monolithic ideology , we must first re-establish a network of normal economic relationships . Central European Christians not only lack the political power and status that might enable them to help evolve alternative economic structures ; they also lack the intellectual strength to do so . The communists " privatized " the education system thoroughly ; it existed only for themselves . Persons could not become specialists in economics , politics , sociology or philosophy unless they obeyed the rigid lines of the ruling party . To be a Christian specialist in any of these areas , or even a nonconformist specialist , was impossible . We therefore have much to learn in order to cope successfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only thing we can do at first is to accept the economic system established in Western countries , and then work to integrate it into our own cultural setting . In doing so we must pay careful attention to the sources of our moral and spiritual tradition . One example of such a modification based on revitalizing one piece of our theological heritage , inspiring even in the domain of economy , relates to the problem of unemployment . We know that the present situation , with relatively high numbers of people without work in Western Europe and the U.S. , is different from the unemployment of the 1930s . We speak about structural unemployment . Nevertheless , society as a whole regards unemployment today basically in the same way as it did then . The unemployed feel marginalized , suffer psychologically , and meet with a lack of understanding , often even on the part of their own families . Not infrequently a gradual decline takes place . A series of objective and subjective factors combine to make unemployment a painful phenomenon of modern society . In my view we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look at unemployment . At the moment , the whole mentality of society is based on output or production . The politicians all promise full employment in the future . I am afraid they will not be able to fulfill their promises . In general people value work and production , and attach considerable prestige to both . This attitude , however , makes the crisis even worse and stands in the way of any solution to the problem . The mentality undergirding the relationship between work and reward for it , both primarily understood as components of the market processes , has to be fundamentally changed . Here we need to apply the Protestant emphasis on sola gratia . In God 's economy ( oikonomia tou theou ) we human beings are accepted before we achieve any output . The acceptance precedes any deeds on our part . This recognition must lead us to regard in a radically new way those who do not work within the network of the market , and yet are doing something which is meaningful and can serve the whole community . " The unemployed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accustomed to this fact . This is a new task not only for social psychologists ; the churches can also play a significant role . The efficiency of modern electronic civilization will , I believe , make it possible to provide for the needs of people without all those of a productive age having to work . We have to realize that in recent decades remuneration and wages have been losing their unqualified relationship to work and output . Our civilization is moving into a phase in which we can start to implement the values of the parable of the workers in the vineyard : everybody will receive remuneration , which will secure their livelihood ( without everybody having deserved it to the same degree ) and without having everybody involved in market operations . The Jewish and Christian tradition of the Sabbath has led to an abstinence from work on Saturdays and Sundays  --  a practice accepted in many cultures , some of them not in the least related to the Judeo-Christian tradition . A similar recognition that grace precedes work may inspire a new ethics of labor that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Jakub Trojan is dean of the Protestant theological faculty at Charles University in Prague . This paper was presented at a conference on Theology and Economics in the Postcommunist Era sponsored by the CENTURY and Christians Associated for Relations with Eastern Europe . <p>                     