@@340068

If it 's not one problem , it 's another . After surrendering his party 's monopoly , on power last week , Mikhail Gorbachev turned his attention to a separate issue that he and his countrymen find painful : the incipient unification of Germany . On Saturday West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl arrived in Moscow for two hours of talks with the Soviet President . Emerging from their meeting , Kohl declared that Gorbachev had promised to respect a united Germany . Kohl and his Foreign Minister , Hans-Dietrich Genscher , said a plan for unification , in concert with France , Britain , the U.S. and the Soviet Union , would be ready by this year . It was , Kohl said , " a great day for Germany . " <P> During the weeks that Soviet leaders have been preoccupied with remaking their party and government , the pressure for unity inside the two Germanys has mounted faster than was predicted even in this age of sudden European transformations . In Bonn last week , Kohl won his coalition government 's approval for talks with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deutsche mark the currency in both Germanys . He also set up a Cabinet-level committee to devise specific plans and legislation for political unification . Discussions on the merger would begin with the new East German government to be elected on March 18 . <P> Even the caretaker Communist-led government in East Berlin , which previously argued for a separate socialist existence in some kind of confederal relationship , has thrown in its hand . Unification is possible , Prime Minister Hans Modrow says , but only if the newly formed state remains neutral , unaffiliated with either NATO or the Warsaw Pact . Bonn and its allies reject that idea but counter with one presented by Genscher . A unified Germany should remain in NATO , he proposed , but allied troops or military structures should stay out of the areas that are now East Germany . In Moscow for his own set of talks , U.S. Secretary of State James Baker hinted that Washington may be flexible on a united Germany 's status within NATO , but he said , " Who knows how all this will turn out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Genscher 's formulation . <P> None of Germany 's neighbors have been cheering the prospect of its rebirth as the largest European state and economy west of the U.S.S.R. The Soviets , with their carefully nurtured memories of World War II , have been the most negative of all . Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze has referred to " the revival of sinister shadows of the past " and said the world needs guarantees that the danger of war will never again arise in Germany . The Soviet Union 's own borders will have to be firmly secured , Politburo member Alexander Yakovlev insisted last week , reflecting Soviet irritation at Kohl for refusing to renounce claims to prewar territories now incorporated into Poland . " We are in favor of a European Germany , " Yakovlev said , " not a German Europe . "                     