@@408296

When was the last time you worked up a good honest sweat ? Running after the kids , hurdling over the baby gate or racing to answer the phone do n't count . We 're talking about exercise , working out , getting into shape . On those days when you can barely find the time to brush your hair , how do you find the time to exercise ? Well , good news . The rules are changing . " A little activity goes a long way , " states the Canadian Fitness and Lifestyle Research Institute , based on a recent study from Stanford University , which found that workouts as brief as ten minutes , if done often enough , can improve your level of fitness . So ten minutes here and ten minutes there can all add up to improved fitness . Rosemarie Geist , a busy mother of 15 - month - old Saxon and five - year - old Raeven , tries to fit some form of exercise into her daily routine . Exercise makes me feel so satisfied , " says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in something other than changing diapers and preparing the next meal . " Getting into shape is becoming an attainable goal for even those with little time to devote to exercise . Who better to take advantage of this increased flexibility than a busy parent ? TIPS FOR A TEN - MINUTE WORKOUT Cardiovascular training Walking is an excellent way to exercise and offers busy parents the opportunity for a quick outing . A sleeping baby need n't deter you  --  bring him with you . In fact , the extra effort of pushing a stroller or carrying a baby in a back - pack adds additional cardiovascular benefits to an already near - perfect form of exercise ! A ten - minute power walk is invigorating and good for your health . If you have a VCR you can create a library of television exercise programs . Check your TV listings for the exercise shows available in your viewing area . Most local stations produce their own fitness show and the sports channel offers a variety of programs daily . Then , when you find ten free minutes , just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get to work . Muscle toning Building muscular strength helps improve muscle tone and delivers a sculptured look to previously weak muscles . Do each exercise slowly , controlling your pace through all phases of the exercise . So take ten minutes , put on your favourite music and work on the following body parts to create a fantastic whole . Figure not transcribed CURL UPS ( abdominals ) Action : Press the lower back into the mat and contract the stomach muscles . Slowly lift the shoulders and upper back off the floor . Return to the starting position and repeat . Tips : Keep the hands at the temples and exhale during the lifting phase . Figure not transcribed INNER THIGH Action : Lift the bottom leg up . Lower and repeat . Continue on the other leg . Tips : Bottom leg is straight and " long , " keeping the heel in line with the hip . Keep the shoulder and hip bones stacked , one on top of the other . Figure not transcribed OUTER THIGH AND BUTTOCKS Action : Lift the top leg to just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other leg . Tips : Knees should be bent at a 90 degree angle . Keep the ankle in line with the knee during all phases of the exercise . Figure not transcribed PUSH UPS Action : Bend the elbow and lower the chest toward the floor . Push back up to the starting position . Tips : The hands should be shoulder - width apart , keeping your head in line with the spine during all phases of the exercise . Exhale while lowering the body to the floor . Contract your abdominal and buttock muscles , particularly during the lift phase . <p>                     