@@421026

In more ways than one , Irish art of the 1990s is art from the edge . It 's from the edge because Ireland is on the geographical periphery of Europe . It 's also from the edge because to be in Ireland is to be on a frontline , a " cutting edge . " Ireland is a test case in which issues confronting other societies are being worked through . Few instances are more profound , and more watched around the world , than the one-year-old ceasefire in Northern Ireland , ending a quarter century of civil war . And therefore " edge " in the case of contemporary Ireland could also have a third sense : advantage . In both the North and the Republic , the two generations of Irish artists who have come of age since the outbreak of violence in Northern Ireland in 1969 are participants in a renaissance that Irish art has enjoyed over the last decade . Contemporary Irish artists are addressing life in their country on a more profound , personal and realistic level than Irish artists have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whatever side of the border they are from , whether their art is issue-based or expressionist and whatever the medium , contemporary Irish artists are using their work to examine their sometimes problematic but always vital relationship to their changing country . Alice Maher 's installation in an exhibition on national identity , held in Dublin 's Kilmainham Gaol in 1991 , was a giant ball of brambles in which the still-living thorns ( connoting suffering ) grew inward rather than outward toward the light . For Maher , this piece , titled Cell , was a metaphor for what it means to be Irish  --  to live in a small society of great intensity , substance and complexity . Yet even since 1991 , Maher 's perception of Ireland has changed . " The most hopeful thing for us today , " she recently stated , " is that at last Irish artists are beginning to shift outwards ... The instinct to mistrust strangers and protect oneself is often typical of an island people ( deeply imbedded in colonial history , of course ) . But at last things are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politically , socially , culturally . The fear of being subsumed or of our culture being diluted is going . In fact , moving outwards serves to underline the strengths of our culture . " In other words , Cell may already be a dying metaphor . Like a Battered Child : Irish Art before the 1980s As the one country where the art of the Celts was allowed to develop fully , Ireland had a magnificent artistic output from prehistory through the Christian Celtic era . Celtic art flowed in and out of abstraction , fusing human , animal and plant forms , and delighting in ambiguity and metamorphosis . It culminated in the Christian Celtic masterpieces of the 8th and 9th centuries : carved stone crosses ; metalwork such as the Ardagh Chalice and the Tara Brooch , filigreed in gold and studded with vivid enamels ; and illuminated manuscripts of the Gospels , in particular the Book of Kells ( 800 A.D. ) whose pages and great initial letters seethe with activity  --  plant , animal , human , divine . But Celtic art in Ireland did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century  --  by Vikings , the Normans and the English  --  and the establishment of English dominion over Ireland in 1537 . British colonization of Ireland meant the seizure of millions of acres of land , punitive laws against Catholics , centuries of uprisings and crushing defeats , like those by Cromwell ( 1641-53 ) and William of Orange ( 1689-91 ) . Colonization did not stop with physical and economic exploitation ; Britain did not consider Ireland truly occupied until it had banned Irish culture and the use of the Irish language and imposed its own  --  until the spirit of the people was violated . Ireland was further weakened by the Great Potato Famine of 1845-49 , which started the Irish diaspora that continues to this day . When executing the leaders of the 1916 Easter Rising in Dublin only served to intensify the separatist movement in the Republic , Britain responded by partitioning the country , in 1922 . In the words of Dublin painter Patrick Graham , summing up the history of Irish art before it came into its own in the 1980s : " You 're @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only 73 years . I look at Ireland like a battered child ... battered for centuries . It has no confidence ... it has always gone for imitation . " While Ireland was a colony and through most of this century , Irish art followed two main directions . One was internationalism , in which Irish artists imitated the styles of , first , London ( until the mid-1850s ) , next the Continent ( until the mid-20th century ) , and then America ( during the 1970s ) . The other direction has been nativism , an Irish school which arose around the time of the partition of Ireland and was the official state art of the Republic in the period when Eamon de Valera dominated Irish politics ( 1926-59 ) . Committed to a vision of Ireland that mythologized peasant life and the landscape of the rural west of Ireland beyond the Anglo-Irish pale , the art of the Celtic Revival was , in fact , playing to British stereotypes of the Irish and celebrating the economic and cultural marginalization of a people . International modernism eventually supplanted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1950s and ' ' 60s dominated the Dublin art market of the ' ' 70s . Speaking of Irish " copycat modernism , " Dublin performance artist Nigel Rolfe recalls that Irish art students in the ' ' 70s were producing " local Rothkos , local David Smiths , " but " pocket-size " ; having seen the work only in Art International or Artforum , they had no idea of its physical presence . Contemporary Irish art  --  art truly reflective of Irish experience , neither derivative nor romanticized , but telling Ireland 's own story in its own voice  --  has its roots in 1960 with the formation of the Independent Artists group , an exhibiting cooperative . Renouncing the art of both the Celtic Revival and the modernists as being imitative and escapist , the Independent Artists dedicated themselves to presenting , as they put it , " a full and complex depiction of the true conditions of Ireland , " particularly the new urban Ireland , in a figurative Expressionism that responded to the physical and psychological world around them . At the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland the battered child " received a great boost in self-confidence from several international art movements . The rise of Neo-Expressionism and the return to painting validated the figurative painting that Irish artists had been making since the end of the ' ' 60s . In addition , postmodermism  --  with its exploitation of the contextual , the personal , the local  --  proved much more suited to contemporary Irish artists ' concerns and habits of mind than modernism had been . " Before Irish artists ever seriously came to terms with modernism , " the Irish critic Aidan Dunne has commented , " they were told they dwelt in a Post-modernist environment ... This meant nothing more than a license to go on doing precisely what they had been doing all along . " ( 1 ) Speaking for Irish artists in general , Belfast performance artist Alastair MacLennan believes that " deconstruction has been very useful for us  --  you see how certain hierarchies in society are being looked at again and examined and questioned . " Having thrown off its history of dependence on English , Continental and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been invigorated from within by a general shift from abstraction to figuration , in the North as well as in the Republic , which has allowed more possibility for expression of both personal and political experience . It has also drawn strength from Northern Irish art , which at last took on the subject of the political strife there ; from talented women artists , particularly in the Republic , whose work is exploring women 's changing identity in Irish culture ; and from the presence of better-educated artists , as a result of free higher education since the ' ' 60s . Irish artists working today are the first to be able  --  through new grants , subsidies and cooperatives  --  to commit themselves to art as a profession . They are also the first to find themselves living in a member nation of the European Union , which Ireland joined in 1992 . For Irish artists as well as for Irish citizens in general , there are economic , political and psychological benefits to being no longer oriented solely to Britain and the United States  --  with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to belonging to a new power bloc with shared goals , rules and privileges . Reflecting the importance of the EU link , both Irish Arts Councils have appointed a European Affairs Officer to facilitate access to European arts funding . One result of all these changes has been that Irish artists no longer view their country as a backwater from which to escape but as representative of the same profoundly complex situations and issues that confront larger societies . To describe modern Ireland they use the words " microcosm , " " base , " " lens , " " cauldron " and " testing ground . " There is an increasing sense of affinity with Eastern Europe , Africa , Australia , Canada , and with American cities and subcultures  --  as well as with Ireland 's fellow nations in the European Union . Consequently , there is less and less reason for artists to emigrate . Over the past dozen years , the trend in both the North and the Republic has been for Irish art-school graduates to stay and work in Ireland . And if they choose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do so in order to adopt the styles of the new place but rather to understand their own country and return better prepared to address Irish subjects . In art , if not in politics , a subterranean unity between the two Irelands has always been truer than partition , and the existence of the Irish Museum of Modern Art ( IMMA ) has hastened the trend toward a united Ireland . Some interesting artistic distinctions between the North and the Republic remain , however . The traditional art forms  --  painting and sculpture  --  seem to be prevalent in the Republic , while increasingly the experimental forms  --  video , installation , performance  --  hold sway in the North , where collaborative projects are also more common . But these differences notwithstanding , Northern Irish artists who used to be closer to England ( particularly Liverpool ) than were artists in the Republic , these days are more likely to look to Dublin . A result of this ongoing process of self-discovery is that the relation of Irish art to Irish nationalism , so connected throughout the country 's history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whereas during the first 50 years of the Republic , Irish art served and promoted a defensive , insular , monolithic nationalism , today the Irishness of the artist is subordinate to the artistic intentions of the work as a whole . Noting the change in priorities , Dublin installation artist Pauline Cummins has said : " I do n't think the Irishness of contemporary Irish art is the issue , but the genuineness of the struggle to describe our own reality . " Galleries , Collectives and Museums As anywhere else , young Irish artists gravitate to the cities : Dublin  --  and to a far lesser extent Cork , Limerick , Galway and Sligo  --  in the Republic , Belfast and Derry in Northern Ireland . But in a country with as yet no serious art market and generally low prices , few artists can survive from their art . However , Irish artists who do sell their work benefit from a provision in the country 's 1969 Finance Act which exempts them from paying taxes on their art-derived income . Writers and composers are also eligible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take up residence in Ireland . It is common for young artists to live on the meager " income supplementation " ( i.e. , the dole ) from the Department of Health and Social Services . Most earned income derives from teaching . Both the Arts Council ( An Chomhairle Ealaion ) in Dublin and the Arts Council of Northern Ireland in Belfast support visual art through individual grants for buying time and materials , training and travel ( including an annual residency for one Northern and one Southern Irish artist at P.S. 1 in New York ) . Both arts councils also provide funding to galleries and specific exhibitions , to collaborative projects and collective studios and to Circa , Ireland 's single contemporary art magazine . The Arts Council in Dublin provides the larger grants , both to groups and individuals . In 1981 , the Arts Council established Aosdana , an honorary affiliation of writers , artists and musicians whose work has made an " outstanding contribution to the arts in Ireland . " Members  --  who must be Irish-born or residents for five years and at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1993 at 8,000 Irish pounds ( about $12,800 ) . Among the artists discussed in this article , James Coleman , Dorothy Cross , Patrick Graham , Brian Maguire , Gwen O'Dowd and Kathy Prendergast have been elected to Aosdana , whose membership is currently 250 . The first artist 's collective in the Republic was Dublin 's Project Arts Centre , founded in 1988 ; it now has 75 members . A public venue supported by the Arts Council and ticket sales , the Project Arts Centre , which has two galleries and a theater ( but no studios ) , concentrates on performance and installation work , particularly by emerging artists . Among the collectives with studio space are the Visual Arts Centre , established in 1980 by Gwen O'Dowd and Cecily Brennan ; Artspace in Galway ; the National Sculpture Factory in Cork ; the Cork Artists ' Collective and the Limerick Studios . Founded in 1992 by the Arts Council , the Fire Station Artists ' Studios in Dublin 's impoverished North Inner City also provides living quarters . The Fire Station combines studio space for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further 20 sculptors . Among its community programs is one to train the long-term unemployed to be sculptors ' assistants . With the European Union contributing 75 percent of the funding , Dublin 's Temple Bar area along the Liffey quays is being transformed into a cultural quarter . When completed by June 1998 , the project will include centers for music , film , photography and applied art . The already-completed renovation and expansion of the 12-year-old Temple Bar Gallery and Studios , housed in a former clothing factory , is also part of the plan . Temple Bar now has studios for more than 30 artists . As before , the institution will focus on emerging artists and those who work outside the gallery system . Temple Bar 's five-story Art House Multi-Media Centre for the Visual Arts , slated to open this fall , will offer exhibition space , training programs , an archive for installations and performances and an international studio exchange program . At Trinity College in Dublin , the Douglas Hyde Gallery ( which is supported by the Dublin Arts Council ) concentrates on solo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nigel Rolfe and Kathy Prendergast , though it has also held thematic exhibitions on Irish women artists , art from the North responding to the Troubles and , in 1990-91 , Irish art of the 1980s . Douglas Hyde 's current exhibition ( to Dec. 8 ) is by Argentine painter Guillermo Kuitca . Commercial galleries in Dublin showing contemporary Irish art include the recently expanded Kerlin Gallery ( where Dorothy Cross and Brian Maguire have shown ) , the Green on Red Gallery , the Taylor Galleries and the Wyvern Gallery . When it opened in May 1991 , the Irish Museum of Modern Art quickly became a major force . The museum is housed in the Royal Hospital Kilmainham , Dublin 's finest 17th-century building . After serving for almost 250 years as a military retirement home , the building was restored in the 1980s by the Irish government at a cost of 22 million pounds ( $13.5 million at the current rate of exchange ) . Described by its director , Declan McGonagle , as an " institutionalized alternative space , " a " function as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ museum although its holdings include some 600 works ( made up of purchases , donations and long-term loans ) . Concentrating on process over product , the museum presents diverse intersecting exhibitions , works-in-progress and site-specific commissions  --  usually with a strong social bias . IMMA 's programs of performance , theater and music emphasize the connections between the visual and the performing arts . The museum 's social activism is furthered through an extensive community-education program . A record 230,000 people visited IMMA in 1994 , when the museum presented an ambitious international exhibition , " Beyond the Pale : Art and Artists at the Edge of Consensus " September 1994-February 1995 . ( In this case , pale refers to the palisade or fortified rampart that the British colonizers built around the Dublin region in the 15th century to keep out the native Irish . ) The multipart show brought together 20th-century iconoclasts from Picasso to Jeff Koons ; works and installations by 50 contemporary artists including Irish artists Dorothy Cross , Willie Doherty , Philip Napier and Alice Maher , as well as a display of Sheela-na-Gigs  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to warn against the sin of lust and to ward off evil . The exhibition also used billboards by Les Levine and radio broadcasts to reach beyond the museum 's " palisades . " Currently IMMA is presenting solo shows by Marina Abramovic to Dec. 1 , Bernd and Hilla Becher to Jan. 21 , ' ' 96 and Irish artists Michael Kane to Nov. 19 and Irish artist Felim Egan Dec. 8 , ' ' 95-Feb. 25 , ' ' 96 . The museum also recently presented selections from the Weltkunst Collection of Contemporary British art , which includes work by more than 24 artists ranging from Tony Cragg to Rachel Whiteread . Created in memory of British collector Adrian Ward Jackson , the Weltkunst Collection is on 10-year loan to IMMA . Overturning the Romantic Tradition : Landscape Painting Landscape continues to be , in the words of a young Irish video artist , the " bottom line in Irish art . " But the traditional approach to landscape is being questioned in both the North and South . Romantic Ireland 's Dead and Gone ( 1990 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charcoal-and-conte drawings and indicates a recurring theme of her work . In the skies over one of her landscapes , two jet fighters ( on their way to the Gulf War , the artist explains ) are refueling from a large American military jet . The scene is a calculated perversion of the timeless rural image below of a mother pig suckling her young . Belfast painter Micky Donnelly 's Landscape and Donkey 's Feet ( Henry 's Dawn ) , 1987 , takes aim at Ireland 's ( and Irish art 's ) sentimentality toward the land , reinstating hardship and nature 's role as an adversary . Donnelly 's painting copies early 20th-century Irish artist Paul Henry 's painting Dawn , Killary Bay ( 1922-23 )  --  a misty scene of a placid bay , mauve hills , pale sky  --  and then subverts it . The foreground and vista are preempted by the low-slung belly , four bristly legs and untrimmed hooves of a neglected little Connemara donkey . The result of this compositional strategy is to mock the Celtic Revival landscape to the point where Henry 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ donkey 's legs . Even the younger artists interested in carrying forward the quasi-abstract landscape painting that has prevailed in Ireland since the late ' ' 50s are digging deeper , literally . Dublin painter Gwen O'Dowd speaks for many when she proclaims disdain for " the prettiness of it all , " wanting instead to " get underneath the surface . " In O'Dowd 's large-scale paintings , the fluid forms and organic colors that emerge from the layers of oil and wax create virtually abstract landscapes and seascapes . O'Dowd has said that her work is concerned not with specific places , even though it is derived from them , but with " selected environmental experiences , relating more to self-explorations than to direct representation . " To help achieve this , she seeks out landscapes in which she is likely to experience nature as a process , an immense " happening , " an overpowering material and spiritual force . Each extended sure to such landscapes has resulted in a different series of paintings : the mountains and mining valleys of Snowdonia , North Wales ( 1986 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland ( 1988 , 1989 ) ; the Canadian Rockies , with their glaciers , ice fields and frozen peaks ( 1990 ) ; and the west coast of Ireland ( 1993 ) . O'Dowd 's Irish Sea paintings utilize an all-over , horizonless composition which allows them to tower , recede and engulf all at once . The sea is not looked at but into . Fathoms down , the underwater world can be sensuous and tranquil , the blue-green water crossed by darker currents of ocher , umber and gray in rhythmic alternation . Or it can be turbulent , an olive green and sapphire suffused with a sulphurous light and erratically streaked with a bruised purple-brown . What struck O'Dowd about the west coast of Ireland was the sharper sense she had there of her country 's isolation and the sea 's aggressiveness . In her painting Over by Clogherhead ( 1992 ) , where the sea 's white tongues rise straight up to eat away at the coast , the waves become a glimpse of the beyond , and the coast the border between life and death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it often was elsewhere . Since the 1990s , painters like Patrick Graham and Brian Maguire , influenced by the Expressionism of Beckmann , Munch and Nolde , have been making the human image central to their work . When Neo-Expressionism reached Ireland at the beginning of the 1980s , it validated what Graham and Maguire were already doing and helped bring them recognition in their own country . The Project Arts Centre 's 1983 exhibition " Making Sense : Ten Painters 1963-1983 , " which included work of Graham and Maguire , was Ireland 's version of London 's " New Spirit in Painting " ( 1981 ) see A.i.A. , Summer ' ' 81 and Berlin 's " Zeitgeist " ( 1982 ) see A.i.A. , Mar. ' ' 83 exhibitions . The show also lent strength to the Independent Artists group . Graham 's large oil paintings and collaged drawings have the seething aubergine black of the bogs and the austere gray of Dublin walls , chapels and cemeteries , bleared over sometimes with white , as if the pictures were weeping . Graham describes his works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Indeed , his collaged drawings resemble pages from an illuminated manuscript , while his paintings suggest altarpieces . Graham 's paintings look as if they have been to hell and back  --  rent and then sutured , painted on the reverse side , with the stretchers showing , one with a huge painted heart tied with a real bandage . Even in the gentler collages , images are shifted , obliterated and overlaid . The figures in these autobiographical paintings can be identified as the artist and his wife , son , mother and friends ; but surrounded with the halos , gold backgrounds and jewel-like borders of traditional religious painting , the artist 's family becomes the Holy Family , just as Captain 's Hill  --  a site in Mullingar , County Meath , that Graham has returned to throughout his life  --  represents , among other things , the hill of Calvary . In its many births and deaths , each of Graham 's works recapitulates the near-fatal seven-year upheaval in the artist 's 20s , when he broke with the restraints of his Irish upbringing ( Catholicism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ esthetic of his art school training . During this period , he abandoned his prodigious ability to draw and was institutionalized many times for alcoholism . " I reinvented myself as an artist , " Graham says , " by returning to what moved me as a child "  --  citing the colors of the bogs and poppy fields , the magic in words , the sense of the body as sensual and beautiful rather than a " vessel of perdition , " and the paintings of Piero della Francesca . Graham 's recent paintings and drawings reflect on the death of his mother . The overall cast is the ocherous yellow of the clay flung up as her grave was dug . The Catholic images of the chalice , sacred heart and crucifix  --  symbols of faith , love and death  --  have been joined in Graham 's work by a long narrow ark that can be read as a symbol of female sexuality . In Ark of Dreaming ( 1990 ) , the gold-lined ark is bearing a standing female figure , her hair flowing behind her , out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in all Graham 's paintings and drawings , words and phrases ( " I am water poured out , " " Requiem Requiem , " " Te Deum , " " Always Always , " " Good Bye Dear Heart " ) rise up with magical power and are incorporated into the work , naming , framing and underscoring the image . The agitated , lustrous blacks and urban grays of Maguire 's large expressionist paintings are lit from within by patches of pinks and blues , and by yellows that suggest artificial light and the pallor of faces seen on Dublin streets . Maguire calls his paintings " short stories , psychological portraits . " The emotional state of the urgent , primitively painted figures sets up the strong interior architecture . Vertical panels and transverse lines isolate and cage lovers . In Self Burying Demons ( 1983 ) , the wary-eyed , haunted artist , naked to the waist , is depicted within a divided space that works like a three-part mirror : pressing in on him from the left is the glaring yellow light of the studio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a woman with clawing hands . Alongside his paintings of himself , his family and friends , Maguire has also expressed his wider concerns for Dublin in his " icons . " The images in these paintings are drawn from Dublin 's streets : a distraught , impoverished woman with a pram ; a young man killed trying to rob the dole office ; a flushed , frightened roadside assassin kneeling over his victim . As in all Maguire 's paintings , the situation of the central figure dictates the perspective . In Liffey Suicide ( 1984 ) , the bridge in the painting is seen from underneath because Maguire has assumed the point of view of the corpses floating in the river . Maguire 's Dublin paintings ( 1983-87 ) have been followed by a series on the city 's prisons , where he has taught for the past six years . In the gloomy world of Portloaise  --  cages , tunnels , little ladders , portholed light  --  Maguire finds a metaphor for Irish society , and for the human condition . Just as Maguire 's paintings expose how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ express our capacity for release , for fulfillment . Of his 1990 painting , Dreams and Jail Visiting , Prison , the artist says : " One can find prisons in marriage and great love in a cell . " From Mother Ireland to Sheela-na-Gig : Women Artists Revise Irish History Living in a society that was both colonized and patriarchal , Irish women have been doubly oppressed , doubly marginalized . " I thought that ours indeed was a land of shame , a land of murder , and a land of strange , throttled , sacrificial women , " says a character in an Edna O'Brien story . The unequal status of Irish women  --  in the eyes of church and state , in marriage and in the workplace  --  has been reinforced by the frequent depictions of Ireland as a woman in need of rescue , from the beautiful Cathleen ni Houlihan awaiting her deliverer , to Mother Ireland sending her sons off to war . But the situation for women in Ireland is changing . Just since 1990 , Mary Robinson , a crusader for women 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irish women won their highest number of seats in the Dail ( parliament ) ; and anti-abortion laws have been liberalized . Since the early ' ' 80s , the feminist spirit behind these political gains has been informing the work of Irish women artists , particularly in the Republic . In 1984 , the National Maternity Hospital in Dublin accepted Pauline Cummins 's offer to paint a mural to be called Celebration : The Beginning of Labor . Cummins produced an exuberant 13-by-9-foot mural for the hospital courtyard , in which a nude pregnant woman was conveyed aloft in triumph by two large nude round-thighed running women . The mural , which could be seen from the street , occasioned so much controversy that within a week of its completion the hospital 's board of directors had arranged to have it whitewashed . As an indication of how the climate has changed , 10 years later the same hospital , on the occasion of its 100th anniversary , invited Cummins to carry out her plans for another celebration of pregnancy and birth . This time she will create a video @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photography of swimming babies and images of dancers responding to the movements of the babies . Alice Maher believes a feminist stance is inevitable for Irish women : " I come to feminism through lived experience . Here  --  where history , church and judiciary have had such a huge part in shaping and constricting us  --  the struggle really is an ongoing everyday experience . " Like women artists around the world , Maher and others are exploring bodily experience , sexuality , motherhood , psychological issues of self-image , the bonds between women and male/female relationships . Irish women artists are also re-visioning Irish history , its tragedies of famine , emigration , colonialism and civil war , and addressing the history of domestic and economic exploitation of Irish women . In her slide/recording piece Inis t-Oirr ( 1985 ) , Pauline Cummins reminds the audience that the patterns for Aran Island sweaters " come from the woman 's head .... Women have been drawing with wool for quite some time . Weaving their dreams and fantasies into garments for their children , for themselves , and for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'll weave you a tale . " Irish women artists tend to favor nontraditional forms ( photography , video , installation , performance , multi-media ) as well as materials drawn from rural and domestic life . In their work , one also sees public and political meaning informed by bodily experience , personal narrative and intense empathy . Kathy Prendergast 's identification with the wall-builders during the Great Potato Famine is carried almost to the point of kinesthesia . Although she has lived in London 's East End for more than a decade , Prendergast , who was awarded the Premio Duemila at the 1995 Venice Biennale , strives to recapture her memories of Ireland . In one work a small bronze island ( suggestive of her native land ) sits atop a cone-shaped " sea " of layers of indigo-blue felt ; a second presents a wall of quarried chalk ( such as those found in the west of Ireland ) ; in a third , a canvas tent clamps the floor with a webbed grip while arching its spiny backbone like an island rising out of the sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be entered , and even lived in  --  an important point for the artist . Prendergast compares her working methods  --  drawing in charcoal hundreds of individual stones on a scroll , cutting , dyeing and winding felt around a frame to make her " sea , " building the chalk wall  --  to the labors of those who built stone walls , for a penny a week , during the famine . In Land ( 1990 ) she paints the tent 's peaks a darker hue and leaves the valleys white , like elevation shadings on a map . Suggestive of cartography , her sculpture is , however , meant to exist in an imaginary realm : the small island is almost 8 feet high , out of reach ; the chalk wall is ethereal and white , powdery and untouchable ; the stretched tent lifts slightly off the ground , as though floating . In The Country Blooms a Garden and a Grave , her 1992 installation at the Irish Museum of Modern Art , Dublin artist Alanna O'Kelly memorialized the 19th-century famine by taking the spectator on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enormous photos of the mass grave in County Mayo and of bony-fingered , supplicating hands caked with stone dust recalled the road-building relief work during the famine . " Our landscape is marked with memory , " O'Kelly believes , " and our lives still echo these events . " On the soundtrack are sounds of keening , the traditional wailing lament of Irish women at wakes . In contrast to these tragic scenes of starvation , O'Kelly offered an archetypal image of nourishment : a videotape of her own breast flowing with milk for her baby son . Like so much contemporary Irish political art , this installation had relevance to events outside of Ireland  --  here it was hard not to think of Somalia , for instance . Dublin artist Dorothy Cross is preoccupied with gender and the Jungian concept of animus/anima , the image of woman in man and man in woman . In her 1991 exhibition " Power House " at the ICA in Philadelphia , Cross re-created an abandoned electricity-generating station on Dublin Bay in which the equipment and many of the men 's belongings had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist treated the building , which had served as her studio for over a year , like a piece of found sculpture . As a female artist she was penetrating what had once been a totally male kingdom , domesticating it , feminizing it , bringing it back to life in a new form : a male/female space that married the industrial and the domestic , a new kind of power house . Dresser , one of the pieces in the installation , was an abandoned cupboard in which great rusted wrenches , hooks , nuts and bolts cohabited peacefully with shimmering , fragile wine glasses arrayed in orderly rows . The piece constituted the artist 's vision of an ideal realm where male and female are truly integrated . " The whole idea of the show , " Cross explained , " is the overlap of power in both terrains ... the possibility of strength and power in women and the acceptance of vulnerability of males . " Four years ago , in a museum in Norway , Cross saw an unusual object : a cow 's udder that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sieve . This inspired " The Udder , " an on-going series begun in 1992 , in which the artist covers various structures in cowhides , with the animal 's teats predominant . The structures are objects associated with traditional female roles ( an ironing board , a dressmaker 's dummy , a bridal mannequin ) or with masculine power ( a saddle-horse ) . Continuing Cross 's interest in symbolic and sexual overlapping , the series is more physical , its feminizing strategies more aggressive than those in " Power House . " The bristly white cowhides , with their huge chocolate-brown blotches and bald pink areas , are startlingly organic . In Amazon ( 1992 ) the udder on the cowskin-covered dressmaker 's dummy occupies the position of the female warrior 's single breast ; a teat , having dried and become rigid , projects from it like a phallus . The tall mannequin in Virgin Shroud ( 1993 ) wears the silk train from Cross 's grandmother 's 1914 wedding dress , together with a long , rippling veil of white-and-brown cowhide and a crown of four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word ) the primitive , fecund aspects of femininity and combining them with icons of masculine strength , Cross 's transmutations enter the unbounded world of ambiguity . During the IRA Hunger Strikes of 1999-81 , Pauline Cummins was living in Canada Watching those events on television impelled her to take on the subject of Northern Ireland . In her filmed performance Unearthed ( 1988 ) , Cummins immediately embodies the Northern conflict : " Irish ? I 'm not really Irish . You see , my mother was English , " she says . Taking the long view of Irish history , Cummins connects the victims of violence in the North and the bog people  --  ritually slain men , women and children of the Iron Age whom the bog has perfectly preserved for 2,000 years . As she reflects on the outbreak of the Troubles in 1968  --  " Politics never seemed to matter , and then Derry happened "  --  the artist 's face , sometimes ironic , grave and controlled , at other times wincing in anguish , alternates on the screen with a series of six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grass . With their eye slits , twisted mouth holes and missing noses , the masks are at once bog people and the bandaged , Northern dead who wo n't stay buried . " They 're waiting for a cease-fire , " Cummins says . " They 're manning the checkpoints .... They 're running the country .... They 're holding a wake . For us . " Cummins seems to be suggesting that we , the living , are trapped in a bog of history . In Sounding the Depths ( 1992 ) , a multimedia installation created at the Irish Museum of Modern Art in collaboration with Louise Walsh , Cummins returned to the theme of female self-discovery and emotional development . In a statement about the work she said : " Because we are in such a beleaguered state , many women are wary of exposing any vulnerability on their part . Louise and I felt it was necessary to abandon this defensive self-repression . We wanted to make images for Irish women , or perhaps for all women ... images to announce that we will go from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the physical parallel of the emotional passage from repression to release , with strong allusions to sexual union and to birth . In the anteroom , large color photos showed a bare opened , hard white cockleshell , human fingers pinched together and bitter , tight , martyred female mouths . The images suggested repression and defensiveness . Next , a rear-projection video at the end of a long dark corridor  --  the birth passage  --  recorded the change from " oppression to self-love " by showing a twisting mouth and hands writhing together , as though in labor . The mouth was seen projected onto the naked belly of one of the artists who , acting as midwife to her own self , gazed down at the mouth and with gently moving hands coaxed it to open . Suddenly the closed mouth gasped and broke into laughter ; the pink tongue inside danced and the artist lifted her head exultantly . The undercurrent of sounds accompanying the installation  --  gurgling water , seabed soundings from fishing boats , moist interior noises of saliva and ardent breathing , female laughter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self . The final , darkened room of the installation , the " womb , " was lined with 7 1/4-by-5 foot Cibachrome images of naked women , lit from within like light-boxes . Each had an open , calling , laughing mouth on her torso . " A wound has been opened , " say the artists , " revealing our insides and inner feelings . " In Cummins and Walsh 's work , Mary and Mother Ireland have been replaced by an ancient Celtic fertility icon , the round-bodied , sensuous and fierce figure of a Sheela-na-Gig . Part Two of the article will appear in a forthcoming issue . 1 . Irish Women Artists : From the Eighteenth Century to the Present Day , National Gallery of Ireland and Douglas Hyde Gallery , Dublin , 1987 , p. 61 . Author : Judith Higgins is a free-lance writer specializing in contemporary British and Irish art . <p>                     