@@409293

The Battle of Midway marked the turning point of World War II in the Pacific , bringing worldwide fame to this remote subtropical atoll . Decades before that , Midway was used by the Pacific Cable Company as part of its cable-laying operations and , later , by Pan American Airlines as a refueling stop for the old Clipper ships . Human activity is much reduced now , but the atoll is still very much alive and provides breeding grounds for more than a million seabirds , belonging to fourteen different species . At least nine of these species nest in the open , exposing eggs , chicks , and adults to intense sun . The sooty tern , which commonly lays its single egg in a shallow depression dug from coral rubble and which has black , heat-absorbing feathers on its back , is perhaps the most exposed of all . During the breeding season , air temperature at nest level often exceeds 100deg F and ground temperature may rise above 122deg F. To make matters worse , the light-colored , highly reflective coral rubble is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach lethal temperatures of 108deg F ( average egg temperature during incubation is 101deg F ) , adults spend much of the twenty-six-day incubation period cooling , rather than warming , their eggs . During the hottest part of the day , for example , parent birds spend more than 90 percent of their time shading their egg . Adults also make frequent trips to the water 's edge to wet their breast feathers . The water soaked up this way can be used to cool the egg by evaporation , as is done by Egyptian plovers , killdeer , and a number of other shorebirds . After hatching , sooty tern chicks grow slowly , fledging after fifty-five to sixty days of complete dependence on their parents for food ( mainly flying fish and squid ) and water ( which is regurgitated along with the food ) . Young chicks also rely completely on shadows cast by the parents ' bodies for protection from the heat . If left in the open , a two-day-old chick ( weighing roughly one ounce ) may reach a body temperature of 112deg F @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nervous system malfunctions . Unable to stand , orient itself , or move to shade , the chick soon dies . Older chicks ( fourteen days and older ) are no longer sheltered by adults and may reach similar temperatures but can cool themselves down effectively by panting and seeking shade . Panting ( which facilitates the evaporation of water from the respiratory lining ) cools the bird , but it also uses up precious water . Without access to shade , the chick can regulate its temperature only if it gets enough water . Gathering food for themselves and their offspring is not an easy task for seabirds nesting on Midway . Sooty terns and most other true oceanic birds may fly tens of miles offshore to feed ( generally ignoring , for unknown reasons , the richer water immediately surrounding the atoll ) . They bring back meals at least once a day , most frequently in the late afternoon or early evening ; about half the time , the chicks will receive two food deliveries a day . Sooty tern chicks under four weeks old have enough fat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rarely last that long , suggesting that , for the short-term anyway , the lack of water is of greater consequence . What physiological and ecological adjustments must birds make to breed in such a harsh environment ? Fortunately , Midway provides a natural experiment allowing us to find some answers . During the early part of this century , both the Pacific Cable Company and Pan American Airlines brought in nonnative vegetation to the island , including a tree in the genus Casuarina , commonly known as the Australian pine . Casuarinas have spread over much of Midway , many of the trees growing up through cracks in the abandoned runways . The trees provide shade and , through evapotranspiration , natural air conditioning . Air and ground temperatures under the casuarinas rarely exceed 84deg F and 90deg F , respectively . Sooty terns generally establish breeding colonies under the trees first , occupying areas in the open only after the shaded spots are all taken . Adults that nest under the trees rarely shade eggs or chicks , and both adults and chicks are only rarely observed panting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two habitats , we found that through forty days of age , those chicks lucky enough to be in the shade of a pine tree grew about 15 percent faster than those in the open , with no discernible difference in food intake . Also , although our field experiments detected no difference in daily energy expenditure between birds in the two types of habitats , water loss was substantially greater in chicks raised in the open . These data suggest that shaded chicks use less energy maintaining normal body function and can thus allocate more to growth . Sooty terns adapted long ago to Midway 's harsh environment , nesting successfully for countless years before there was a single pine to offer shade . However , able to recognize a good thing when they see it , at least some of the birds can now provide their chicks with the very tangible benefits of keeping cool . <p>                     