@@480969

well and elaborately staged . I do n't think I would have been so disappointed by the omission of the scene with the horse . The American government clearly had gone to no small trouble to make the invasion of Panama a memorable photo opportunity , and on the fourth or fifth day , after the Army had quelled what was left of the armed resistance , I began to hope that President Bush might make a cameo appearance in the streets of Panama City . I imagined him on a white horse , waving a slouch hat like the one Teddy Roosevelt wore in Cuba during the splendid , little Spanish-American War . The prospect did n't seem to me too farfetched , because so much else about the invasion resembled a gallery of dioramas meant to replicate selected scenes from the nation 's military history : parachute drops in the manner of World War I l , helicopter sorties suggestive not only of Vietnam but also of the movie Apocalypse Now , a $1 million bounty on the head of a bandit() reminiscent of the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I thought it possible that the Army might have brought the horse on the same cargo plane that brought the T-shirts printed with the slogan " Operation Just Cause . " Maybe the President 's theatrical advisers thought that he did n't cut a fine enough figure on horseback , or , more probably , they did n't schedule the scene with the horse because nobody could be certain of the exact moment at which Mr. Bush might be called upon to ride in triumph up An-con Hill . The promoters of the event D ? j ? Vu By Lewis H. Lapham could anticipate a prompt victory over the Panamanian army , but then they had to confront the logistics of Christmas . What if Mr. Bush had already been scheduled to light the tree on the White House lawn or hand out dolls in an orphanage ? I can appreciate the difficulties , and I know that the staging of an invasion is just as complicated as the staging of the Rose Bowl Parade or the Miss America Pageant , but , even so , I missed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overly technical , but if Mr. Bush wishes to reenact the glorious American past , his staff should aspire to the standards of accuracy achieved by the Civil War enthusiasts who organize the annual restoration of the Battle of Gettysburg . It was , of course , President Teddy Roosevelt 's policy that Mr. Bush chose to resurrect , and Roosevelt , accompanied by a troop of Rough Riders , entered Panama City on horseback soon after he seized the Canal Zone in 1903 on behalf of what he called " the interests of collective civilization . " Like Mr. Bush , Roosevelt had little feeling or sympathy for anything so absurd as Panamanian sovereignty . To Roosevelt , the Latin American nations were " those wretched republics ! that ' cause me a great deal of trouble , " and he regarded most Latin American politicians as " wicked and inefficient types " whom the United States was obliged to correct and chastise for their " chronic wrongdoing . " To Roosevelt , the great game of gunboat diplomacy was both adventure and Sunday school sermon , a chance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preach the lessons of free enterprise and Christian virtue . He conceived of foreign policy as a missionary enterprise , and his biblical reading of geopolitics set the course of American diplomacy in the twentieth century . In Washington the gentry acquired the habit of looking upon the Latin American republics as the servants ' quarters of the Western Hemisphere and the Latin American peoples as the household help . Every so often one or another of the " wicked and inefficient types " forgets his place , becomes insolent or presumes too much , consorts with Communists or steals the family silver . On such occasions , the United States invariably sends the Marines . Because hardly anybody in Washington has ever thought of the Latin American republics as sovereign stares , it seldom occurs to anybody that the Central Americans might possess the right to do anything other than what they 're told to do . The traditional bias was reflected in the American media 's indifference to details of the damage inflicted on Panama during last December 's invasion . About the American casualties the media were precise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Panamanian casualties they were as vague as a Park Avenue hostess talking about the rumors of drug killings in Harlem . Some reporters put the number of Panamanian casualties at 300 dead and 1,000 wounded ; other reporters guessed that maybe 1,000 were dead and 3,000 wounded ; but nobody took the trouble to assemble accurate figures . What difference did it make ? Who counted the number of Mexicans dead at Tampico ! Nor were the Panamanians allowed to install their new president or mete out their own justice to General Manuel Noriega . The Americans installed their hired puppet , Guillermo Endara , in a ceremony hastily convened at an American military base and applauded by a claque of dignitaries recruited from the 82nd Airborne Di- No American government , of course , admits to so bald a use of force . The doctrines of American exceptionalism forbid American politicians to see any contradiction between what they practice and what they preach . America is always and everywhere innocent , a country so favored by fortune that its cause is always just . In deference to the presiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for last December 's invasion . None of them can pass honest examination , but I think them worth rebutting in some detail if for no other reason than to indicate the contempt implicit in their shoddiness . Had the Panamanians been deemed important enough to warrant first-class sophistry drawn up by a first-class lawyer , the United States might have taken the trouble to manufacture pretexts of a slightly higher grade . Safeguarding American lives A pretext that allows the United States government to send troops to any city in the world , not only to Lima or Bogota but also to Detroit and East Los Angeles . The planning of the invasion quite clearly had been in progress for several weeks , and the killing of a single American soldier at a military checkpoint on the Saturday preceding the Wednesday on which the paratroops arrived from points west and north merely served as an incident of convenience . One or more American soldiers die in some sort of incident every month at one or another of our military outposts somewhere in the world , and of the American citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The United States at all times maintains a garrison of 12,000 troops in Panama , a force equal in strength to the entire Panamanian army and fully capable of defending American nationals against any assault . To protect the Panama Canal From whom ? General Noriega never threatened to destroy the Canal , possibly for the very good reason that the tolls charged to ships passing through the Canal provide Panama with its principal source of revenue . The treaty signed by President Carterin 1977 granted Panama eventual jurisdiction over the Canal , and unless the United States wishes to declare the treaty null and void , the Panamanians retain the right to operate the Canal in whatever manner they deem fit . The American Congress verified the treaty because it had been persuaded that the Canal had lost its value as a strategic American interest . The interest was real enough when the Canal opened for business in 1914 . The Canal allowed American naval vessels an easy transit between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans , and in the early years of the century , before the building of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commerce between the east and the west coasts of the United States . By 1950 most of the dry cargo moved by railroad or truck , and the Navy 's newest ships , like the larger oil tankers , were too big to pass through the locks at Miraflores . To restore to Panama the principle and practice of democracy A reason so specious that it could ' 11 be mistaken for satire . The fiction of a free and independent Panama bears analogy to the fiction of a free and independent South Vietnam . Throughout the twentieth century the United States has intervened at will in Panamanian political affairs , sustaining the corrupt oligarchies that governed the country in the 1920s and 1930s , casting out a democratically elected government in 1941 , destroying another democratically elected government in 1969 , funding the military despotism practiced over a period of twenty years by generals Omar Torrijos and Manuel Noriega . What Washington has always wanted in Panama is not a democratic government but a gamekeeper who could be trusted to manage the rabbits . Interdicting the drug trade A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's hope of burning all the cocoa plants in Peru . Panama City lost much of its importance to the drug trade in 1988 , after the United States imposed sanctions on the Panamanian economy and restricted the credit available to the Panamanian banks , Because the banks could no longer act as clearinghouses for money acquired under questionable circumstances , the South American drug cartels moved their business out of town . The rescue of the brave and oppressed Panamanian people Another doubtful proposition . The Panamanians have never been known for their idealism , their political courage , or their passionate love of liberty . Panama is a nation of middlemen who thrive on tolls , offshore banking , percentages , pieces of the action , and flags of convenience . So profound is the Panamanian allegiance to the doctrine of the bottom line that the whole of Panama City could be confused with a duty-free shop . Panamanian politics traditionally have avoided the difficulties of issues or beliefs ; they have been centered instead on rich and charismatic individuals who govern by means of patronage and bribery . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no matter what the form of their nominal rhetoric ) have left highoffice without having amassed fortunes large enough to assure the comfort of their retirement in Miami or Paris . Not being the kind of people to make their own revolutions , the Panamanians gratefully received the deliverance arranged for them by the United States , and they were only too happy to wear the T-shirts advertising " Operation Just Cause . " Within an hour of swearing himself into office , the new Panamanian president reminded his new American friends that he was hard-pressed for money . The good citizens of Panama City responded to the promise of freedom not by lighting candles ( as was done in Prague ) or by defying a column of tanks ( as was done in Beijing ) , but by looting the nearest store . Jubilant Panamanians , their arms filled with stolen TV sets and microwave ovens , greeted American soldiers in the ruined streets with loud cries of " Viva Bush . " The capture of the devil incarnate The Bush administration made a point of insisting that the capture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sufficient reason for the invasion . Never in the history of mankind had so terrible a villain preyed upon the peace of nations . The American news media obligingly elaborated the line of official propaganda with testimonials to Noriega 's monstrous depravity ? a man who practiced voodoo , molested teenage girls , kept a mistress , indulged his bestial appetite for drink , pornography , and cocaine , adorned his walls with portraits of Hitler , took sadistic pleasure in acts of torture and murder . On CBS News , Dan Rather placed the general " at the top of the list of the world 's drug thieves and scums . " The nomination was seconded by ABC and NBC , as well as by all of the country 's major newspapers and newsmagazines . When Noriega first eluded his captors , the New York Post asked , in 200-point type on its front page , " Where 's the rat ? " The image does n't quite fit all the facts . As a young army officer , Noriega was recruited by the CIA in 1967 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy drinking and sexual peculiarities , he performed faithful service to his employers in return for fees that eventually were raised to $200,000 per annum . He became acquainted with President Bush in the 1970s , when Bush was director of the CIA , and in the 1980s , after he had acceded to power with the enthusiastic endorsement of Washington , Noriega allowed the Americans to make use of Panama as an intelligence and weapons base for the war against the Sandinista government in Nicaragua . Judged by the standards of violence applicable elsewhere in Central America , Noriega 's behavior appears to have been almost benign . Between 1983 and 1989 the political killings in Panama numbered no more than twenty ; other regimes sponsored by the United States achieved far more savage effects ? as many as 40,000 civilians killed by an American-trained army in El Salvador since 1979 , 100,000 civilians killed in Guatemala since 1978 , an unknown number of civilians killed in Nicaragua since 1980 by the American-owned force of Contras . Nor does Noriega pass muster as an especially greedy or accomplished thief . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published in the American news media list his assets at $23 million held in Caribbean or European banks . The sum dwindles into a pittance when compared with the sums stolen by Ferdinand Marcos and the Shah of Iran , both clients of the United States who were far less zealous in their collaboration with the CIA than was General Noriega . Nor do the general 's profits seem excessive when compared with the cost overruns charged to the Pentagon by American defense contractors or with the sums stolen by Republican bankers from S &L; associations . The lack of a strategic or economic purpose for the invasion of Panama ( i.e. , the absence of any national interest other than Mr. Bush 's vanity and spite ) in no way compromised its success as a patriotic entertainment . No American politician and , to the best of my knowledge , nobody in the American news media thought to ask why the United States , the most heavily armed nation-state in the known world , should take pride in occupying a country so pitiably weak as to be all but helpless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the voices of mindless jingoism occupied the news media as securely as Task Force Bayonet and Task Force Red occupied Panama . Colonel Ron Sconyers , spokesman for the Pentagon 's Southern Command , appeared on ABC 's PrimeTime Live to strike the note to which most newspapers tuned the band music of their editorial pages : " If you have to fight and shed a little blood for democracy ... it 's great . " Robert M. Teeter , President Bush 's pollster , explained that the invasion showed his chief to be " a guy who knows how to be president , how to make government work . " " A triumph for diplomacy , " said Senator Edward Kennedy , and a triumph for justice . " Together with Lee Atwater , the chairman of the Republican National Committee , who congratulated Mr. Bush for winning a political " jackpot , " R. W. Apple Jr . of the New York Times thought that the President hadproved his mettle and earned his stripes , that he had moved into the ranks of " American leaders " who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrate their willingness to shed blood to protect or advance ... the national interest . " Apple went on to say that Bush had erased his image of indecisiveness and shown himself " a man capable of bold action . " Mr. Bush 's invasion of Panama coincided with the revolution in Rumania , and the contrast between the two sets of footage made plain the degree to which the American media have come to function as a government information service . The news from Bucharest looked like news ; the news from Panama City looked like a commercial . In Rumania the cameras followed the fighting in the streets , but in Panama the American audience saw nothing but cheering crowds and Pentagon public-relations officers . The American military declared the scene of the fighting off-limits to the American press . Journalists asking to see the Army 's own game films were told to file a request under the Freedom of Information Act . As an advertisement for Mr. Bush , the invasion of Panama satisfied all but the most demanding requirements set by the promoters of the event . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triumphant American past , with a nineteenth-century America stilt defended by Teddy Roosevelt and two oceans , with Ronald Reagan 's postcard optimism , with John Wayne under the cottonwood trees at the head of the canyon , hopelessly outnumbered by Apaches and rustlers and Mexican bandits , standing his ground as the steadfast symbol of the American belief that with a shy smile , enough ammunition , and a few kind words to the sheriff , time can be made to stand still . Like Roosevelt and Reagan and Wayne , President Bush promised to defend the sanctity of myth against the heresy of fact . If the effect was a little false , not quite up to the standards of big-time Hollywood epic , it was because Bush forgot what Roosevelt and Reagan and Wayne never forgot : No matter what the producer says , or how much the director complains , always bring the horse .                     