@@397964

" Family is important because it is the only institution in contemporary society that is unabashedly committed to love and caring as its primary function . " - Michael Lerner in The Politics of Meaning Photograph // For years the debate on family values has focused more on ideology than on what actually keeps families together . Now social scientists are trying to shift the basis of family policy from politics to research . FAMILY ISSUES HAVE LONG BEEN HELD PRISONER BY POLITICS , and a particularly narrow cell of politics at that . To care about families is to have " family values , " a term that has been co-opted by ideologues , especially those on the political right . Conservatives have not simply dominated public discourse on family issues ; they have framed the debate . And for some time now , to be " pro-family " has largely boiled down to one thing : being against divorce . Certainly there have been great changes in the American family over the past several decades . One child in four is now born to unmarried parents . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has increased sevenfold since 1970 . Divorce has been epidemic for some 25 years . And families with children are feeling particularly burdened these days , as more and more kids grow up poor . The political right insists that such problems are fallout from the liberalization of divorce laws which occurred throughout the 1970s and early SOs , and it has begun a campaign to rewrite or repeal laws that allow easy-to-obtain , no-fault divorces . In late June , Louisiana marked the first legislative success of a nationwide movement led by conservative Christians : the state now permits couples who are tying the knot to choose a particularly binding marital contract called " covenant marriage " ( a biblical-sounding term for the covenant with God embodied in Christian marriage ) . Couples can still opt for a standard marriage , dissolvable by no-fault divorce , but if they choose a covenant marriage the relationship can be ended only if one spouse can prove that the other has committed adultery , abandoned the home , been imprisoned for a felony , or abused their spouse or children . A separation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can end . But independent thinkers around the country are beginning to alter the nature of the family values debate . They believe that family issues and family policy have been defined too narrowly for too long . They see a much broader array of actions-by government and business as well as by individuals-that affect families and their problems . These factors include the role economic policies play , subtly or overtly , in influencing family composition ; the availability of jobs and job training ; the supply of suitable men ; and numerous others . The " M " Word One of the new thinkers is Theodora Ooms , M.S.W , executive director of the Family Impact Seminar , a Washington-based think tank . She contends that while politicians and government officials have vowed to strengthen and support families , they have left out the primary ingredient . " Programs and services designed to support families in fact focus only on mothers and children , " she says . But " the cornerstone of the family-the relationship of the couple , whether married or unmarried-has been essentially ignored . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ooms invited scholars to shift the center of family-values discussion from ideology to research-based information . The ultimate goal : to broaden family policy so that it is informed by all the facts , takes into account the needs of all the members of a family , and supports the relationship that is the family foundation-without condemning those women ( or men ) who are raising children on their own . Ooms believes that making marriages harder to dissolve is not the best way to support families . That has the effect of trapping unhappy families in their misery and , perhaps , of exposing abused women and men to danger . And by raising the " cost " of marriage , it could well push more couples into cohabitation , where legal protection exists neither for partners nor for any children they may have . The most sensible approach is not to make marriage harder to get out of , but to make marriage better to be in . After all , Ooms points out , marriage remains a goal for the vast majority of Americans . Ninety percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It 's puzzling , " she says , " that policy-makers have invested so little in finding out what , if anything , can be done to help marriages succeed . " In " tribute " to their avoidance , Ooms often refers to marriage as " the M-word . " Better SEX One reason marriage is desirable is that when it works well , it has emotional payoffs for partners . But Linda Waite , Ph.D. , a sociologist at the University of Chicago , has marshaled evidence that marriage also has substantial benefits for health and well-being . Among the findings Waite reports : Married men drink less , live more safely , and live longer . Especially for men , marriage supplies a crucial network of emotional support . Married women have better health , and live in better material circumstances , than single or cohabiting women . Married people lead more active sex lives . While cohabiting couples have similarly high levels of sex , married men and women report more satisfaction in the bedroom . That 's because married people know the tastes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the emotional investment in the relationship can boost the thrill . In addition to having more sex , the married have more money . Two can live , if not as cheaply as one , then certainly as cheaply as one and a half ; they spend less to maintain the same lifestyle than if they lived separately . Further , married partners are more productive around the home than single people because each spouse can afford to develop some skills and neglect others , thereby increasing efficiency . Married couples also save more of their earnings than do single people at the same level of income . Marriage leads to higher wages for men ; it gives them an incentive to work harder . While married motherhood lowers women 's wages on average , they often use their husband 's support to give them time with their kids , a benefit generally unavailable to the unmarried . Children do better in two-parent families . Children in single-parent households are twice as likely to drop out of high school , and they are more likely to become teenage parents . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They may suffer from the lack of access to the time and attention of two adults ; when fathers are married to the mothers of their children , the fathers ' involvement in their children 's life tends to be far greater . Children of single-parent families also move more often , thereby losing such important sources of support as neighbors and other community members . Unfortunately , since the 1950s black men and women have been less likely to share in the benefits of marriage than whites , Waites notes . Although marriage rates have dropped for both blacks and whites , the decline among blacks is far steeper : currently , six in 10 black adults are not married . Moreover , while rates of cohabitation have increased , the evidence clearly shows that " living together " is qualitatively different from marriage . For one thing , the commitment of marriage makes specialization in chores and responsibilities sensible ; spouses count on their partners to fill in for them where they are weak . By contrast , cohabitation is unstable , easy to get out of , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far superior at connecting people to others work acquaintances , in-laws-who are a source of support and benefits . It links married people to a world larger than themselves . Waite believes the evidence supports a public health approach to marriage : make the evidence of its emotional and physical benefits widely available . Some folks who have been skeptical of marriage , she believes , will then reconsider . Love 's LOSS to Labor In addition to the private aspirations of two partners , there are many forces in the culture that affect marriage . One of the most important is work . Business has an important stake in shaping family policy , observes Dana Friedman , Ph.D. , who heads Corporate Solutions , a New York consulting firm . She notes that marital status is absolutely critical in companies ' promotion decisions ; a Business Week survey , for example , found that 98 percent of top male corporate executives were married and had kids . Yet many companies do nothing to support marriage . Although companies now know that family issues-like finding child care-carry over into work performance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over into the home . In fact , reports Friedman , there are many aspects of work that actively impede good family relationships and place great strains on marriages : Work is more stressful today At many companies , people are working longer hours at a faster pace , cutting into family time and making it more difficult to shift from work mode to family mode . And lowered work morale is generally dispiriting , affecting not just on-the-job performance but home life as well . As a result of corporate restructuring , there is no longer a guarantee of lifelong employment , adding an element of uncertainty to couples ' long-term plans . While some companies have become aware of the link between work and family and have implemented policies such as paternity leave , companies are less likely to promote workers who actually use these policies . Important as company policies are to the balance between work and home life , a study at Johnson &; Johnson identified other elements of the work environment as even more crucial : control over work hours , particularly during a crunch time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atmosphere . The impact of work issues on home life is three times greater than the impact of home life on work , Friedman reports . Yet companies fail to take responsibility for this , even though surveys show that achieving balance between home and life is a leading concern of employees , and that those who achieve this work-life balance become the most motivated workers . " Being a family-friendly company is no longer just about programs and policies , " says Friedman . " It 's about the culture of work and changing the relationships among co-workers . " Work/life balance must be a strategy that 's totally integrated with missions and business goals . IT 'S THE ECONOMY , STUPID It 's not just the nature of the workplace that can wreak havoc on families . Its also whether there 's a workplace to go to at all . And for African-Americans , especially , job uncertainty not only has ( continued on page 78 ) an impact on families , but may determine whether marriages occur at all . Contrary to conventional wisdom , moral values or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' decisions to marry , reports M. Belinda Tucker , Ph.D. , professor of psychiatry and biobehavioral sciences at UCLA . The single most crucial factor is the climate of economic uncertainty in their particular community . Tucker is in the midst of a 21-city survey of factors that influence family formation . So far , results show that AfricanAmericans still value marriage and raising kids in marriage . In fact , she has found that in general , African-Americans hold more traditional values than whites . African-American women hold particularly traditional expectations for male roles . Simply put , they expect husbands to work . And when men do n't work , women do n't mary Like many women , AfricanAmerican women say they do n't want to take on a mate with lower economic prospects than their own . The trouble is that the economic prospects of the available men often do not come close to meeting their expectations . Furthermore , unemployment creates enormous instability within the marriages that do occur . In those cities where unemployment rates are lowest , relationship satisfaction is greatest and marriages are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family policy must address economic insecurity . To be pro-family , then , is to be projob , especially for African-Americans . Indeed , other panelists suggested , one way government policy can be familyfriendly is to open up the economic prospects for low-income men , perhaps by giving them priority in job training and welfare-to-work programs . THE SHADOW OF DIVORCE The law also influences the actions of couples . No-fault divorce , for example , unwittingly enforces gender inequality , because men typically have less to lose than women in leaving a relationship , according to Amy Wax , M.D. , J.D. , an associate professor at the University of Virginia School of Law . For example , women over the age of 40 face a much lower remarriage rate than their ex-husbands , in part because of their limited reproductive lives . And women are generally worth far less on the labor market , especially if they stopped working full-time to have kids . These advantages increase men 's bargaining power within marriages . In short , the " threat factor is higher for men , " Wax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help women : it leaves untouched men 's disproportionate power within marriage . And since marriages , even successful ones , " are always conducted in the shadow of divorce , " Wax insists that " any discussion of the methods , costs , and benefits of keeping marriages together must take into account the gender asymmetries-in remarriage prospects , roles , and earning power-that strengthen men 's bargaining power . " Participants at the Washington round table agreed that efforts at the beginning of marriage , such as marital education programs that change the way people negotiate , can give women more power . In fact , because marital education increases the benefits of staying together for both parties , it was called " the most promising reform . " Also singled out was the creation of tax policies that favor married couples . And state governments should consider restructuring welfare programs that penalize married couples by providing higher benefits to single women with children . A GROUP EFFORT The burden of making marriage work , Ooms concludes , ca n't be left just for couples to shoulder by themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials have a hand in . What binds flesh-and-blood couples is not love alone , or sheer determination , or morality Real family values must take into account the fact that programs and policies are always making and remaking the marital bed . <p>                     