@@342062

American democracy may be the inspiration of the world , but the transcendent spirit has dismally failed to uplift U.S. elections . Once again this year , politics has degenerated into a duel of negative TV spots , even before the desperation tactics that usually erupt in late October . In California , a barrage of blistering commercials in the Governor 's race conveys the impression that Charles Keating was a piker in the S &L; scandal compared with Republican Pete Wilson and Democrat Dianne Feinstein . Texas voters are so dispirited by the ugliness of the gubernatorial shoot-out that both candidates probably could be defeated by General Santa Anna . <P> Each day brings a new 30-second affront to fairness . A picture of discredited Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis slowly dissolves into the face of Democratic Senator John Kerry in a spot for G.O.P. Senate challenger Jim Rappaport . A Jesse Helms ad in North Carolina lovingly replays in slow motion his Democratic Senate challenger Harvey Gantt mouthing the phrase " whether it 's sex selection or whatever reason . " Evidence that Gantt lied when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not quite . Gantt 's words were snipped from a longer answer at a press conference restating his consistent pro-choice position . Even campaign ads responding to out-of-bounds attacks now take on a further negative spin . A new spot for Alabama Democratic gubernatorial challenger Paul Hubbert begins , " Guy Hunt 's launched a vicious negative campaign . He ca n't run on his record , so he 's resorted to outrageous false attacks . " <P> Must politics be as venomous and vacant as the atmospherics of a David Lynch movie ? Perhaps not : a few heartening signs are emerging of a movement to reform campaign tactics . There is renewed interest in congressional proposals to require that the candidate or his designated spokesman appear on camera throughout all TV spots . " That way you would be returning politics to speech , not emotive symbols , " argues Curtis Gans , the director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate . " It is n't attractive television for someone to just stand there and bad-mouth the opposition . " Last week People for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's likeness appear on-screen for at least four seconds in each TV commercial . Otherwise , the spot would not qualify for reduced advertising rates under current law . <P> Even as token a gambit as this four-second solution seems refreshing amid the depressing political landscape . It might be tempting to cast the media consultants as villains who substitute deceptive advertising techniques for high-minded dialogue . But many admakers feel as trapped by slash-and-burn campaigning as the hapless voters . " I hate going negative , " says G.O.P. consultant Don Ringe , who is creating ads for Senate candidates in Colorado and Hawaii . " But all of us , Democrats and Republicans , are corrupted by the system . "                     