@@394142

IN AN AGE when the sensitivity Gestapo hides behind every potted palm ready to leap out with righteous cudgels to smite the language and thrash the image that might possibly be construed as a disrespectful comment about any ethnic group , women , gays or people with disabilities , the Catholic Church remains a juicy target of public contempt in the media . A few conservative columnists may protest , but the mainstream press finds an occasional mortar round quite acceptable . Priest fires broadside , not a cannonball but birdshot , which though not fatal can be quite painful . This grim , dyspeptic little British film , originally conceived as a miniseries for the BBC , would probably pass all but unnoticed through a few of the major cities in North America , except for the controversy it will doubtless generate . If the discussion does not disintegrate into name-calling  --  though it inevitably will  --  it could generate a healthy debate for churches and media alike to join . On one side , the predictable critics of the Catholic Church , including professional atheists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will take morbid delight in the revelations of homosexuality , concubinage , bitterness and sham in the Catholic clergy . They have known about the hypocrisy of the church for years , and now this film presents evidence to support their opinion . Since all this material is true , they will maintain , only the most benighted , defensive and supersensitive could object . Watch for " religious right " and " Jesse Helms " in these commentaries . Equally predictable will be the condemnations and anathemas hurled by the usual militant Catholic spokespersons , many of whom will not have invested any time viewing the film before denouncing it as another vicious attack from the anti-Catholic film industry . According to these types , once more the dogmatic secularists have turned church bashing into a highly profitable cottage industry . Dust off the old editorials about " Last Temptation of Christ " ( Scorsese , 1988 ) . Here we go again . Watch for indirect references to Jewish , liberal and homosexual control of the arts . BURIED BENEATH the odious rhetoric in both positions lies a fragment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sociological tract . It is a work of fiction , and if it succeeds , it is a work of art . The form demands the imagined particular , not as representative of the whole , but as an interesting , entertaining or instructive individual . Some priests are active homosexuals ; some are bitter failures ; some try to deny their agonizing doubts about their vocations or their faith . This is fair grist for the artist 's mill . The miserly Shylock is not every Jew , nor the impetuous Othello every black male , nor the shrewish Kate every woman . Each is , however , a masterly , insightful artistic creation . On these grounds , is there a problem with " Priest " ? Unfortunately , there is . When the misery presented on the screen offers no hope other than a flimsy , theologically shaky escape hatch in the last minute and a half , one must wonder what kind of vision of church and churchmen scriptwriter Jimmy McGovern has . And if this vision is as bleak as the film indicates , why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denunciation from sources whose lives , traditions and values are reduced to cinematic nibble because of his skewed vision ? African-Americans , Italians , Arabs , Jews , women , gays and , I submit , the Irish , all have legitimate complaints when outsiders make films about their communities based on limited , inaccurate and perhaps hostile perceptions . These movie presentations can , and do in fact , help perpetuate some very ugly stereotypes that impinge on the lives of individuals . " Priest " fits this destructive pattern . It includes character portraits of five priests , all desperately unhappy men , whose problems stem from the institutional church . The theme is struck during the opening titles when the elderly Father Ellerton ( James Ellis ) broods bitterly over the news that the bishop thinks it is time for him to move on to less strenuous duties . He carries a huge crucifix through his impoverished parish neighborhood , takes a bus to the bishop 's suburban residence and , as the bishop watches in horror , the furious priest rams the cross through his splendidly leaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an embittered , abandoned man carrying his cross , becomes the violent antitype to the bishop 's smug , comfortable , institutional church . An insider 's reading of the situation might have given some notice to the fact that fixed terms for pastors , retirement plans and personnel boards have had for the most part a positive impact on both parishes and priests . For the purposes of his thesis , however , McGovern has to make Father Ellerton a martyr to the heartless bureaucracy of the church . The victimhood theme reasserts itself later in the film when this reluctantly retired priest tells the much younger Father Greg Pilkington ( Linus Roache ) to leave the priesthood while he is still strong enough for a new start . He himself would have left long ago , he says , but he had been afraid it would break his mother 's heart . By the time she died , he muses , he was too old . Clearly an old man 's bitterness at being transferred has clouded his autobiography . The sunny chapters of a long , active priesthood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old priest because he wants to get a good taste of the inner city , as the bishop scornfully comments . Greg becomes the central hero and his parish a microcosm of hell . The rectory features a large portrait of Sitting Bull , who represents " nobility in defeat , " as the pastor explains , ironically commenting on his own life . Rejected during his series of parish visits , Greg provokes a family of drunken mourners to outright scorn when he offers to hear confessions so that they may go to Communion before the funeral Mass . They plan to sing " Great Balls of Fire " as the deceased is cremated . Crushed by these humiliating rejections , Greg exchanges his stiff clerical collar for a leather jacket and rides his bicycle to a gay bar , where he meets Graham ( Robert Carlyle ) . The two become lovers . Days later , after a vigorous workout in a gym , Greg , now wearing his collar , meets Graham on the street and his secret is out ; but their relationship continues unabated , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torment for Greg . The school children shock him with their absolute lack of moral awareness . Fourteen-year-old Lisa Unsworth ( Christine Tremarco ) tells him about her father 's incestuous demands , but she refuses to allow Greg to help her . The brutish father , Phil Unsworth ( Robert Pugh ) , also visits the confessional , and with a sense of amorality to match the children 's , argues that incest is natural , a fact that an unnatural  --  that is , celibate  --  man like Greg should not pretend to understand or judge . GREG 'S CONFLICT , then , is twofold : first between his desire for a loving relationship , which is natural and good , he believes , and celibacy , which is merely a repressive man-made regulation ; and second between the urgency of his need to contact the authorities about the Unsworths and put an end to Lisa 's suffering , and the church 's artificial , unrealistic seal of confession . While Greg vents his desperation and rage before an image of the crucified Christ , Phil once again forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his wife . Mrs. Unsworth realizes that Greg knew what was happening and that his silence allowed the evil to continue . She is , of course , correct , and she prays that he rot in hell for what he has permitted her daughter to endure . Physicians , lawyers and counsellors all feel the horrifying conflicts of confidentiality , but Greg and his creator Jimmy McGovern seem to think the problem rests exclusively with the un-Christian legalisms of the institutional Catholic Church . The pastor , Father Matthew Thomas ( Tom Wilkinson ) carries the confusions of the 1960 's into his late middle years . More idealistic social worker than churchman , he kept a woman during his four-year stint in South America because , as he explains , it made his ministry more effective . Marching through his mature life , he currently maintains an intimate relationship with his housekeeper , Maria Kerrigan ( Cathy Tyson ) , a much younger woman of mixed racial ancestry . Matthew becomes the most sympathetic character in the film , mainly because of his jovial defiance of church rules . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shun him and the bishop tells him to " piss off " out of the diocese . Matthew , in contrast , offers the sole Christian response . He tries to persuade Greg to concelebrate a public Mass with him . Matthew believes in the holiness of a communion of sinners , a Christ-redeemed band from which no one is excluded . Enraged at the treatment Greg has received , he preaches in condemnation of the pharisees , hypocrites and careerists who run the church . These , rather than human sexual activity , Matthew maintains , inspire God 's wrath and try his own faith . By an odd coincidence , the bishop happens to be standing in the back of the church during this tirade , and he is not inspired to be forgiving . In a petty , vindictive gesture , the chalky bishop ( Rio Fanning ) confiscates Matthew 's car and accuses him of hypocrisy in taking a healthy share of the trappings of power and the church 's wealth himself . He shares the role of arch-villain with the cadaverous pastor of the country parish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomb speaks seminary Latin to Greg , pays him only one pound per Mass , insists he remain in the rectory after sundown and calls him , in all charity , a pus-filled boil on the Mystical Body of Christ . So much for the fellowship of the priesthood . These five priests represent a rogues ' gallery of failure . Each is a sinner and each stands in need of reconciliation , which initially comes or all Christians through admission of sinfulness and a need of Christ 's gracious redemption . Who could possibly argue with this basic premise of Christian spirituality : Forgive us our trespasses , as we forgive . JIMMY McGOVERN 'S script , however , is as incomplete as his theology . The portrait of sin is detailed , and Greg does in his own way recognize both his sinful state and his need for reconciliation , but little come from it . He ends his relationship with Graham , but this seems to bring only more loneliness than spiritual peace . The bishop remains arrogant , the country pastor cold and unforgiving . Matthew seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another and damn the moral and ecclesial torpedoes . The retired pastor is bitter to the end . That adds up to four strikes . Greg finds no consolation in the church or the priesthood . When he finally consents to concelebrate a Mass with Matthew , the intolerant parishioners refuse to receive Communion from his hands . Only Lisa , the abused child , crosses the line , takes the host from his hand and embraces him in a gesture of reconciliation . McGovern 's theological message : Intra ecclesiam nulla salus . Forgiveness comes only from human relationships , from a sullen child-victim perhaps , but from the church never . " Priest " is an ugly movie . At the same time the characters that director Antonia Bird manages to create from Jimmy McGovern 's script are memorable and moving . The bleak waterfronts and slums of Liverpool oppress the spirit . The film forced me to think about several issues I would rather ignore , and that is its value . As a churchman , I squirmed at its representation of the Catholic Church , wondering all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routinely present to the secular world . I 've known unhappy , conflicted priests and find that " Priest " presents their case powerfully . Yet I have also known happy , productive clerics . Even I , melancholy Celt that I am , have enjoyed wonderful moments as a priest that I would not trade for a Pulitzer . While the film makers were running a demolition derby through the aisles of the cathedral , I wish they had reserved a bit part for the likes of me . <p>                     