@@409296

Shoveling dirt on a bright summer day in Canyon de Chelly , a deep ravine carved into the western slope of the Chuska Mountains of northern Arizona , archeological field crews cast longing glances at the approaching shadows . The prehistoric inhabitants who lived here also paid attention to solar orientation . On the arid Colorado Plateau , despite an average elevation of 5,000 feet , temperatures often exceed 100deg F during the summer . In lower , moister locales , a thicker atmosphere tends to steam-cook a person more evenly , but in the Southwest the sun really counts . The Anasazi ( " ancient ones , " in the Navajo language ) , first occupied Canyon de Chelly more than 2,000 years ago . The earliest Anasazi , known to archeologists as the Basket Makers , took advantage of subtle alignments of the landscape for protection from the sun at critical times of the year . Realizing that a narrow ledge in the canyon wall faced north , they would dedicate the entire site to the construction of storage units , digging small pits in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rock-shelter . They lined the pits with sandstone slabs bonded by mud mortar and roofed them with beehive constructions of sticks and mud . This enabled the Basket Makers to store food ( corn , beans , pine nuts , squash ) for a long time in a cool , dry environment in the middle of a sandstone hotbox . In the winter months , the canyon rims and flat country outside the canyon entrance provided prehistoric inhabitants with easy exposure to the sun 's warming rays , while the cooling shade of the canyon bottoms afforded refuge in the heat of summer . The later Anasazi , or Puebloans , constructed elaborate buildings of stone and mud mortar , which they nestled in shady canyon alcoves . To this day , the resident Navajo live on the canyon bottom in the summer and the rim in the winter . Another basic strategy of Native Americans in the Southwest was to burrow into the earth , roofing semisubterranean homes with earth-covered wooden frameworks or digging underground dwellings . In the earliest recorded description of a Navajo dwelling , dating to 1630 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tierra , " a dwelling under the ground " or " dwelling under earth . " He probably was referring to an ancestral version of the hogan , perhaps a hole with hide stretched over the top . The typical hogan of today is constructed from logs , bark , earth , and stone and possesses a sunken floor that provides a cooler environment . Some hogans have root cellars , rooms with still deeper floors insulated with additional dirt and logs . Their inside temperatures are significantly cooler for storage of perishable foods . Caves , a source of protection from many types of meteorological mayhem , are also excellent insulators against heat . Limestone caves provide natural air conditioning , maintaining a nearly constant temperature year-round . The contrast is even more dramatic when the cave lies in dark rock , such as basalt , or hardened lava , whose surface absorbs much radiant heat . Near Acoma , a still-occupied pueblo in western New Mexico , lies El Malpais  --  the badlands . The meager tree cover to be found , consisting of low-lying junipers , pion pines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , jagged basaltic blanket . Not far below ground , however , are natural cavities that are oases of coolness . Lava tubes that hardened around molten rivers of rock provide makeshift thoroughfares to these sanctums , into which the dense , cold air of winter settles and remains . Ice forms in them as well , and depending on a cave 's size and shape and the location of its entrance hole , it may be preserved throughout the year . Ice cave temperatures hover around freezing throughout the summer , in some cases maintaining ice that is 2,000 years old . A prehistoric woven mat , probably used to cushion and insulate the knees of an ancient ice gatherer , is still captured in the frozen interior of one such cave . Through the centuries , the hundred-mile-long trail connecting the pueblos of Acoma and Zuni traversed El Malpais , presenting a formidable passage . With their ice , the caves provided not only respite from the heat but also a source of water . When the ancient icemen came , they chipped off a supply and apparently used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cave contains charcoal from their fires . The drinking water thus obtained was consumed during the trip or sealed in pottery jars and cached for later use . Today , the Acoma , Zuni , and Navajo who hunt in El Malpais still use the caves to store their butchered meat until they are ready to return home . The miracle of ice in an oven made of molten rock has engendered a sense of reverence in those who benefit from its presence . The Acoma , for instance , do not approach the caves without performing the requisite rites , including prayers and small offerings  --  gestures that acknowledge unique gifts , to be used within limits and with proper respect . The now-dominant Anglo and Hispanic cultures in the Southwest have rediscovered some of the basic principles of the ancients . The homes of these newcomers ( who will probably be known to future archeologists as the Plastic Makers ) incorporate solar-design features . Although these are primarily aimed at keeping warm in the winter , rather than cool in the summer , most are fairly obvious extensions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pick up on the ancient life style . One important key to keeping cool is choosing when to raise your metabolic rate . Just as the Arabs marveled at the propensity of English overlords to keep mad dogs company in the midday sun , many a Navajo has marveled at the antics of tourists  --  even some archeologists  --  who follow an activity schedule developed for use in Northern Europe . <p>                     