@@404412

Welcome springs gently days with a gracious Southern-style garden party on your porch , lawn , or patio Photograph Minimal decoration is required in this elegant setting . With the addition of easily laundered white-denim slipcovers , dining-room side chairs become practical for outdoor use ; hemstitched linen squares add a note of refinement to rented floor-length tablecloths . HEMSTITCHED LINEN TABLE SQUARES . NAPKINS , CREAM DINNER PLATES : WILLIAMS-SONOMA . GLASSWARE : ABIGAIL 'S PARSON 'S CHAIRS . HURRICANE SHADES , CANDLES : VILLA VICI . SEE SHOPPING GUIDE FOR DETAILS . // WHEN BRYAN AND VIKKI COLWELL DROVE PAST THE IRON GATE NEAR LAKE Pontchartrain , La. , and saw the dilapidated plantation-style house with its wraparound porch , they knew that this neglected dwelling would make an idyllic site for one of their favorite activities-entertaining family and friends outdoors . And so the couple embarked upon a labor of love , preserving the architectural integrity of this Antebellum structure while infusing it with a crisp , clear : . : aesthetic completely their own . Some four years later , the Colwells ' camp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gardenias , hydrangeas , and agapanthus . Floorto-ceiling windows open onto the wide veranda , offering garden views and an inviting setting for outdoor dining . For this spring menu , the Colwells consulted Kenneth LaCour , Jr . and Kim Kringlie , of the Dakota Restaurant , in nearby Covington , which specializes in contemporary Louisiana cuisine . The four planned a leisurely buffet around luscious local seafood and other fresh , seasonal ingredientsand took advantAge of the gentle days of siring to make the setting picture-perfect . Photograph Photograph ( rear , left ) ( top ) ( right ) ( far left ) ( front left ) , Photograph Above : Hurricane lanterns illuminate the tables , and each guest 's chair provides an unobstructed garden view . Right : The entree , Baked Red Snapper , takes only a half hour to prepare . Opposite page , top : Plates of Heirloom-Tomato and Avocado Salad are set in place just before the cocktail hour ends , marking the beginning of the meal . Opposite page , bottom : Refreshments include ( left to right ) the Dakota @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ champagne , and Plantation Punch . Photograph Photograph When it comes time for dessert , a little push is all it takes ( clockwise from top ) : Louisiana Pecan Pie , which has nuts in both the filling and the crust ; Strawberry Shortcake , combining tender biscuits , fluffy whipped cream , and peakof-the-season , fruit ; a pecan-rich Creole Pralines , made with buttermilk for a creamy confection . Sidebar The Menu Sidebar Refreshments Plantation Punch Mint Julep The Dakota Bloody Mary Banana Daiquiri Champagne Selection of Soft Drinks First Course Heirloom-Tomato and Avocado Salad Sidebar Seafood Buffet Gulf Oysters on the Half Shell Lake Pontchartrain Boiled Blue Crabs Boiled Crawfish Baked Red Snapper Assorted Breads and Crackers Sidebar Dessert Cart Pecan Pie , Creole Pralines , ; Strawberry Shortcake // <p>                     