@@415118

On initial encounter , the works of Jon Kuhn dazzle the eye . They display the fire and internal flawlessness of a celebrated jewel , on a scale sufficient to pale the Hope diamond . The glint of occasional inclusions of gold and silver leaf increases their aura of opulence . More than any other contemporary expression in glass , these pieces update the age-old lure of the medium coveted for its resemblance to precious stones . This is an art of privilege . Because each of Kuhn 's major works consists of between five and six thousand components of ground and polished glass , they take a year or longer to make , and their cost is correspondingly high . He produces only one or two of these a year at prices which at times exceed $100,000 . Such objects are commissioned by corporations much as royalty commanded the refinements of glass technology in the past . In this respect , Kuhn 's glass tables , first exhibited this spring , may be seen as a contemporary counterpart to the glittering chandeliers of Versailles . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glass would be to give it as superficial a reading as to dismiss it on similar grounds . There is a rigorous intellect at work here : these pieces are essays on structure . A unified philosophy has inspired Kuhn throughout his two decades in glass , although only recently has he come close to realizing his creative goals . Kuhn began his professional career as a potter . After receiving his B.F.A . from Washburn University in Topeka , Kansas , in 1972 , he established a studio in Richmond , Virginia , where he made functional stoneware with a sculptural orientation . Forced out of the pottery business in the recession of 1973-74 , he held various jobs before becoming a millworker at a factory manufacturing windows and door frames . He soon discovered a sufficient aptitude for woodworking to persuade him to hone his skills in the graduate program at Virginia Commonwealth University . It was there that Kuhn encountered glassblowing for the first time . He was immediately engaged by the process , which offered the familiarity of " sideways pottery . " By the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had developed a technique which involved rolling each gather of glass on the blowpipe in colored shards and patterned murrine laid out on the marver . The surface of the piece was opacified by treating the final gather with a heavy layer of chemicals . During his initial year in the program , Kuhn also began his explorations of cold-working , which appealed to the side of his temperament that is drawn to problems requiring extended effort . By grinding and polishing an area of the patinated surface of each piece until it became a smooth plane , Kuhn created a window revealing the rhythms of the colored layers within . The opaque exterior of these forms may have suggested the influence of his previous work in day , but from the beginning his work in glass directed the eye into the interior . Behind these initial experiments in glass were ideas centering on rock formations and other geological phenomena , as well as on the broad sweep of landscape . Kuhn 's philosophical bent was apparent in his piece in the 1973 " New Glass " exhibition at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it consisted of several chemically treated forms , only one of which contained a ground and polished area . Set in sand , the grouping resembled a random cluster of rocks , with one cut away to disclose an inner landscape . The piece prompted one to contemplate the notion that a universe exists within each grain of sand . Following his completion of the M.F.A. degree , in 1978 , Kuhn settled in Staunton , Virginia , where he both lived and blew glass in an old fire station . Two years later he could afford an apartment , and shortly after that he hired a studio assistant . He continued to treat his pieces chemically , but now he distorted them , opening out the forms and cutting into them after they were transferred to the punty . Polished planes giving visual access to the interior continued to reveal the play of geological strata . By 1983 the size of Kuhn 's work had greatly increased , and the cuts had become so radical that the forms opened out into flat planes , which were often impressed with markings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had grown tired of life in a small town , and in August 1985 he moved his operation to an industrial building on Main Street in Winston-Salem , North Carolina , where he works today . A business-development loan from the city financed construction of what he recalls as " the ultimate glassblowing studio that I had been working toward for so many years . " He shut the furnace down after just six months , however . Realizing that for him , glassblowing had become a limitation , he turned his efforts to casting and cold-working . By September 1986 he had completed two pieces in the new format which were strong enough to exhibit . No longer melting glass , Kuhn made intensely colored pate de verre panels which he subsequently fused in patterns . He also fused plate glass in layers with colored glass powders in between . Slices cut from these patterned blocks were slumpcast in a mold , after which the resulting form was ground and polished on two opposite sides , creating a finished piece that was planar in orientation . The work was organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variations . In 1888 , when he learned the techniques required to polish the entire exterior of the piece , including the top surface , the interior composition gained a three-dimensional cogency . Although Kuhn 's work has changed markedly since that time and is vastly more complex , the same structural concepts underlie it . The new sculptures are logical extensions of those he made in the 80s . The philosophical beliefs informing Kuhn 's work were shaped early in life . Born in Chicago in 1949 , he was at an impressionable stage of intellectual development when the study of Oriental thought became widespread on college campuses . By the time he was 13 , he was reading texts on Zen Buddhism and poring over the I Ching . The response these books evoked in him has deepened over the years , and he has made meditation an integral part of his daily schedule . A related influence on him in the 60s that also affects Kuhn 's thinking today was Hermann Hesse 's novel The Glass Bead Game , in which the human imagination is symbolized by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shapes and colors on a framework of dozens of horizontal wires . The impact of this game , which interweaves concepts of mathematics and musical composition , was reinforced in Kuhn 's experience by his musical training ; he performed on several wind instruments in his high school orchestra , and music continues to be an important interest . The ideas which preoccupy Kuhn would have been beyond the technical capacity of glassmakers in an earlier age . His current work is based on the interplay between two glasses , both of which are manufactured to a high standard of purity : a nonreflective borosilicate and a brilliant lead fluoride . The permanent and very dear epoxy resin needed to laminate glass was a relatively recent advance when Kuhn used it to achieve certain formal concepts , having exceeded what could be done by fusing alone . The evolution of his ideas since then has required relentless progress in technical control , no less in the execution of a flawless bond between components than in the refinements of shaping and finishing the glass . The increasingly complex sequence involved in realizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and polishing and requires a battery of specialized equipment . Speaking of his own nature and that of his studio assistants , he says , " All of us here have a certain temperament that enjoys the challenge of this kind of compulsive behavior . " Kuhn begins each piece with a broadly rendered drawing in black and white , and follows with crucial decisions concerning structure . His primary building blocks are the two clear glasses , which offer the choice between the absence of color , on the one hand , and the full chromatic spectrum , on the other . Added to these options is an array of colored glasses . Laminated components provide geometric exactitude , to which components made by fusing , in which random bubbles may intentionally be trapped or in which colored strata are gently modulated , offer a subtle counterpoint . Kuhn assigns the time-consuming processes by which these elements are shaped and incorporated into the finished piece to 21 employees , some of whom have been with him for five years . A number of pieces are always underway in the studio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each step of production , " looking at every piece every day as it comes together , " and allowing himself the latitude to modify his original plans as the work takes shape . Kuhn 's tables , which are primarily planar in configuration , convey in part the pleasure he takes in the decorative geometry of the kilim rugs in his textile collection . More generally , the matrices which serve as themes for his work offer countless associations with the transistors , computers and other technological apparatus of our age . Their deeper implications concern the synthesis of mathematics not only with musical composition but with architecture , which occupies Kuhn now because of its intrinsic involvement with interior space . Since 1991 the floating cube has been at the heart of his sculptures , literally and figuratively . In the artist 's cosmology this matrix symbolizes " what is at the core of being . The cube is in a sense a perfect form : it is equal sided , precise and essentially perfect . " That the figure is defined by light reinforces its spiritual content . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one . The brilliance of the work reflects eternal patterns : the long dreams of science , the substance of religion . * 1ast stanza of " The Glass Bead Game , " from The Glass Bead Game by Hermann Hesse , translated by Richard and Clara Winston ( New York : Holt , Rinehart and Winston , 1969 ) . Joan Falconer Byrd is professor of art at Western Carolina University , Cullowhee , North Carolina , where she recently organized the show " North Carolina Glass : The Next Generation . " <p>                     