@@393995

Collegium was a June 4-12 summer institute on " Faith and Intellectual Life " held at Fairfield University , a Jesuit university in Connecticut . Collegium 's subtitle , " Faith and Intellectual Life , " was tidier than its ambitions , too abstract for what really happened and not quite accurate . It was not about faith and the intellectual life in general , but the Catholic faith and its relationships to Catholic intellectual life . It was about the institutionalization of these relationships in Catholic colleges and universities , and if and why they might worthily survive . Most important , Collegium was not only about faith and the intellectual life , but about the interior life that molds , motivates and sustains both . I had attended numerous academic conferences and a few retreats , but I had never before attended something that tried to be both . At first I found Collegium amiably muddled ; halfway through I found it courageous ; now I think the point of Collegium essential for Catholic participation in the renewal of the human spirit the world wants but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the Collegium week , I was never quite sure exactly what it wanted to accomplish . In truth , the institute touched in one way or another on just about every difficult and disputed point in Catholic higher education : survival , identity , mission , relationship to the church , distinctive ( if any ) contributions to scholarly life and research , academic freedom and the magisterium , women in the church , and the spiritualities ( Ignatian , Benedictine , Franciscan , Christian Feminist ) of renewal . A thesis proposal as ambitious and diffuse as Collegium would not easily pass an alert Ph.D . dissertation committee . It is worth noting that no official representative of Catholic higher education , no college president , no worried bishop , no ad hoc group of Catholic intellectuals had called for a Collegium . Jeanne Knoerle , S.P. , said the Lilly Foundation considered its three years ' grant ( next year at St. John 's in Collegeville , Minn. , and in 1995 at Loyola-Marymount in Los Angeles ) as " risk " money , the kind of initiative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evaluate . Its origin was grass-roots . Perhaps Collegium is something only a younger person , still hearing the siren song of institutionally integrating love of learning and love of God , might think of . Indeed , Collegium 's founder and director , Thomas M. Landy , S.J. , entered the Jesuits less than seven years ago , in 1986 , after completing his B.A. at Fairfield and his M.A. in international relations at the University of Chicago . I thought I discerned the inspiration for Collegium in Tom Landy 's welcoming remarks when he evoked an undergraduate experience of coherence , integration , commitment and intellectual challenge and wondered whether such integrating experiences would be available for future generations of Catholics . Religious orders can no longer provide colleges and universities they founded with scholars and teachers formed by their integrated vision of education . Tom Landy quickly added that he had in mind no Catholic " restorationist " project to recapture some mythic golden era of Catholic higher education . It seemed to me that his advisers ( among them , Holy Cross historian David O'Brien ; Yale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ academic vice-president at St. John 's , Collegeville , Minn. ; Alice Gallin , O.S.U. , and Commonweal editor Margaret O'Brien Steinfels ) contained no such mythmakers . Rather , Collegium placed its hopes for Catholic higher education in the continuing power of the renewed spiritualities that motivated its founders . This is one of those rudimentary insights that can and should strike us as both naive and necessary . In the end , I thought the explicit and integrated attention paid to what we might call the " spiritualities of individual and collective renewal " might have been this institute 's primary contribution to its participants and its most interesting contribution to the multi-faceted discussion about the fate of Catholic higher education . Format and Participants . The participants included 33 ( 7 women ) " faculty fellows " who had recently begun teaching at Catholic institutions ; 28 ( 10 women ) " graduate fellows " who were completing their Ph.D . ' s or holding postdoctorates in either the natural or social sciences or the humanities ( only 5 in theology or philosophy ) and educated mostly at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic institutions ) ; and 8 " mentors " ( representing 8 disciplines and including three women , one non-Catholic professor , one professor from an Ivy League institution and one from the public sector ) who facilitated discussions twice daily among a small group of " faculty and graduate fellows . " There were four plenary addresses : Georgetown theologian Monika Hellwig 's " The Church as a Learning Church : The Church 's Need for Intellectual Reflection " ; Boston College theologian Michael Himes 's " A Sacramental World View " ; Weston School of Theology theologian Brian E. Daley 's " Christ and the Catholic University " ( see p. 6 ) ; Harvard Divinity School professor J. Bryan Hehir 's " Gaudium et Spes : The Church in the Modern World . " Each spoke of an identifiable Catholic intellectual life characterized as critical , Christocentric , sacramental and communitarian . The speakers stayed at least a day to join in the small group and plenary sessions . During these addresses and the commentaries and the discussions that followed , the life of the mind and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a necessary contribution both for a servant church and for an authentic humanism . Something More Than an Academic Conference . Collegium had morning and evening prayer , a daily liturgy and even two on-site spiritual directors ( Kathleen A. Kanavy of the University of Scranton and Joseph O'Keefe , S.J. , of Boston College ) . Obviously , it aimed deeper than the cognitive and explicitly included an encounter with the Catholic spiritualities that historically grounded those institutions only abstractly conveyed by the lumbering term " Catholic higher education . " The sixth day centered entirely and explicitly on " Retreat and Reflection . " The schedule read : " Opportunity to explore one of the major spiritualities operative in Catholic colleges and universities , and to explore a spirituality for participants to build on in the future . Four workshops will be offered , based on Ignatian , Benedictine , Franciscan and Christian Feminist spiritualities . " ( Here is the place to mention that Collegium fellows , and some others , used quite ordinary powers of discernment to locate the nearest bars . The week never felt pious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was called " sacramental . " ) The five women and four men serving as spiritual directors shaped the retreats around the challenges of integration and discernment in the scholarly life . Virginia Sullivan Finn of Weston entitled her retreat , " How Do I Experience God Within the Context of My Own Intellectual Commitment and Understanding of Faith ? " She adopted Ignatian principles of imaginative contemplation to help her group of retreatants discern God 's presence in and challenge to their work , teaching and writing . Eileen Currie , M.S.C. , entitled her retreat " Listening to My Own Particular Call , " and she ( as did Jesuit directors Michael Boughton and Joseph O'Keefe ) used Ignatian principles of discernment . Vianney Devlin , O.F.M. , presented Franciscan spirituality and Eva Hooker the elements of Benedictine spirituality . Jane Redmont and Tom Landy led a group in Christian Feminist spirituality . Post-Collegium Reflections . An important part of Ignatian discernment is wariness about " spurious consolation . " Participants received a thick three-ring binder weighing almost three pounds and containing 29 articles about ( mostly ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My sociologist 's eye was especially drawn to the sobering accounts of the vast Protestant educational enterprises of the last century . Unflinching examination by Protestant authors such as George Marsden and Stanley Hauerwas of how their Christian tradition gradually and voluntarily became " not only entirely peripheral to higher education but in fact came to be seen as absolutely alien to the educational enterprise " offered little solid hope against the likelihood that Catholic colleges and universities might simply take longer to drop any explicit religious purposes or collective self-understanding . How much of Collegium is wishful thinking ? After all , the " graduate fellows " it gathered were not a random sample of even recent Catholic Ph.D . ' s or postdoctoral students . They were recruited from about 70 universities through campus ministries . In other words , Collegium guaranteed itself an audience likely to be receptive to its arguments for viewing the scholarly and teaching life as a " calling , " for the distinctiveness and significance of a Catholic intellectual content and style , and for the continued importance of Catholic higher education . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Catholic intellectuals , and they will interact as Catholic intellectuals . Still , to those with assigned or self-delegated responsibilities for the future of Catholic higher education , the self-selection of the sample suggests something important . Collegium shows there are certifiably promising young scholars  --  this group had their Ph.D . ' s from U.C.L.A. , Cornell , Yale , Harvard , State Universities such as Ohio , Iowa and Kansas , as well as from Notre Dame , Georgetown , Boston College and Fordham  --  strongly attracted to the Catholic ideal of a mutual enrichment of faith and knowledge sought not merely individually but collectively . Are these among the brightest and the best ? Impossible to tell . Each was recommended by her or his thesis director , but there was no required academic ranking . But there 's more than one relevant question here , both for applicants and for Catholic institutions . Is it self-evident that " best " should be defined by a purely monochromatic view of measured competence in an academic discipline ? How narrow are the beams of the brightest ? Do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intellectual life and its Christocentric , sacramental and communitarian characteristics ? Do university officials and department heads actively seek applicants with ideals that match their university 's mission statements ? My own sidelines guess is that administrators of major Catholic universities are often merely " realistic " in their appraisal of just how many young scholars there are who , with encouragement , might wish to transform their careers into a calling within the Catholic intellectual tradition . I 'm willing to think we might be surprised . After all , showing such an interest , by either administrators or scholars , is most often a cause for suspicion . It seems " unprofessional , " the last liberal sacrilege . I was not at all surprised when a Harvard postdoctoral reported that none of the Catholic institutions he applied to seemed even remotely interested in whether he had any attachment to their institutional mission . In fact , there was no talk of any " mission . " A postdoctoral researcher from the U.C.L.A. School of Medicine told a similar story . She contrasted her recruitment experiences at Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was explicitly asked how her career goals matched the college 's mission statement . No graduate fellow offered a counter-example from Catholic higher education  --  a candidate being invited to discuss her or his career goals in terms of the institution 's mission , including its religious dimensions . Undoubtedly , there are numerous such counter-examples , but I noticed that none of the mentors was able to cite any in departments other than theology and philosophy . Notre Dame philosopher Alvin Plantinga , who is not a Catholic , thought that a lingering " inferiority complex " made it hard for Catholic academics , still trying to prove they belong , to view Catholic identity as a specifically worthy institutional context for higher learning . Thus they unimaginatively continue to assess their institutional achievements in terms of how far short they fall from , say , the standards of Princeton . In an article entitled " On Christian Scholarship , " Professor Plantinga writes : " Princeton is in an important way a failed project .... Hence we ca n't take Princeton as a model ; instead , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the experience of Collegium , Professor Plantinga 's statement no longer struck me simply as evangelical chutzpah . I admit , the sentence remains amusing . But it no longer seems absurd . The Collegium schedule for June 6 contained this lovely aspiration : " The discussion is not meant in any way to be comprehensive or conclusive but to be compelling . That is , to open participants ' minds to see what might be naturally Catholic about the intellectual life " ( emphasis added ) . If the Catholic tradition is right in its shaky but constant affirmations about the mutuality of faith and reason , about the interrelationships between the " learning " and the " teaching " church , about the church 's role as servant to culture and society , and about the intellectual life as a " calling , " then we should expect that these interlocked affirmations , clearly and invitingly expressed , will evoke tentative but generous responses from those on the threshold of their academic lives . Why not act as though we believe what we claim is the core of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems no fatal failure that Collegium produced no formulas or specific strategies for the worthy survival of Catholic higher education . More pragmatic types will work on that as best and as circumspectly as they can . Instead , promoting dialogue and spiritual discernment , Collegium shamelessly went after the hearts and minds of young intellectuals . It sought to persuade them that the classic Catholic concerns of sacramentality , Christocentrism and the communitarian had a profound cognitive relevance to the life of the mind and that the Ignatian , Benedictine , Franciscan and Christian Feminist spiritualities could still motivate , mold and sustain such a personally and collectively committed scholarly life . At least from June 4 to June 12 , I thought I felt and saw the power of this idealism about the intellectual life and the life of faith . Invite them and they will come . <p>                     