@@421020

Almost fifty years ago the noted art historian Anna Wells Rutledge posed the question , " Who was Henrietta Johnston ? " ( 1 ) Claiming to have solved the mystery , Rutledge identified her as the hard-working wife of the Reverend Gideon Johnston ( 1668-1716 ) , the rector of Saint Philip 's Church in Charleston , South Carolina . Questions persisted , however , particularly after a body of work clearly by Johnston 's hand turned up in Ireland fifteen years ago . Today , although more is known about the artist , critical details remain unresolved. ( 2 ) Rutledge relied on the work of several earlier researchers . In 1899 the Reverend Robert Wilson ( 1838-1924 ) compiled a list of fifteen extant South Carolina portraits by Johnston , ( 3 ) and a quarter of a century later Eola Willis , a painter , posited that Johnston was the first professional female painter in America and the first American pastellist  --  claims that remain unchallenged. ( 4 ) Shortly thereafter Homer Eaton Keyes , the founder of ANTIQUES , proposed and then rejected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist Rosalba Carriera ( 1675-1757 ) , arguing that Johnston was already established in Charleston by the time Carriera popularized pastel drawing . On the basis of two pastels discovered in England , Keyes speculated that Johnston was an Englishwoman from the neighborhood of Surrey , possibly of French extraction . However , he was at a loss to explain how or why she traveled to South Carolina. ( 5 ) The questions about Johnston began again in 1980 when Christie , Manson and Woods auctioned the contents of Belvedere , a mid-eighteenth-century Irish country house , including nine pastels of members of the Southwell and Percival ( or Perceval ) families. ( 6 ) Stylistically , there was little doubt that these were by the artist . Six of them bore helpful inscriptions , such as the one on the back of Sir John Percival 's portrait ( Pl . III ) , which reads " Henrietta Dering Fecit/Dublin Anno 1705 . " ( Plate omitted ) A likeness of one of the Southwells is signed " Henrietta Johnston Fecit , " her new surname reflecting her marriage in Dublin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information came to light through the discovery of the 1746 will of Mary Dering ( c. 1700-1747 ) , a daughter of Henrietta and her first husband , Robert Dering ( b. 1669 ) , whom she had married in 1694 . Having served as a dresser to the daughters of George II , Mary Dering had accumulated a sizable estate . To Countess Egmont , an aunt on her father 's side , she left two " venns ? done in Creons , " which may be the pastel portraits of Philip Percival ( 1686-1748 ) and Sir John Percival ( Pl . III ) . ( 7 ) To honor her mother , Mary Dering gave her " flat silver candlesticks and snuffers " to " Mrs. W Ragg in Charles Town , wife to Joseph Ragg , merchant , " whose likeness Johnston had taken in 1719 . To her aunt , " a sister of my mother living in the city of Gloucester whose maiden name was Ann de Beaulieu one hundred pounds . " ( 8 ) Thus , almost accidentally , Johnston 's maiden name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of French origin . Professor Anne Crookshank of Trinity College in Dublin , while at work researching Irish artists , discovered the immigration records of 1687 that document the admission to England of Francis and Susanna de Beaulieu and their children Henry and Henrietta. ( 9 ) On the occasion of her marriage to Robert Dering , Johnston is described as the daughter of Susanna de Beaulieu , widow. ( 10 ) Assuming that she was about twenty years old at the time of the wedding , she was born sometime around 1674 . Pursuing the de Beaulieu genealogy has led to the suggestion that Johnston 's family came from Quintin , near Rennes in northwestern France . Susanna , Henry , and Henrietta were prevalent names there in the late seventeenth century , and various members of the de Beaulieu family were Protestants who fled to England . Unfortunately , family and church records that might provide the date and place of Johnston 's birth are incomplete for this period. ( 11 ) Henrietta de Beaulieu Dering Johnston emerges as a remarkable artist who plied her craft to support her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dering died sometime between 1698 and 1702 , she may have had no other means of support. ( 12 ) In any case , she made pastel portraits of her first husband 's relatives , who were members of the English gentry with appointments and property in Ireland . When Henrietta and Gideon Johnston came to South Carolina , dire necessity required that she supplement the family 's income . Charleston was a pestilential colonial outpost where the Johnstons encountered devastating heat , the threat of invasion from the Yemassee Indians , and political difficulties among the parishioners of Saint Philip 's Church . Because the Society of the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts , a missionary division of the Church of England , was delinquent in remitting her husband 's stipend , the Johnstons incurred significant debts . Gideon acknowledged Henrietta 's contributions to their survival when he wrote to the society in 1709 , " Were it not for the assistance my wife gives me by drawing pictures ... I should not have been able to live . " ( 13 ) She may have executed portraits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money. ( 14 ) Three of her sitters were the DuBose sisters ( see Pl . II ) , the stepdaughters of Dr. John Thomas ( d. 1710 ) , who attended the Johnstons in their many illnesses . If the pastels were not actual payment they may have been expressions of appreciation for the doctor 's ministrations . As the Reverend Johnston wrote : Dr. John Thomas , a ffrenchman , the only P'son that deserves the Name of a Phisician in this place has been extremely kind and generous to me ; ... he has constantly attended us on all occasions .... When I call 'd for a Bill ... he told me he would not take one single farthing from me. ( 15 ) In Ireland , where paper and crayons were more accessible than in Charleston , Johnston rendered her sitters on a slightly larger scale , allowing for elongated proportions that emphasized the elegance of her sitters ( see Pl . I ) . In pose and clothing the Irish likenesses are more sophisticated and pretentious , perhaps reflecting the elevated social standing of her sitters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully developed backgrounds than those executed in Charleston . They are also less faded owing to the dimmer Irish light . Finally , compared to the American portraits , the Irish ones appear to be more firmly rooted in the tradition of Sir Godfrey Kneller , the most popular and prolific painter of the time . Several members of the Dering family sat for Kneller ( see Pl . VI ) and Johnston may have known and studied those portraits. ( 16 ) The American portraits are more delicately rendered , have a minimum of background , and are pale  --  a result both of fading and the artist 's economical use of her pastels . Poses are less complicated , with most portraits fully frontal . In the forty known portraits by Johnston , her women sitters , both Irish and American , typically wear a gauzy white chemise under a simple outer garment , while men are shown in street clothes and wigs . The waistcoats of the Irishmen are often embellished with gold braid and buttons , and the likeness of a member of the Titcombe family stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Three men are dressed in armor ( see Pls . I , VII ) , which Johnston apparently invented rather than copied from life. ( 17 ) Where and from whom Johnston learned her craft are still a mystery . Rutledge suggested that she was taught by Simon Digby ( w. 1668-1720 ) , an Irish churchman and amateur artist who specialized in watercolor miniatures on ivory . However , Johnston would probably not have had reason to know him until she married her second husband , by which time she was already an accomplished portraitist . Rutledge also proposed Edmund Ashfield ( w.c. 1680-c. 1700 ) and his follower Edward Lutterel ( or Luttrell ; w. 1680-c. 1724 ) , who worked in England . However , their work resembles that of Sir Peter Lely ( 1618-1680 ) more than Kneller 's and has few stylistic similarities to Johnston 's pastels . Ashfield and Lutterel often worked in crayon and their sharp modeling is distinctly different from Johnston 's soft shading. ( 18 ) The artist may have found formal art training difficult to obtain in Dublin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and required all visiting artists to register. ( 19 ) They are unlikely to have encouraged the artistic education of a French-born woman . Instead , she may have availed herself of the Derings ' portrait collection and taught herself by copying , perhaps under the guidance of a member of the family or of a painter in its employ . Compounding the difficulty of identifying Johnston 's teacher is her preferred medium , since pastels were not widely used. ( 20 ) Most artists used them only for either preliminary studies or as an intermediate step in the production of mezzotints . Before the end of the seventeenth century a few portraitists , including Lely , Ashfield , and Lutterel , used pastels to make replicas as well as finished portraits , but the true heyday of pastels was the eighteenth century , when artists such as Maurice Quentin de La Tour ( 1704-1788 ) , Francois Boucher ( 1703-1770 ) , Carriera , and John Singleton Copley ( 1738-1815 ) mastered the delicate medium . Pastels suited Johnston 's artistic sensibilities , allowing her to work on an intimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her materials to the houses of her patrons , who were also her social equals  --  members of her husband 's extended family in Ireland and later , individuals active in Saint Philip 's Church and fellow Huguenots in Charleston . The artist 's habit of inscribing the backboards of her pastels with her name , the date , and the location has allowed scholars to follow her from Ireland to Charleston and even to New York City. ( 21 ) Although the place and date of her birth are still unknown , a clearer picture has emerged of America 's first professional female artist and first pastellist . 1 ANTIQUES , March 1947 , pp. 183-185. 2 The first exhibition dedicated to Johnston 's work opened at the Museum of Early Southern Decorative Arts in Winston-Salem , North Carolina , in October 1991 . It was accompanied by a catalogue entitled Henrietta Johnston : Who greatly helped ... by drawing pictures , ed . Forsyth Alexander . The standard monograph is Margaret Simons Middleton , Henrietta Johnston of Charles Town , South Carolina : America 's First Pastellist ( Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1899 , City of Charleston ( Charleston , South Carolina , n.d. ) , pp. 138-139. 4 " The First Woman Painter in America . " International Studio , July 1927 , pp. 13-20 ; and " Henrietta Johnston , South Carolina Pastellist , " Antiquarian , September 1928 , pp. 46-47. 5 ANTIQUES , December 1929 , pp. 490-494. 6 Christie , Manson and Woods catalogue for the sale at Belvedere , Mullingar , County Westmeath , Ireland , July 9 , 1980. 7 This suggestion is made in Henrietta Johnston : Who greatly helped , p. 7 , n. 10 . B The will is dated April 23 , 1746 , and was proved on June 13 , 1747 ( Public Record Office , London , Prob . II , 755 ) . I am grateful to Philip Blake and to Ellen Miles at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington , D.C. , for assisting me with this information . 9 Letter from Crookshank , June 1986 . The letters of denization dated December 16 , 1687 , are in the state papers of Charles II , Entry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . 10 Cited in the Christie , Manson , and Woods catalogue for the sale at Belvedere , p. 55. 11 Letter from Francois de Beaulieu , June 16 , 1994. 12 The date of Robert Dering 's death and his will were lost when Irish records were destroyed in a fire in Dublin in 1922 . In a letter to me dated September 15 , 1991 , Philip Blake wrote that he believed Dering 's estate provided for his children , but not his widow . 13 Quoted in The Carolina Chronicle : The Papers of Commissary Gideon Johnston , 1707-1716 , ed . Frank J. Klingberg ( Berkeley and Los Angeles , California , 1946 ) , p. 31. 14 An entry for September 19 , 1719 , in the estate account book of Elizabeth Sindrey ( d. 1705 ) of Charleston reads , " To Cost of Mr. Clapp picture being two pistoles paid Mrs. Johnson .... L10.0.0 " ( cited in Henrietta Johnston : Who greatly helped , p. 16 ) . 15 Letter dated July 5 , 1710 , quoted in Middleton , Henrietta Johnston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portraits are in Parham Park , Pulborough , West Sussex , England . 17 Letter from Walter J. Karcheski Jr. , curator of arms and armor , Higgins Armory Museum , Worcester , Massachusetts , April 2 , 1993. 18 Anne Crookshank disputes Rutledge 's three candidates for Johnston 's teachers . Other names that have been offered are : Thomas Forster ( c. 1677-1713 ) , suggested by Desmond Fitzgerald , the Knight of Glin ; Thomas Pooley ( 1646-1723 ) , who was frequently patronized by the Percival and Southwell families ; Garret Morphey ( w. 1678-1715 or 1716 ) , a native-born Irish painter whose portraits resemble Kneller 's ; and William Gandy ( 1660-1729 ) . See Jane Fenlon , " French Influence in Late Seventeenth Century Portraits . " Irish Arts Review , 1989 , pp. 158-168. 19 See Jane Fenlon , The Painter Stainers Companies of Dublin and London , Craftsmen and Artists , 1670-1740 . " New Perspectives : Studies in Art History in Honor of Anne Crookshank ( Dublin , Ireland , 1987 ) , p. 102. 20 For more about the history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Miniatures ( New Haven , Connecticut , 1979 ) , pp. ix-xi. 21 In 1725 Johnston went to New York City on the invitation of a Colonel John Moore ( 1686-1749 ) , a native of Charleston , to do pastels of four members of his family . See Henrietta Johnston : Who greatly helped , p. 16 . MARTHA R. SEVERENS is the curator of the Greenville County Museum of Art in Greenville , South Carolina . <p>                     