@@421028

In March 1976 , the Dutch-American art historian Egbert Haverkamp-Begemann was consulted by the Metropolitan Museum of Art concerning a painting that had been donated to the museum by Charles S. Payson as a Rembrandt the year before . The Met put to him the question it now puts to us in a fascinating exhibition of unprecedented honesty : Rembrandt or not Rembrandt ? Portrait of Young Man with a Beret certainly looked like a Rembrandt , with its extreme chiaroscuro and the sitter 's outmoded costume and soulful expression . It read like a Rembrandt : since the Berlin museum director Gustav Waagen had published it in 1854 as an original of " extraordinary power , " it had been included in every catalogue of the master 's work . And it moved like a Rembrandt from one prestigious exhibition to the next , up to and including the 1956 commemorative show in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam , where it was praised for its " extraordinary liveliness and intensity . " Yet the responsible curator , John Walsh , had good reason to doubt whether the portrait @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major purge of Rembrandt paintings had begun , and no attributions were safe anymore . From the mid-1930s to the mid- ' ' 60s , the field had credited a corpus of some 620 paintings published by Abraham Bredius in 1935 and reaffirmed , with a small number of additions and deletions , by Jakob Rosenberg in 1948 and 1964 . But in 1965 Kurt Bauch , applying sharper critical standards than Rosenberg , removed some 70 items from his catalogue of Rembrandt paintings , and in 1968 Horst Gerson excised 130 more , reducing the total to 420 . The Rembrandt Research Project ( RRP ) , initiated in the same year , was threatening to prune the corpus yet more drastically . In this climate , the appearance and movements of the Portrait of a Young Man with a Beret were more likely to arouse than allay suspicion . For unrecorded reasons , Haverkamp-Begemann " argued against Rembrandt 's authorship " of the painting . Research assistant Charles Moffett conveyed this oral opinion in a memo to Walsh , and as a result the painting never made it out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other ex-Rembrandts . Of the 41 paintings the museum had acquired or exhibited as Rembrandts over the years ( 40 of them as donations or bequests ) , the 1980 summary catalogue of the Metropolitan 's European paintings by Katharine Baetjer upheld the attribution to him of only 23. ( 1 ) The Payson gift was listed there as " Style of Rembrandt , 1st half XIX century . " ( 2 ) In the present exhibition , " Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt in the Metropolitan Museum of Art : Aspects of Connoisseurship , " the number of unquestioned Rembrandts has dropped to 18 . The Portrait of a Young Man with Beret is given two slightly divergent designations by the two scholars responsible for the exhibition . The curator of northern European paintings , Walter Liedtke , attributes the canvas to an " imitator of Rembrandt , " while the chief conservator , Hubert von Sonnenburg , gives it to a " follower of Rembrandt " from the last quarter of the 19th century . ( Rembrandt died in 1669 . ) Neither offers an explanation for the fact ( revealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) that the head of the young man is painted over that of a perfectly good-looking old man . This little case history , which I distill from the entries for the work ( no. 40 ) in the astonishing ( and beautifully produced ) two-volume exhibition catalogue , is a quick education in present-day Rembrandt connoisseurship . It shows that in a downspinning market in attributions the oral verdict of one authority was sufficient to undermine a century of consensus . The old consensus was followed not by a new one but by confusion and contradiction . The story suggests further  --  accurately , as we shall see  --  that there are no agreed-upon standards for judging the results of the scientific examination of paintings , and that the categories of authorship attached to disputed paintings are useless when the chips are down . The 20 years since the Payson gift have been difficult ones for connoisseurs of Rembrandt paintings The Rembrandt Research Project , which intended to employ more rigorous standards and reach harder conclusions than ever before , has not succeeded in convincing many outside the Project that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even resentment  --  is evident in the catalogue texts of Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt . Of the nine paintings in the Met covered in the three volumes of the RRP 's Corpus of Rembrandt Paintings which have appeared so far , the museum takes issue with the attribution of four of them . Remarks elsewhere in the catalogue suggest that this ratio holds for the as yet unpublished volumes as well . In an article in the New York Times of Oct. 1 , 1995 , William Grimes wrote that the exhibition " can be seen as an exercise in demystifying the authority of the Dutch group , whose methods have come in for increasing criticism in recent years . " Yet , it can not be said that the authors of Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt have succeeded in establishing a new consensus where the RRP has failed . Far from persuading their colleagues , Liedtke and von Sonnenburg have not even been able to convince each other . After starting out as collaborators on the project , they found themselves in such fundamental disagreement on so many attributions that each ended up writing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show of this kind , and I find it enthralling and praiseworthy , even if the exhibition may be somewhat confusing to the visitor who does not read the catalogue in advance . Whether or not this solution was chosen because of the exceptionally short time available for mounting the exhibition ( the director did not put it in the schedule until January 1995 ) , the result is a breakthrough in revealing to the public the true state of disarray in the connoisseurship of Rembrandt paintings . ( The exhibition also includes a group of paintings by Rembrandt 's students , as well as valuable and rewarding sections on the Rembrandt drawings and etchings owned by the Met , which I can not deal with in the present article . ) Liedtke 's volume is a complete catalogue of all 42 paintings , while von Sonnenburg 's contains parallel and frequently dissenting entries on 19 of them . In greater or lesser measure , they disagree on the authorship of 20 of the 42 works . Between them , they also modify 14 of the attributions in Baetjer 's 1980 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the specialists who have done the most work on the Metropolitan 's Rembrandts over the past quarter-century is nearly 50 percent . You can get better odds on a roulette table . The way in which Liedtke and von Sonnenburg address the issues makes it clear where they stand : squarely behind the art-historical traditions which created the impasse in the first place . Painting by painting , the two discuss the authorship of the work in question with reference to classical preoccupations : subject , theme and composition ; color , light and form ; materials , application of paint and treatment of detail ; impression of quality and impact on the beholder . The catalogue also illustrates why this method is incapable of resolving moot points : it espouses subjectivity as the only way to assign value to individual features ; and it refuses to define a hierarchy for judging these values against each other . In the case of one painting , technique may be the overriding consideration for acceptance or rejection , and in another the conception of the subject is the decisive factor . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readers of art-historical prose . To von Sonnenburg , who accepts the painting as a Rembrandt , Christ and the Woman of Samaria ( no. 14 ) is " interpreted ... emphatically ... with meaningful compositional elements ... rendered with clarity and simplicity .... The painterly technique is extremely rich and shows a great variety throughout , as is typical of Rembrandt . " Liedtke , rejecting it , finds " its qualities of style and expression ... inconsistent with an attribution to Rembrandt . It would also have been uncharacteristic for Rembrandt to have derived the seated figure of Christ ... from his own etching .... Even more troubling is the fact that Christ ... is a less compelling individual than he is in this early print , " etc. , etc. , etc. ( 3 ) Along with these age-old criteria of authenticity , the authors also discuss chemical and physical properties measured mainly by X ray , autoradiography , infrared reflectography and , occasionally , pigment analysis . In these areas as well , uniform standards are avoided as each author fishes for evidence that will enable him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relation to anything ever seen or intended by the artist are discussed as though they were works of art in themselves . Defending the Portrait of a Man ( no. 20 ) against impending de-attribution by the Rembrandt Research Project on account of its lackluster surface , von Sonnenburg writes in a wall caption : " The X radiograph shows an image created with great sureness that captures the character of the sitter . " This does not prevent the same author from dismissing the evidence of a perfectly convincing subsurface image when it interferes with his esthetic judgment of the surface . The most egregious example is the way he explains away the autoradiograph of the rejected " Auctioneer " ( no. 32 ) , which inconveniently shows precisely the same build-up as that of the unquestioned Self-Portrait ( no. 15 ) . Von Sonnenburg writes that this similarity " demonstrates the ease with which an autoradiograph can lead to false conclusions .... A comparative study of the heavy impasto in the face of the imitative Auctioneer shows that it is markedly different from that of every authentic Rembrandt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how one should read an autoradiograph in order to arrive at proper conclusions . In terms of attributional method , then , " Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt " does not take us beyond the quasi-systematic connoisseurship that has existed since 1719 , when Jonathan Richardson claimed to have solved the entire messy business with his Discourse on the Dignity , Certainty and Advantage of the Science of a Connoisseur . Just as their predecessors have done , Liedtke and von Sonnenburg construct , piece by piece , an image of what a genuine Rembrandt should look like , an image which then becomes a touchstone for their judgments . Far from being disturbed that the various images of Rembrandt developed by different connoisseurs are mutually incompatible , they resign themselves to this predicament with perfect equanimity . " Opinions regarding authorship inevitably depend upon subjective ideas about an individual artist 's characteristics , " they write in an exhibition wall label . I , for one , am not prepared to accept as " inevitable " a situation that tends to perpetuate a massive dysfunction at the heart of my field . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions regarding authorship on which all of us can agree . In order to do so , however , we will have to accept certain theses which run counter to the intuition of the connoisseur . The connoisseur 's native inclination is to : 1 ) favor the evidence of the senses over historical documentation and the newest attribution over the oldest ; 2 ) subordinate scientific measurement to the judgment of the eye ; 3 ) treat an attribution as a recognition of qualities innate in a work ; 4 ) impose a yes-or-no choice ( Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt , for example ) on the conclusions ; and 5 ) believe that one should always be able to arrive at a just judgment of authenticity and almost always of authorship . I , on the other hand , will here argue for these opposing propositions : 1 ) documentation should be treated as a corrective to visual impressions and late attributions should be judged more critically than early ones ; 2 ) what scientific evidence joins together should not be arbitrarily sundered , even if the eye objects ; 3 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the whole range of possible makers ; 4 ) persistent dispute over an attribution should be taken as an indication that the evidence may be too contradictory or insufficient to support a yes-or-no conclusion ; 5 ) positive attributions can only be established beyond reasonable doubt for a small minority of old paintings . Documentation versus Connoisseurship " Scientific " connoisseurship is inalterably opposed to admitting pedigree as evidence into the court of authenticity . Since the social status of former owners and centuries-old opinions are not properties of the painting itself , they are seen as red herrings in the determination of authorship . As logical as this position may seem , it ignores the extremely high correlation that exists between the age of an attribution and its degree of acceptance . To check this idea , I arranged the Met 's Rembrandts according to the following criteria : 1 ) the earliest date at which a painting was recorded as a Rembrandt ; 2 ) the opinions of Baetjer , von Sonnenburg and Liedtke ; 3 ) the year in which Rembrandt 's authorship was first doubted ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exhibition catalogue ) who favor and dispute the attribution to Rembrandt ; 5 ) the number of alternative attributions that have been proposed . The resulting chart , arranged in order of first recorded dates , demonstrates the existence of a hierarchy of likelihood in Rembrandt attributions . ( Chart omitted ) A division of the 42 paintings into three groups  --  the eight paintings which are first documented up to 1750 , those whose earliest records date between 1151 and 1850 ( 16 ) , and those which did not emerge until after 1850 ( 18 )  --  shows steadily increasing disagreement on authorship. ( 4 ) Opinion within the museum dramatically reflects this correspondence between the age of an attribution and its power to command consensus . Concerning the first group , Baetjer , von Sonnenburg and Liedtke are in virtually unanimous agreement that all the paintings in this category are by Rembrandt . On the middle period they are seriously divided , disagreeing on the authorship of about half the works . When it comes to paintings whose pedigree postdates 1850 , we see a nearly complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attribution to Rembrandt of four of the 18 paintings in this category , but on the other 14 they disagree entirely . Concerning two of the paintings , two of the three Met authorities share the same opinion . But in all other cases , each of them has his or her own slant on authorship . Outside opinion follows the same trend . The number of alternative names posited for Rembrandt , per painting , roughly doubles from the first triad to the third . The more names , the more polymorphous the painting in the eyes of art historians . The average number of authorities who dispute Rembrandt 's authorship of a particular work more than triples. ( 5 ) These observations do not prove that documented works with good provenances must be by Rembrandt or that latecomers to the literature can not be his work . Rembrandt 's authorship of a painting recorded as his in the English royal collection in the 1630s has now been questioned , while as recently as 1976 a newly discovered painting which had evaded detection for centuries was attributed without doubt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is foolish to think that they disprove the rule . The rule is that a Rembrandt attribution with early documentation is far less likely to be doubted than one which did not emerge until after 1850 . This fact adds a historical perspective to the discussion of attributions which is sorely missing in the usual debates between connoisseurs . Taking account of these factors , it is possible to produce a breakdown of a different kind . Rather than asserting that the Met has 18 Rembrandts and 24 not-Rembrandts , one could say : A ) The Met has three paintings which were documented as Rembrandts during the artist 's lifetime , and which have been accepted since then by the market and by nearly all scholars . Only one of these , Herman Doomer , has an unbroken provenance ; the other two , with broken provenances , are Aristotle with a Bust of Homer and The Standard Bearer . The burden of proof upon those who question Rembrandt 's authorship of these works  --  as have A.B . de Vries ( Doomer ) and Josua Bruyn and Hubert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy . To my mind their arguments are not convincing . B ) The Met has five undocumented works with early provenances whose authorship by Rembrandt has been nearly universally accepted , and whose quality has been affirmed repeatedly . Although based on hearsay and consensus , these attributions too merit the benefit of any possible doubt . C ) The Met has six paintings with younger provenances which are seldom questioned . D ) The Met has nine undocumented works related in various ways to Rembrandt , the ( late ) attribution of which has been debated and is still debatable . E ) The Met has 19 undocumented paintings whose former attribution to Rembrandt is now regarded by all specialists to be a demonstrable error . Put differently : of the 20 paintings in the " Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt " exhibition which were first recorded as Rembrandts before 1825 , four are now rejected and two doubted . Of the 22 with later provenances , only one has not been questioned by a recognized participant in the debates on the authenticity of Rembrandt paintings. ( 6 ) Taking Science Seriously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Self-Portrait ( which he accepts as a Rembrandt ) and " The Auctioneer " ( which he rejects ) is misleading , he is traducing the evidence . The resemblance is a fact and should be examined for what it does tell us , not dismissed because it fails to support von Sonnenburg 's notion of what a Rembrandt painting should be . If images and measurements from the laboratory are to play a role of any kind in determining the origins of works of art , they must be ranked and consulted in the first place on their own terms , with no reference whatsoever to art-historical opinion . The best means of achieving this goal would be to examine random samples from large numbers of miscellaneous objects . Even limiting the group of objects to the category " Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt " ( or any other predetermined stylistic set ) vitiates the value of the findings by eliminating in advance correlations that might cut across such categories . The greatest contribution made by laboratory examination to Rembrandt studies has been to demolish the recently prominent theory whereby those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in the 18th and 19th centuries. ( 7 ) Baetjer 's listing of the Young Man with a Beret as " 1st half XIX century " reflected this tendency . In case after case , however , such paintings have been shown to date from the 17th century , and to consist of materials indistinguishable from those found in the best-documented and most widely accepted works by Rembrandt . A prime example in the Met is the Study Head of an Old an ( no. 39 ) . Gerson called it " definitely an 18th or 19th century imitation , " but subsequent examination of the wood panel on which it was painted proved otherwise ; the tree from which the panel came was felled between 1628 and 1632 , the very period of Rembrandt 's career to which the head belongs in terms of theme and treatment . This reversal by science of an art-historical judgment provides a clear demonstration of the importance of counter-intuitive theories . Whereas connoisseurs were attempting to justify their instincts by removing certain doubtful paintings from Rembrandt 's generational ballpark , dendrochronologists plunked them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late-date theory would have simplified connoisseurship ; the laboratory findings complicate it immensely . Now art historians are forced to confront the unwelcome truth that their training and taste were leading them astray . Specifically , in a period favoring an increasingly puristic picture of Rembrandt 's artistry , they have to find a way to accommodate paintings that fall below the lowest standards of quality that they are willing to associate with Rembrandt . Possible Makers An attribution links an existing work to the name of a particular individual identified as the work 's author . In order to perform this maneuver successfully , one must first establish the entire range of potential candidates for authorship . If , however , the number of possible makers is actually greater than those acknowledged by connoisseurs , then their efforts at attribution are likely to be flawed and their identification of discrete oeuvres by individual masters will at best represent only convenient pigeonholes for grouping the works . And , indeed , such is the case for attributions in the field of 17th-century art . Of the painters named in period documents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form of signed works . It thus seems likely that the unsigned production of those others is currently misattributed  --  that is , spread out among the identified oeuvres . Furthermore , the author 's names we assign to many 17th-century works  --  especially those by artists who , like Rembrandt , worked closely with associates and who inspired imitation  --  may not correspond to actual historical individuals , but rather to hybrid groups of artists whom we can not individually identify. ( 8 ) The range of possible makers has another kind of indeterminacy as well . More than one hand may have been involved in the creation of individual paintings . Work may have been divided layer by layer or section by section . Later hands , including that of Father Time , have added their own , sometimes irreversible interventions . Losses over time of part of the paint surface , as well as chemical and physical changes in the materials ( and therefore colors ) are inevitable . The most fluid and ungraspable category of all is what a given historical period is willing to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was assumed that any painting capable of evoking a Rembrandt feeling in a knowledgeable viewer would only have been made by the master . Today we insist on demonstrable traces of his hand , down to a microscopic level . At the turn of the 22nd century , sentiment and handwork may be displaced as the hallmark of authenticity by , say , invention , which will make Rembrandts anew of many of today 's rejects . There are conceivable standards by which a painting executed entirely by Rembrandt would nonetheless be degraded to the status of a copy or derivative work and removed from his oeuvre . The Lesson of Doubt The last two columns of the chart reveal that several paintings have been the object of chronic disagreement or that they have been magnets for multiple alternative attributions . Concerning these works we may fairly say that their best features are not good enough , or their bad features too bad , or their stylistic characteristics too undistinguished to carry conviction as works by Rembrandt . At the same time , they do not fit well into anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced , we may assume that this disagreement will persist . Chances are that such paintings are wholly or partly the work of Rembrandt look-alikes who are not known to us by name . The Limited Knowability of Authorship Taking all the above into account , I conclude that there is nothing to prevent us from writing labels for any given work which would be unobjectionable by normal standards . Scientific examination can establish the age and condition of a work ; iconographic and stylistic comparison can place it in a national or regional school ; art-historical scholarship can relate it to a given studio or master ; connoisseurship can assign to it a certain level of quality by defined standards ; the history of reception can tell us which attributions are controversial and which not ; documentation may supply evidence for the identity of the maker . If the various indications for a work do not line up neatly  --  for example , its stylistic dating does not jibe with the documentary evidence  --  this inconsistency should be noted as information of a particularly valuable kind . For collections that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labels composed on that model would end up as an attribution to an individual artist and fewer than one in ten as an unqualified attribution . In certain respects , the Rembrandt holdings of the Met compare disadvantageously to those of other museums . They are donations which entered the museum with a label a attached by the patron . A more favorable ratio can be expected from the older sections of venerable European museums as well as those modern collections of old masters assembled by professional curators . On the other hand , if one enlarges the sample to include not only museum paintings but also the much larger group owned privately or in the trade , the Met Rembrandts undoubtedly have a more favorable ratio of assignable as opposed to non-assignable paintings . The suggestion that museums abide by the ascertainable facts in labeling their displays will undoubtedly sound to some like wild-eyed idealism . Indeed , until recently museum practice , encouraged by the market and sanctioned by scholarly consensus , favored the opposite policy . Unqualified attribution to individual masters was the norm from which a museum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice was the faith of the connoisseur in the literal truth of his attributions and the public 's faith in the connoisseur . Now that both faiths have eroded and are being replaced by a sliding scale of likelihoods , the time is ripe to bring labeling into line as well . A museum can make changes in gradual stages , allowing itself to be dragged unwillingly towards a more candid policy . Alternatively , it can take the initiative towards greater honesty in labeling , as the Met has done in this landmark exhibition . Rather than starting with an overextended claim for authorship and waiting for it to be challenged , museums could write reasonably uncontestable labels to which they could add whatever certain knowledge now exists . The initial effect of such a change might be to stun auction houses , art dealers , collectors and teachers who have banked on values that are now exposed as pseudo-certainties . But after the shock has been absorbed , they will all benefit from this new frankness . The best advantage we can provide for the 21st-century art world is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an X ray of a painting , sheet film is placed behind it . Rays from an X-ray machine pass through the painting before impinging on the film . The resulting image , alleged an X-radiograph , reveals the existence of overpainted areas which may not be visible to the eye . Since the lighter elements allow more rays to pass than the heavier ones , and since the flat X-ray image shows all the levels of a painting in one plane , X-radiographs are difficult and sometimes ambiguous documents to interpret . In autoradiography , the painting itself is the source of radiation . This is achieved by making the painting slightly radioactive in a nuclear reactor . A sequence of films is then laid upon the painting and each picks up radiation emitted by different , known combinations of elements . In the nine-film procedure that was developed by the Metropolitan Museum and Brookhaven National Laboratory , the eighth autoradiograph reveals most of the elements of the underdrawing and underpainting and fewest of the surface features . In principle , however , as von Sonnenburg states , " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sketching in the upper paint layers . " Infrared reflectography makes use of light that is just beyond the range normally visible to the eye . Paintings bathed in this light are filmed with an adapted video camera , adjusted to capture an image that brings out the carbon in the underdrawing . Whereas X rays and autoradiography combine all layers into a single plane , infrared reflectography focuses on one shallow field at a time . It is therefore best suited to the study of paintings on smooth supports such as wooden panels . Typically , the published images produced by infrared reflectography are montages of photographs of video monitors . They suffer from the low resolution , unequal light distribution and curvature of the video screen , exacerbated by the joins between photos . Pigment analysis of miniscule cross-sections of a painting is the most integral means of studying its buildup of layers . This method captures all the materials present in proper sequence , quantity and composition . However , it is a destructive technique which can only be used sparingly , and therefore can never provide samples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painting as valuable as a Rembrandt . The owners of many Rembrandt paintings refuse to allow any paint samples to be taken at all . As useful as these techniques are , interpreting their results is often subjective and controversial . Each has its champions and denigrators . In the case of paintings whose attribution is disputed , they sometimes only provide art historians with more pieces of evidence on which to disagree . Less ambiguous results are achieved by dendochronology and canvas thread counting . Dendochronology  --  a method of dating wood objects  --  entails examination of tree rings , based on a vast body of examples . A tree-ring pattern also provides a positive identification for the very piece of lumber from which a panel was taken . For paintings on canvas , the laborious process of counting threads and gauging their thickness can be used to identify the bolt of cloth from which the canvas was taken . The results of dendochronology and canvas thread counting sometimes confirm the suppositions of art historians and sometimes do not . Both techniques have linked together objects that art historians , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periods , even different centuries . 1 . " Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt in the Metropolitan Museum of Art " includes these 41 paintings plus one more : Man in Armor ( Mars ? ) , catalogue no. 31 , which was purchased by the museum in 1871 as a work by Are nt de Gelder . Although strictly speaking it should not have been included in the show , it was exhibited as a " Not Rembrandt , " and for the sake of simplicity I , too , treat it in this article as a rejected Rembrandt . 2 . In vol. 1 of the exhibition catalogue , Hubert von Sonnenburg writes : " Surprisingly , Rembrandt 's authorship was never seriously doubted before it was challenged on stylistic grounds by Haverkamp-Begemann in 1976 and on technical grounds by the members of the Museum 's autoradiography project of 1976 to 1980 . " However , in the publication of that project , Art and Autoradiography ( 1982 ) , the painting is referred to only in a " List of Paintings Studied . " 3 . In his catalogue summary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schwartz 1985 ... accepts this and the Berlin and St. Petersburg paintings of the subject as by Rembrandt . " In fact , on page 380 of Rembrandt : His Life , His Paintings ( 1885 ) , I express doubt concerning Rembrandt 's authorship of all three . 4 . Within the period 1751-1850 , however , the first quarter of the 19th century is unusual for the emergence then of paintings which all continue to command approval . A ranking of all 620 paintings in Bredius 's catalogue of 1935 would reveal whether or not this local reversal of a long-term trend is peculiar to the Met holdings . The Bredius catalogue ( which includes all but eight of the paintings in Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt ) is in itself a rigorous selection from among the many thousands of paintings which from the 17th century on have been attributed to Rembrandt . Most of those works were never taken seriously by the market or by scholars . In the present context , only the documentation of existing , identifiable works is taken into account . 5 . Although Liedtke 's references @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me representative of opinion in the field and therefore reliable indicators for our purpose . His inclusion of the unpublished opinions of visiting scholars ( which are incorporated into my chart ) is of considerable interest and deserves to be followed in other such publications . 6 . That painting is Hendrickje Stoffels ( no. 16 ) . When I looked at it critically at the exhibition , I found myself wondering why , " apart from Van Dyke ... no one has questioned Rembrandt 's authorship " of the painting ( Liedtke , vol II , p. 78 ) . To my eye , no single passage of the ( fairly ruined ) canvas stands up to skeptical scrutiny . On the other hand , I agree with the museum that the rejection by the RRP and Christian Tuempel of the " Beresteyn " portraits ( nos. 3-4 ) and the Portrait of a Man ( no. 20 ) , on grounds of quality , is unjustified . 7 . For a history of the rise and fall of this theory in the work of the Rembrandt Research Project , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Connoisseurship , " Annals of Scholarship , vol. 10 ( Detroit , Wayne State University Press , 1993 ; published in spring 1995 ) , pp. 313-36 . A valuable book on the RRP as a whole is Anthony Bailey 's Responses to Rembrandt , Timken Publishers , New York , 1994. 8 . In the excellent introduction to his volume of the catalogue , Walter Liedtke subjects the evidence for Rembrandt 's collaboration to an unsparing critique and finds it wanting . At no juncture in Rembrandt 's career , according to Liedtke , is there convincing evidence of collective creation . This is a refreshing challenge to what most Rembrandt specialists have come to believe recently . However , Liedtke 's implied conclusion  --  that Rembrandt and each of his pupils had a distinct individual style  --  is belied by the large number of unplaceable Rembrandtesque works emerging from their immediate environment . There was far more collaborative work than Liedtke is willing to admit . " Rembrandt/Not Rembrandt in the Metropolitan Museum of Art : Aspects of Connoisseurship " opened on Oct. 10 and remains at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curated by Hubert von Sonnenburg and Walter Liedtke . The drawings were organized by Carolyn Logan and the prints by Nadine Orenstein . Volume I of the exhibition catalogue , Paintings : Problems and Issues , is written by Hubert von Sonnenburg . Volume II , Paintings , Drawings , and Prints : Art-Historical Perspectives , is by Walter Liedtke et al . Author : Gary Schwartz is the author of Rembrandt : His Life , His Paintings ( Penguin , 1985 ) . He is presently a visiting professor of art history at the Hebrew University , Jerusalem . His first novel , Bets and Scams : A Novel of the Art World will be published by Marion Boyars early next year . <p>                     