@@394007

The voters of California will have an opportunity on Nov. 2 , 1993 , to vote for or against Proposition 174 : Parental Choice in Education . This Initiative has been designed to attack directly the problems of education reported in the 1983 report of the National Commission on Excellence in Education , A Nation at Risk : The Imperative of Educational Reform  --  poor academic performance of public schools , low test scores , the increase of violence , the high drop-out rate and the large number of graduates who are unable to accept responsibilities as working citizens . California sees the need to make changes . The present record of public schools shows that one student out of five drops out of school . The California SAT scores continue to be very low . They rank 31st in the nation , even when the student-teacher ratio is considered very good . Test results rank these students behind students in many foreign countries . The voters on Nov. 2 will decide whether or not " to enable parents to determine which school best meets their children 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whether or not " to empower parents to send their children to such schools . " Proposition 174 lists four more purposes for the reform of education : " to establish academic accountability based on national standards ; to reduce bureaucracy so that more educational dollars reach the classroom ; to provide greater opportunities for teachers ; to mobilize the private sector to help accommodate our burgeoning school-age population . " One wonders why the opponents do not speak about these aims . Proposition 174 is an amendment to Article IX of the California Constitution . Besides declaring its six purposes , it also indicates changes in the way California schools will be operated . It describes the way scholarships ( or , vouchers ) are financed and offered to students , and how school districts will accept students . Private schools that opt to be scholarship-redeeming schools " shall be accorded maximum flexibility to educate their children and shall be freed from unnecessary , burdensome , or onerous regulations . And : " Any school , public or private , may establish a code of conduct and discipline and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is deriving no substantial academic benefit or is responsible for serious or habitual misconduct related to the school may be dismissed . " This is a " Parent Empowering Initiative . " The parents are mentioned 11 times in this short initiative . The title focuses on the central issue , " Parental Choice in Education . " It puts into action principles of the parental role in education in keeping with the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court when it said in 1925 : " The child is not the mere creature of the state ; those who nurture him and direct his destiny have the right , coupled with the high duty , to recognize and prepare him for additional obligations " ( Pierce v. Society of Sisters , 268 U.S. 510 ) . A vote in favor of this proposition will be a test of whether we agree with Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( Dec. 10 , 1948 ) : " Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to education . Education shall be free , at least in the elementary and fundamental stages . " Our Government has signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . Why has it taken so long to " empower the parents " of our school-age children ? In 1989 , this right was strongly restated in the U.N . ' s Convention of the Rights of the Child . The Convention reminds us that the state shall respect the responsibilities , rights and duties of parents to direct the lives of their children , and assist the parents in the guidance of their children ( Articles 5 , 18 , 28 , 29 ) . It also asserts that the children of minority communities have a right to their own culture and the practice of their own religion and language . The California initiative agrees with the international community that children have a right to a free education . It is urging the state and the whole country to acknowledge this right as one that is inalienable , like the right to life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution and the Bill of Rights to acknowledge women 's right to vote ( 1920 ) and the rights of African-Americans . The call to acknowledge this right of parents and children is long overdue . California is not voting to bestow a new right on its citizens ; it is acknowledging a right people have by reason of their individual dignity as humans . Proposition 174 calls for basic change in the way public schools are organized . When America first offered education in the common schools ( now , the public schools ) in the mid-19th century , public policy organized them along residential lines and gave the control to local communities . This policy was deliberately instituted so that schools could avoid serving social , religious and ethnic groups . Schools were to serve the neighborhood and as Horace Mann said , they were to be the " great equalizers of conditions of man " and promote an egalitarian society . The common schools were to bring to America common moral , social , spiritual and political values . That policy was never intended to be a static @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principles enunciated in our founding documents were intended to expand as the complexity of our society increased . The Common School , which had been heralded as the American ideal , may have served our people well when the population was small and gathered together into small towns and homogeneous communities . That picture does not exist today . Our population is diversified ; pluralism dominates the national scene . Even as we seek again for some common denominators , we realize that the policy of assigning students to a school near one 's residence had allowed very rich schools to exist in the same city with very poor schools , segregated schools and mixed schools . It allowed for good schools and terribly ineffective schools , schools with trimmed lawns in the suburbs and schools with metal detectors at their gates in the inner cities . The Equal Protection clause of the Constitution , the Fourteenth Amendment , promised all citizens that no state would deprive a person of rights or deny equal protection of the law . The parental right to choose a school should not be limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools were challenged in the courts and ordered to make financing of schools more equitable , equal protection is still lacking . The new Proposition could change this . Because of the diversities within the residential areas of our cities and the force of our compulsory schooling law , the modern public school can not meet the goals of all the parents . Some parents and children are being hurt daily by the content of some courses and by the methods of some teachers . Yet they can not opt out of the system without great cost and inconvenience . Also , it must be admitted , no teacher can meet the goal set by the Court that schooling must be value-neutral . Hence , there must be change . Stephen Arons saw these conflicts vividly and offered the beginnings of a solution : " The only means of attaining the neutrality required by the First Amendment reading of Pierce is through the provision of maximum practicable choice of schooling to the families " ( " The Separation of School and State : Pierce Reconsidered , " Harvard Educational Review 1976 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers to work creatively and with more autonomy . Hence , it is bitter irony to know that the California Teachers Association is assessing each of their members $19 annually for the next three years to defeat this proposition . The California Federation of Teachers is using $500,000 to defeat this bill and has an out-of-state purse of $1 million from the National Education Association to defeat a proposition that promises to give new freedom and opportunities to the classroom teacher . We know from research that many teachers leave teaching after five or ten years . Their list of complaints does not begin with the salary scale . They want most of all to be regarded and be treated as professionals . They want autonomy in the classroom and freedom from nonprofessional duties . They see other professionals , like doctors and lawyers , choosing their clients and offering services to people who chose to come to them . They see other professionals held in high esteem . They see themselves in a state school system in which the administration does not support their professionalism . As a result , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel diminished and less fulfilled in the very career that prides itself on empowering students . The teachers now have a chance to change their status and to take a giant step toward their professionalization . Although Proposition 174 seeks to reduce bureaucracy , it does not eliminate accountability . Contrary to what the opponents of this proposition say , schools of choice public or private ) will be subject to the California Education Code in such areas as safety , health regulations and earthquake standards , as they have been . When parents and students choose their schools , we will see them carrying forward the spirit of responsibility for them . They will be accountable for the safety in their schools so that the upcoming school year will not repeat the record of 1988 , for example , when the public schools of California reported 65,000 violent crimes and 8,500 cases of weapons possession . Schools now privately financed are legitimate alternatives to schools financed by the government . They are not second-class schools . Their effectiveness in academic areas has been verified by national research . Their promotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students , parents , alumni and national leaders in every branch of government and occupation . Private schools are a national resource . They will be able to open their doors to more students if the parents and students are given scholarships to attend the schools of their choice . Because California is predicting an increase of two million students during this decade , the state needs to be able to count on the private sector for more classrooms and teachers . The saving in new school construction will be in the billions . Education in America will not reform itself until the money for education is given , not to the schools , but to the students . So the question stands : Are we ready to vote for a change in financing and governing schooling in the United States ? A vote for Proposition 174 could release the enormous pressure of dissatisfaction with the present system and invite a new dedication to the education of America 's youth  --  the future for our country . Edwin J. McDermott , S.J. , teaches in the School of Education of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Catholic Educational Leadership and continues teaching in that program . <p>                     