@@383234

America today is the world 's only remaining superpower . But for how long ? Here 's a detailed look at how the United States could slide disastrously into international inconsequence. // The following scenario may appear unrealistically pessimistic , but it is predicated on no disaster , no sudden failures , no new threats . The decline of the world 's last superpower requires little more than the continuation of a number of already well-entrenched social , economic , and political trends . The " U.S. Decline " Scenario Continued voter and corporate demands for handouts plus lower taxes increase the federal deficit , undermining government financial stability . Individuals consume heavily at the expense of savings , which leaves them equally exposed . In a selfcentered society where everyone feels abused , reform movements have no chance . Personal incentives to excel dissipates as scholarships , salaries , jobs , and promotions increasingly are given for politically correct reasons rather than merit . for politically correct reasons rt n merit . Fewer workers support more dependents on salaries that are being dimished by declining international competitiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cry of ambitious politicians to " protect American soverereignty . " Foreign investors flee to more hospitable markets , and allies drift away . With givernment , corporate , and personal financial reserves used up , isolated America slowly declines : Infrastructure decays , educational levels drop , cities go bankrupt , more and more people become alienated , and the population ages . Gradually , East Asia and West Europe inherit leadership of a rapidly advancing global society peacefully enriching itself through the expanding market opportunities born of multilateralism . The Decline Explained In a world of rising affluence , minor problems are infinite in variety , but the major storm clouds of history that could call a population to arms and motivate voluntary sacrifice  --  threatened invasions , arms races , alien ideological movements , pandemics  --  are absent . Germany becomes the powerhouse of economically unified Western Europe , which , in turn , propels the East European and Russian economies . China booms , thanks to its pragmatic policies and an economy fueled by yen . With Iran and Iraq focusing on internal rebuilding and international funding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoids collapse ; Kashmir does not provoke Indo-Pakistani warfare ; the two Koreas work out a modus vivendi ; Colombian democracy stumbles ahead ; and global integration proceeds . The dawn of the twenty-first century finds the world a rather upbeat place . For a few years , the current of events carries a complacent United States along . Negative underlying trends that had begun in the 1980s or before continue but are visible only to a few . Against the backdrop of low unemployment and high incomes generated by employment of both parents and often an adult child living at home , the few warnings are easy to discount . Most of those who do see where things are headed have , in the Information Age , plenty of personal options : telecommuting from their protected communities or emigrating for even higher-paid jobs . They inevitably protest less than they would have in a more statecentered , nationalistic age . Reformist proposals do not go far . The absence of fiscal discipline evident on the part of voters , corporate executives , and government alike during the 1980s continues unabated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so people find it easier to adapt to adversity than to discipline themselves . In an expanding global economy , money remains available throughout the 1990s to cover the rising U.S. national debt , which commands a full 40% of the federal budget by the year 2010 . The declining need for a large defense budget helps conceal the seriousness of the debt problem . Rising good health , resulting especially from the decline in heart disease , masks the graying of the population , which puts more and more Americans into retirement and exposes them to the disabilities associated with aging . The post-1980 American focus on " rights " rather than responsibilities intensifies , and society becomes increasingly fragmented . With echoes of a Maoism long dead in China , Americans stress equality over progress  --  redividing the pie , rather than enlarging it . Reformist politicians are repeatedly defeated by those who pander to the demands for special consideration by increasingly vocal interest groups . Public schools stress respect for others over academic performance ; universities admit and hire on the basis of status ( membership in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the corporate world , a rise in politically correct promotions diminishes the incentive for performance . Simultaneously , the proportion of good jobs declines . For a few years , employment stays high because people go into debt in order to continue consuming . Corporations stay afloat by trimming back , lowering salaries , cutting research , agreeing to takeovers by foreign firms . Instead of building for the future , people borrow against it . Foreign firms maintain production in the United States as a way around U.S. protectionist tendencies , but increasingly the value added comes primarily overseas . Americans assemble kits , allowing the products to be sold as " locally produced " while the technical experience that forms the basis for further innovation accumulates abroad . Gradually , the economic toll of high interest rates required to attract foreign capital to pay the rising national debt takes its toll on American competitiveness . The failure of American society to make good use of the wisdom and experience of the rapidly expanding group of citizens over 65 but still healthy further reduces competitiveness . In contrast , East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adapt more effectively . A reform effort to raise gradually the minimum age for receiving Social Security payments fails as irresponsible political references to " destroying Social Security " make senior citizens oppose any change . Increasing disenchantment with the widening division between the lifestyle of the elites and the low- tech , low-skill lives of the average citizen polarizes political debate and accentuates demands for handouts  --  whether food stamps , free health care , house mortgage deductions , import quotas and tariffs , or simply outright tax cuts . Photograph Food stamps and other " handouts " have come to be expected by many citizens . Photograph Schoolboy pledges allegiance . When U.S. schools stress nonacademic values rather than performance , America may be in trouble in the future , argues author William Mills . // A reform effort to require welfare recipients to accept certain responsibilities in return for the privilege of " temporary " grants fails in the face of voter insistence that welfare is an " inalienable right . " The rich strike back by getting an increase in the upper limit on the home mortgage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away for transfer payments rather than being used for the general good ( education , transportation , parks , communications , defense ) . The federal government becomes more and more an organization for managing the growing national debt and appeasing interest groups masquerading as abused minorities . The elites have private schools ; the rest care less and less about education , reasoning with some justification that there are no good jobs anyway . Cities become increasingly difficult to manage , exploited during the day by suburbanites who desert them at night with no sense of responsibility for the base of their livelihood . Urban unemployment and the resulting alienation of the young grows as does the proportion of aged . Workers thus decrease as a proportion of the population even as their salaries decline and the number of dependents rises . America-firsters , fighting against the trend toward global integration , succeed in isolating America politically with an appealing but selfdeluding call to defend American " sovereignty . " Meanwhile , the rest of the developed world is awakening to the realization that the seventeenthcentury concept of state sovereignty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Information Age . Simultaneously , rising protectionism isolates the country economically . The United States fails to adapt to its loss of economic dominance and the rising need for multilateral coordination of economic policy . Tired of repeated peacekeeping efforts , the nation drops out of the United Nations and engages in several ineffective military adventures overseas on its own . This solitary stance makes the U.S. defense budget duplicative and wasteful , resulting in less bang for the buck than other countries obtain through international cooperation . American military power is further weakened by the nation 's declining industrial base and growing technological backwardness . Allies become increasingly wary of the intentions of an isolationist United States and unwilling to support its foreign policy goals . By 2015 , even in the military realm , America is no longer viewed as a superpower . East Asian societies , in contrast , continue to place primary responsibility for individual well-being at the door of the family rather than the state . Unburdened by the welfare state , their economies increasingly outpace that of the United States . Given the technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain fields , Singapore and China , combined with the attractiveness of investing in the highly literate and now stable Russian Republic , the global economy expands despite lessening U.S. participation . Symbolic of and furthering its increasing isolation , the United States drops out of GATT and forms a " trade bloc of one . " By 2015 , the government discovers that there are few sources of domestic capital in a country of decayed cities and noncompetitive industry , no foreign allies from which to request help , little attractiveness to foreign investors , and an atomistic society . The government is also surprised to find that , despite its years of responding to citizen demands , it has too little credibility with the people to launch innovative reform efforts . The United States slowly sinks to the status of a second-rank power as East Asia and Western Europe gain world leadership . Putting the Scenario In Perspective The " U.S. Decline " scenario is just one of many possible routes on the roadmap to the future . Nevertheless , numerous trends already occurring in American society are consistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following a road with many forks . The decline scenario here outlined argues that branches leading to decline are out there in front of us . To avoid such branches and keep on the high road to a bright future , we can construct scenarios with clearly specified " drivers "  --  the factors that affect the route that will be selected . In addition , the scenarios should include " milestones " to help determine how far along a route we have traveled . Sample drivers are : * Education : Will our educational system make us capable of continued innovation or turn us into a nation of followers ? * International security : Will we move toward multilateral cooperation or zero-sum competition ? * Economy : Will our economy be focused on improving the infrastructure or on making debt payments ? * Social structure : Will we have a productive lower class or a welfare state ? Sample milestones against which we can measure our progress include , on the negative side , a Mexican collapse into narco- or rightist dictatorship , a raising of tariffs to protect an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States to participate in peacekeeping . Positive milestones would include the legal defining of welfare as a privilege entailing responsibilities rather than a right , a raising of the basic requirements for high-school graduation , a raising of the minimum age for Social Security , or a restoration of discipline in public schools . Photograph From military to militia ? The United States may increasingly withdraw from the international arena , and " Americafirsters " will come to arms to defend U.S. sovereignty . Author Affiliation About the Author William deB . Mills is a political methodologist researching ways to apply computational modeling to social science analysis . He has written on such topics as " Computers as Stimulants Author Affiliation for Human Creativity . " His address is 990 Old Holly Drive , Great Falls , Virginia 22066 . Telephone 703/450-5876 ; e-mail wmills@erols.com . Note : This material has been reviewed by the CIA to assist the author in eliminating classified information , if any ; however , that review neither constitutes CIA authentication of material nor implies CIA endorsement of the author 's views . // <p>  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          