@@341563

In every dynasty , a moment comes when the painful , potentially disruptive question of succession must be faced . At the Washington Post , that question has loomed for some time over the tenure of executive editor Ben Bradlee . Bold and aggressive , Bradlee instilled a notable sharpness and drive into the paper after becoming executive editor in 1968 . Under him , the Post at its best bristled with scoops  --  especially during Watergate  --  and was written with acerbic flair . It achieved national prominence with searching , provocative coverage that invigorated readers as much as it discomfited the White House and much of official Washington . But in recent years Bradlee , 68 , has been easing off his earlier pace , prompting speculation about his retirement and causing open jockeying among his would-be replacements . <P> Now the answer to the succession question is clear : it has already happened . Although Bradlee retains his title , day-to-day management of the Post has passed into the hands of managing editor Leonard Downie Jr. , 48 . Bradlee confirms that Downie is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editor has provided an answer to the inevitable question about how Downie compares with Bradlee : the cautious and bureaucratic Downie would not even want to match the older editor 's riverboat-gambler style . In contrast to Bradlee 's instinct for the jugular , Downie is such a stickler for down-the- middle objectivity that he refuses to vote in any election . Whereas Bradlee was autocratic , Downie prefers to reach decisions by consensus . He sees his job as " setting priorities and settling fights " rather than conceptualizing and leading the Post toward new frontiers . <P> To many inside and outside the Post , Downie 's avowed attempt to make the paper more credible and authoritative has also made it duller and more predictable , less willing to take on the powerful and needle the pretentious . " There was a time at the Post when its creative talents were pushed to move forward , " says Kathleen Hall Jamieson , dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania . " That time has passed . " Concedes Bradlee : " We 're less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 years older . There 's a certain conservatism that has set in . " <P> Downie has won applause from his reporters for making fairness a crusade . But he has also aroused some resentment in the newsroom by enforcing fairness in ways that more activist staffers consider stultifying . After he learned that some of his reporters had joined in a pro-choice abortion rally last year , Downie rightly reminded the staff that they had forfeited the right to protest when they chose to work in journalism . Earlier this year , he sent an uncharacteristically stinging memo to his top editors charging that the Post 's coverage of the abortion issue had been lopsidedly biased against the pro-life side .                     