@@415117

The Seattle Art Museum exhibition " Holding the Past : Historicism in Northwest Class Sculpture " ( July 1-February 11 , 1996 ) was the occasion for a daylong symposium , " Contemporary Class : Seduction vs . Intellect , " held July 22 in the auditorium of the Robert Venturi-designed museum headquarters . Associate director Patterson Sims , curator of the exhibition , welcomed the sellout crowd from all over the United States , Canada , Japan and Europe . The museum 's two membership groups  --  the Pacific Northwest Arts Council and the Contemporary Art Council  --  had worked together with Pilchuck lass School executive director Marge Levy to organize the event , taking advantage of the presence in Seattle of the prestigious audience expected for Pilchuck 's 25th-anniversary picnic the prior afternoon , as well as the distinguished artists , critics and art historians who occupied the stage . David Hickey , the winner of this year 's College Art Association-Frank Jewett Mather award for art criticism , gave the keynote address , " Glass and the Beauty Thing . " Alternately rambling and humorous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best to stake out his position vis-a-vis glass , beauty and the status of American craft within the art world . The author of The Invisible Dragon ( Art Matters Press , 1994 ) , Hickey provocatively and eloquently addressed such questions as " Can pleasure and culture co-exist ? " ( Maybe ) ; " Is there an alignment of pleasure and virtue ? " ( No ) ; and " Is the idea of beauty a product of a cosmopolitan culture ? " ( Yes ) . Enter glass . Referring to the VIP audience as " the glass menagerie " ( given their elite character as a veritable gathering of the tribe of international glass artists , curators , critics and collectors ) , Hickey went on to praise glass as a metaphor or emblem of civilization : it survives or is broken . He drew on its ties to the Age of Reason : it is " reflective " and " translucent " like Enlightenment thought and other 18th-century landmarks using glass , such as the Salle des Glaces at Versailles and the windowlike view into Chardin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a point made by many art critics who flirt with glass but are unwilling to commit to a real love affair : why have the crafts abandoned function at the very time when the fine arts have gone over to the vessel and the functional-appearing object ? Ever since Duchamp signed a urinal and called it a " readymade , " function has had a siren-call effect on the fine arts . Picasso stressed found functional objects and was followed decades later by furniture sculptors Scott Burton and Richard Artschwager , minimalist Donald Judd 's sculptures in the form of tables ( tables in the form of sculptures ? ) , and Robert Gober , who proved that everything including the kitchen sink can be considered art . At this point , Hickey 's analogy of the " craft world " and " art world " passing like " ships in the night  --  in opposite directions , to and away from function "  --  did not hold water . Could he have missed , through lack of exposure and research , the truth that craft materials have always had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the 20th century ? Why must the art world always relegate craft to pure function ? Regardless , by taking glass seriously and responding so articulately , Hickey raised the ante for other art critics who may have resisted the idea of glass art , let alone the idea of beauty . He ended on a note of hope , that " beauty can change the tribal idea of the Beautiful , " that is , personal response to beauty may be at odds with socially sanctioned notions of the Beautiful , but can gradually change the larger community 's idea of what is beautiful . Later that day , Tina Oldknow , former associate curator at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art , co-moderated a panel with Sims and six artists , Jaroslava Brychtova , Stanislav Libensky , Josiah McElheny , Pike Powers , Jill Reynolds and Bertil Vallien . With far too many people at the table , the nine participants ( including Katya arrow , translator for Libensky and Brychtova , the Czech husband-and-wife team ) struggled to come to a thoughtful consensus about anything , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ panelists , Libensky and Brychtova seemed humble and wise . Their first West Coast exhibition , at the Elliott Brown Gallery in Seattle , was the other occasion for their presence ; they appeared very happy not only to attend but also to celebrate the recent changes and improvements in the glass scene in the Czech Republic . Sims threw down the gauntlet , attacking a statement by critic Arthur C. Danto  --  " Glass is about glass "  --  and challenging the panelists to refute it as well . Some did ; some did not . The Swedish artist Vallien kept returning to the dilemma of why so many people working in glass need be called artists at all . His solution was very European : artist-designer at the top , artisan-maker at the bottom , just the way it is at the Kosta Boda factory in Afors , where he lives and works . Brychtova not only refuted " Danto 's theorem , " but also chastised Sims 's arbitrarily opposed theme of " seduction vs. intellect . " " We can not apply only seduction and intellect as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we must consider light as the most important condition under which we must create . " The youngest panelist , 29-year-old McElheny , who makes reproduction Roman glass for his mock-archaeological display cases , bluntly asked : " What is the point of art without beauty ? " Reynolds , the other artist working in glass from a conceptual standpoint , admitted that " seduction and intellect are a risk for any medium . Too much of either can be bad . " McElheny and Reynolds were the only artists from " Holding the Past " to participate in the symposium ( the show 's other exhibitors are Ann Gardner , Dante Marioni , Richard Marquis , William Morris , Seth Randal and Catherine Thompson ) . Oldknow shifted the discussion toward the limits of beauty , asking , " Is beauty a help or a hindrance ? " Powers , artistic director at Pilchuck , responded , " Yes , too much can be a hindrance , but beauty in natural phenomena can be a help . It aids us in defining what form the ideal or theoretical aspect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when McElheny held that " beauty is nowadays used as a pejorative to conceal ideological issues in contemporary art . " That may be , but none of the panelists or moderators ever got around to discussing whether glass is automatically beautiful by virtue of its materials , or if it need be . Bearing that in mind , the symposium presented a refreshing range of opinions on beauty and glass art , but the panel , perhaps because of its unwieldy size , fell flat in failing to give conference-goers a sense of a really meaty discussion to take away with them . As is frequently true at such events , the most intriguing conversations and learning occurred during breaks and afterwards . Given the minds assembled that day , I am certain more substantive talk carried on late into the night among the panelists , and definitely among the audience members . <p>                     