@@383578

For Jim and Betsy Chaffin , preserving the natural beauty and heritage of the island they call home is more than an opportunity ; it 's an obligation . Photograph ( Left ) Like an abandoned stage set , monolithic forms of tabby ruins on the Edwards estate stand in bold relief against the lush landscape . Photograph ( Left inset ) Frogmore stew on the deck of the Walker House , a Spring Island tradition Photograph ( Middle inset ) Naturalist Bruce Lampright oversees the island 's nature preserve . Photograph ( Right set ) From their rooftop observation deck , Jim and Betsy enjoy panoramic views of the pond and marsh beyond . Specks of white in the trees are roosting wood storks and ibis . // Just before dawn , in the still darkness , the solitude is exhilarating . A breeze rustles ever so gently through the palmettos . Morning arrives effortlessly on Spring Island . Gradually the sky changes from the softest pink to a golden glow . The tide is low , and the black mud of the salt marshes glistens with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun bursts onto the scenea fireball beyond the Chechessee River . Nature 's alarm clock beckons , and almost immediately there 's a flurry of activity on this South Carolina sea island . Scores of egrets and wood storks take flight , abandoning the security of their freshwater rookeries for the rivers and tidal marshes . An army of sand crabs scrambles for food along the exposed river bottom before the water rises . Blackmasked fox squirrels scurry about in a nearby thicket , and a harmless black snake darts across a dirt path . In a little while , Jim and Betsy Chaffin will be about their business . For the moment , they are lingering over breakfast , content to observe the wonders of nature from their home nestled in the trees . Their business is Spring Island , a 3,000-acre island bounded by the Colleton and Chechessee Rivers approximately 13 miles southwest of Beaufort , South Carolina . Jim and Betsy first visited Spring Island on Thanksgiving Day 1988 . Although the couple had visited many islands along the Southeast coast , when their boat pulled up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jim recalls , " We were overwhelmed by the mystical quality of the place . " Determined to find a way to spend the rest of their lives on the island , Jim and Betsy joined forces with some old friends to turn their dream into a reality . In association with Jim Light and Peter LaMotte , the Chaffins purchased Spring Island in 1990 . The partners vowed development should have as little impact as possible on the pristine landscape . They set aside in perpetuity 1,000 acres-about one-third of the island-as a nature preserve , including a 600-acre live oak forest believed to be one of the largest remaining stands of oldgrowth live oaks on the East Coast . They limited the number of homesites to 500 , although the island had been approved for 5,500 units . Landscape architect Robert Marvin was hired to re-create a master plan accommodating low-density residential development with little effect on the environment . Ensured that the island would retain its distinct character , Jim and Betsy set out to build their own home . They turned to Beaufort architect Jim Thomas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lightly on the landscape . The result is an inviting , comfortable home , perfectly suited for the way they live . The house is not large , only about 2,600 square feet . Materials native to the Lowcountry and forms derived from historical precedents give it solidity and character . But this is n't a contrived plantation re-creation ; it is a beautifully crafted home that speaks to the present yet clearly hearkens to the island 's past . ( To page 102 ) The tabby foundation recalls the nearby ruins of the Edwards mansion , an early l9th-century estate visible from the Chaffins ' veranda . The shingle siding reflects the character of Lowcountry hunt clubs , while the tin roof evokes more humble Southern design traditions . A covered loggia within the substantial tabby foundation beckons visitors to the house . The two-story configuration is basically the reverse of traditional plans , with bedrooms set on the ground floor and main living spaces upstairs . " Once you decide to turn the house upside down , " explains the architect , " a transition from the ground to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to achieve a sense of arrival . " In this house , the transition is magical . The foyer with its tabby walls and floor feels moody and encompassing . As you ascend the curving stairway , the drama of the house unfolds . Although the term " great room " is sometimes overused to describe a den or family room , the word certainly applies to Jim and Betsy 's living area , dining room , and kitchen . Generous proportions include ceilings that peak at a height of 16 feet . Columns , moldings , and other architectural details are elegant in their simplicity and sense of craftsmanship . Floors , exposed beams , and trim throughout are salvaged heart pine . A tabby fireplace with a simple heart-pine mantel serves as a low-key focal point without competing with the room 's main attraction-the view . Three large windows provide an incredible panorama over a freshwater pond and expansive salt marshes beyond . Photograph ( Inset ) Afternoon sunlight encompasses the spiral stairway that leads to a rooftop observation deck . ( Right ) Craftsmanship shows throughout the house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sculptural element in the foyer . Photograph ( Left ) The Chaffins ' grounds present a tastefully manicured landscape that highlights an array of indigenous plantings . ( Left inset ) Best described as informal , the house exudes an elegant sense of Lowcountry style . Built-in bookcases flank a tabby fireplace . ( Bottom ) French doors with retractable pocket screen doors create an inviting interchange between indoors and out . Photograph ( Left ) The Chaffins ' grounds present a tastefully manicured landscape that highlights an array of indigenous plantings . ( Left inset ) Best described as informal , the house exudes an elegant sense of Lowcountry style . Built-in bookcases flank a tabby fireplace . ( Bottom ) French doors with retractable pocket screen doors create an inviting interchange between indoors and out . // Personal objects , including family photographs , sketchbooks , sweet-grass baskets , and paintings and sculptures by regional and national artists , fill the home . Loose arrangements of wildflowers positioned around the room add hints of color . A spotting scope is always ready to focus in on a bird @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is the goal for the houses built on Spring Island . An architectural review board scrutinizes the siting and design of houses , although there are no minimum square footage requirements . Thirty-four houses have been completed , and what ties the homes together is a common use of vernacular architectural elements and traditional materialsa respect for the land . Jim and Betsy and the other owners made the decision long ago that environmental sensitivity would play a key role in everything done on the island . Perhaps their most profound action was the establishment of the Spring Island Trust , a nonprofit organization created to ensure the preservation of unspoiled wildlife habitats and the island 's unique cultural heritage . The trust employs two full-time naturalists , Bruce Lampright and John McKenzie , whose responsibilities are varied-leading educational programs , overseeing the preserve , teaching kayaking , advising on where to site a house , nursing an injured owl . The trust also administers a visiting artists program that invites noteworthy painters , sculptors , photographers , and ceramists from all over the country to visit the island . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cozy guest cottages and eat at the Walker House dining room , the social center of the island where Lowcountry meals are served family style . Spring Island is a constantly changing environment . It 's a landscape of supple edges shaped by the meandering rivers and the ebb and flow of the tides . Although the calendar and shorter days announce that fall is here , in the salt marshes the spartina grass stubbornly hangs onto its green hue . A great blue heron solemnly stands in a few inches of water , determined to catch one more fish before nightfall . Jim and Betsy relax on their rooftop perch , resolved that the inevitable changes that come with development will be just as natural . <p>                     