@@394140

PART OF WHAT MAKES HOLY WEEK HOLY is the solemn reading of two Gospel passion narratives , one from the first three Gospels on Passion ( Palm ) Sunday , and the one from John every year on Good Friday . It can be fairly claimed that these masterpieces have given more inspiration to artists , musicians , poets and mystics than any other sections of the New Testament . Ironically , however , such dramatic power makes sensitive Christians uneasy about anti-Jewish elements in the passion narratives . How can they be proclaimed without adding to the tragic history of their misuse against the Jewish people ? Last year I brought out a very long commentary on the passion narratives , The Death of the Messiah ( 2 vols. , Doubleday ) , the primary focus of which was the positive message that the evangelists wished to convey to their Christian hearers and readers . In it I gave considerable attention to the danger of anti-Judaism in our reactions , but here I want to concentrate on the evolution of anti-Judaism in New Testament thought about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancestors approached the death of Jesus . As we come to this Holy Week in the shadow of the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz , I dedicate this essay to the struggle to appreciate the truth and beauty of the narratives without arousing hostility . There are two approaches I firmly reject . Throughout the centuries and still today the passion narratives have been read as literal history . Such an interpretation produces a view of the Jewish leaders as scheming liars who knowingly deceived the Roman prefect in order to bring about Jesus ' death . Matthew 's and John 's use of the generalizing description of these opponents of Jesus as " Jews " has too often been heard without historical perceptivity as referring to Jews of later centuries and thus have contributed to ongoing hate . This approach has now been firmly rejected in Roman Catholicism , whether or not all Catholics know this . In 1964 the Roman Pontifical Biblical Commission taught authoritatively that the Gospels are the product of considerable narrative , organizational and theological development and so are not simply literal accounts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II explicitly condemned an outlook that would blame the passion without distinction on all the Jews then living or on the Jews today . ( See the council 's " Declaration on the Relationship of the Church to Non-Christian Religions " 1965 , No. 4 . ) The other view I judge unacceptable discredits the Gospel passion narratives as almost totally the product of Christian imagination , with little or no foundation in fact . Under the mantle of scholarly objectivity , advocates assert firmly but without proof that the early Christians knew little about how Jesus died and simply invented their narratives on the basis of Old Testament imagery . Indeed , some scholars ( of Christian upbringing ) would paint them as creating lies precisely to vilify the Jews . If the literalist interpretation of the passion narratives can produce hate toward Judaism , this interpretation can have the effect of portraying Christianity as a false and hateful religion . Religiously sensitive Jews and Christians recognize that if either group of our respective ' first-century ancestors is presented as liars who wanted to destroy their opposites , nothing has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EXAMINATION suggests that the situation in the first century was far more complex than such overly simple reconstructions allow . Let me attempt to do at least partial justice to the complexities by describing four stages in the development of New Testament attitudes toward the death of Jesus . STAGE ONE : What happened in A.D. 30 or 33 when Jesus was executed on a cross . Without attempting to repeat all the evidence amassed in The Death of the Messiah , a very plausible case can be made for the following . Jesus upset and even alarmed some of his coreligionists by his attitudes toward some legal demands , his assumptions about his own unique teaching authority , his association with sinners and his critique of public practices that he regarded as meaningless religiosity . Rumors that he might be the Messiah ( whether promoted by friends or opponents ) caused tension . This came to a head when in Jerusalem he castigated and/or publicly acted out a critique of the Temple procedures and the sanctuary  --  a sensitive issue economically , socially and politically . A Sanhedrin or meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was a dangerous and arrogant ( that is to say , blasphemous ) nuisance and arranged for him to be seized and handed over to the Roman authorities . That Jesus could have been manhandled and abused in such an arrest and transferral would be far from surprising . For the Roman governor he was not a major threat . ( Pilate 's prefecture up to this time saw occasional protests and riots but not the armed revolutionary movements of an earlier or later period , when the Romans sent out troops and executed hundreds without any pretense at trial . ) Nevertheless , Jesus was potentially a menace if people thought he was a messiah or king , and so Pilate ordered Jesus executed . The historical plausibility of this Gospel picture can be supported from Josephus , the Jewish historian who wrote his Antiquities at the end of the first century A.D. Amid his account of Pilate 's governorship ( including several instances of crowds assembling to put pressure on him ) , Josephus refers to Pilate 's treatment of Jesus . Serious scholarship would now judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jesus was a wise man who did astonishing deeds and taught many people , but " Pilate condemned him to the cross on indictment of the first-ranking men among us . " FROM JOSEPHUS 'S DESCRIPTION of what happened 30 years later to another man called Jesus ( the son of Ananias ) , we learn how such an indictment might have worked . This other Jesus cried out a message against Jerusalem and the Temple sanctuary . By such behavior he provoked the leading citizens , who , thinking he was under some supernatural drive , had him beaten and led him before the Roman governor . The latter had him scourged , but he would not respond . ( He was finally let go as a maniac but was killed in the siege of Jerusalem . ) A combination of the Josephus accounts shows how exaggerated are the claims that the substance of the Gospel portrayals of the treatment of Jesus of Nazareth can not be historical . Stage Two : Christians interpreted the passion of Jesus against a scriptural background . Neither the claim of wholesale invention nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what happened next . The New Testament is insistent that what befell Jesus matched what was found in the Law and the prophets . In particular the Old Testament portraits of how the just suffered at the hands of the wicked colored memories preserved by Jesus ' followers . Historically the motives of the authorities aligned against Jesus at the time of his execution were surely a mixture : genuine religious outrage at his actions and claims , worry about civic unrest , crass self-interest , fear of his provoking Roman intervention , and so on . But now a quest for what was theologically significant motivated simplification ; those opposed to Jesus took on the biblical coloring of the wicked who plot against the innocent . For instance , in Wis. 2:17-21 the wicked contend that if the just one be the son of God , God will defend him ; and they resolve to revile him and put him to death . The abuse and travail of Jesus take on the plaintive tones of the hymnist of Psalm 22 and the Suffering Servant of Is. 52-53 . For his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which illumined the role of Jesus ' death in the plan of God . This stage of reflection on the passion was not anti-Jewish , any more than were the psalms or other biblical books that were mined for the imagery . After all , the just one , his admirers and the wicked opponents were all Jews . And the theological simplification of the opponents as wicked is a standard biblical portrayal , not a nefarious Christian falsification . Six hundred years before , not all who disagreed with Jeremiah 's policies for Judah were wicked ; but the biblical account portrays them thus , simplifying their motives and dramatizing their actions . Indeed some of the most sensitive words in the passion of Jesus are found in Jeremiah 26 . When , with God 's authority , Jeremiah threatened the destruction of the Temple , the priests and all the people heard him , and the priests and the prophets demanded his death . Jeremiah warned them that they were bringing innocent blood on Jerusalem and its citizens . STAGE THREE : The beginning of the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrayed against Jesus . As we can tell from Paul 's writings , a major factor in this stage was the conversion of Gentiles to the following of Jesus . The Apostle encountered hostility from synagogue authorities in his proclamation of the Gospel , as he indicates in 2 Cor. 11:24 : ( " From the Jews on five occasions I received the 39 lashes " ) , and so did his Gentile converts , according to Acts . Paul compared the enmity Christians were experiencing to that endured by Jesus , employing in 1 Th. 2:14-15 ( a passage that I firmly contend is genuine ) a description of " the Jews who killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets and who persecuted us . " In itself that could be simply a distinguishing classification ( the Jews , as distinct from the Romans , who had a role in Jesus ' death ) ; but the further assimilation to hostile Jewish authorities encountered both by Paul and his readers tells us that two decades after Jesus ' death his passion was entering into debates between Jews who did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MUCH anti-Judaism was involved in this use of " Jews " for the Jerusalem authorities who had a role in Jesus ' death ? A number of factors governed the issue . For instance , how hostile was the experience of the readers or hearers with Jews who rejected the proclamation of Jesus ? At this early period Christian Jews who used such language may at other times have been nostalgic about their Jewish heritage ( as Paul was in Rom. 9:3-5 ) . The same would not have been true of Gentile Christians ; indeed they may have read into an expression like " the Jews who killed the Lord Jesus " prejudices against Jews stemming from their own Gentile background . Was equal hostility showed by Christians toward the Romans who had a role in the death of Jesus ? It probably depended on whether Roman authority had harried the Christians . The psalm application in Acts 4:25-27 places in equal array against Jesus " Herod and Pontius Pilate , the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel . " In the Gospel portrayals the mockery of Jesus by Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police . Stage Four : The use of " Jews " to describe those involved in the death of Jesus in circumstances when the Christians were no longer " Jews . " Paul 's phrase " the Jews who killed Jesus " was restrictive to one group of Jews ; but before long such language would have been generalized , particularly as at different places at different moments the majority among the Christians who used it was not ethnically Jewish . More delicately , because of alienation ( and at times expulsion ) from synagogues , some ethnically Jewish Christians were no longer using the term " Jews " of themselves . That seems to be the case among some of the Christians reflected in the Gospels of John and Matthew . Accordingly , when a major role in the passion of Jesus was attributed to " the Jews . " the Impression was now being given that another people ( different from us Christians ) was involved . When Mt . 27:25 was read ( " All the people said , " His blood on us and on our children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility for the death of Jesus . Indeed , the reference to " children " here and in Lk. 23:28 ( " Daughters of Jerusalem ... for yourselves weep and for your children " ) suggests that the Roman defeat of the Jews and the destruction of the Jerusalem Temple in A.D. 70 were perceived as God 's punishment for having put Jesus to death . It is not surprising that Christians would make such a judgment , given that Josephus ( Antiquities 20.8.5 ) gave an analogous theological explanation : God turned away from Jerusalem and allowed the Romans to burn the city because of hate for the impiety , murders and profanation among Jews there in the 50 's and 60 's . SOME OF THE ALLEVIATING FACTORS in Stage Three were now gone , and the parallel between " the Jews " who were hostile to Jesus and contemporary Jews who did not accept Jesus and were looked on as hostile to Christians became complete . ( And one may guess that on the other Side among some Jews a parallel was drawn between " that fellow " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present troublemakers who were making blasphemous claims about him . ) One catches elements of that connection in a passage like Mt . 28:12-15 , where a lie that the disciples stole the body of Jesus , started through a bribe given by the chief priests and elders , " has been spread among Jews until this day . " If at this stage we can finally speak of anti-Judaism , notice that it had taken time to develop , was not intrinsic to the passion itself and reflects the unfriendly relationship between Christians ( ethnically Jew or Gentile ) and Jews who did not believe in Jesus . STAGE FOUR was only the beginning of a long history ; by the next century Christians would be accusing Jews of deicide ( Melito of Sardis ) , and Jewish legends ( reflected in the pagan Celsus ' attacks on Christianity were portraying Jesus as a wicked magician and the illegitimate son of an adulteress . The effect of the hostile feelings became one-sided after the conversion of Constantine to Christ and the gaining of political power by Christians . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oppression and persecution of Jews continue through the centuries , culminating horrendously in our own . Many non-Christian elements contributed to that history , particularly in the Nazi period ; but often the passion narratives were read in a way that fueled hatred of Jews . In efforts to ensure that this never happen again , what I have contended above may serve well . The recognition that important Jewish figures in Jerusalem were hostile to Jesus and had a role in his death need not of itself have produced anti-Judaism , any more than the fact that the Jerusalem priests and prophets plotted Jeremiah 's death would produce such a result . The first Christian attempt to see theological significance in Jesus ' death by use of the scriptural portrayal of the just persecuted by the wicked did not of itself have an anti-Jewish tone . Anti-Judaism appeared when the death was interpreted through the optic of the then-existing bad relations between believers in Jesus ( often no longer ethnically Jewish ) and Jews who did not believe in him . Good relations between Christians and Jews based on respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reading of the passion narratives without an anti-Jewish effect . Christians who appreciate the great heritage of Judaism will work sensitively to correct the simplification whereby those hostile to Jesus are portrayed without qualification as " the Jews . " We Christians can not dismiss or deny what happened to Jesus  --  that is too facile an escapism . In liturgically celebrating the truth and power of the passion narratives , however , we must be equally energetic in proclaiming , as did Pope John Paul II on the Auschwitz anniversary : " Never again anti-Semitism ! " THE REV . RAYMOND E. BROWN , a Sulpician priest , is Auburn Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Biblical Studies ( Union Theological Seminary , New York City ) . His latest book is An Introduction to New Testament Christology ( Paulist , 1994 ) . <p>                     