@@409287

One notable sidelight of the 1992 presidential election in the United States was that the three main candidates were left-handed . Had Bill Clinton , George Bush , and Ross Perot all been right-handed , their directional bias would have attracted no attention . Yet because only about one in ten persons is left-handed , the odds against three southpaws all seeking the job are only about 1 in 1,000 . ( Of forty-one American presidents who took the oath of office prior to 1993 , only four  --  James Garfield , Harry Truman , Gerald Ford , and George Bush  --  demonstrated a strong preference for using the left hand . ) Words and phrases that originally stem from an awareness of handedness  --  words such as dexterity , adroit , sinister , gauche , and right-hand man  --  abound in Western languages , suggesting a deeply rooted fascination with human handedness . Unfortunately , the connotations of terms such as gauche and sinister ( which derive from " left " ) put left-handers in an awkward or even unsavory light ; they are outside the norm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ranging from doorknobs and scissors to gearshifts and computer keyboards , are designed and manufactured with little regard for the lefty minority among us . Until about twenty years ago , many anthropologists , biologists , and cognitive scientists took for granted the notion that humans were distinct from the rest of the animal kingdom by virtue of what is called behavioral lateralization , or behavioral asymmetry  --  the tendency to favor one hand ( or foot or eye ) over the other for certain tasks . In the mid-1800s , the French physicians Paul Broca and Marc Dax showed that handedness was related to the division of the brain into two hemispheres , each of which oversees or is dominant for certain functions . More than a century of research on humans has firmly established the link between the brain 's hemispheres and physical actions such as throwing , kicking , and writing . Despite many anecdotal accounts of handedness among nonhuman animals , few researchers , until quite recently , advocated the view that animals , too , display definite right-left behavioral differences . Growing evidence suggests that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of right-left biases in numerous and distantly related species implies that these differences have had a long evolutionary history . But just how long has handedness been around ? Archeological records  --  paintings , drawings , and carvings of humans engaged in activities involving the use of hands  --  indicate that humans have been predominantly right-handed for more than 5,000 years . In ancient Egyptian artwork , for example , the right hand is depicted as the dominant one in about 90 percent of examples . Fracture or wear patterns on tools also indicate that a majority of ancient people were right-handed . Cro-Magnon cave paintings some 27,000 years old commonly show outlines of human hands made by placing one hand against the cave wall and applying paint with the other hand . Children today make similar outlines of their hands with crayons on paper . With few exceptions , left hands of Cro-Magnons are displayed on cave walls , indicating that the paintings were usually done by right-handers . Anthropological evidence pushes the record of handedness in early human ancestors back to at least 1.4 million years ago . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cores used in toolmaking : implements flaked with a clockwise motion ( indicating a right-handed toolmaker ) can be distinguished from those flaked with a counterclockwise rotation ( indicating a left-handed toolmaker ) . Even scratches found on fossil human teeth offer clues . Ancient humans are thought to have cut meat into strips by holding it between their teeth and slicing it with stone knives , as do the present-day Inuit of Greenland . Occasionally the knives slip and leave scratches on the users ' teeth . Scratches made with a left-to-right stroke direction ( by right-handers ) are more common than scratches in the opposite direction ( made by left-handers ) . Still other evidence comes from cranial morphology : scientists think that physical differences between the right and left sides of the interior of the skull indicate subtle physical differences between the two sides of the brain . The variation between the hemispheres corresponds to which side of the body is used to perform specific activities . Such studies , as well as studies of tool use , indicate that right- or left-sided dominance is not exclusive to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of our genus , such as Homo erectus and Homo habilis , seem to have been predominantly right-handed , as we are . In addition , many living monkeys and apes seem to be left-hand dominant when reaching for food or other objects , but right-hand dominant when manipulating objects . For example , chimpanzees , when using sticks to excavate for termites , preferentially use one of their hands , commonly the right . The tendency of human females to carry their babies in their left arms ( whereas men tend to carry babies in their right arms ) may have been evolutionary roots : female chimpanzees , gorillas , and orangutans also carry their babies in their left arms . Even among nonprimates , both living and extinct , asymmetry of body parts may be related to patterns of behavior . The asymmetrical tusks of Pleistocene , or Ice Age , elephants ; the asymmetrical , paired teeth in some worms ; and the asymmetrical , hard mouth structures of the extinct eellike conodonts may reflect a tendency of these animals to favor one side while gathering food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claw is often larger than the other ( although lobsters can conveniently switch their handedness if a claw is lost ) . In invertebrates , spirally shaped shells or other hard parts , which are perhaps related to behavioral asymmetry , are found in numerous species , including sea lilies , corals , and such mollusks as snails , clams , and oysters . Fruitful sources of information about animal behavior are trace fossils , such as tracks , trails , burrows , borings , and bite marks , which are records of animal activity . Recently , trace fossils have been studied in attempts to establish whether prehistoric animals had any right-left biases in their behavior . Spiral burrows uncovered in Miocene rocks , some 5 to 23 million years old , in the midwestern United States show that the beavers that constructed the burrows consistently used either right- or left-sided strokes of their chisellike front teeth . Although individual burrows spiraled either clockwise or counterclockwise , the total number of burrows going in each direction was about equal . Trace fossils have revealed many other examples of spiral coiling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just as it is among living ones . The best-documented and oldest example of behavioral " handedness " among fossil animals comes from healed injuries , particularly scars left by predators , preserved on trilobites more than 500 million years old . A group of extinct marine arthropods , trilobites are distantly related to present-day crustaceans and horseshoe crabs . Richard A. Robison , of the University of Kansas , and I recently studied healed injuries on trilobite fossils . We were able to distinguish healed injuries from other kinds of malformations  --  genetic or embryological abnormalities and swellings due to disease or parasitism  --  because injuries are characterized by obvious physical breaks in the trilobites ' crusty exoskeletons that have subsequently healed , usually by " callusing " over . Trilobites with such healed injuries are therefore the ones that survived injury and lived to tell the tale as fossils . ( We can not identify fatal injuries caused by predation because they lack signs of repair and can resemble breaks made after death by scavengers or by physical forces that moved and damaged the carcasses . ) Healed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by predators ( primarily bites from mouths and pinches from claws or grasping appendages ) , and those due to accidental injuries incurred during molting , copulation , or combat . In our trilobite study , Robison and I attributed injuries to unsuccessful predation only if they were located on a part of the body that was unlikely to have been accidentally broken , if they covered a large part of the body , and if they were not just simple breaks that might be expected from an accident . We discovered that injuries due to accidents occur randomly on trilobite remains , but injuries due to predation do not . Scars left by the teeth and claws of predators are most common near the edges , on the rear , and on the right side of a trilobite . What creatures in Paleozoic seas preyed upon trilobites ? One predator frequently implicated is Anomalocaris , which was first described from fossils of the Burgess Shale in British Columbia . This animal hunted trilobites during the Early to Middle Cambrian period , some 570 to 517 million years ago ( see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December 1985 ) . An important piece of circumstantial evidence for this link is that the size and shape of many bite marks on trilobites from this site and time match the size and shape of the circular , nutcracker-like mouthparts of Anomalocaris . Also , many North American fossil-bearing rocks of Cambrian age that contain bitten trilobites also contain the remains of Anomalocaris , further supporting the idea that at twenty inches long , this carnivore was one of the major predators of trilobites of its time . But Anomalocaris was not the sole scourge of Cambrian trilobites . Broken plates of trilobite exoskeletons have been found in the gut contents of other arthropod fossils from the Burgess Shale and from Utah . Early forms of chelicerates ( relatives of the horseshoe crab ) and crustaceans ( relatives of shrimps , crabs , and lobsters ) also preyed on trilobites . After the Cambrian and before the end of the Paleozoic era ( when trilobites became extinct ) , various fishes , cephalopods , and arthropods probably preyed on trilobites . Several Cambrian trilobites and the Ordovician trilobite Isotelus ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been predators in their own right or even cannibals . All trilobites had a large , usually calcified plate , known as a labrum , in front of and on the underside of the mouth . But unlike those of most other trilobites , the labrum of Isotelus was fork shaped and equipped with beveled , sharp , and serrated edges , remarkably similar to the cutting surface of a steak knife or a miniature tooth of the dinosaur Tyrannosaurus rex . Why are most predation scars preserved on the edges , right side , and rear end of trilobites ? Most vital organs  --  such as the brain , nerve cord , and parts of the digestive and circulatory systems  --  of trilobites lie in an elongate , raised section called the axial lobe , which runs down the middle of the body . Any substantial injury to the axial lobe probably would have been fatal , and the trilobite therefore would not have joined our sample of fossil specimens . In contrast , the pleural lobes , which run down either side of the axial lobe , house a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have healed readily . Of trilobites showing predation scars , approximately 70 percent have injuries confined to the right side . Provided that a sufficiently large sample is collected , this pattern holds true whether one analyzes all trilobites , trilobites of a single time period , or even trilobites found within a single rock formation . This asymmetry in scarring can not be attributed to the presence of an unpaired vital organ on the body 's left side , which , if breached , would have resulted in the death of the victim . Beautifully preserved trilobites collected from sites as far-flung as China , British Columbia , Utah , New York State , and Germany show that all of the vital organs contained in the pleural lobes were paired . We also find more nonlethal predation scars on the rear end of trilobites than on the head , which contains the brain , stomach , and other organs . In fleeing from a pursuing predator , a trilobite probably veered to one side to protect its head . On such a moving target , the tail shield , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack but the part least likely to sustain a deadly bite . The strong lateral asymmetry of predation scars is most likely due to handedness in either the predators or the trilobites or perhaps in both . Today , many animal species or populations seem to have stable patterns of asymmetrical behavior ; extinct creatures probably possessed similar behavioral biases . Because of differences in the expression of handedness among various groups of animals , however , not all of those patterns are likely to have been inherited through a common ancestry . Rather , they probably arose at various times as the result of similar ecological pressures exerted on distantly related animals . The tendency for predation scars to be on the right side of trilobites suggests that the predators , at least the less successful ones whose " misses " we study , preferred to attack or bite on that side first . If biting were the mode of attack , surely those predators deserved to be considered sinister , for they tended to bite from the left side of the mouth . Also possible is that a fleeing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a particular direction . Such turning may have consistently exposed one side of the body to attack . A combination is also possible  --  one-sided evasion by the prey and one-sided attack by the predator . Predators may have learned to anticipate the escape behavior of individuals belonging to favorite prey species and then honed their attack strategies to compensate for it . This may partly account for one of the most curious aspects of handedness : despite the predominance of a directional bias in some species , a certain percentage of individuals deviate from the norm , thus insuring that some individuals of the species will survive , even if predators have figured out the general pattern of escape . When considering the evolutionary history of handedness , the question of heritability arises . Is handedness inherited ? It must be to some extent ; otherwise , species would not maintain similar proportions of right- and left-handed individuals through numerous , successive generations . That the same proportion of right- and left-handed individuals would crop up randomly time after time is certainly unlikely . Studies suggest that left-handedness does tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of children born to right-handed parents are themselves right-handed . Where one parent is left-handed , the proportion of right-handers drops to about 80 percent . And if both parents are left-handed , that proportion drops to about 75 percent . Present evidence indicates that handedness can be inherited in a least two ways . The first , which is shown by the " handedness " of the mouths of cichlid fishes from East Africa 's Lake Tanganyika , is by simple genetic recombination in which the normal pattern of Mendelian inheritance applies . Because these scale-eating fishes attack their prey from behind , right-sided cichlids snatch scales from the left side of their prey , whereas left-sided cichlids snatch scales from the right side . The ratio of right- and left-sided cichlids at any one time is influenced by the prey 's alertness ; the rarer type of cichlid ( either right- or left-sided ) is more successful at predation . If right-siders are rarer initially , their reproductive success increases and their population grows . Once the population becomes sufficiently large , however , the prey become more wary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the now rarer left-siders . The second way of inheriting handedness is shown in some snails and single-celled ciliates . In these organisms , the direction of coiling or spiraling has been shown to be inherited in the structure of the cell and controlled by the mother 's genes ( not by the normal means of Mendelian inheritance ) . In this case , handedness is determined even before fertilization occurs . Another question is whether handedness is adaptive ; that is , does it confer some ecological or evolutionary advantage ? The evidence  --  from the asymmetry of predation scars more than half a billion years old , and the occurrence of handedness or sidedness in organisms as diverse as animals , plants , bacteria , one-celled protists , and probably even fungi  --  suggests that it does . In humans , the species in which handedness has been studied most , correlations commonly have been made between hemispheres of the brain , hand dominance , and language development . In addition , a trend toward manipulating tools in a consistent way may result in greater skill and efficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even be possible if an organism is perfectly symmetrical . Rather , one side must always take the lead . Which side leads may be irrelevant , but if one limb is stronger or used more consistently than the other for a particular activity , that limb will become the lead side . Even in ambidextrous individuals , one side must lead , although which side does the leading is inconsistent . Quite possibly , handedness itself is not adaptive , but it may be linked to some other feature that is adaptive . Most snail species are predominantly coiled to the right , but right- and left-sided shells are not true mirror images of each other structurally . In some , shell shape and coiling direction of the internal organs seem to be independent , and the rarity of left-sided individuals is probably related to problems associated with trying to squeeze an animal whose internal structures are best suited to a right-coiled shell into a left-sided shell instead . So , is it better to be right- or left-handed ? Among humans , surely some disadvantages go along with being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructed for use by a right-hander may be cumbersome for a left-hander to manipulate . Yet left-handedness can carry some distinct advantages ; witness the disproportionately large number of gifted athletes , intellectuals , artists , and perhaps politicians  --  like the 1992 U.S. presidential candidates  --  who are left-handed . While no direct evolutionary advantage seems to accrue specifically to right- or left-dominance in any animal species over the long-term , an advantage does seem to be conferred merely by having a handedness . <p>                     