@@404076

ATTACKS ON Christians by Hindu fundamentalists since the Hindu nationalist BJP ( Bharatiya Janata Party ) coalition government assumed office last March have begun to cause deep problems for the coalition . Madan Lal Khurana , senior BJP leader and parliamentary affairs minister , resigned from the cabinet on January 30 after his calls for " atonement " for the violence against Christians drew sharp criticism from hardliners in the BJP . In a speech about the difficulties between Hindu nationalists and India 's minority religious communities delivered February 2 at the JesuitIndian Social Institute in New Delhi , Khurana stated that he has no regrets about his criticisms of the treatment meted out to Christians by those he described as " pseudo-Hindutva " ( Hindu nationalist ) forces . " For me , Hindutva means equal respect for all religions , " said Khurana . Khurana referred specifically in his speech to the murder last month of Australian missionary Graham Staines and his two young sons . Their deaths have prompted outrage in India and concern around the world . Staines , aged 58 , and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to death in their vehicle on January 23 in the village of Manoharpur in the eastern Indian state of Orissa . Members of Bajrang Dal , a Hindu fundamentalist group , have been blamed , though the group has denied all involvement . Staines had been working among lepers in Baripada in Orissa ever since he came to India in 1965 . Along with Khurana , half a dozen of the 17 parties in alliance with the BJP condemned the extremists allegedly responsible for the deaths . Three of the parties-Lok Shakti , Telugu Desam and Trinamul Congresshave threatened that if the attacks on Christians continue , they will bring down the government , which has only a tiny majority in the national parliament . Ramakrishna Hedge , commerce minister in the coalition government and head of Lok Shakti , expressed his deep sorrow following the violence against Christians , especially the Staines family . Hedge told reporters on January 31 that it was for those groups " friendly " with the BJP-an apparent reference to Hindu extremists-to decide whether they wanted the coalition to survive . Observers point out that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the BJP coalition took power . The ecumenical United Christian Forum for Human Rights recorded more than 120 attacks or incidents directed against Christians in 1998 , including the torching of more than 30 churches in the western state of Gujarat within a week of Christmas Day . The state government of Gujarat is also led by the BJP . Keenly aware of the threats to his coalition 's future , Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee fasted on January 30-national Martyrs ' Day-and called for " religious tolerance . " ( It was on January 30 , 1948 , that Mahatma Gandhi , the prophet of nonviolence and father of modern India , was shot dead by a Hindu fanatic . ) But many strong supporters of Hindu nationalism seem unwilling to heed the prime minister 's call for tolerance . Even after the premier 's appeal , the president of the BJP , Kushabai Takre , continued to claim that the Staines murders are part of an " international conspiracy " to discredit the BJP government . Lal Krishna Advani , home minister in the BJP cabinet , was one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involvement in the Staines murders , despite some evidence to the contrary . " I have known these Hindu fundamentalist organizations , and they have no criminal record , " Advani told reporters on January 25 . Many others take a different view of the violence against Christians . " We are convinced that the dastardly act is the handiwork of . . . fundamentalists who are heartless and ruthless , displaying the sick minds and methods of terrorists , " the National Council of Churches ( NCCI ) - India 's main ecumenical organization , representing 29 Protestant and Orthodox churches-declared in a statement the day after the murder . Describing the murder as " a premeditated attack , " the NCCI lamented the fact that " our nation , which is reputed for its spiritual heritage , values of ahimsa nonviolence and peace , " is slipping into " rule by proxy " by fanatical forces . Many in India share the NCCI 's concerns . On Martyrs ' Day more than 10,000 people , including former prime ministers I. K. Gujral and Viswanath Pratap Singh , took part in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is this climate of hate and intolerance that led to the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi . Yesterday , it was the Father of the Nation ; today it is the whole nation that is under attack , " the participants said in a resolution passed at the end of the march . James Massey , a clergyman with the Church of North India and a member of the National Commission for Minorities ( NCM ) , an autonomous government body , visited Orissa to investigate the Staines incident . Said Massey on February 3 : " After talking to the eyewitnesses , I have no doubt that it is not an international conspiracy . This is linked to the overall disturbances in other parts of the country . " Local Christians had told the NCM 's inquiry panel that they were " under threat and need protection . " " We are very concerned where the country is going in terms of minority rights and fundamental rights , " said Iype Joseph , NCCI 's general secretary . " The trouble has been mostly in tribal areas . Innocent adivasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ versus Christians . " But Joseph pointed out that one result of the violence is that it has " brought together Christians of all denominations , as well as prompting the majority of Hindus to rally behind us . " The increased solidarity among the Christian community itself was evident at an ecumenical meeting of church leaders in New Delhi on February 2 . Leaders of the NCCI , the Catholic Bishops ' Conference of India ( CCBI ) , the United Baptist Church , the Evangelical Fellowship of India and Pentecostal churches present at the meeting decided that India 's Christians should observe February 21 as " National Day of Prayer for Peace , Unity and Communal Harmony . " A joint statement signed by the NCCI 's president , K. Rajaratnam , and the CBCI 's president , Archbishop Alan Basil de Lastic , said : " The response of the church is our determination to continue the mandate of love and service given by Jesus Christ . We unequivocally reject hatred and violence , even in the face of the worst provocation . " According to the churches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million are Christians . Meanwhile , local officials in Orissa said the February 7 murder of a Christian brother and sister appears not to be connected to the recent wave of violent anti-Christian attacks in the region . According to police , a 19-yearold woman who was gathering food in the forest was slain by unidentified assailants who had attempted to rape her . The woman 's brother , who had accompanied her , was killed when he tried to protect his sister , police said . The victims were from a local tribe . The victims were not targeted for their faith , insisted authorities , eager to calm increasing Hindu-Christian tensions in India . " There is absolutely nothing communal in the killing of the young woman and her brother . They incidentally happen to be Christians . It is an outright crime , " Orissa Home Secretary S. C. Hota said . Officials also hoped to appear responsive to national and international criticism that has been leveled against the government in the wake of violent crimes against Christians in the predominantly Hindu country . <p>    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        