@@407775

Marriage has weakened as an institution in the United States with fewer people saying " I do " than at any time in the nation 's history , a new study reveals . The study , " The State of Our Unions : The Social Health of Marriage in America , " found that the national marriage rate has dropped 43 percent over the past four decades to its lowest point ever . The study 's researchers blamed the decline of marriage on a new trend where more and more couples are opting for alternatives such as living together outside of marriage or putting off the vows until later in life . Nearly half of people ages 25 to 40 have at some point lived together with a person of the opposite sex , the study notes . Because of this new trend , marriage is no longer viewed as the traditional , expected route into adulthood . The report released by the National Marriage Project at Rutgers University in New Jersey reviewed statistics on marriage and divorce from the last four decades to find out how many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of those marriages lasted . It also based some conclusions on interviews . The report found that people 's view of marriage itself has also changed in the last four decades . A large number of teenage girls in particular do not believe in marriage . They do n't believe that marriages last . From 1976 to 1980 , 68 percent of teen girls surveyed thought it was likely they would stay married to the same person for a lifetime . In 1995 , it was 64 percent . However , the percentage of teenage boys who thought they would have only one mate for a lifetime edged up from 57 percent during the 1976 to 1980 period to 59 percent in 1995 , the study says . Teens ' loss of faith in the idea of finding a lifetime mate is key in explaining the decline of marriage . It is no longer a realistic goal for many of them . Instead , many young people openly accept living together and unwed parenthood , the study notes . According to the study , only 30 percent of girls and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than those who stay single or live with a mate out of wedlock . In the late 1970s , about 39 percent of girls and 38 percent of boys agreed with that statement , the report notes . " Young people today want successful marriages , but they are increasingly anxious and pessimistic about their chances of achieving that goal , " explains Barbara Dafoe Whitehead , report co-author and co-director of the National Marriage Project . Women 's disenchantment with marriage may reflect their higher expectations for emotional intimacy in marriage and more exacting standards for a husband 's participation in child-rearing and the overall work of the household , the study notes . Another reason for the decline of marriage is women 's growing economic independence , the study says . // <p>                     