@@388875

The Germans won a resounding victory at Tannenberg in August 1914thanks largely to the intelligence they acquired from their Russian opponents ' own radio messages . // In August 1914 , European powers were mobilizing their armies for a great war . Trapped between the Allied countries of France and Russia , imperial Germany planned to fight on two fronts . First , the Germans would deal France a quick defeat in the west ; then they would turn east and fight the slowly rising giant , Russia . While the main German force marched through neutral Belgium to invade northern France , a dangerously small force in the east was expected to hold Russia at bay . Following Russia 's disastrous defeat by Japan during the RussoJapanese War in 1904-05 , the Russian army had undergone reforms and improvements that caused anxiety among the German military leadership . Russia 's army had always been numerically strong ; now that those soldiers were better trained and led , Russia might present a formidable threat to Germany . With the outbreak of war on August 1 , 1914 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the French high command that the Russian forces should take to the field and advance before mobilization was completed in order to exert pressure on Germany and draw off forces opposing France . If the Russian armies moved early , however , their rear services would not be ready , nor would all reserve formations have joined their parent units . During the coming battle , leading corps would never see many necessary items , such as field bakeries and ambulance wagons . Communications troops and equipment would also be in short supply . Shortages of telephone wire and telegraph equipment , as well as trained signal corps troops , would make quick , dependable communications impossible . The Russians hoped to make use of captured German telegraph lines when they invaded East Prussia , but when they found those destroyed , they resorted to sending messages by wireless-but not in code , because their divisional staffs lacked codes and cryptographers . The Russian First and Second armies advanced into East Prussia without their second-line reserve divisions . As the soldiers marched west , they had to make their way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two armies were forced to separate to negotiate the water-logged territory . In his orders to the armies , Grand Duke Nicholas , commander in chief of the Russian army , said that by dividing the force he hoped to achieve a double envelopment of the defending German Eighth Army . His orders stipulated that : " The offensive would be commenced by the First Army which must engage the largest possible German forces ; the offensive to be carried out to the north of the Masurian Lakes , turning the enemy left flank . The Second Army to attack turning the Masurian Lakes from the west , with the object of defeating the German corps deploying between the Vistula River and Masurian Lakes , and thereby preventing the Germans from retreating across the Vistula . " From the perspective of the German general staff , however , the separation of the Russian armies offered an opportunity to engage and defeat each army in detail before they could unite . The Getmans had already anticipated that the Russians could only advance by sending one army to the north and the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By concentrating Eighth Army forces successively against the developing threat , they might obtain sufficient local superiority to defeat each Russian army in turn . Since Germany would have to play for time and fight with a small force on the Eastern Front , the Eighth Army commander , Col. Gen. Max von Prittwitz und Gaffron , was given license to withdraw to the Vistula River if his forces were threatened with encirclement . Vigorous and harsh by nature , Prittwitz was not noted for initiative or independence of thought , but he had the ability to inspire subordinates to high levels of performance . Prittwitz also had a first-rate staff . His chief of staff , Brig . Gen. Georg Graf von Waldersee , was a shining star of the German general staff . Prittwitz 's operations officer , Colonel Max Hoffmann , was known for his intellect and his knowledge of the Russian army , which he had acquired while serving as a German army observer with the Japanese during their 1904-OS war with Russia . On the other side of the lines , General Yakov Grigorevich Zhilinsky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to a directive issued on August 13 , Zhilinsky sought a decisive attack in which General Pavel Karlovich Rennenkampf 's First Army would surround the German left wing and prevent it from retreating to Konigsberg . Meanwhile , Zhilinsky planned for the Russian Second Army , under General Aleksandr Vassilievich Samsonov , to advance into East Prussia south of Konigsberg and cut off the German retreat to the Vistula . Both army generals were veterans of the Russo-Japanese War , in which both had impressed foreign observers with their personal courage , though their leadership was less impressive . Worse , in regard to their future prospects of cooperation , was an incident during the Battle of Mukden , when they got into such a rancorous argument over each other 's tactical ability that they came to blows . Rennenkampf 's First Army was ready to move by August 13four days ahead of the Second . Again , both countries saw the situation as being to their advantage . The Russians hoped that their First Army would draw the Eighth Army to the east , rendering it susceptible to encirclement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrival as a bonus because it gave them extra time to deal with a single army . The most useful initial information received by the Eighth Army command consisted of reconnaissance reports from the new Luftstreitskrafte ( air service ) . Forty aircraft belonging to Feldflieger Abteilungen ( field flying sections ) 14 , 15 and 17 and Festungs-Fleiger Abteilungen ( fortress flying sections ) 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 were at the Eighth Army 's disposal . In contrast , practically none of the 224 airplanes , 12 airships and 46 kite balloons of the Imperial Russian Air Service accompanied the armies into East Prussia ; most were instead being used against the Austro-Hungarians in Galicia . The German pilots reported , albeit in a sporadic fashion , sightings of brigadesized groupings and long columns of supply wagons between the Niemen River and the Russo-German frontier . At the same time , they reported seeing nothing to the south . The armies of 1914-with their large complements of towed artillery , burgeoning supply trains and equipment-loaded infantrywere not always able to take advantage of the intelligence provided to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed to a direction , they simply could not respond quickly to threats or opportunities . The most current information sometimes perished in the labyrinths of message handling before reaching lower echelon units for execution . By August 9 , the Germans stood ready to strike the Russians advancing from the direction of the Niemen . On August 13 , German airmen reported that the roads and railroads to the southeast were full of Russian troops . They were the vanguard of the Second Army , which was advancing from the Narew River . At that point , General Prittwitz 's chief concern was the prospect of having to deal with both Russian armies at once , but it soon became clear that the threat on which his anxiety was founded was-for the moment , at least-more perceived than real . The Russian Second Army was too far away and moving too slowly to aid its sister army . Leaving a reinforced XX Corps in the south to watch and delay the Second Army , Prittwitz concentrated the rest of his corps against Rennenkampf 's forces . Photograph On August 28 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ von der Goltz 's Landwehr Division counterattack troops of the Russian XV Corps , in Strassenkampf in Hohenstein , by Max Rabes . Eventually , the hard-pressed Russian forces were compelled to fall back on Neidenburg-unaware that the town had fallen to troops of the German I Corps ( AKG Photo , London ) . // The first major contact occurred on the morning of August 17 , when the Russian 25th and 29th divisions , advancing toward Stalluponen , came up against the supporting elements of General Hermann von Francois ' I Corps . Francois , determined not to allow the Russians to set foot on German soil , soon counterattacked , seeking to outflank the Russians . Over the next 14 hours , casualties rapidly mounted as the opposing forces engaged each other in the open . Caught from the rear by advancing Germans while marching toward the front , the Russian 105th Infantry Regiment lost more than 3,000 troops , then fell back in disorder . When Prittwitz ordered I Corps to withdraw to Gumbinnen , its commander told a staff member : " Report to General Prittwitz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has defeated the Russians . " Francois later had reason to think better of that rash decision , however , when the soldiers on his left flank were caught in the open by Russian artillery and badly mauled . One of his brigades lost 3,000 troops in a crossfire of Russian rifle and machine-gun bullets . After sacrificing more men in fruitless counterattacks , Francois finally withdrew as ordered that evening . Rennenkampf continued his advance on Gumbinnen throughout August 18 , then called a 24-hour halt to " bring up the lines of communication organizations and the units remaining in rear . " On the l9th , dismounted Russian cavalry , backed by artillery , drove back German Landwehr ( reserve ) reinforcements but suffered almost 400 casualties , exhausted their ammunition and left a serious gap in the First Army 's right flank . Justifiably alarmed by Rennenkampf 's successes , Prittwitz ordered Francois to counterattack with his I Corps , now bolstered by the 1st Cavalry Division . The German 2nd Infantry Division moved through the Zulkiner Forest , while the cavalry rode toward Pillkallen . In so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entered the gap left by the retiring Russian cavalry . The counterattack began at 3 a.m. on August 20 with an artillery barrage by the German 1st and 2nd divisions , which soon overwhelmed the guns of the Russian 28th Division . By midmorning , the 28th Division was in flight , but the commander of the adjacent 29th Division skillfully readjusted his line and checked the German assault . In the center of the 35-mile line of engagement , Rennenkampf 's III Corps collided with the German XVII Corps under General August von Mackensen . The German units made good progress in their attack on the Russian center , but the soldiers on the flanks held and then closed on the Germans , pounding them with artillery fire until they broke and fled westward . Despite the Russian victory at Gumbinnen , many German commanders believed that another day of fighting would have given them a decisive victory . Colonel General Prittwitz , however , was forced to struggle against a spirit of defeatism-in addition , he was increasingly alarmed by the constently arriving updates on the Russian Second Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 , German troops found a document on a dead Russian officer that contained an excerpt from General Zhilinsky 's directive to his forces . Almost at the same time that captured order arrived , the German headquarters intercepted a radiogram that referred to the overall offensive and contained an attack order for the Russian IV Corps . That opportunely intercepted message confirmed what the Germans had deduced from the order found on the fallen Russian officer and identified Zhilinsky 's intention to use the Second Army . At the same time , Prittwitz was wavering as to his next move , Rennenkampf 's staff members , noting that the German I Corps still threatened the First Army 's right flank , were urging him to pull back . Rennenkampf shared their misgivings but chose to stand firm until the following day . On the evening of the 20th , he sent an order to halt to his commanders by wireless in a simple code that a German mathematics professor , working as a cryptographer for the Eighth Army , had no difficulty deciphering . Less than a month 's campaigning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useless . Half-trained telegraphers mutilated even uncoded messages to the point of unintelligibility . Unit staffs either lacked code books entirely or were unable to use them properly . To Rennenkampf , the risks of being unheard or misunderstood seemed to be more of a danger than that of Germans consistently monitoring every possible frequency . In any case , radio intelligence had played little or no role in German or Russian planning before the war . // Acting on its knowledge of Russian plans , obtained from intercepted messages , the German Eighth Army shifted forces away from the stalled First Army in an attempt to trap the Second Army near Tannenberg. // Unfortunately for Rennenkampf-and the czar 's army-the Gennan listening stations did intercept his halt order . Since July , Section III B of the German general staff , the espionage and counterintelligence department , had kept the permanent long-range radio stations at Thom , Posen and Konigsberg busy keeping track of Russian radio traffic , even if it was only to determine the volume of exchange between Paris and St. Petersburg . Based on the intercepted Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian First Army spent the morning of August 21 preparing to repulse a German attack that never came . The large Cossack cavalry units on which the Russian armies relied for intelligence were so uncontrollable and inefficient that it was not until that evening that cautiously advancing Russian infantry discovered that the Germans had retired and were miles away . At that point , Rennenkampf believed he had carried out his orders by bringing the Eighth Army to an engagement , and then fighting a successful defensive action against superior numbers . Rennenkampf had every reason to believe that the Germans ' disappearance was due to a precipitate withdrawal-exactly as Prittwitz had intended . The First Army , however , was in no shape to pursue the Germans . After eight days of continuous marching , followed by the August 20 battle , the Russian First Army needed time to reorganize , rearm and resupply before its advance . On the German side , events since the night of August 19 suggested that there had been a failure of nerve on Prittwitz 's part . On August 20 , Prittwitz informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ von Moltke , that he wished to withdraw to the Vistula River and that he would need reinforcements to hold off the Russians . Prittwitz 's excellent staff had to salvage the situation . Given the fact that the Germans would be operating from interior lines with good connecting railroads , Hoffman proposed shifting the Eighth Army 's axis to deal with the Russian Second Army , a recommendation that Prittwitz could accept without suffering any embarrassment . Rennenkampf 's halt allowed the plan to be put into motion . Attacking the Second Army was not entirely an act of desperation , but Prittwitz 's withdrawal order to his subordinate commanders , with its implications that German control in the Eastem Front was breaking down , made the German High Command doubt his ability . By the evening of August 21 , Moltke had made up his mind to relieve Prittwitz of his command . At 9 a.m. on August 22 , Maj. Gen. Erich Ludendorff received a message from Moltke , appointing him chief of staff of the Eighth Army . That afternoon , Moltke telegraphed retired General Paul von @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he wished to return to active service . " Am ready , " came the immediate reply , and Hindenberg was promptly offered the post as Prittwitz 's replacement . Meanwhile , German aerial reconnaissance reports indicated that Rennenkampf 's army was still not pursuing the withdrawing Germans . The Eighth Army now had a brief chance for a brilliant counterstroke because the Germans maintained balance and control of their forces . More important , they possessed a fairly clear and accurate picture of the situation . In contrast to Rennenkampf 's relatively successful advance , Samsonov 's troops had been struggling along the sandy terrain to the south at a rate of 15 miles a day , hounded by repeated demands for faster progress from Zhilinsky , who was eager to have the Second Army put pressure on the German southern flank and take the pressure off the First Army . To that end , Zhilinsky ordered the I Corps detached from Rennenkampf 's army and transferred to Samsonov 's already unwieldy command . It was the sight of the Russian I Corps on the march that had attracted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ August 20 , Samsonov cautiously dispatched his VI Corps into the Ortelsburg area , while his I and XV corps moved to secure a line between Soldau and Neidenburg , and his XIII and XXIII corps remained in reserve . All the objectives had been attained by the 22nd , but Samsonov 's starving troops were starting to loot the local villages . Their activities provided the German propaganda machine with raw material for exaggerated stories of theft , rape and murder . Worse , from a tactical standpoint , Samsonov 's officers were losing control of the men in their units . Samsonov 's commanders begged for a halt so that they could reorganize their corps and divisions . On August 22 , however , Zhilinsky wrote him : " The Supreme High Command demands , in order to begin the offensive , Second Army corps conduct operations in the most energetic and unceasing manner . This is required not only for the situation on the Northwest Front , but also the general situation . " Photograph Czar Nicholas II leads a religious service , // At that moment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signal corps telegraph office in Warsaw , a staff officer found stacks of telegrams addressed to the Second Army ; gathering them up , he delivered them by automobile . Corps headquarters had only enough wire to connect with the divisional commanders , not enough to connect with army headquarterswhich continually lagged too far behind-or with neighboring corps . Consequently , radio became the preferred means of communication for the Russian armies . While the Germans confidently shifted their forces , the Russian First Army , still receiving practically no intelligence from its cavalry , continued its blind , cautious advance toward Konigsberg , covering only 20 miles between the mornings of August 23 and 25 . At 5:30 a.m. on August 25 , Rennenkampf 's headquarters transmitted a complete operational order to the First Army 's IV Corps . Half an hour later , Samsonov sent a priority message to his XIII Corps , pertaining to operations for the day . Both messages crossed the airwaves in plain text-and both were intercepted by the Konigsberg listening station . From the German standpoint , the interception of those two messages could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first message indicated that Rennenkampf was not an immediate threat . Samsonov 's message was somewhat garbled , but the Germans deduced from both messages that neither Russian army was aware of impending danger and that Samsonov and Rennenkampf were tending to diverge rather than converge their forces . No matter what actions Rennenkampf took now , he would be unable to exert any serious influence on a German attack on Samsonov 's isolated Second Army for at least four or five days . As a result , the Germans decided to divert the XVII Corps and I Reserve Corps from their westward withdrawal and attack Samsonov 's army , which now approached Bischofsburg , directly to the south . At 8:30 p.m. , orders reached the regrouping Eighth Army instructing it to attack on the following day . Samsonov also planned aggressive action for that day . In his intended scenario , his XXIII and I corps would fix the Germans in the area of Soldau , while the XIII and XV corps would attack to the northwest , in the Germans ' flank and rear . Unfortunately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who would strike first . On August 26 , the German I and XX corps prepared to attack the Second Army 's left flank . The Germans designed their operations to encircle the Russian XIII and XV corps . The main strike would be launched in the area of Soldau by I Corps , but its commander , Frangois , balked at Ludendorff 's orders to attack at dawn on the 26th . One-quarter of his field guns , his heavy guns and his artillery supply columns had not yet arrived , and his losses at Gumbinnen had taught him the folly of attacking with inadequate artillery support . When Ludendorff denied his request to fix his own start time , Francois started his assault on schedule but limited the extent of its initial advance , and after 3 p.m. he refused to send his troops farther ahead until all his guns had arrived . There was no such hesitation on the Russian right flank , where the German XVII Army and I Reserve corps had arrived by forced marches and had not taken up attack positions . Mackensen 's XVII @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full use , overwhelming the Russian artillery and then sending his infantry in a series of quick rushes that drove back the Russian 4th Division . By nightfall , the battered Russian VI Corps was retreating southward toward Ortelsburg . In so doing , it was exposing the flanks of the adjacent XV and XIII corps , but the VI Corps ' headquarters failed to inform either neighboring corps of that development . At the same time , a Russian radiogram was intercepted , and the German Eighth Army staff headquarters learned that the Russian II Corps , positioned on Rennenkampf 's left wing , had proceeded northward from Mauer Lake , but was now supposed to march south in order to aid Samsonov . The Germans already knew of II Corps ' advance northward from Mauer Lake from other intelligence sources , but its mission to support the Second Army was news to them . The German 1st Cavalry Division , stationed in the region of Schippenbeil , now received orders to halt the advance of the Russian corps along the Rastenburg-Korachen line . By the morning of August 27 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready to launch an all-out offensive . At dawn , 28 field and eight heavy batteries crushed the opposition near Usdau , and then the I Corps infantry overran the Russian positions . Most of the Russians fled toward Soldau , but an exceptionally well-executed counter-attack at Heinrichsdorf threw back a German brigade . That setback caused Ludendorff some concern , but then , in the early afternoon , the Germans intercepted more enemy radio messages disclosing that the Russians were expecting reinforcements-or perhaps had already received them-including , among others , the 3rd Guards Division from Warsaw . Partially as a result of that information , Francois no longer deemed it possible to proceed eastward to Neidenburg in order to sever the enemy 's connections in the rear , and he decided instead to turn the attack in a southerly and southeasterly direction . The left wing of the German XX Corps , which had not been drawn into the battle to any great extent on August 26 , was attacked by the Russians early in the morning of the 27th . The assault gradually spread north and finally reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the XX Corps . Another Russian radio message that was intercepted by the Germans now gave information that the Russian XV Corps ' mission was to encircle the German left wing . Other radio intercepts disclosed that the Russian XIII Corps intended to support the attack along the XV Corps ' right , then proceed toward the rear of the German 3rd Reserve Division . Photograph Top : General Pavel K. Rennenkampf failed to follow up his early successes . Above : During the Russo-Japanese War in 1905 , General Aleksandr V Samsonov got into a violent quarrel with his future partner , General Rennenkampf. // On the evening of August 27 , Hindenburg received information that Russian troops from the south had arrived in Allenstein . There was a possibility that the Russian XIII Corps was striving to reach the north to join up with the approaching II Corps . As a result of those developments , Hindenburg hastily replaced the next day 's battle plan with a revised one that , among other things , ordered the German XVII and I Reserve corps to march on Allenstein . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day 's orders based on his vague knowledge of the German VI Corps ' collapse . He planned for the Russian I Corps to stand fast , while the XIII and XV corps would " assume an energetic offensive in the general direction of Gilgenburg-Lautenburg with the object of attacking in flank and rear the enemy forces opposite XXIII and I Corps . " In an attempt to solidify his right flank , he added , " The VI Corps is being transferred to the Passenheim area . " He was unfortunately ignorant of the fact that the VI Corps was actually retiring toward Ortelsburg-away from the Second Army . Samsonov was also unaware that neither the XIII nor XV corps could achieve the 30-mile advances he had demanded of them and that the German I Reserve Corps was at that time moving through the gap left by VI Corps to slip around the XIII Corps ' rear from the east . Just after dawn on August 28 , Samsonov set out to take personal charge of the XV Corps ' advance , carrying his telegraph equipment with him . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Frogenau , near Tannenberg , to direct the battle from there . Great tension prevailed at their headquarters , which was still entirely in the dark as to the Russians ' purpose at Allenstein . At 8 a.m. , more intercepted radiograms from the Russian XIII Corps disclosed that it was marching from Allenstein southward to Hohenstein and that its vanguard would arrive in Grislienen , five kilometers north of Hohenstein , at noon . Its purpose was to support the XV Corps . On the basis of that intelligence , an order was dispatched by airplane to the German I Reserve Corps , ordering the corps to proceed to the Stabigotten-Grislienen line , northeast of Hohenstein . With its rear under attack , the Russian XIII Corps halted , leaving the XV Corps to press on alone . The XV Corps came under a frontal assault at Waplitz and had just driven the Germans back when Samsonov arrived , embraced the XV Corps commander and told him , in a melancholy tone of voice that inspired little confidence , " You alone will save us . " By midmorning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ XV Corps was also under attack . Samsonov ordered the corps to fall back on Neidenburg-unaware that the town had by then been taken by Frangois ' I Corps . Ludendorff , concerned about the threat presented by the Russian XV Corps , had ordered Francois to turn north toward Lahna to support the XX Corps ' right flank . Two hours later , Ludendorff rescinded the order , but Frangois , again acting on his own initiative , had only detached one division to Lahna , while retaining the rest of his corps to drive on Neidenburg . His insubordination paid off ; with Neidenburg in German hands , most of the Russian Second Army was trapped . While the battle against Second Army was still at its height , Ludendorff 's attention was drawn to the pending operations against Rennenkampf 's army , which on August 28 was receiving contradictory orders to advance and retire . Photograph 410 ; the battle raged through German Maj. Gen. Erich Ludendorff named his victory after Tannenberg in memory of the Teutonic Kni hts ' defeat there at the hands of Slavic forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Solau shows the ravages it suffered in the course of the fighting . // During the night of August 29 , the Germans intercepted the first of a number of radio messages that mentioned the encirclement of Konigsberg from the south . On the morning of the 30th , one such message indicated that during the Russian II Corps ' countermarch , which had been ordered for the second time , the soldiers were to demolish all railroads and telegraph wires west of the Konigsberg-Rastenburg line , including those at Korschen and Tastenburg . That last radiogram made it clear that Rennenkampf had no further intention of advancing to the west or southwest , making it possible for the German Eighth Army staff to devote further attention to the remnants of Samsonov 's army . Between August 29 and 30 , the Germans pursued , harassed and slaughtered the Russian soldiers , as shattered elements of the XV , XIII and XXIII corps tried to escape amid growing panic through the lakes , swamps and forests between Neidenburg , Muchaken , Allenstein and Hohenstein . On the morning of the 30th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the forest and tried to break out of the German cordon . Sometimes sheer weight of numbers , combined with desperation , brought local success , but more often the result was similar to that described by a Russian survivor : " Whenever our units took the offensive , the Germans , without meeting the charge , would roll their line back , and bring our attacking units under their machine-gun fire . " The still-battleworthy Russian I Corps moved up in an attempt to shatter the German cordon at Neidenburg on August 30 , but it was spotted at 6 a.m. by a Gotha LE.3 Taube monoplane of Feldflieger Abteilung 14 , flown by Lieutenants Ernst Canter and Mertens . A second Fl.Abt. 14 plane confirmed their report at 9:10 a.m. , adding that a Russian brigade was only four kilometers from Neidenburg . When a Russian shell severed I Corps ' phone lines , Canter and Mertens flew to Eighth Army headquarters to report personally to Hindenberg and Ludendorff . Hindenberg later wrote in his memoirs about the events of that day : " On 30 August the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fresh and regrouped forces from the east and south . From the direction of Ostrolenka to the southeast he led a new , strong force against Neidenburg and Ortelsburg , where our troops had completely ringed the Russian central force and from which we held off the opposition approaching from the rear . The danger was all the more imminent because the columns approaching from Mlawa were 35 kilometers long , according to the fliers ' reports , and therefore would have been very strong . " At a time when many of Germany 's old Junker officers mistrusted aerial intelligence , General Francois-much to his credit-acted quickly on the information delivered by the fliers . As a result , his I Corps held off the relief column and kept the pocket sealed off . Russians began surrendering by the thousands . One who did not emerge from the woods was General Samsonov . Horrified by what he saw as his disintegrating army retreated through the woods on the night of the 29th , he spoke of ending his life . His staff tried to dissuade him , but during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer among them ; then a shot was heard . Much later , the Germans found a body in the woods with a head wound , holding a pistol and wearing a gold medallion around his neck with a portrait of Samsonov 's wife . Zhilinsky finally judged the battle to be lost on the evening of August 31 and ordered all of the Russian units outside the German cordon to retire eastward , leaving the units inside the cordon to their fate . By then , the Russian Second Army had lost an estimated 30,000 troops killed , and the Germans claimed to have taken a total of 92,000 prisoners and 300 guns in a victory that Ludendorff chose to name after the nearby town of Tannenberg , " in memory of that other battle long ago in 14101 in which the Teutonic Knights succumbed to the united Lithuanian and Polish hosts . " On September 7 , the Germans were again ready to deal with the Russian First Army . Francois ' I Corps struck hard to drive a wedge between the left flank of the First Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newly arrived Russian Tenth Army . By September 10 , Rennenkampf had been forced to fall back , though he kept his withdrawal orderly enough to avoid the disaster that had befallen Samsonov 's Second Army . Zhilinsky , whose orders to his army commanders had become increasingly reactive and belated , unjustly accused Rennenkampf of failing to control his army . He was genuinely surprised when Grand Duke Nicholas reported to the czar , " I am inclined to think that General Zhilinsky has lost his head and in general is not capable of controlling operations . " Zhilinsky , not Rennenkampf , ended up being relieved of his command . By the time the front stabilized on September 21 , the First and Tenth armies , and what remained of the Second , were back along the Niemen River . The German Eighth Army had driven the Russian invaders completely out of East Prussia . The magnitude of that achievement would soon be considerably negated by Russian successes against the Austro-Hungarians in Galicia and , most ironically , the stalling of the Germans ' French offensive along the Marne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ludendorff . The battle 's mastermind , Max Hoffmann , eventually became commander of German forces in the East . The often insubordinate but brilliantly aggressive Hermann von Francois was also recognized among the battle 's heroes , as was Ernst Canter , who became known as the " Tannenberg Flieger . " As World War I settled into a miserable stalemate , Tannenberg shone as a rare tactical masterpiece of the old school ; nevertheless , an essential ingredient in its success was the use of 20th century technology . " Without German aviation , there would have been no Tannenberg , " Hindenberg said . That may have been somewhat of an exaggeration , but the fliers provided a lot of useful intelligence . Equally important , commanders like Francois were swift in using that information . Even more important , however , was the intelligence gathered by the interception of Russian radio and telegraph messages-not only by the German garrison stations at Thorn and Konigsberg , but also in part by the two radio stations of the Eighth Army staff . Those intercepted messages were immediately translated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strengths and organization of the Russians , as well as their objectives and intentions . Photograph German forces move to complete the destruction of the trapped Second Army , and Russian prisoners start to accumulate by the thousands , in Episode aus der Schlacht bei Tannenberg , by Hans Anker. // In order to inflate the performance of the officers who had assumed command on the Eastern Front-especially LudendorffGerman accounts tended to emphasize the risks of the operation rather than the competent intelligence assessment by the Eighth Army 's staff . Ludendorff 's postwar writings included only a casual reference to the fact that " ... we had received an intercepted enemy telegram which gave us a clear picture of the enemy 's moves for the following days . " In actuality , Ludendorff came to depend on several dozen intercepts that his staff regularly collected during the day , then decoded or translated and sent to him every night at 11 p.m . If they were late , he would become worried and appear personally in the signal corps room to find out what was the matter . Colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercepts . " We had an ally , " he wrote , " the enemy . We knew all the enemy 's plans . " The Russian radio messages intercepted before and during the Battle of Tannenberg added a new dimension to warfare by pushing the value of intercept service and signals intelligence into the forefront for the German army , as well as other armies . The battle clearly illustrated the difference that battlefield intelligence makes-giving one commander the confidence and boldness to attempt a daring maneuver , while the other commander , watching in bewilderment , allows it to succeed . Author Affiliation Retired US . Army officer Richard N. Armstrong writes from Texas . For additional reading , try : The War of Lost Opportunities , by Max Hoffmann ; My War Memories , by Erich Ludendorff ; and Tannenberg : Clash of Empires , by Dennis E. Showalter. // <p>                     