@@393659

Glass is an ancient material that has played an important role in the history of civilization . Yet , Cinderella 's slipper notwithstanding , glass is rarely the subject or even a component of symbolism , legend and myth . The spiritual and mystical realms yield little mention of glass ; more often , an attribute of glass  --  purity , clarity , transmission of light  --  is used to signify the metaphysical and holy . A rare example that upholds glass as a powerful metaphysical element is the Islamic mosque lamp , usually inscribed calligraphically with words from the Koran that liken Cod 's light to " a niche in which is a lamp , the lamp is in a glass , and the glass is as it were a brightly shining star . " Carl Jung observed that all of the energy and interest , as well as the speculative and theorizing potential , that the ancients dedicated to mythology is devoted in the modern world almost exclusively to science and technology . Nevertheless , ancient wisdom and knowledge remains a powerful lure as the antidote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carlson is a present-day seeker of mystical truths . For him , science and rationalism have fettered the inner life , while art making has become a means of connecting to the inner self . He has been a student and follower of religious and mystical beliefs for most of his life , beginning with an upbringing in Brooklyn that was both Catholic and Jewish . Later he immersed himself in Eastern philosophies and Native American spiritualism . In the late 1970s he went to Arizona , seeking , in the words of Carlos Castenada , the " separate reality " accessible through shamanism . Later , in 1980 , Carlson met the Tucson glass artist Tom Philabaum and saw for the first time the process of glassblowing . He experienced an epiphany : he had found the vehicle to continue his quest . Class was the medium through which he would explore the questions of truth , existence , the inner being and the roots of the creative spirit . Carlson says that the process of making forms from molten glass seemed to him to be the essence of alchemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigate the generative nature of religions and mythologies , though he had no training as an artist . He assisted Philabaum at his studio where , around 1984 , the two began making eccentric mold-blown forms based on " spirit houses " such as the mosque or the kiva . Carlson embellished these forms with figural , symbolic and decorative motifs taken from numerous cultural and historical sources , applying them in model maker 's enamel paints . A visit to Philabaum 's shop by Dale Chihuly and his team of blowers prompted Carlson to attend the Pilchuck Glass School in Stanwood , Washington , in 1985 to further his glassworking abilities and , soon after , to relocate to his present home on Bainbridge Island near Seattle . Alchemy was both science and magic , inextricably linked . In the Hermetic ideal of the alchemist , his devices ( which , notably , include glass in the form of the alembic vessel ) , his process and his product ( the sought-after prima materia , or " first matter " ) are woven inseparably together . In his book Fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1988 ) , John Briggs notes how the mythic quest of the alchemist corresponds to the empirical quest of the modern creative researcher . He observes that like the ancient alchemist , the modern creator seeks possession of a material , or objective , form in which to capture the immaterial  --  a truth , a perception , a vision . Most contemporary creators view the link to alchemy as metaphorical rather than real . Carlson 's first encounter with the glassblower 's hot shop was simultaneously an encounter with the athanor , the alchemist 's oven . In Carlson 's view , glass assumes the symbolism of alchemy . The physical distillation of base material into glass corresponds to a distillation of the spirit , creative and/or religious . ( Significantly , in the ancient symbology of the natural crystal , the state of transparency in glass is defined as one of the most effective and beautiful conjunctions of opposites , the fifth state of the alchemical process being the joining of opposites . ) The relationship of alchemy to glass provides metaphors for a variety of spiritual perceptions  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inner realm . In the last decade , Carlson 's work has focused on the elaboration of symbolic and decorative motifs applied to several basic forms . These include the chalice , often oversized , with the human figure incorporated into the stem ; parts of the human body , such as the head or hand ; and a towerlike form embellished with architectural and geometric motifs . The chalices and towers may stand 30 to 40 inches high . The towers are mold blown , while the chalices are composed of hot-worked shapes and small cast elements combined with offhand blown forms . Carlson continues to use model maker 's enamels and gold or silver leaf paints instead of the fired enamels more typical of glass decoration . While a ceremonial and symbolic aspect is inherent in the tower and chalice , Carlson does not plan the subject matter of his work or its outcome in advance . The glass forms may sit in the studio for weeks , months or even years before he applies the surface decoration . Certain motifs that he uses often , such as serpents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shapes , leaves or flames , and masklike human faces , are archetypal and are likely to suggest the content of a work . The shape of a tower may determine a particular surface area that Carlson covers with a particular motif ( e.g. , interlaced floral arabesque designs on a flared dome ) . But much of the time his surface treatment is a separate conglomeration of independent motifs , decorative styles and pattern densities . The patterns draw upon sources ranging from folk art to Hindu , Islamic , Native American and classical art . Carlson shares with ancient artist-creators the horror vacui  --  the dread af emptiness . A recent work , Tower of Xaos , 1993 , is covered entirely with motifs of every sort , along with such figural images as a full Egyptian profile , a Greek bust and anthropomorphized transformations of birds and animals . Earlier tower pieces , such as Shiva 's Net , 1989 , or Apis ' Arcana , 1988 , are somewhat more uniform in applied pattern . Occasionally , as in these two works , the artist leaves an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space  --  skies with clouds and galaxies with stars . A device that is both inherent in the medium of glass and successful in engendering a sense of expansion is a combination of reverse painting and overpainting on a single surface . Carlson employs this more often in the chalices , where the decoration on the back is visible through the matrix of transparent glass . The shape of the glass distorts the image , particularly the figural elements incorporated into the stem , as in Ishmael and Quan-Yin , both 1993 . The surface glimpsed through the glass from one side is not the same as that on the opposite side . In Quan-Yin , the images seen through the legs of the Great Mother figure are faces representing the psyche , while on the reverse side there is the representation of water . Similarly , the chalice bowl is gold-leafed on the inside and decorated with figural motifs from ancient Creek pottery visible on the exterior . Carlson does not attempt to present narrative or portray characters ; Quan-Yin , the Chinese goddess of mercy and fecundity , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the piece . Apart from being a fairly clever illusionistic device , this combination treatment also suggests a perceptual and symbolic metaphor . It is a gateway  --  one side is always hidden from view until the observer moves ( perceptually and spiritually ) through and sees the other side . The alchemical metaphor of joined opposites takes on a somewhat different meaning here . Carlson engages the transparent/opaque duality to suggest outside and inside , actuality and illusion , the conscious and unconscious sides to perception . His major theme is the presence of the inner and outer self together and as opposites within the same physical body . Temple of Dreams , 1993 , features the usual dense , opaque covering of the exterior , but its circular openings allow views to the interior , which is painted with symbolic and decorative motifs . As Carlson notes , one becomes aware while moving around the piece that the outside imagery is actually coming from the inside . The relevance of symbol and myth in contemporary life has entered into the popular imagination through the writings of the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But from another angle , Ernst Cassirer 's treatise The Philosophy of Symbolic Forms ( 1923-29 ) is pertinent in light of Carlson 's rather intuitive approach to glass . According to this German philosopher , the mind creates symbols to interpret experience , and these symbols are the forms of consciousness in the act of expressing itself . Symbolism thus constantly renews itself through the work of art which is the act of self-expression . Robert Carlson evokes a multitude of established mythical and spiritual references through his use of symbols , but he remakes them out of his own experience . That is the essence of his search for self-discovery and creativity in art . Ron Glowen , a critic , teaches art history at the Cornish College of the Arts in Seattle , Washington . <p>                     