@@357303

The war on poverty may be over , its soldiers in disarray and retreat , but the Rev. Floyd Flake , who is a departing member of Congress , seems not to have got the news . Flake 's Allen African Methodist Episcopal Church in Queens , N.Y. , with 9,000 members and a towering new $23 million cathedral , operates a government-funded social-services network that would be the envy of many municipal governments . The church 's 30,000-sq. - ft. social-services center houses a city-funded walk-in clinic and federal Head Start classrooms at street level . On the center 's second floor are a city-sponsored prenatal-counseling program for teen mothers , a state-sponsored housing and community-renewal program and offices for the federal Women , Infants and Children program . Scattered throughout the building , which is owned by the city of New York and managed by the church , are a city mental-health center and a state Stop Driving While Intoxicated program for drivers whose licenses have been suspended or revoked . <P> What 's more remarkable , all this is only a small part of an Allen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southeastern Queens . To stroll the neighborhood is to see how much can be done when Caesar begins to render unto the church . Allen A.M.E. has used federal funds to provide the community 's elderly with 300 subsidized apartments in the Allen Senior Citizens Housing Complex , along with meals and recreational activities . It has transformed abandoned city-owned lots and state mortgage subsidies into 50 affordable suburban-style two-family homes . Down the street from the church is a row of storefront offices offering everything from Medicaid-funded health care for the homebound to city-sponsored psychosocial services for the mentally ill . Flake , who this month announced that he is leaving Congress to devote himself full-time to his church job , says Allen A.M.E. has " taken an urban community that by the press 's definition was blighted and turned it around . The best role for government is to be a partner in that process . " <P> The future of America 's antipoverty efforts may look a lot like Allen A.M.E. As the nation wrestles with how to reform a failed welfare system , and as more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , government is increasingly asking churches to succeed where social workers and bureaucrats handing out checks have failed . State and local welfare departments are starting up innovative partnerships with religious institutions . And a little-noticed provision in last year 's welfare-reform law called " charitable choice " has opened the door for the nation 's 260,000 religious congregations to take a far greater role in welfare programs : they can now solicit government funds directly rather than set up charitable subsidiaries . Supporters say the spirituality and fellowship offered by churches , combined with their community ties , provide the best hope yet of permanently turning around the lives of the poor . But critics say the new programs threaten to tear down the wall between church and state , and may actually harm the churches that participate .                     