@@393657

Record high temperatures did n't compromise record attendance at the 1994 conference of the Artist-Blacksmiths ' Association of North America ( ABANA ) , held on the campus of Washington University in St. Louis , Missouri . The event June 15-19 attracted 816 registered smiths , 179 spouses , and 123 other visitors and dignitaries . Founded in Lumpkin , Georgia , in 1973 , ABANA has grown to become one of the largest craft organizations in the world , with over 3,500 members . The Unique Duplicity of Iron Opening ceremonies for the 12th biennial conference , which has billed as " Fire and Fusion , " began with a soliloquy by Tim Tyan , accompanied , appropriately , by Aaron Copland 's " Fanfare for the Common Man . " This was in lieu of a keynote address , which would have been as inappropriate at this gathering as a Ralph Lauren necktie . Tyan described the historic role of the blacksmith and iron 's unique duplicity as a material for objects used in war and peace . The discourse concluded with mention of space-age alloys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time-honored tradition of the craft . Tyan 's presentation captured the sense of a diverse group of individuals gathered for a common cause . The ceremonies were to have concluded with a symbolic forge-welding , but on the first attempt to unite two sections of a steel lightning bolt , the weld failed . After a second heat , and the combined efforts of three smiths , a sound weld was achieved . The logistics of providing housing and food for over a thousand would have been a formidable enough undertaking for the conference planners . Add to that the potential for technical problems when eleven temporary blacksmith shops are set up in a field , and seven classrooms are outfitted with the requisite audiovisual equipment , and you have a situation that would challenge the Joint Chiefs of Staff . To their credit , these obstacles and more were capably met by conference chair Lou Mueller and his committee chairs , largely members of the host chapter , the Blacksmiths ' Association of Missouri ( BAM ) . Identifiable by their red T-shirts imprinted with the conference logo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their fair-weather duties ; they moved anvils , re-anchored air hammers , re-engineered failed electrical systems and located lost keys . The success of the conference can be attributed to the collective and much-appreciated energies of the BAM " Red Shirts . " Conferees could choose between eight formal demonstrations or presentations in any of seven classrooms . A ninth forging station , equipped with ten anvils , was designated for teaching ; participation in this innovative program was determined by daily lotteries and all slots were filled for the duration . Projects , Processes , Principles The 10th station was the site of the Ring Project , a collaboration involving most of ABANA 's 42 chapters . Before the conference , each chapter had been asked to design and submit a decorative forged element of a specific diameter . Francis Whitaker , the " grand old man of blacksmithing , " served as juror and selected six of the rings for assembly into a screen . He was assisted by a number of smiths , including Nol Putnam , Jerry Hoffmann , Fred Crist and Clay Spencer . The completed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enriching the ABANA coffers by 88,500 . The 11th forging station , described as " show and tell , " provided an area where any registered participant could work in one-hour sessions throughout the day and into the evening . Other offerings were a Clydesdale shoeing demonstration by David Wilson Sr. and Jr. , a father-and-son farrier team from Scotland , and a cast-iron pour conducted by Tom Cipe . A faculty member from nearby Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville , Cipe was assisted by Wayne Potratz , Jim Swartz and David Hartman . Demonstrations have always been the core of ABANA conferences , and " Fire and Fusion " was a cornucopia . The objects wrought in St. Louis ranged from traditional household hardware by the masterful David Court to whimsical steel pillows by Elizabeth Brim . It was standing room only for George Dixon 's demos of hot repousse leaf work and chisel work in a Gothic style reminiscent of Samuel Yellin . Bob Patrick 's display of the principles of forge welding and use of fluxing agents was of greater value to those present than any how-to book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned traditional products , styles and processes . This can be attributed to the demographics of ABANA and the fact that 37 percent of those attending the St. Louis event were first-time conferees . With less than 15 percent of the membership deriving their principal income from forged ironwork , the majority , who consider themselves aficionados , are more process- than product-oriented . Tradition in Action Perhaps no demonstrator better captured the sense of tradition in both object and production than Paul Zimmermann of Germany . Assisted by his son , Heiner , Zimmermann took a large and awestruck audience through the stages of forging a rose from a single , solid bar of steel . The project , long associated with the graduation of apprentice to journeyman , was executed with the grace and precision achieved only by those who have long worked together . It was , at times , a well-choreographed dance of smith and striker , and at others , that of a sensitive surgical team , holding or passing instruments without a word spoken . Zimmermann maintains that a person should be a student of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the times . During his second demonstration , he produced a simple candleholder with the understated elegance that typified his style and manner . Along with the Zimmermanns and the Wilsons , other demonstrators from abroad were James Horrobin ( England ) , Manfred Bredohl ( Germany ) , Christoph Friedrich ( Switzerland ) , Olav Punt ( Norway ) and Franciszek Wisniewski ( Poland ) . Most gave slide presentations as well . Other indoor sessions included workshops on using computers for office management , drawing and design , a panel discussion on Damascus steel , and workshops for chapter newsletter editors . Showtime Many took the opportunity to see a metals exhibition at the nearby Gallery at Craft Alliance , " Contemporary Metalsmithing : Behind and Beyond the Bench . " Curated by Joe Muench , it featured work by several blacksmiths attending the conference , as well as jewelry and holloware in non-ferrous materials by an established group of American metal artists . No less impressive was the work on display in the two exhibitions at the Wohl Center at Washington University . ABANA 's membership show displayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most professional in the group 's history . A smaller space upstairs became an " instant " gallery to accommodate objects brought to St. Louis by conferees . Notable was a half-life-sized portrait of the dancer Martha Graham in Corten steel by Taylor Frazier , a sheet metal contractor from Kentucky . Another handsome piece , which carried on the ring theme , was a marble-topped console by Andrew MacDonald , an undergraduate in the blacksmithing program at Southern Illinois University , Carbondale . The design incorporated a series of nine rings forged by MacDonald , John Medwedeff , Roy Plumlee , John Lovin , Dan Radvin , David Huffman , Michael Saari and Lorelei Sims . Medwedeff , one of the invited demonstrators , also contributed an outstanding garden gate to the exhibition . Rick Smith had vessels in wrought iron and mild steel in both the members ' show and at Craft Alliance . Substantive slide presentations by Tom Joyce and David Secrest , and a " thumbs-up " video on the workplace and life-style of Christoph Friedrich , echoed Paul Zimmermann 's philosophical approach to blacksmithing . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversations which lasted well into the night . Trouser Buttons , a Flying Pickle and Other Prizes Under threatening skies , closing ceremonies were held outdoors Saturday evening . ABANA president Clayton Carr joined Mueller to thank the demonstrators and local volunteers , presenting them with anvil and tong pins designed and produced by the 1992 conference chairman , Michael Bondi . Manfred Bredohl followed with " trouser button " awards , reminiscent of those found on Levi 's 501 jeans . Bredohl 's buttons , in copper , silver , gold and gold with diamond , are presented on behalf of the International Center for Teaching Metal Design , which he founded in Aachen , Germany . The Alex Bealer Award for Lifetime Achievement , made irregularly by ABANA to honor individuals for their outstanding contributions to the field , was presented to Bud Oggier of Maine , who was cited for his years of instructing , coaching and encouraging young , aspiring smiths . The Wally Award , given by Richard Quinnell of England in recognition of whimsy , went to Liam Deneven for one of his exhibition entries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made from an angle iron ; above the anvil , two angels ( blacksmiths ' muses ) fluttered on a teeter-totter . The prize , which Quinnell makes for each conference , takes the form of a stainless steel pickle , mounted to indicate the location of the event . This year it was a blimp soaring beneath a golden arch . In his words , " The Wally , winging its way across the great ocean , was greeted by the Arch , representing the gateway to the West , a land of wheat , potatoes ... and beef ! " Whereupon the single arch opened into two sections , revealing another American icon . Quinnell 's remarks received a well-deserved ovation , and " Fire and Fusion , " which began with a symbolic lightning bolt , ended with the real thing . The blacksmiths , soaked for days from heat and humidity , and now from the rain , continued their festivities on the porch of the student center . Keys , which would have permitted access to shelter indoors , could not immediately be located . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a blacksmith and the director of the National Ornamental Metal Museum in Memphis , Tennessee , where his wife , writer Judy Wallace , is assistant director , ABANA will next convene in June 1996 , at Alfred University , New York . <p>                     