@@344354

Even before she had a chance to take over the Maryland Governor 's chair last month , Shaila Aery confronted her first crisis : two guards held hostage in a state prison uprising . Aery remembers thinking , " Where can I hide ? " Fortunately the real Governor , William Donald Schaefer , alerted to the emergency , was already at his desk . But for Aery , normally secretary of higher education , it was a dramatic introduction to a unique job-swapping scheme in which the Governor ordered state Cabinet officials to exchange portfolios every morning for a month , then write reports and suggestions based on their experiences . <P> Schaefer , who moved temporarily to the department of human resources , is proud of his shake-up . Taking over a Cabinet colleague 's desk , he believes , brings in fresh eyes and can inject new ideas into stale bureaucracy . He devised the plan while he was mayor of Baltimore from 1971 to 1987 because the city 's departments " did not know they were interdependent . " When he first proposed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought it was silly . But the second time we got good results . " <P> State officials were no less skeptical the first time Schaefer scrambled the chairs of 31 Cabinet members three years ago . Even this year , there was some foot dragging . " I bitched my head off , but it was an eye opener for everybody , " says director of public relations Lainy LeBow , who also went to the human resources department . " I 'll be the first to sign up next time . " Some of the officials grumbled over the added hours , but most of their anxiety was about outsiders ' big-footing on their territory . Everybody in Annapolis remembers the last swap , in 1988 , when housing secretary Jacqueline Rogers was sent over to the planning department and promptly recommended that it be dissolved . Within a year it was gone , folded into the budget office . This year , when Rogers showed up for a stint as the head of the budget office , officials there rolled out the red carpet and solicited her advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marylanders have learned to expect the unexpected from Schaefer , a Democrat who is serving his second four-year term . A 69-year-old bachelor with a hot temper and a flair for the flamboyant , he made headlines in February by granting clemency to eight women convicted of murdering men who had abused them . In the notoriously corrupt politics of Maryland , he remains squeaky clean , an unpolished zircon who spends as many nights in the working-class row house he has lived in all his life as he does in the 53-room official mansion that was redecorated by his close friend of 35 years , Hilda Mae Snoops.                     