@@349828

Redemption earns even more glory among evangelicals than consistent faith and virtue . And for Ralph Reed , sudden self-reform has always come easily . A heavy smoker as an undergraduate at the University of Georgia in the early 1980s , he pitched his pack of Marlboro Lights out a car window one day and never bought another . Booze was also a problem , so he went instantly dry during the summer after graduation . Weeks later , sipping soda in a Washington saloon as some pals drank harder stuff , he was seized by a thirst for " deeper spiritual meaning " in his life . Reed chose a church at random from the Yellow Pages , went there the next morning and soon became a born-again charismatic , abandoning the genteel Methodism in which he had been reared . <P> Acts of contrition followed . To a victim of one of his nasty ploys as a college Republican , he wrote , " I was the cause of all the dirty politics and unsavory behavior . . . Politics for me had degenerated into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a noble calling to serve God and my fellow man . " <P> Today Reed strives , by his lights at least , to make politics serve those causes as executive director of Christian Coalition , the advocacy group founded by Pat Robertson four years ago . Reed 's organizational and strategic talents have made the coalition the most potent unit within what its leaders call the profamily movement . He is also becoming a prophet and a public promoter of the conservative Christian cause in general . When he experiences an epiphany these days , the event is complex and political rather than religious and personal . His changing visions become the subject of TV schmooze shows and Washington seminars , as Robertson gives him increasing license to preach as well as plan . With a choirboy 's serene phiz , and a resume that includes a doctorate in American history as well as many innings of political hardball , Reed , at 32 , has made himself the model for the latest incarnation of the religious right . <P> This week Christian Coalition holds its annual Road to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 2,000 cultural warriors will be in Washington rather than Virginia Beach , and will be open to press coverage . To overcome the group 's conspiratorial image , Reed decided on the motif of a coming-out party . In a bow to political ecumenism , he persuaded David Wilhelm , chairman of the Democratic National Committee , to be the token liberal among dozens of conservative speakers . The movement remains overwhelmingly white and has roots in the backlash against the civil rights revolution ; so Reed commissioned a national poll of minority churchgoers , hoping to find some unlikely constituency among their ranks . Sure enough , this week he will announce figures showing that on some social issues , devout blacks , Hispanics and Asian Americans sympathize with religious-right views .                     