@@393658

The Handweavers Guild of America 's biennial convention  --  Convergence ' ' 94 , held in Minneapolis July 7-10  --  united fiber artists in forum of inspiration and sharing . The theme , " Fiber Reflections/Fiber Visions , " invited them to look to the past , assess the now , and envision the future in every sort of fiber expression . A festive atmosphere prevailed in celebration of HGA 's 25th anniversary . The Weavers Guild of Minnesota welcomed 1 , .871 registrants to conference headquarters at the Minneapolis Hyatt Regency Hotel . Attendees from 50 states and 23 countries attended seminars , ad hoc gatherings and receptions , toured , shopped , then gathered for evening programs at the Minneapolis Convention Center . Creative use of technology  --  large video screens  --  assured everyone a front-row view . Cloth for Cloth 's Sake Festivities began with a welcome by conference chair Margaret Coe and a performance by folksinger Carla Sciaky . The keynote address was a " call to arms " by Ann Sutton , the British textile designer , weaver , consultant and author , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art , craft and industrial design . Assessing handweavihg past and present , she bemoaned the fact that practitioners have seemingly " lost their appreciation for cloth as an item in and of itself , always having to make it into some object . " She charged those present to " spend time weaving instead of worrying about making . " Experimenting yields unique fabrics which can not be mass-produced ; this , she suggested , is a market niche that holds huge potential for handweavers . Sutton cited the importance of computer technology to handweaving and the textile industry , noting that the weaver 's responsibility is to " forge a link with exciting technical developments in materials and equipment , while looking to the fine cloths of the past for inspiration . " She praised innovators like Kay Sekimachi and Junichi Arai , and shared words and weaves that have inspired her , giving the audience a peek at fabrics from her personal collection , live on the giant video screens . Rag Rug Renaissance Each participant 's busy schedule included four seminars out of 113 offered in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to technical pointers to business concerns . These lectures , demonstrations and hands-on presentations sparked lively discussions and enthusiasms for working in new ways . In a special lecture entitled " Humble Rags , Proud Rugs , " Minnesota authors/rug historians Janet Meany and Paula Pfaff surveyed a century of rag weaving . They offered a look at the rag rug cottage industry movement in the early 20th century , profiles of several intrepid elderly weavers working creatively in this pioneer tradition on antique looms , and an overview of works by contemporary innovators who enrich the tradition . The " rug afternoon " betan with at well-attended informal display of rugs by conferees , indication that this once-belittled aspect of handweaving is flourishing with creative zeal . Rug events were complemented by a juried rug exhibit , " Re-Visions , " and by demonstrations on a historic Minnesota loom . Frenzy prevailed in the commercial hall as diehard shoppers combed the international marketplace for books , supplies , notions , imported textiles and artist-designed creations . Daily informal fashion shows were interspersed with hourly demonstrations on such diverse topics as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , paper making , felting , sheep shearing and rabbit plucking . Thirty-two authors took part in a Saturday-afternoon book signing . Fashions and Fun The much-anticipated juried runway fashion show , " 20/20 Visions , " surpassed expectations . Dancers and models showcased 120 garments by 76 clothing artists in a stunning performance coordinated by Peggy Frost Meyer and choreographed by Wendy Short Hays . Dramatic " underground " entrances enhanced the magical stage setting , evocative of a primal dwelling . Ritualistic cloaks by jurors Tim Harding and Katherine Tilton were introduced in a " tribal " ceremony , setting a mood and pace maintained throughout . Spectacular finale garments included a tapestry cape by Joan Renne , knit copper-wire jackets by Kerri McDermott , a plaited ribbon dress by Cheryl Elms , and a demure white cloak that spread to reveal a hidden rainbow by Margaret Raach Wheeler . HGA 's 25th-bihday party on Saturday night served up food , festivities and fun , with jazz band , strolling jugglers , balloons and comedy . An impromptu fashion show of mobile fiber art , " From the Shoulders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and provided much entertainment . Costumes ranged from jewelry worthy of fine boutiques to zany headgear with flashing lights , and amazing upper-body decor utilizing toilet paper tubes to their utmost potential . Emcee Sue Scott teamed with clothing designer Anita Mayer to provide hilarious fashion commentary . HA was serenaded , and the 35 charter members in attendance were honored , along with past officers , board members and volunteers . From Functional to Fantastical More than 25 museums and galleries in the Minneapolis-St . Paul area mounted related exhibitions , an indication of the community 's enthusiastic support of HGA 's endeavor . Tours to galleries , corporate collections and artists ' studios provided nearly 800 visitors with an overview of the region 's engagement with fiber . Convergence mounted several special exhibitions at the Convention Center . Juried and non-juried shows were hung in one large area , flowing into one another in a huge expanse of uneven quality . " Northern Lights " contained 46 juried pieces displaying technical virtuosity as well as innovative approaches . An exhibit of seminar leaders ' work entitled " Stars of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drew much attention . The non-juried shows brought out attendees ' diverse fiber visions and their sense of humor : " Headwear , Footwear , Underwear " featured functional , fantastical and political wearables ; " Minnesota Hot Dish " provided a smorgasbord of functional-to-far-out kitchen textiles and fibrous food items . A display of liturgical fiberworks , " Reflections on Faith , " was on view at a nearby church . Convergence and HGA also sponsored two juried exhibitions at the Minneapolis College of Art and Design . " Small Expressions , " HGA 's annual miniatures show , contained gems of precision and mastery in several media . " Tapestry Visions , " a major international survey of contemporary tapestry juried by Marcel Marois of Quebec , presented dynamic works by two dozen artists from 12 countries , running the gamut of styles . An added attraction for tapestry lovers was " Atmosphere of Memory , " an exhibit of Marois 's recent works . After the extremely full weekend , 400 tired but enthusiastic attendees shifted to a more intimate setting at nearby Northwestern College for 23 post-conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and writer living in St. Paul , Minnesota , where she publishes and distributes books on textile traditions through her company , Dos Tejedoras Fiber Arts . Convergence ' ' 96 will take place July 18-21 in Portland , Oregon . <p>                     