@@349428

Why wait for Bill Clinton , or Hillary either ? They are taking what seems like forever to come up with a national health-care plan . And when they do , Congress may stall some more and change the plan beyond recognition . So states , companies and even the medical profession are pushing ahead with their own plans to cut costs , streamline care and extend coverage to more of the uninsured . " If anyone believes we are waiting for the Administration 's final package or for congressional action on that package , he 's wrong , " says Roger Tracy , director of community-based programs at the University of Iowa College of Medicine . " Reform is alive and well and moving very swiftly . " <P> To patients , the reforms may mean a more restricted choice of doctors , or else paying a greater portion of the bill . Many corporate plans seek to steer patients to physicians who join a health-maintenance organization ( HMO ) or so- called preferred-provider organization ( PPO ) by cutting reimbursements to employees who insist on consulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be offset by other benefits : fewer and simpler ( or maybe no ) maddening reimbursement-claim forms to fill out , to cite one . To the uninsured , the reforms provide a chance to buy policies now unavailable . Many states , for example , are sharply restricting the ability of insurance companies to turn down applicants because of a " pre-existing condition " ( insurance jargon meaning they already have an ailment that is expensive to treat , perhaps kidney disease or multiple sclerosis ) . And for everybody  --  patients , taxpayers , state officials , business executives  --  the reforms promise , eventually at least , a slowdown in the relentless rise of medical costs that keeps kiting up insurance premiums and patients ' bills and biting into state budgets and company profits . <P> The grass-roots efforts , however , form a crazy quilt of programs varying widely in generosity and effectiveness . There are companies whose idea of " reform " consists of slashing , or even denying , health benefits to retired employees ( companies must now show the estimated cost of those benefits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embarrassing ; size ) . Some states have enacted only timid reforms , and others are being forced by a budget squeeze to pare down reforms put on the books in more prosperous times . Massachusetts , to take one prominent example , has delayed until 1995 some important steps in a comprehensive reform plan , enacted in 1988 , that were originally supposed to be phased in over four years . Some companies worry about having eventually to deal with 50 different sets of health benefits , regulations and taxes . And some legislators fear they could penalize their states by enacting comprehensive medical reforms if taxes rise enough to push some businesses to relocate .                     