@@427912

Accessible by airplane or boat , Cartwright is an isolated fishing village of 600 permanent residents on the east coast of Labrador . It was established in 1770 by Capt . George Cartwright , a British adventurer and entrepreneur . Situated on the south side of tranquil Sandwich Bay , near Eagle River and other salmon and trout streams , Cartwright is a good place from which to explore the easternmost extent of the boreal forest , a major woodland type that forms a nearly continuous band from Labrador across most of Canada and through much of Alaska . Following the end of the Ice Age , some 12,000 years ago , numerous lakes were left all across this region , helping to maintain a cool , humid climate . The boreal forest remains moist because more rain and snow fall here than can be carried off by the streams . Woody Lethbridge , who runs the only hotel and restaurant in Cartwright , is the contact person for the region and is happy to suggest a suitable guide . Woody 's assistant , Jim Martin , accompanied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mid-August . We set out on the fifteen-mile gravel road that connects the Cartwright airfield with Lab 6 , a radar tracking station atop a rocky hill . ( From the summit , on a clear day , you can see icebergs in the distance ; on a foggy day , you can barely see your nose . ) Wetland habitats  --  from lakes to streams to bogs  --  were plentiful along our route . Patches of white waterlily , eelgrass , and small-leaved pondweed grew in the lakes . Black ducks and the wading birds known as greater yellowlegs fed on the muddy bottoms in shallow areas . Most of the hilly terrain was covered with forests of black spruce , a tree so important to the way of life in Labrador that a spruce twig is pictured on the district 's flag . Long , wispy strands of a dark lichen known as old-man's-beard hung from the middle and upper branches of most of these forty-foot-tall trees . This dark lichen is what inspired the " black " in this spruce 's common name . I saw two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which generally came down to a stream or the edge of a lake , the trees formed dense ' stands with a thick understory of shrubs and ground cover . On higher slopes , however , the black spruces were spaced farther apart and the ground beneath them was snowy white , even in the middle of summer , because of a covering of caribou moss . The road often followed the dividing line between these two habitats . The downslope forest with its dense vegetation is wet , underlain for the most part by peat moss and other mosses , some of which have two-inch-tall stalks that end in bright orange , spore-bearing capsules . Other plants that reproduce by spores rather than seeds include the soft-looking horsetails , with their multiple whorls of slender branches , and oak fern , lady fern , and spinulose woods fern . The shrub layer consists of alder , several kinds of willows , squashberry , and a type of viburnum . Many of the shrubs are low growing and sprawl over the ground , in part because they are bent down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year . The alders have the ability to fix nitrogen in the soil ; that is , they possess root bacteria that can convert atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants are able to use . This is important in a region where the cold reduces the rate of decay of organic matter , so that soil nutrients are often in short supply . Wildflowers are abundantly distributed across the forest floor , making it impossible to venture in without trampling a considerable amount of vegetation . Many of these plants produce berries that are not only eaten by bears and other wild animals but are also an important source of food and commerce for local people . The baked-apple berry , for example , produces a pricey delicacy in its translucent orange fruits . ( Shaped like blackberries , they are called cloudberries in most other parts of the world . ) Also prized for their fruit are crackerberry ( a type of dogwood up to four inches tall ) , partridgeberry , dwarf blueberry , dwarf dewberry , and wild strawberry . Others are crowberry , with short , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member of the heath family . Twisted-stalk , also known as liverberry , is a member of the lily family . It grows taller than the other wildflowers , often reaching a height of three feet , and produces oblong-shaped , orange berries . Labrador tea , whose leaves have a fuzzy lower surface that turns from white to rusty about midseason , forms a dry fruit . The diversity of species is much more limited in the upslope black spruce forests , although quaking aspen trees occasionally grow along with the black spruces . Here , there is no peat moss , and the soil is not particularly wet . Labrador tea is the only common understory plant besides the ubiquitous caribou moss . Caribou moss , by the way , is actually a licien , a plant composed of an alga and a fungus growing together in a symbiotic relationship . Also known as reindeer lichen , caribou moss looks crunchy , but it is soft , and one can walk across it stealthily . A visit to Cartwright affords an opportunity to see whales , the occasional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and razorbills . But the main animal attraction is a herd of two or three hundred caribou , which stays in the vicinity most of the year . A few years ago , the Cartwright herd was larger , but the herd split and many animals joined the George River herd farther north . ( The George River caribou herd is the largest in northeast Canada , numbering some 150,000 animals . ) During spring and summer , the caribou eat twigs and leaves of shrubs but spend much of their time grazing on the caribou moss , a food with relatively little nutritional value . They apparently also nibble at any old-man's-beard lichen that is hanging within reach on the black spruces . When snow begins to fall in October and November , it covers the caribou moss , so the animals feed on the branches and leaves of the shrubs that remain above the snow . Eventually , even these become covered , as the snow builds up to a depth of fifteen feet . Bears that live in the area go into hibernation for the duration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ searching for food . When the snow begins to accumulate , it is too soft to support the weight of a caribou . But by mid-January , through the combined action of sun , wind , and gravity , the snow has become hard packed . Walking on the surface as much as fifteen feet above the land , the caribou are able to reach the old-man's-beard lichen that hangs from the higher branches of the black spruce trees . With such a limited source of food , the caribou become very thin . But the lichens provide the one means to see them through the winter . Robert H. Mohlenbrock , professor emeritus of plant biology at Southern Illinois University , Carbondale , explores the biological and geological highlights of the U. S. national forests and other parklands . For visitor information write : Woody Lethbridge Post Office Box 59 Cartwright , Labrador Newfoundland A0K 1VO Canada ( 709 ) 938-7414 <p>                     