@@356206

Want a job ? tool-and-die companies in Toledo , Ohio , are so strapped for skilled help that they 're recruiting in Russia , where good workers are shivering and unemployed . Or think about Silicon Valley , where two jobs await every qualified applicant and an astonishing 18,000 technical and managerial slots remain unfilled . If you always wanted to be in show business , here 's your big chance : booming Disney World and Universal Studios in Orlando , Florida , will together add more than 30,000 jobs , from top management to ticket takers , over the next three years . " I 've got opportunity everywhere , " says John Sprouls , vice president for human resources at Universal Studios . <P> So , suddenly , do other companies all over the American map . As the new year begins , these superhot job spots are far more than exceptions to the still unrelenting rule of frequent downsizing . They reflect a tireless expansion and fundamental shifts in the workplace that have created more than 11 million new jobs since 1991 , slashed unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hottest job machine . The same forces that have brought high-tech labor shortages to regions from Silicon Valley to Boston 's Route 128 corridor are fast transforming Rocky Mountain states from energy , ranching and mining to hubs for job-rich information industries . In parts of the Midwest , manufacturers that survived the industrial meltdown of the past two decades are now the most competitive exporters on earth . <P> " This is a huge , huge revolution , like the advent of railroads and air travel , " says Allen Sinai , the president and chief global economist for Primark Decision Economics in Boston . " Future economic historians will write about this as a major event in our history . " Concurs Joseph Stiglitz , chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers : " In the 19th century , the frontier of America was moving from agriculture to manufacturing . Today the frontier is going from manufacturing to services and technology , much of which can be exported . " While this revolution has been under way since the 1960s , technology keeps accelerating the pace of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in areas such as computer networking . <P> Yet nerds and computer wonks are hardly the only workers high on employers ' wish lists . With them come demands for accountants and support staff ; school districts need more teachers ; hospitals are crying for nurses and physical therapists . In Minneapolis companies are hiring directly from temporary help agencies  --  and paying fat premiums to do so . Skilled workers from carpenters to croupiers are in high demand as the good times have brought booms  --  and frequent overcrowding  --  to housing markets and entertainment centers from the casinos of Las Vegas and , yes , St. Louis , Missouri , to the theme parks of Orlando .                     