@@344161

Bitter divisions are breaking out between the nation 's two largest minorities . Once solidly united in the drive for equality , blacks and Hispanics are now often at odds over such issues as jobs , immigration and political empowerment . At the root of the quarrels is a seismic demographic change : early in the next century , Hispanics will outnumber African Americans for the first time . <P> Though the differences were long submerged , they burst into the open last year just before the annual awards dinner of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights in Washington . Instead of easy talk between old friends , an angry argument erupted . Contending that immigration laws discriminate against Latino workers , Hispanics asked the group to support repeal of the legislation . At first blacks refused , charging that Latino immigrants take jobs away from poor blacks . Furious , Hispanics threatened to storm out in protest . Only eleventh- hour diplomacy by Benjamin L. Hooks , executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , coaxed the Latinos back to the table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become more strident in their demands for a larger slice of the economic and political pie . Blacks , long accustomed to being the senior partner in the minority coalition , fear that those gains will come at their expense . Meanwhile , demagogues on both sides have pitted black against brown in a bid for short-term political advantage . Says Arthur Fletcher , chairman of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights : " On a scale of 1 to 10 , I would put Latino-black relations on the negative side of 5 . " <P> Increasingly , these long-simmering tensions are flaring into violence , especially in cities where one of the groups has a monopoly on political power . Last May , Hispanics in black-controlled Washington went on a two-day rampage after a Latino man was wounded by a black police officer . In Cuban- dominated Miami four weeks ago , blacks briefly rioted following the overturn of the conviction of a Hispanic police officer for killing two black motorcyclists . It was the sixth such disturbance in 10 years . <P> Underlying the disputes is a growing divergence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual suspicion . Black and Hispanic leaders , says Alejandro Portes , a sociologist at Johns Hopkins University , " see everything as a zero-sum game . If blacks get something , Latinos lose something , and vice versa . " Many African Americans believe that Latinos are benefiting from civil rights victories won by blacks with little help from Hispanics . Says Fletcher : " During the height of the civil rights movement , Hispanics were conspicuous by their absence . They kept asking , ' What about us ? ' But rather than joining us in fighting the system , Hispanics were fighting us for the crumbs . And that in large part is still what 's going on . "                     