@@414586

Billion of dollars in losses have already been discovered . Billions more have gone undetected . Trillions will be stolen , most without detection , by the emerging master criminal of the twenty-first century  --  the cyberspace offender . Worst of all , anyone who is computer literate can become a cybercrook . He or she is everyman , everywoman , or even everychild . The crime itself will often be virtual in nature  --  sometimes recorded , more often not  --  occurring only in cyberspace , with the only record being fleeting electronic impulses . But before discussing the infohighway crimes we can expect to see in the years ahead , let 's look at the good news : The most-dreaded types of offenses  --  crimes such as murder , rape , assault , robbery , burglary , and vehicle theft  --  will be brought under control in the years ahead by a combination of technology and proactive community policing . Creation of the cashless society , for example , will eliminate most of the rewards for robbers and muggers , while computer-controlled smart houses and cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monitors and chemical drips ( such as " sober-up " drugs and synthesized hormones ) will keep most of the sexually and physically violent offenders under control . More importantly , proactive policies  --  seeking out crime-breeding situations and taking steps to eliminate them before the crime occurs  --  may alleviate much of the burgeoning violence among young people . Tender , loving care demonstrated by informed parenting , universal health and day care , mentoring , and communal attention to children 's welfare can prevent another generation of starved-for-attention juveniles from becoming criminals . But cyberspace offenders  --  ranging in age from preteen to senior citizen  --  will have ample opportunities to violate citizens ' rights for fun and profit , and stopping them will require much more effort . Currently , we have only primitive knowledge about these lawbreakers : Typically , they are seen only as nuisances or even admired as innovators or computer whizzes . But increasingly , the benign " hacker " is being replaced by the menacing " cracker "  --  an individual or member of a group intent on using cyberspace for illegal profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geometrically , and technology is making the information superhighway even more friendly and affordable for millions of users . But foolproof protective systems can probably never be developed , although some high-tech entrepreneurs are certainly trying . Even if a totally secure system could ever be developed , it would likely disrupt the free flow of information  --  an unacceptable intrusion to most users . In fact , it is the ease of access that is driving this rapidly expanding field of crime . What are the major cybercrimes being committed , how , and by whom ? More importantly , where is cybercrime headed in the twenty-first century ? Let 's look at six cyberspace crime categories : communications , government , business , stalking , terrorism , and virtual . Communications Crimes Already , cellular theft and phone fraud have become major crimes . Low-tech thieves in airports and bus terminals use binoculars to steal calling-card access numbers as unsuspecting callers punch in their phone codes . Other thieves park vans beside busy interstate highways and use equipment obtained from shopping mall electronics stores to steal cellular phone access @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , international calls are being made with the stolen numbers in what is becoming a **26;571;TOOLONG criminal industry . Phone company employees , meanwhile , are also stealing and selling calling card numbers , resulting in more hundreds of millions of dollars in unauthorized calls . In 1994 , an MCI engineer was charged with selling 60,000 calling card numbers for $3 to $5 each , resulting in more than $50 million in illegal long-distance charges . In another case , when a phone company tried to institute a call-forwarding program , crackers quickly defrauded the system of more money than the company stood to make in legal profits . In the future , the opportunities for hacking and cracking will escalate , with telephones , computers , faxes , and televisions interconnected to provide instantaneous audiovisual communication and transmission of materials among individuals . The wide appeal of new multimedia communication systems will likely create such a huge volume of subscribers that the price will plummet and make access by all possible . But if billions of dollars of losses to thieves are compounded by billions more required to repair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prohibitive to all but the wealthy . Cybercrimes against the Government In 1995 , the U.S. Internal Revenue Service instituted stringent new regulations on electronic tax filing and returns . This move was to stop a rash of fraud that cost taxpayers millions in 1994 : Returns that were processed quickly via this method turned out to be for tens of thousands of fictitious corporations and individuals . Similarly , in an attempt to stop foodstamp fraud , the government issued electronic debit cards to a trial population and plans to go nationwide with the system later in the decade . However , early reports show that many recipients are selling their benefits for cash  --  50c to 60c on the dollar  --  to merchants who then receive full payment . Cyberpunks regularly break into government computer systems , usually out of curiosity and for the thrill of the challenge . They often intercept classified data and sometimes even interrupt and change systems . One U.S. Justice Department official reported that military computers are the most vulnerable , " even less secure than university computers . " This official noted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ track both actual and planned troop movements . Tames V. Christy II , director of an Air Force unit of computer-crime investigators , set up a team of hackers to test the security of military computer systems . He reported that the hackers broke into Pentagon systems " within 15 seconds " and went on to break into over 200 Air Force systems with no one reporting or even recognizing the break-ins . Ironically , computer hackers often beat the system using the very technology intended to stop them . For example , federal law-enforcement agencies use an Escrowed Encryption Standard to protect classified information and a chip-specific key to decrypt the system . Experienced hackers can easily discover the key and use it to obtain passwords , gaining full access to encrypted systems . Newer , more-secure encryption systems for protecting government and international business transactions require storing the " keys " in " escrow " with a specific government agency  --  usually the U.S. Treasury Department . Hackers and civil libertarians find this security solution unacceptable because it impedes the free flow of information and puts almost all sensitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is seen by many as being dangerous to individual freedoms and a major step in the direction of creating a class structure based on the " information rich " and " information poor . " As more government data is stored in computers , protection will become both more vital and more difficult . When the livelihood of an individual depends on data in government computers , the temptation to " adjust " that record to increase benefits and reduce charges will be great . Many will try to do the adjusting themselves ; others will be willing customers for a burgeoning black market of professional crackers . For those who have little need for government benefits but would like to eliminate their tax liability , a highly destructive method would be to plant a computer virus in government computers to destroy large numbers of records . In this way , suspicion would not fall on an individual . Targeting Business Today , most banking is done by electronic impulse , surpassing checks and cash by a wide margin . In the near future , nearly all business transactions will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access to money . Recently , computer hacker John Lee , a founder of the infamous " Masters of Deception " hacker group , discussed his 10-year career , which began when he was 12 years old and included a one-year prison term in his late teens . Without admitting to any wrongdoing , Lee said that he could " commit a crime with five keystrokes " on the computer . He could : ( 1 ) change credit records and bank balances ; ( 2 ) get free limousines , airplane flights , hotel rooms , and meals " without anyone being billed " ; ( 3 ) change utility and rent rates ; ( 4 ) distribute computer software programs free to all on the Internet ; and ( 5 ) easily obtain insider trading information . Though prison was " no fun , " Lee admitted that he would certainly be tempted to do it all again . In a groundbreaking study published in Criminal Justice Review in the spring of 1994 , Jerome E. Jackson of the California State University at Fresno reported the results of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraud masters . " These professional thieves obtain credit cards via fake applications , or by electronic theft , and pass them around among their peers internationally for profit . These young men and women want the " good life " after growing up in poverty . They are proud of their skills of deception and arrogant enough to feel they wo n't be caught . Indeed , none of those in the five-year case study were caught . As seen in the $50-million-plus losses in the MCI case , a far greater threat to businesses than hackers are disgruntled and financially struggling employees . As internal theft from retail stores has always been many times greater in volume than theft from shoplifters , robbers , and burglars , theft by employees armed with inside information and computer access is and will continue to be a much larger problem than intrusion by hackers , crackers , and terrorists combined . By the turn of the century , 80% of Americans will process information as a major part of their employment , according to a United Way study . In addition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of business computers . As one Justice Department official warns , " This technology in the hands of children today is technology that adults do n't understand . " The first generation of computer-literate citizens will reach adulthood shortly after the turn of the century and will surely open a new age in the annals of crime and crime-fighting . Cyberstalking One frightening type of cybercriminal emerging rapidly is the cyberstalker . Possibly the most disturbing these criminals is the pedophile who surfs computer bulletin boards , filled with bright young boys and girls , in search of victims . He develops a cyberspace relationship and then seeks to meet the child in person to pursue his sexual intentions . Already recognized as a serious problem , cyberstalking has spawned the cybercop  --  a police officer assigned to computer bulletin boards in search of these pedophiles . Once a suspect is spotted , the cybercop plays the role of a naive youngster and makes himself or herself available for a meeting with the suspect in hopes of gaining evidence for an arrest . Also surfing the network , in search of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photographs o young boys and girls in a variety o sexually suggestive or actual sexual acts . Such a ring was broken up in 1994 and was found to have clients in several countries , with the pictures themselves transmitted from Denmark . Another type of stalker expected to be seen more in the future is the emotionally disturbed loner , seeking attention and companionship through cyberspace , and who often becomes obsessed with a bulletin board " friend . " If this person obtains personal information about the cyberspace acquaintance , he or she sometimes seeks a close , often smothering relationship . If spurned , the stalker launches a campaign of cyberspace harassment , moving into real-space harassment if adequate information is obtained . Cyberspace vengeance can take many forms , from ruining credit records and charging multiple purchases to the victim to creating criminal records and sending letters to employers informing them of the " shady background " of the victim . In the twenty-first century , with access to the information superhighway available to all and information from data banks networked into dossiers reserved for " official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crackers ) , stalking will not only increase but be facilitated by a new generation of portable computers . Organic nanocomputers may one day be implanted in the human brain , making possible a new crime : mindstalking . Unauthorized intrusion and seduction will reach directly into the victim 's brain , making the stalker harder to evade and even more difficult to escape . Remote Terrorism In London a couple of years ago , terrorists placed deadly missiles in the back of a truck and remotely sent them flying toward the home of the British prime minister . The missiles exploded on the lawn without harm to the prime minister or the house , but they could have killed him and created an international crisis  --  clearly the intent of the bombers . Today , terrorists have the capacity to detonate explosives in another country by means of computers and radio signals bounced off satellites . Because the emerging information superhighway is without borders , computer viruses and other information-destroying instruments can be hurled at business or government officials and facilities from anywhere on the globe . In the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and personal life that being cut off from it will be like being held hostage or kidnapped . Terrorists who can cut communications off to an individual , group , community , or wider society will have the power and ability to spread fear and panic . As with stalkers , terrorists will find new opportunities when computer implants in human brains become widely available . Borrowing a twentieth-century technique from psychology  --  subliminal conditioning-terrorists might recruit unsuspecting accomplices via low-intensity audiovisual messages aimed directly at individuals with brain-implanted computers . Unsuspecting implantees might unconsciously begin to modify their attitudes in the direction sought by the terrorists , or worse , even begin to join in terrorist activities . Political terrorists , whose agenda often is to change the world to suit their beliefs , are the most likely candidates to embrace this new approach and other emerging technologies to gain direct access to the minds of the populace . Virtual Crimes Stock and bond fraud is already appearing in cyberspace-stocks and bonds that appear on the markets , are actively traded for a short time , and then disappear . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impulses are real . In a recent case , a trader was paid $9 million in commissions for what appeared to be some $100 million in sales of bonds . But investigators now feel that these bonds may never have changed hands at all , except in cyberspace . In the future , a virtual-reality expert could create a hologram in the form of a respected stockbroker or real estate broker , then advise clients in cyberspace to buy certain stocks , bonds , or real estate . Unsuspecting victims acting on the advice might later find that they had enlarged the coffers of the virtual-reality expert , while buying worthless or nonexistent properties . This is just the tip of the iceberg in what might be tagged as " virtual crime "  --  offenses based on a reality that only exists in cyberspace . As virtual reality becomes increasingly sophisticated , it is the young adults in the first decade of the twenty-first century who  --  having grown up with virtual reality  --  will create the software and determine the legal and criminal uses of this technology . And with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ via " organic " computers , the ability to separate cyberspace reality from truth outside cyberspace will be one of the greatest challenge of the twenty-first century . Twenty-First Century Expectations The outlook for curtailing cyberspace crime by technology or conventional law-enforcement methods is bleak . Most agencies do not have the personnel or the skills to cope with such offenses , and to date all high-tech approaches have been met by almost immediate turnabouts by hackers or crackers . As individuals see and talk to each other over computers in the next few years , and as nanotechnology makes computers even more portable , new technology will emerge to protect data . But simplifying systems to make them more universally acceptable and accessible will also make them more vulnerable to intruders . Control of access by optical patterns , DNA identification , voice spectrographs , encryption , and other methods may slow down hackers , but no method is foolproof or presents much of a challenge to today 's most-talented cyberpunks . The trouble is that in the future many more users will have skills far beyond those of today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratization of computer crime . " Still , there is much to be gained by easy access to the information superhighway . The " cyberpunk imperatives , " a code subscribed to many hackers , include : ( 1 ) information should be free so that the most capable can make the most of it ; ( 2 ) the world will be better off if entrepreneurs can obtain any data necessary to provide needed or desired new products and services ; and ( 3 ) decentralization of information protects us all from " Big Brother . " Cybercrime probably can not be controlled by conventional methods . Technology is on the side of the cyberspace offender and motivation is high  --  it 's fun , exciting , challenging , and profitable . The only real help is one that has not proven very successful in recent decades : conscience and personal values , the belief that theft , deception , and invasion of privacy are simply unacceptable . Behavioral psychologists argue that all values are learned by a system of rewards and , to a lesser extent , punishment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children should consciously be conditioned to live by them . If all citizens  --  all computer users  --  were taught these values and sought to live by them , cyberspace could become the wondrous and friendly place its creators have envisioned . Ironically , the greatest possible allies to be found in this search for values in cyberspace are the adolescent hackers of the 1980s , many of whom are the software programmers of the 1990s . In his book , Secrets of a SuperHacker , a hacker named " Knightmare " says that " true hackers " love to break into systems and leave proof of their skills , but do not hurt individuals by stealing tangible goods or money , or destroying files or systems . " Hacker ethics , " Knightmare writes , include informing computer managers about problems with their security and offering to teach and share knowledge about computer security when asked . Increasingly , government and business computer managers are asking . Many of the Fortune 500 companies and numerous government agencies have hired hackers to test their systems and even design new security protocols @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the information superhighway from crackers and terrorists . As one hacker says , " Hackers love computers and they want the Net safe . " About the Author Gene Stephens is a professor in the College of Criminal Justice , University of South Carolina , Columbia , South Carolina 29208 . Telephone 803/777-7315 ; fax 803/777-9600 . His last article for THE FUTURIST was " The Global Crime Wave  --  And What We Can Do About It , " featured in the July-August 1994 issue . <p>                     