@@410424

This is not supposed to be an ideological age , but the ideas we use to explain events are very powerful . The idea that Communist control of Vietnam would lead to communist control of all of Asia required the United States to fight there . Standing up to the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese represented a chance to correct the mistake made when no one stood up to Hitler  --  or so it seemed while the domino theory prevailed . In economics the idea that there ca n't ever be too much competition , or that the government will gum up whatever it touches , requires us to assume that whatever the market decides is for the best . During last year 's presidential campaign the columnist George Will offhandedly reminded his readers that the " lesson of the late 20th century " was government 's inability to hit whatever economic target it set for itself . Therefore it was folly for the Democrats under Bill Clinton even to talk about devising a " national economic plan . " The significance was that Will could say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educated Americans would agree . Aspiring planners of national economies were thick on the ground , here and especially in Europe , as recently as the 1940s and 1950s . But recent history has been chastening , at least to people paying attention ... Planners say , with breezy confidence : Why wait for billions of private decisions in free markets to reveal possibilities and preferences ? Government in the hands of clever people like us can know what is possible and preferable . Suppose this paragraph , and the idea behind it , had been a little different . Suppose it had said , Aspiring planners of national economies were thick on the ground in America as recently as the 1950s . Even now they dominate the governments of Europe , except for England , and those of East Asia , except for Hong Kong . Perhaps it 's just a coincidence , but each of these " except for " countries is the industrial sick man of its region . The European planners have succeeded in some ways but failed in many others . In East Asia , government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it set out to do . This history might be chastening to people paying attention to what it really means  --  but that 's hard for us , because we like people to talk to us in English , and the Anglophone world tells us not to question what we already think . This , of course , would represent a different idea , which would fit reality into different patterns , leading to different results . With another mental map of the world , people might feel differently about the nature of economic change . The prevailing American idea requires us to view industrial rises and falls as if they were the weather . We can complain all we want , but in the long run there 's nothing much we can do , except put on a sweater when it 's cold . Or the American idea makes economic change seem like an earthquake : some people are better prepared for it than others , but no one can constrain the fundamental force . A different idea  --  that industrial decline is less like a drought than like a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different behavior . In the early 1960s American strategists " knew " certain things about military power . They knew that the most dangerous potential conflict was between the two superpowers . If the United States and the Soviet Union were not fighting each other , then either of them would beat whichever lesser power it faced . It was hard to make those ideas fit the facts of Vietnam and Afghanistan . American economists " know " certain things about business competition now . It is very hard to make those ideas fit the facts of the semiconductor industry , America 's great success story of the early 1980s . The story matters more than others , because of the importance of semiconductor chips to high-tech industrial growth . But even if the products themselves were insignificant , the gap between how Americans think about industry and what happened to this particular industry would be provocative . Americans have learned to explain away industrial failure with reasons that seem to make sense when applied to TV makers , or the Big Three of Detroit , or traditional heavy industry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of education and investment  --  do not fit the semiconductor case . A better understanding requires a look at ideas that are in very limited circulation among people educated and trained in English-speaking countries  --  ideas in direct conflict with all that we " know . " THE AGE OF INNOCENCE California is blessed with a sense of newness , and in 1980 that sense was especially vivid . The Santa Clara Valley had just been baptized Silicon Valley and was the center of the semiconductor industry for the entire world . The new buildings to house that industry looked fresh and almost flimsy without seeming cheap . They were like mushrooms that spring up after a rain , fragile but in their own way perfect . In the downtown of Cupertino , one of the newest and freshest-looking of Silicon Valley 's cities , stood a public library with a large sculpture shaped like a conquistador 's helmet . Against it the sun emitted a coppery glow . Such structures were this new economy 's answer to the concert halls and art museums that had gone up in Detroit and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they were spreading it around . Just a few blocks from the library was one of the main sources of the money , Apple Computer , which was then growing so rapidly that its offices were scattered among half a dozen rented sites . If Cupertino had had a skyscraper , from its top you would have been able to see the other great successes of the valley . They included Intel , with headquarters in Santa Clara ; Hewlett-Packard , in Palo Alto ; the upstart Zilog , in Cupertino , which had been founded by exiles from Intel ; and a host of others . Within a few years it would become difficult to remember the sense of amazement and all-embracing promise that had emanated from Silicon Valley . But in the years before 1980 the industry did things never done before , creating things no one had ever seen . As Detroit had at the turn of the century , when new car companies were springing up practically overnight , Silicon Valley conveyed the sense that its industries were remaking the world around them  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had made the original discoveries were still in charge . The manufacturers of the valley could be divided into three main categories . At the top of the industrial food chain were the computer makers  --  companies like Apple and Hewlett-Packard , whose brand names the public knew and whose products sat on desks in offices and homes . Below the computer makers were the semiconductor makers  --  Intel , Motorola , Texas Instruments , Zilog , National Semiconductor , and many others . As the industry grew through the 1980s , the public came to know their names as well , but until very late in the decade , when computer users around the country began buying extra RAM or faster processors for their home computers , the semiconductor makers sold their products to the computer industry and other industrial consumers . At the base were the semiconductor-equipment companies  --  Varian , Eaton , and Perkin-Elmer , among others . They were virtually invisible to the public , but without them Intel and Motorola could not have made chips , and without chips Apple and HP could not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working together in California just the way American economic theory said they should . Few companies in this industry were big and integrated . Most were small , specialized , and agile . The giants of those days , IBM and Xerox , were present in the valley but served largely as brooder houses from which ambitious engineers and breakthroughs in basic research would emerge . ( AT &T's; Bell Labs had played the same role in the industry 's early days . ) Every branch of the industry seemed unchallengeably strong  --  as U.S. car makers had seemed in the 1950s , as U.S. software houses believe themselves to be today . Japanese manufacturers , who had already created problems for other , less advanced-seeming American industries , were barely on the map . At the urging of the Japanese government a number of big Japanese firms  --  Toshiba , Hitachi , Fujitsu , NEC  --  were by the mid-1970s building both chips and computers . But they still relied overwhelmingly on American suppliers for chip-making equipment ; they had no way to match it on their own . Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its workers  --  and most of the American public  --  saw a kind of commonsense economic and moral logic to its rise . These industries were forward-looking and flexible . They used advanced technology and they created good jobs . They invested for the long run ; they thought of labor and management as a team ; they were n't crying for government protection , as so many of America 's " sunset " industries were . Opinion polls in the 1980s still showed great American confidence in the country 's technical prowess . Koreans might move from textiles to steel , Japanese from steel to cars , but Americans would move from cars to computer chips , and who could tell what would come next ? THE SUDDEN COLLAPSE Less than ten years later everything about this industry had changed . The very companies that had supposed they demonstrated the moral superiority of the American way of doing business seemed by the late 1980s to be making the opposite point . Through the late 1970s American companies dominated chip making and the manufacture of semiconductor equipment  --  the machines used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world used to make semiconductors in the middle and late 1970s , about 85 percent came from America ; about 80 percent of those used in Japan were American . By 1982 Japanese semiconductor companies were making more " dynamic random access memory " chips , or DRAMS ( pronounced " dee-rams " ) , than American firms . These DRAM products are what most computer users think of as " memory chips . " Three years later Japan 's production of semiconductor products as a whole exceeded America 's . As Japanese companies increased their output of chips , they also turned to Japanese suppliers for chip-making equipment . By 1985 American equipment makers had barely 25 percent of the market in Japan , already the world 's largest and fastest-growing market . The best-publicized American success was in the area of microprocessors  --  the chips that interpret the instructions in computer programs and control the operations of the computer as a whole . The two American powerhouses in micro-processor making were Intel and Motorola . Intel had started out as a memory-chip company  --  indeed , it had invented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , had been forced out of that business as Japanese producers came in . Unlike the others , however , it had found a new and amazingly lucrative niche in producing microprocessors . Motorola , which had been actively fighting trade wars in Japan , and whose processor chips were used in the Macintosh and in a variety of industrial applications , also prospered . Each of the two companies had worked to have its chips designed into major computer operating systems . Intel 's chips dominated the IBM-compatible world of computers running DOS , Microsoft Windows , and OS/2 ; Motorola 's ran the Macintosh and other Apple products . These relationships provided a steady cash flow that bouyed Intel and Motorola when the rest of the American semiconductor industry was foundering . In 1978 the two largest merchant semiconductor firms in the world were Texas Instruments and Motorola . ( IBM was ranked as the world 's largest producer , but it used chips for its own products , unlike the merchant firms that sold the chips they made ) By 1983 Japanese semiconductor companies were spending more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spending more on research and development By 1986 the top three merchant firms were NEC , Hitachi , and Toshiba , and there were six Japanese firms among the ten world leaders . At that time , according to one report , " most non-Japanese producers of DRAMS had been eliminated from the world market or marginalized ; Japanese firms controlled 90 percent of world production of 256K DRAMS . " Even AT &T; was leaving the DRAM business by the end of the decade . Early in 1991 I met a minister of the Korean government who had come to Washington to try to put together alliances of Korean and American technology firms . If they tried to make it on their own , he said , they were both certain to be eclipsed by Japanese firms . The chips were raw material for other advanced products : they went into computers , VCRs , and increasingly into cars . NEC , Hitachi , and Toshiba were best known not for the chips they sod but for their computers , VCRs , machine tools , and similar finished goods that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people as Japan , an economy that through the 1980s was more than twice as large as Japan 's , and a **26;0;TOOLONG industry that was regarded as leading the entire world . Yet in 1988 Japan 's consumption of semiconductors  --  its use of them as components for cars , computers , and countless other high-value products  --  was greater than America 's . In addition to providing the supplies for computer makers and other " downstream " industries , the chip makers were themselves major customers . They ought from the " upstream " equipment makers that made the complex and expensive capital goods necessary to produce chips . As the American semiconductor industry dwindled , so did the related American industries that bought from and sold to it . In theory this need not have happened  --  American etcher makers could sell equipment to Hitachi rather than to Advanced Micro Devices ; American computer makers could get all the DRAM chips they needed from NEC rather than from sources nearby in Silicon Valley . But it did n't work that way . As the semiconductor industry grew in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promote linkages with other Japanese firms  --  and prevent them with non-Japanese firms . In the mid-1970s Japan 's Ministry of International Trade and Industry launched its VLSI projects , the most visible of numerous efforts to coordinate the growth of Japan 's computer-related industries . The acronym stood for " very-large-scale integration , " and the projects involved preferential access to capital , government-sponsored research , strategies for licensing technology from foreign ( mainly American ) suppliers , and other means to help Japanese producers overcome the foreign lead in high-tech production . By the logic of American-style economic theory , such government-sponsored efforts were both unnecessary and self-defeating . They were unnecessary because if customers in Japan wanted chips , chip-making machines , or computers , they could always just buy them from suppliers in other countries . There was no need to create new industries from scratch . And the efforts were self-defeating because government interference would raise the price that Japanese industrial customers had to pay , handicapping the firms that used the chips . Japanese commentators , when writing in English , often claim that precisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like people everywhere , import when other countries can provide competitively attractive goods and services , " one famous Japanese spokesman asserted this year . Yet this nationality-blind , purely price-minded mentality can not explain the way the Japanese semiconductor industry grew . The strategy of developing high-tech manufacturing abilities within Japan rather than buying high-tech goods from outside Japan succeeded . With each passing year Japanese firms had a larger share in every part of the industry : machinery , chips , and computers . By the end of the 1980s American equipment makers  --  the companies that produced the specialized , ultra-precision equipment for each of the twenty-five-plus steps necessary to make a semiconductor  --  still outsold Japanese suppliers in every part of the world except Japan . But the market inside Japan had become so large , and was so thoroughly dominated by Japanese suppliers , that Japanese equipment makers outsold American ones worldwide . In Japan the companies that made chips were tightly connected to the companies that bought chips  --  and connected by something beyond the prospect of business advantage which momentarily binds buyers to sellers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life is the military . Just as the U.S. Air Force , with its allies in industry and Congress , competes bitterly against the Army and the Navy ( and their respective allies ) for budget dollars and prestige , so do Toshiba , NECI and Fujitsu , with their allies , compete bitterly against one another for primacy and market share . Yet each kind of competitor recognizes limits to its rivalry . Fundamentally it is on the same team as its rivals , and at certain points all must suppress their immediate interests for the common good . According to Western economic theory there is virtually no " shared interest " among business competitors . Members of the American military system , and of the Japanese business system , need no theory to articulate why they are on the same side . THE UNEXPECTED CHIP SHORTAGE In 1985 , just as the last non-Japanese producers of DRAM chips were about to drop out of the business because of sustained low-priced exports from Japan , a strange thing happened . For at least two decades the price of chips had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Producers learned how to eliminate defects , which meant they had fewer flawed chips to throw away , which in turn reduced the overall cost per finished chip . Yet starting that year 256-kilobyte DRAM chips started to become expensive and scarce . Prices went up , and stayed up , as they never had before . One of the industry 's chronic headaches had been the " learning curve , " a rapid fall in the price of a new chip six or eight months after it was introduced . Financial experts at Intel in 1980 explained to me that the retail price of a chip began to plummet once competitors figured out how to make it . Previously exotic products like 64K chips and 80286 processors became mere commodities , and forces of supply and demand drove the price through the floor . This was a blessing for consumers , but it meant that companies had to be quick to develop new products , so that they could earn their profits in those first six or eight months of premium pricing . In the past , high prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money that was coming in , the more of it the companies reinvested in factory space . But as the price of 256K chips mysteriously rose , Japanese companies did not invest in any more 256K production space . The exact causes of the DRAM shortage are still hotly debated in Japan and the United States . In brief , most discussion in America assumed that the United States itself had caused this price rise , through its complaints about Japanese " dumping " of chips in the previous three years . Reports published in Japan suggested that the Japanese industry itself engineered the rise , taking advantage of the OPEC-like control it had finally attained over chip supplies . Either way , the results were unmistakable . An American high-tech industry that had fed on chips , using more and more memory to produce bigger and faster machines ; was suddenly cut off from its supply . Chip prices were going up , defying the industry 's collective experience  --  and no matter what the price , some chips seemed impossible to find . Officials of the Ministry of International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of precious DRAM chips out of the country , much as oil ministers had regulated output during OPEC 'S heyday . MITI had long maintained a list of goods subject to government approval before they could be sold to customers in China . An official of Hitachi , one of Japan 's major DRAM producers , said that during the shortage " it was easier to get approval from MITI to sell goods subject to government control into China than it was to get approval to sell DRAMS into the United States . " Japanese producers that were strong in DRAMS but relatively weak in other semiconductor products , such as " application-specific integrated circuits , " or ASICS , began offering package deals io American customers on a take-it-or-leave-it basis : We 'll let you have DRAMS if you 'll buy our ASICS . American computer makers bought expansion boards from Japanese suppliers simply to strip off and use the DRAM chips . The shortage was intense through most of 1988 . Its most enduring effect was to aggravate a division between two branches of the American high-tech industry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally saw themselves as allies  --  and in many cases were actually part of the same firm . In America the chip and computer makers were often at odds . For the chip makers , of course , higher chip prices meant higher revenues . For the computer makers , higher chip prices meant higher costs . So although The American computer makers might theoretically agree that it was wrong for Japanese chip makers to dump chips , at least in the short term the dumping was a boon . More important , although the evil of dumping was theoretical , the hardship caused by the chip shortage was immediate for the U.S. computer makers . Most of them retained a " never again " mentality after the 1988 shortage . They realized the dangers of exposing themselves to another DRAM shortage by antagonizing suppliers in Japan . These disagreements came to a famous climax early in 1990 . IBM had spent much of the previous year pushing for a new U.S. chip-making consortium . The idea behind the project was that America 's biggest chip-using and chip-making companies would band @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies such as Digital Equipment and Hewlett-Packard  --  which , like IBM , used tremendous numbers of chips  --  would join semiconductor companies such as Intel and LSI Logic in building a large , advanced chip-making facility to be called U.S. Memories . The computer companies would then commit themselves to buying a certain share of the plant 's future output , even if in the short term they could obtain chips more cheaply from Japanese or Korean suppliers . The project 's backers argued that in the long term the computer companies and the whole domestic high-tech industry would be stronger if American-owned chip companies survived . U.S. Memories had been proposed in 1988 , during the great chip shortage . As it held its first organizational meetings , in 1989 , chip prices began drifting down . By the summer of 1989 another chip glut seemed to be in the making . Japanese manufacturers had expanded their output , and U.S. computer makers could get all the chips they wanted at good prices . In September of 1989 , amid falling chip prices , Apple Computer announced that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no need for the project , now that DRAM chips were cheap and plentiful again . By November , Compaq , Sun Microsystems , Unisys , and Tandy had all rejected U.S. Memories as well . At a showdown meeting in Dallas on January 10 , 1990 , Sanford Kane , the president of U.S. Memories , asked the remaining partners to state explicitly how much money they would put up and how many U.S. Memories chips they would buy . IBM and Digital were the only two computer companies to make significant commitments . Hewlett-Packard , one of the original supporters of the plan , backed off . By the end of the meeting it was clear that U.S. Memories was dead . " These guys have a tactical view of the world ; they do n't think strategically , " Sanford Kane told Stephen Kreider Yoder , of The Wall Street Journal , shortly after the meeting . They were able " to so quickly forget that a year ago they were screaming for this "  --  that is , for some alternative to Japanese suppliers . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be happy . " Just close your eyes and blindly go on . " Kenneth Flamm , then a semiconductor expert at the Brookings Institution and now a Pentagon official in the Clinton Administration , said in the same article that the U.S. Memories failure " goes to prove Akio Morita 's contention that U.S. business has a ten-minute time horizon . " With a longer perspective , those who argued for a U.S. consortium said , computer companies would realize how deeply they were threatened by reliance on foreign suppliers . If , for instance , Compaq was selling laptop computers in competition with Toshiba , but both of them relied on Toshiba chips and screens from Sharp , then in the long run Compaq would lose . At about the time U.S. Memories failed , Ingolf Ruge , a German technology expert , said , The goal of the Japanese ... is a world monopoly on chips . They have even announced this publicly , and they are acting with this in mind . About a year ago , all Japanese manufacturers suddenly cut back on production , shooting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies like Nixdorf a major German computer maker tens of millions of Deutschmarks . DEBILITATING DEPENDENCE Through the early 1990s American politicians would often threaten to deny the American market to foreign manufacturers as a way of getting what the United States wanted . Since America was by far the world 's biggest importer , this was sometimes a plausible threat . In 1992 Japan , for instance , sent 28 percent of all its exports to the United States , its largest customer , and only six percent to its second largest customer , Hong Kong . But the threat was less plausible than many Americans believed , because in many areas Japanese companies were the only known suppliers . The American market for fax machines was large , but there were no domestic manufacturers . In 1991 the U.S. Office of Technology Assessment issued a report on international competition in high-tech manufacturing . It concluded that for a number of steps in the semiconductor-making process Japanese companies were the only suppliers . No American companies had the machinery or technical know-how to compete . Also in 1991 one Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iran . Some federal agencies proposed punishing the company by refusing to buy its products . The main resistance came from the Pentagon : the American military realized that it could not develop several projects it had under way if the company were barred from selling in the United States . During the brief war against Iraq the U.S. military grumbled about the difficulty of getting supplies and crucial parts from Japanese industries ; the Japanese government , after all , was much less enthusiastic about the war than the American government was . The most celebrated American weapons used during that war , including the Patriot missiles that intercepted some of the Iraqi SCUDS , all relied for their operation on a kind of ceramic chip packaging that no American company produced in significant quantities . Several years earlier the National Security Agency , which is in charge of intercepting , processing , encoding , and decoding millions of messages a year , took the extraordinary step of setting out to build its own **27;28;TOOLONG facility . It went to this extreme to avoid having to buy foreign-manufactured semiconductors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ catastrophic viruslike hostile programming . Despite its determination to avoid relying on foreign sources the NSA found that it could not . For certain kinds of **27;57;TOOLONG equipment it had no alternative but to buy from suppliers in Japan . The NSA was asked what it would do when its foreign-made machines needed servicing , as they inevitably would . Would it allow service representatives from the parent company to come to its supersecret premises and work on the machines ? A government official involved in buying the machines smiled ruefully , according to another U.S. government official who witnessed the exchange , and replied , " Oh , we 'd never risk having a foreign citizen enter the facility . If we ca n't fix it ourselves , we 'll just throw that piece of equipment out and purchase a new one , even if it means several million dollars for replacement instead of several hundred dollars for repair . " Just before the Gulf War the Defense Intelligence Agency circulated a highly classified and controversial draft report about the American military 's growing dependence on Japanese high-tech equipment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how it could exploit the military 's dependence to gain additional leverage over the United States . In 1990 Andrew Grove , one of the founders of Intel , gave a speech contrasting the Japanese and American semiconductor industries . Among the most striking differences , he said , was how much denser and deeper the Japanese network of suppliers was . One Japanese company had decided to get into the DRAM business and was up and operating within about a year . For immediate service it could call on suppliers of machinery and components located in Japan . " At one point , " Grove said , " there were twelve hundred vendor employees "  --  that is , representatives of companies making the components and machinery  --  " swarming all over the location where this company 's first factory was being built . " He added , " We could n't do this in the United States for love or money . There are no twelve hundred vendor employees and there are no dozens of relevant suppliers . " By the early 1990s American semiconductor and computer companies were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken on a strange new fatalistic tone . In many cases they were not even asking for a better opportunity to sell to Japanese customers , or to sell in competition with Japanese firms in other markets around the world . Rather , they were complaining because they were having trouble buying the best chip-making equipment from Japanese suppliers . In the fall of 1991 a report from the General Accounting Office said that a third of the American companies it surveyed had had problems buying up-to-date components from Japanese suppliers , even though the components were already for sale within Japan . Among the crucial components were flat display screens for laptop computers and the most modern versions of " steppers " for producing semiconductors . One company said that the delays had cost it $1.4 billion in sales , and another said the problems in getting display screens had put it " essentially out of business . " William Spencer , the president of an American chip-making consortium called Sematech , was asked early last year which kind of silicon wafers U.S. manufacturers would be using in the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . " It depends on what Japan , and to a degree Germany , will sell us . We no longer have sufficient silicon sources of our own , so what we can make depends on what they will sell us . " At about the same time , several American newspapers carried the news that Intel , clearly the giant of Silicon Valley , had nearly perfected a technology called " flash memory , " which could revolutionize the electronics business yet again . Because normal computer chips do not store information when the power is off , computers require bulky storage devices , especially hard-disk drives . Flash memory retains its contents when the machine is turned off , so it could eventually eliminate disk drives . Perhaps more important , it could add enormous amounts of memory to small devices not normally thought of as computers , from toys to compact-disc players to organizers like the popular Sharp Wizard series . This looked like a comeback for the American industry  --  and it was so reported in a euphoric story in The Washington Post , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Post story appeared , Jacob Schlesinger , of The Wall Street Journal , presented the same news in a very different light . Intel had come up with the technology  --  based , for once , on an invention that originated in Japan . But Intel could not make the chips . Even Intel  --  touted throughout the American press last year as the classic high-tech success  --  lacked both the money and the manufacturing capacity . It would rely on Sharp to do the actual production work . " The Intel-Sharp pact shows growing American dependence on Japan , even when the U.S. has the technological edge , " the Journal story concluded . From Intel 's point of view the alliance with Sharp would help avoid another peril . The most valuable customers for flash-memory chips would be consumer-electronics companies  --  the ones that made TVs , VCRs , computer games . Those companies were mainly based in Japan . Everything in Intel 's experience indicated that if it did not form a partnership with a Japanese company it would eventually be frozen out of this new market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December of 1990 , the Nomura Research Institute , which is connected to one of the world 's largest stock-brokerage houses , Nomura Securities , of Tokyo , released its survey of the semiconductor and computer industries . Anyone who has tried to talk delicately around an unpleasant truth ( " Well , I 'm sure Johnny is trying his best in math " ) could recognize the tone of this document . For instance , " The widely held view is that the declining market share indicates loss of American competitiveness , but we believe this is not necessarily the case . " The report sympathetically but firmly stated that American firms simply could not compete in the future . As the memory capacity of DRAMS increased , management of the manufacturing process and the capability to make massive capital investments became the major determinants of competitiveness , and since Japanese companies were stronger than U.S. companies in both respects , their share of the world market expanded rapidly ... A second trend is that the U.S. will fade as a growth market . And so on . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominance , " which came from " weeding out of weaker companies unable to keep up with heavy capital expenditure , " the report said . " In the technology-intensive computer and semiconductor industries , the basic trend since the start of the 1980s  --  market share gains by Japanese companies , market share losses by American companies  --  will likely continue in the 1990s . " Whenever American firms started to show weakness , the report said , they usually went on to collapse . " The U.S. market is hard on losers . Companies that have reached the limits of growth rarely have a chance to come back . " Large Japanese firms , in contrast , simply did not go bankrupt , and were able to buffer losses in one division with earnings from another . The Nomura report  --  which was intended for domestic Japanese consumption rather than for inspection by Americans  --  included a nightmare version of a Horatio Alger story . It concerned a young , talented , and ambitious American software engineer known as Mr. A. He starts with a big high-tech company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is acquired in a hostile takeover and Mr. A is laid off  --  a fate that would not befall his counterpart in Japan . He moves to a fast-growing company but is laid off again when business slows down . He joins yet another company but , hardened by his experience , resolves to " keep the knowledge and skills he was acquiring to himself as a means of ensuring his job security . " After five years with this firm Mr. A considers jumping ship and starting his own firm , with the help of venture capitalists . The Nomura report drew these lessons : Mr. A 's experiences in the status-and class-conscious culture of the American company suggest why the United States is so imbued with an entrepreneurial spirit , yet why American industry is so sloppy when it comes to factory productivity and quality control . " CULTURAL " EXPLANATIONS How can we explain what happened to the American semiconductor industry ? The familiar reasons for industrial failure  --  greedy bosses , pigheaded unions , rampant short-termism , overregulation by the meddlesome state  --  do n't seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1980s most Japanese high-tech industries thrived . Japanese commentators and politicians are quick to see the " unique " traits of the Japanese people as the explanation for almost any phenomenon in Japan . Therefore Japanese discussions of the semiconductor industry have stressed " harmonious " working patterns , attention to detail , and related Japanese characteristics that supposedly make it natural for Japanese companies to excel . At a Hitachi semiconductor factory on the island of Kyushu , in 1986 , I walked through fabrication areas that looked very much like their counterparts in Texas and California . The hardware and the procedures seemed so similar . Why were Hitachi and other Japanese manufacturers doing so much better ? " The starting level of production is not so different here from in America , " the manager who was escorting me said  --  in English , since he had studied for a while in the United States . He paused , and indicated thoughtfulness with the distinctive Japanese gesture of " teeth-sucking . " ( This involves opening the mouth , putting the bottom teeth against the upper lip , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its body-language message is " Whew ! I need to think about this far a minute . " ) When he recovered , he said , " The starting level is similar  --  but ours improves much more rapidly than in America . There is a difference of culture . It is often said that we Japanese are united as a single people , or even race . In the U.S. there are so many people with different backgrounds and religions and races , it is harder to work together in harmony  --  unless you are all Swedes in Wisconsin . " Americans themselves have , in their time , fallen back on ethnic theories to explain success or failure . But ethnicity and race are no longer part of any respectable discussion of business trends . Instead the emphasis is on the ultimate justice of the market . We all assume that the efficient companies will survive and the inefficient will fail . Governments can try to tamper with this law of nature , by offering subsidies or shielding producers from foreign competition . But in the short run these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices , and in the long run they will weaken the nation 's producers , by delaying the moment when old industries are cleared away so that new ones can rise . In the late 1980s this view was summed up in a grim comment made by a Republican official during a meeting about American semiconductor makers . Sometimes the words have been attributed to Richard Darman , the director of the Office of Management and Budget , and sometimes to Michael Boskin , the chair of the Council of Economic Advisers . Sometimes they have been attributed to someone else . Each of the supposed speakers denies uttering the sentence , but the underlying argument , if not the specific wording , accurately reflects a position all of them have held for years : " If our guys ca n't hack it , then let " em go . " This vision of " creative destruction , " in the famous words of Joseph Schumpeter , is indispensable as a guide to most economic activity . But it ca n't quite explain the semiconductor case . All the familiar variants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument apply to certain parts of the American economy , but they do n't tell us what went on in Silicon Valley . Consider several elements of the standard analysis . The first and most familiar part is that American management has simply forgotten why it is in business . Too many companies are run by financiers , not engineers or production experts . The executives have feathered their own nests , ignored and mistreated their workers , been too lazy to learn what it takes to please German or Japanese customers , and in general failed to do their best . A second , related explanation is that American products have become shoddy and backward  --  and a nation that still excels in basic science has forgotten how put its inventions to commercial use . The most popular Japanese products of the 1980s were typically hatched in American labs . The United States is following the unwholesome trail blazed by the English , who by the 1930s were famed for having brilliant tinkerer-inventors but an increasingly feeble manufacturing base . Before and during the Second World War , British scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technology . Yet the high-volume production was done in America , where the huge wartime investment in radar provided a foundation for the postwar American electronics industry . The third standard belief is that American managers have been ruinously focused on the short term . Given a choice between spending $10 million for new equipment that will pay off in five years and using the money to boost earnings next quarter , they have too often pumped up the earnings , because their own pay is tied to results right now . All these failings are serious , and one or more of them may seem to explain what has gone wrong when we examine American businesses that are failing . But they were n't failings of the semiconductor industry in 1980 , when it was on the verge of its precipitous decline . By the rules that American politicians and journalists use to explain success or failure , there was no obvious reason why the industry should have been eclipsed so fast  --  indeed , relatively much faster than any of the " bad " old industries like steel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two decades after its basic product was invented and barely one decade after its most rapid growth . It is as if other industries in which the United States now considers itself dominant  --  movies and music , pharmaceuticals , university education , software  --  were on the skids by the end of the nineties . A Saturn plant for GM , a mini-mill for steel makers , a radical new program of teaching Japanese or German in the schools  --  all these might be necessary for ginning up the economy . But on the evidence of what happened to Silicon Valley , perhaps those things would not be sufficient . Maybe our understanding of competition is not sufficient either . DIFFERENT GOVERNMENTS , DIFFERENT SYSTEMS Peter Drucker , the business strategist , in his 1989 book The New Realities gave one view of how Japan had changed the competitive landscape . The emergence of new non-Western trading countries  --  foremost the Japanese  --  creates what I would call adversarial trade .... Competitive trade aims at creating a customer . Adversarial trade aims at dominating an industry .... Adversarial trade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .... The aim in adversarial trade ... is to drive the competitor out of the market altogether rather than to let it survive . Most American commentators have offered narrower explanations for competitive shifts . For example , Michael Porter , of the Harvard Business School , claims several times in his lengthy 1990 book The Competitive Advantage of Nations that Japanese chip makers succeeded mainly because they were quicker-moving than their American competitors . They made the crucial switch from one form of chip technology to another ( from " bipolar " to " metal oxide " ) faster than the Americans  --  and this switch , Porter says , " catapulted the Japanese to industry leadership . " But this explanation only raises further questions . Why , exactly , would American businesses have been slower to switch from one kind of chip to another , especially when in the preceding decade they had seen more clearly than anyone else the importance of moving fast ? Was it simply that they were complacent and satisfied , like the barons of Detroit or Pittsburgh in their dominant days ? That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Silicon Valley in those days was full of exhortations to stay alert , to adapt or die , to keep moving ahead . Had they forgotten that there were competitors overseas ? Did they dismiss them , the way auto makers had dismissed the tinny , laughable cars from Japan ? Hardly . Even in 1980 Silicon Valley rang with analyses of the " Asian challenge . " Individual firms in America may have made strategic errors , and individual firms in Japan may have been persistent and skillful and shrewd . But something else was going on that shaped the actions of these firms , and its effects sometimes dwarfed what any one firm could do . Something was going on that did not often show up in the speeches and the editorials about quality control and foreign-language training and good morale on the factory floor . That something involved factors left out of standard discussions of " improving competitiveness . " One of these missing factors was government . On its way up and on its way down , the semiconductor industry was driven not just by private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came up with every new design  --  but by a network of government-business interactions . The role of the government is often considered an embarrassing afterthought in American or British discussions of how economies should work . Yet in America , as in every other country that spawned a semiconductor industry , government incentives and pressures shaped the way the industry grew . All around the world the design , production , and marketing of chips were carried out by private firms . It was these firms  --  America 's Intel and Japan 's Toshiba , Korea 's Samsung and France 's Thomson  --  that journalists and politicians mainly discussed . But each firm took the shape it did largely because of policies imposed by its government . Last year the Semiconductor Industry Association published a history of the industry , which says that the industry 's growth since the 1950s can be divided into five stages . The first four are these : 1 ) The pioneering American efforts in the 1950s and 1960s to develop transistors and integrated circuits , and to learn to make them efficiently and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field in the 1960s and subsequent rapid catch-up with American producers in the 1970s and 1980s. 3 ) The effort of European manufacturers , principally Philips , of Holland , and Siemens , of Germany , to survive in the business in the 1980s , despite the American technical lead and the Japanese competitive surge . 4 ) The emergence of other East Asian producers , especially those in Korea , to challenge the Japanese in the late 1980s . Every one of these steps , the history says , depended fundamentally on government policies . Using the emphasis of italics the authors wrote , Government policies have shaped the course of international competition in miroelectronics virtually from the inception of the industry , producing outcomes completely different than would have occurred through the operation of the market alone . The SIA authors are not , of course , purely detached historians ; their organization has lobbied for the U.S. government to respond more aggressively to Japan 's industrial policy for semiconductors . And the SIA can offer evidence to substantiate its view of events . Let 's consider the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world in semiconductor technology thanks to their own efforts , expenditures , and ingenuity  --  but also thanks to U.S. government support . The government did not directly finance the crucial research that led to integrated circuits , but the companies making these investments understood that if the products were successful , the Department of Defense and NASA would be standing in line as customers . For instance , in 1962 NASA announced that it would use integrated circuits  --  the first simple chips , produced by Texas Instruments , Fairchild Semiconductor , and other suppliers  --  in the computer systems that would guide Apollo spacecraft to the moon , and the Air Force decided to buy ICs to guide its Minuteman missiles . Every history of the semiconductor business regards these contracts as a turning point ; they guaranteed a big and relatively long-term market , which no private purchaser could have offered at the time . The early government purchases let manufacturers increase their volume of production . As volume went up , price went down , and commercial customers began buying more and more chips . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had the same effect : it gave the companies a reason to invest in new products and new factories . The Defense Department played another crucial role . Government contracts had paid for some of the research that led to patents . In those cases the Defense Department required the companies , in effect , to share the patents with the American industry as a whole . Sharing with foreign producers was at this time moot , sine there were virtually none ; moreover , the Defense Department could use national security as a justification for excluding foreign-owned companies . By normal market logic , a company would have no incentive to share its discoveries for nothing . But the government insisted that such discoveries be treated as a public good . This naturally made it easier for small companies , which became the hallmark of Silicon Valley , to find niches and go to work . The U.S. government did not run a single semiconductor factory , and no doubt would have failed if it had tried . But it provided conditions that could not otherwise have existed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thereby got the industry off the ground . The government has never directly operated farms either  --  and if it had , it would have been less efficient than the sturdy , self-disciplined folk who settled the American heartland . Yet many of the farmers received their land through government land grants ; the territory was originally mapped by government ( often Army ) cartographers ; new seeds were continually developed by the government 's agricultural experiment stations . The government did not directly make airplanes , even during the Second World War , and if it had , they would not have been as good as those made by Boeing or Lockheed or what was then known as Douglas Aircraft ( and is now McDonnell Douglas ) . But , even more than with semiconductors , the government provided the initial market  --  directly , through the War Department , and indirectly , through air-mail contracts that got fledgling airlines going . Americans still talk about " government interference " and " industrial policy " as if they faced a choice between grim , Soviet-style central planning and entrepreneurs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lively and entrepreneurial an American industry as semiconductors reflects a mixture of visible and invisible hands . * Japanese ascendancy . The role of government in the rise of the Japanese industry is more familiar and is taken for granted . Without heavy government involvement , Japan 's semiconductor industry would not exist . In the beginning , during the decade or two or three after the Second World War , non-Japanese firms had difficulty exporting to Japan , were virtually forbidden to invest in Japan , and were forced to license their advanced technology to Japanese producers at fees set by the Japanese government if they hoped to do business in Japan at all . These aspects of Japanese policy had long-lasting consequences  --  in the 1960s and 1970s foreign suppliers could not build up the relationships with customers in Japan which , they now know , are essential for doing business there  --  and the rules established by the Japanese government had nothing to do with enhancing free-market competition as an end in itself . Market forces were tools : Sony and Matsushita and NEC and Toshiba competed against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goal  --  building an industry in Japan run by Japanese people  --  was decided on and carried out by the government . Why does this matter ? Because it is so much at odds with the prevailing American idea about why industries rise and fall . Michael Porter says that Japanese semiconductor makers succeeded because of the fierce " internal competition " in Japan . This is a favorite theme in analyses of Japanese success : because Japanese companies had to try so hard to stay alive at home , they were naturally better prepared for competition overseas . Yes , competition inside Japan is intense . But is that what made IBM and Texas Instruments decide to license Japanese patents ? A leading trade economist , Gary Saxonhouse , says that the postwar Japanese emphasis on high-value manufacturing is a " natural " part of Japan 's high literacy rate and " factor endowment . " With a lot of people and with not much space , the Japanese naturally tend to produce sophisticated , valuable products . In isolation this may sound logical enough . But it does n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry in 1970 , when it was already crowded and the people were already well educated , to holding the lead in 1990  --  why the foreign share of its market remained constant through the eighties , no matter what ups and downs were occurring in technology and market position and corporate strength elsewhere in the world . " If our guys ca n't hack it "  --  this is a natural reflection of everything we have been taught about industrial development . But a more realistic view is the conclusion of one authoritative history of the industry , Competing for Control , by Michael Borrus . " State policy would not have succeeded without the efforts , investments , and strategies of Japanese industry , " it says . " But the industry would almost certainly have failed without the state . " * Phases three and four of the industry 's growth , according to the SIA account , were European survival and the appearance of the new East Asian entrants . In each case , as with the U.S. and Japanese examples , government policy made a decisive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The French government , in an effort to promote a domestic high-tech industry , subsidized the installation of Minitels , computer terminals for looking up phone numbers and other simple functions , in most homes . The Korean case is less familiar to the Western public but even more overt . Chun Doo Hwan , who took power after the previous strongman was kicked out in a coup , believed in state-run industrialization . In the mid-1980s his advisers persuaded him , in the words of a magazine report , that " the only way to crack the world semiconductor market would be to orchestrate a massive development project involving every important Korean company in the business . " By the end of the decade analysts from the World Bank  --  which is committed to the proposition that state guidance usually fails  --  concluded about Korea that " there is no doubt that the government has sought explicitly to encourage the development of high-tech industries like computers and semiconductors by designating them " strategic industries " entitled to certain preferential treatment . " That is , the growth and survival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " hacking it " or fostering competition , or having good schools  --  although each of these ingredients has played a part . In fact the evidence seems to run exactly the other way . Every country that has waited for the industry to develop " naturally , " through the flux and play of market forces , is waiting still . Canada is as populous and as committed to education as some countries that now make semiconductors . It had as much natural advantage for the semiconductor industry in 1980 as Korea did  --  indeed , much more , since it was richer , better educated , and closer to major markets and research centers in the United States . Hong Kong ten years ago had as much natural inclination for making semiconductors as Singapore  --  it was just as crowded , just as much influenced by Confucian culture . The governments of Korea and Singapore deliberately cultivated the industry ; the governments of Canada and Hong Kong did not . Korea and Singapore now have a semiconductor industry ; Canada and Hong Kong do not . Governments may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to make winners . WHEN GOVERNMENT INTERFERES And there was a fifth stage in the modem semiconductor industry . The authors of the industry study called it " U.S. revival . " " Recovery " or " respite " might be a more appropriate term . Starting in the late 1980s some parts of the U.S.-based industry flickered back to life . The graph lines showing worldwide market share for American-made chips dropped steadily through the late 1970s and the early 1980s  --  and then , around 1988 , ticked slightly up again . Graphs for each specific kind of chip  --  processors , memory chips , ASICs  --  all showed similar changes at about the same time . What happened ? Was the main factor the fall in the dollar 's value , which made American chips cheaper for buyers around the world ? Probably not  --  there had been very little correlation between currency changes and worldwide market share before 1988 . ( That is , when the dollar went up , American market share went down . When the dollar went down , American market share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dramatic improvement in American education ? Hah . Was it because the companies themselves tried harder in the late eighties than they had in the golden age of the early eighties ? Perhaps . The kings of the American industry , Intel and Motorola , kept racing each other with new designs and improved manufacturing processes . The industry in general , like the American auto makers it had once scorned , put new emphasis on quality and service . But something else happened at about this time : the U.S. government intervened  --  " interfered , " if you prefer  --  in the workings of the market to protect American manufacturers . In 1986 the United States and Japan signed the Semiconductor Trade Arrangement , which was renewed and modified in 1991 . The results of these negotiations differed from most trade agreements in that they did not attempt to remove barriers or create a level playing field in the Japanese market . The agreement was , in effect , a quota bill , paying less attention to the rules of competition in Japan than to the result . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the end of 1991 U.S. companies would supply 20 percent of the semiconductors bought in Japan . At the time this agreement was signed , U.S. companies accounted for less than 10 percent of the Japanese market  --  and about 65 percent of the market in the rest of the world . ( The deadline for reaching 20 percent was later extended to 1992 . ) The Japanese government hotly denied that this " expectation " was any kind of enforceable promise . When talking to American politicians and reporters Japanese government officials often claimed , doing their best to keep a straight face , that setting a market-share target would mean government interference with private enterprise . Surely the Americans did n't want that ! Yet Japanese press reports made clear that the government was behaving internally as if it believed it had to meet the target of 20 percent . MITI was twisting the arms of big Japanese industries , encouraging them to design in foreign chips when they planned new products . In 1987 the U.S. government also decided to support Sematech , the chip-making consortium . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in research areas too risky or expensive for any of them to undertake independently . The government offered research contracts and subsidies to defray research costs . The cost to the federal government was $100 million a year , which was matched by contributions from the industry . And in the wake of all this government " interference " the fortunes of the American semiconductor industry finally improved . The American share of the Japanese market had remained flat , at about 10 percent , through the years when it was supposedly determined by pure market forces . It began rising , into the teens , in the late 1980s , and it neared 20 percent late in 1992 , just as the Semiconductor Trade Arrangement had specified . CAPITALISM AND PLAIN CAPITAL What happened in Silicon Valley says something about exactly where our standard economic theories may mislead us . Beneath all the ups and downs of high-tech competition , one difference between the Japanese and American industries matters more than anything else . The Japanese companies had more money . They could build newer and bigger factories , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in price wars , because they had bigger war chests with which to cover losses . They could retain their work forces , because in recessions they did not have to lay employees off . They could invest in ten potentially promising technologies at once ( and fail at nine of them ) , because their R &D; budgets allowed more room to experiment . According to the deepest assumptions of capitalism , governments can never outguess the market about where money should go . All that governments can  --  and should  --  do is make sure the necessary signals flow . Signals come in the form of prices ; therefore the paramount goal is to " get prices right . " After that everything should work on its own . This vision of capitalism is like the American vision of democracy . The government has no right to define what a good society may be . All it can do is set the rules by which people express their views , exercise their rights , and cast their votes . According to American theory , if the system is fair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is with the business system : if competition is on a level playing field , if new competitors can enter the game , if customers can choose freely and fairly among the offerings , then whatever happens will be for the best . The right amount of money will be available for investment and the right number of new ideas will pop up for putting the money to use . By this logic the semiconductor industry in 1980 was structured about as well as any industry could be . It was fluidity and frictionlessness exemplified . The chip-making merchant firms of the valley acted as much like the " economic men " of academic theory as real human beings ever will . In the textbooks , economic man goes through life calculating the costs and benefits of different decisions  --  and is not swayed by irrational or sentimental concepts , including " Buy American " ( or , for that matter , " Buy Japanese " or " Buy French " ) . The economic men who ran companies in Silicon Valley had every reason to sell equipment to whoever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of the buyers might in the long run become their competitors . In the early 1980s Silicon Valley companies raced one another to get more customers , to remove cost and waste from their operations , to increase their production runs . Every one of these steps drove prices down , down , down . The more intense the competition , the lower the prices  --  and the lower the prices , the thinner the profit margin . In the search for higher profits firms were forced to innovate once again . If the American approach boiled down to getting prices right , the Japanese approach boiled down to getting enough money  --  not worrying about theoretical efficiency , not being concerned about the best rules for competition , but focusing only on getting the nation 's money into the hands of its big manufacturing firms . If companies could get more money than their competitors , they would eventually prevail , no matter how " fair " the competition might be . This was a view of capitalism that depended on capital . It did not concentrate on rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as quickly as possible . It was a means of catching up , and it worked . What was most mysterious about this approach , from the Western perspective , was that it seemed to be divorced from normal calculations of profitability . American semiconductor officials , when preparing a dumping complaint against their Japanese rivals , found in 1985 a portion of a Hitachi sales presentation that emphasized the " win at any cost " spirit . It said , Quote 10% Below Competition If they requote ... Bid 10% under again The bidding stops when Hitachi wins ... Win with the 10% rule ... Find AMD and Intel sockets ... Quote 10% below their price ... If they requote , Go 10% again Do n't quit until you win . ANOTHER WORLD When the American industry was doing everything right according to American economic theory , it began to collapse . When European , Japanese , and Korean producers broke all the rules of American " market rationality , " they started to pull ahead . The very existence of the American industry could not be explained by natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its partial recovery in the late 1980s . Every one of these trends reflected not just market forces , not just the dead hand of the state , but some interaction between the two that is usually missing from the public debate . You do n't have to care about semiconductors , or really even about economics , to be intrigued by this tension . A well-established set of theories , which undergirds our national policy and runs through nearly every speech and editorial about America 's economic health , can not explain what has happened in a major industry in the real world . Academic economists have offered nuances and refinements of the theories which more closely fit the facts of the semiconductor case . For example , they emphasize that the " externalities " of a high-tech industry can make it sensible for governments to subsidize the industry 's growth . Strong semiconductor and aircraft industries generate high-wage jobs and make it easier to attract other high-value industries in the future ; therefore governments may be sensible in offering subsidies , even though the simplest version of economic theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invisible hand . But very few of these refinements make their way into the public debate , where we 're usually presented with the stark choice between free markets and state control . We can resolve this tension by disregarding the evidence  --  as most of us do when concentrating on consumer products like cars and TVs rather than semiconductor chips as the symbol of trade problems . We can invent exceptions and special clauses to account for the variation  --  much as the Ptolemaic astronomers did when they tried to fit the motion of the planets into their theory that the sun revolved around the earth . Or  --  we can look again at our basic ideas . <p>                     