@@409311

Northern Kenya is a land of extremes , with wind-blasted volcanic wastes in the lowlands and lush tropical forests on isolated mountains . The territory is divided among several tribes that vigilantly defend their domains . The Gabbra pastoralists , who number about 35,000 , cluster around the cracked , salt-encrusted mud flats of the Chalbi Desert and along the eastern shore of Lake Turkana . Because rainfall is sporadic and localized , water sources and vegetation are scattered and unpredictable . ( Oases near the lake often provide fresh water , but the jade-colored lake itself is bitter with accumulated salts . ) The Gabbra must move periodically , often splitting up their camps to take advantage of nature 's meager offerings . The keys to the Gabbra 's survival are mobility , hard work , and cooperation . During their lives , married men go through various life stages , becoming at different times " political elders " and then " ritual elders . " Along with those chosen for specific leadership roles , these elders control Gabbra life and also provide moral guidance . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and goats by species , age , and whether or not they are giving milk . Milk is the traditional staple , followed by meat and then blood , but the Gabbra now commonly buy cornmeal through the sale of small livestock . They keep milk-giving animals at the main settlements ( ola ) and , to avoid overgrazing , send the dry ones and most males off to distant locations . Because of the danger of raiding by other tribes , young warriors usually run the satellite camps , called fora . The zones separating enemy tribes are sparsely inhabited . One of the insecure zones is around Koobi Fora , paleontologist Richard Leakey 's research site . In 1971 , while I was there on my first trip to northern Kenya , a raiding party of a neighboring nomadic group , the Dassenech , came across the border from Ethiopia , sending the Gabbra running and scaring the wits out of the researchers and camp crew . The Dassenech had guns ; the Gabbra did n't . In a few hours , the Gabbra can pack a settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camels and be on their way to an area where rain has fallen . The household effects are simple : aluminum cooking pots ; wooden and woven fiber containers for storing milk , meat , and fat ; bed poles and sleeping skins ; and various ritual sticks that symbolize status ( for a young man , a married man , a father , a married woman , an elder , and so on ) . Between 6:30 and 11:30 one morning , I observed four women in an area called Bubissa pack up their four families ' skin tents , along with their pole frameworks and assorted contents , and load them onto the backs of groaning camels . The four households then set off on camels across the stony plains to go to Maikona , a two-day walk . A settlement may move up to ten times a year , depending on grazing conditions and security . The Gabbra define four seasons , according to temperature and rainfall . Although conditions vary from year to year , generally the long , heavy rains come between late March and early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to September . Short rains arrive in October and last until early December , when the hot dry season sets in . During the dry periods , the Gabbra tend to live in small settlements grouped around permanent water sources , while in wetter times they occupy larger , more widely scattered settlements . When water becomes available in rain pools , for example , the otherwise dry Huri Hills become a favored pasture area . Three times a year , as many family members as possible , together with their livestock , gather at the ola for a sorio , a ceremony to bless the community and the livestock and to pray for rain and fertility . Camels make up the bulk of the tribe 's holdings , and without them the Gabbra could not live where they do . As beasts of burden , camels enable the Gabbra to move the ola rapidly to find fresh pasture after a cloudburst . Camels also transport water to the settlement , permitting an ola to be situated in good pasture as much as thirty miles from water . The Gabbra prefer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible . In dry lands , camels provide much more milk than cattle do , lactating on average for at least a year after bearing a calf . A good camel can give more than two and a half gallons of milk a day during the rainy season and two to five quarts during the dry season . In contrast , a typical cow lactates only seven to nine months , giving two quarts of milk a day when pasture is lush and just a pint a day  --  and eventually none at all  --  during the dry times . Camels also do less damage to the environment than other livestock . Their soft feet do not scuff up topsoil , causing it to blow or wash away , as hoofs do ; and they feed on various types of vegetation , particularly leaves , so that the land does not lose the soil-conserving grass . Owing to the camel 's relatively varied diet , its milk is higher in vitamin C and certain other nutrients than cattle milk . Despite their sense of separate identity , the Gabbra are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Arriving in the region in the late nineteenth century , mainly from Ethiopia and from farther east in Kenya , they took the land they now occupy from the Rendille and Samburu , who were squeezed to the south . They have since defended their territory successfully against invasions by the Turkana , who live west of Lake Turkana , and the Masai , who once occupied much of central and southern Kenya . The Gabbra retain a reputation as fierce warriors . In greeting and prayer , however , they often use the word nagaya  --  " peace "  --  a cultural trait they share with Semitic peoples of western Asia , who are members of the same Afro-Asiatic language family . They particularly abhor strife within the tribe . I once witnessed two children , a boy and a girl , get into a fight . The boy hit the girl on the head with a rock and knocked her down . While I was treating her wound with antiseptic , several adults ran around seemingly in a panic . By the time I had finished and calmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceremony on the spot . They recited prayers and sacrificed a sheep offered by the boy 's parents . I received a goatskin bracelet made from the sacrificed animal , signifying welcome and peace . Water is critical for survival in the desert , but the Gabbra carefully avoid fighting among themselves over access to the few wells and water holes . At the height of the dry season , hundreds of thirsty camels , cattle , sheep , and goats may bellow for water and kick up clouds of dust around a well as their herders struggle to keep them at bay and await their allotted turn . The " father of dividing , " selected by the political elders ( and almost always one himself ) , schedules each herd by species and ownership . He must be a man of fairness and iron will . A chain of six or eight men position themselves in the well on dug-out ledges , projecting rocks in the wall , or scaffolding and pass the traditional giraffeskin containers up and down . The wells are often called " singing wells " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draw the water up by hand from a depth of as much as fifty feet . The animals drink from a trough of molded mud , which needs constant repair from the damage caused by their jostling . One of the biggest problems the Gabbra face is fulfilling labor needs . Averaging the wet-and dry-season regimes , researchers have calculated that nine people must work nine hours a day , every day , to mind one family herd and take care of the various household chores . To find the necessary labor , the Gabbra draw on a network of kinship and other social ties to look after the subdivided herds at the ola and the outlying camel , cattle , and small livestock camps . In doing censuses , I learned that many more people are attached to a household than mom , dad , and the kids . For example , Wario Guyo , his wife , Shanu , and their young daughter slept in their house , while Wario 's two nephews and an unmarried brother-in-law slept behind a thorn-branch windbreak out by the camel corral . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not allowed by tradition to sleep in the ola , lived to the west in the shade of an acacia tree . These additional household members each had a different herd of Wario 's to care for and were paid in kind by food and stock offspring . Away from the ola , which was located on the eastern margin of the Chalbi Desert , two of Wario 's sons looked after a fora near Lake Turkana , and the third was in school at Mount Marsabit , about sixty miles away . To discover how many animals people owned , I had to unravel various types of loans and ownership arrangements . One young married man , Dub Boru , explained that most of his animals still belonged to his father , and that he had received them as an advance on his inheritance . He also had three camels and several sheep and goats that his abuya , a special uncle , had given him on important occasions , such as his circumcision . Dub also managed several milk camels obtained on loan . In exchange for taking care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their offspring , but had to give all subsequent generations of animals to the owner . Counting all the animals at Dub 's ola and out at the fora , I estimated that he controlled at least eight lactating camels , two lactating cows , ten other adult camels , seven camel calves , four other cattle , and about sixty sheep and goats ( small livestock reproduce quickly and are often sold or slaughtered , so exact figures are hard to come by ) . These animals provided food for six adults and adolescents and eight children . Dub also exchanged animals . When his second child was born , for example . he traded one of his transport camels for a lactating cowl and when he needed money for cloth for his wife and school fees for a sister 's son , he traded a heifer camel for ten goats , which he then sold . ( Gabbra do not sell camels directly for money , for they fear this would bring misfortune . ) Even with these maneuverings , Dub 's animals were n't always sufficient to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So he pooled his herd with that of his brother-in-law , who was in a similar situation . The combined herds provided a more reliable source of milk . The right of personal ownership does not , in the Gabbra 's view , permit a man to monopolize more animals than he and his dependents need for survival . Through loans and gifts , excess animals are redistributed to the needy , allowing the whole community to survive . The secular authority of political elders and the moral authority of ritual elders insure that these mechanisms of social cooperation are respected . One old man , Guracha Galgallo , is famous for owning about one thousand camels and many cattle and small livestock . Yet he dresses as all other Gabbra do , lives in the same style house , and eats the same food as the poorest Gabbra ( although probably more regularly ) . Most of his animals are out on loan to those who have need of milk or transport or a bull for mating . His reward is respect . The redistribution of livestock maximizes their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a real surplus of animals , more than needed to meet the food requirements for the community as a whole ( a rare occurrence ) , they are sacrificed and consumed at special ceremonial occasions to thank Waqa , the supreme being . As a result , the burden placed on the fragile environment is kept to a minimum . In contrast , many cattle pastoralists with more restricted systems of redistribution accumulate great numbers of animals . While their herds serve as insurance against drought and other calamities , they can cause serious land degradation . Because food is usually in short supply , the Gabbra store little , although they have the technology to do so . For example , milk is soured and made into a kind of yogurt that lasts for weeks . And pieces of meat , stored with fat in small woven or wooden containers , can keep for more than a year . With food resources fluctuating from season to season and year to year , a group must manage enough animals to survive the worst conditions . To get by , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including six to eight that are lactating , or the equivalent in other cattle . Unfortunately , in 1991 drought and an undiagnosed camel disease reduced the herds below this level . When the Gabbra and other northern Kenya pastoralists experienced hard times in the past , they always managed to endure . But now they are receiving food relief , and foreign relief agencies and other Westerners are exerting great influence on them . Because of the scarcity of livestock  --  and deteriorating security due to the troubles in Somalia and Ethiopia  --  raiding has also become much more frequent . Some Gabbra have moved to refugee camps to escape armed bandits . If the neighboring countries regain political stability , and if the rains return , the Gabbra 's traditional life should improve . But the last time I visited Gabbra country , I was not encouraged . Outsiders  --  famine relief workers , development-aid workers , missionaries , teachers , and government officers  --  are telling the Gabbra that they are backward and primitive . They are urging some to move to settlements on nearby Mount Marsabit and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ethiopian immigrants , mission-settled refugees , southern Kenyan traders and administrators , and others who are encroaching on a " protected " national park forest . Most Gabbra I know are horrified at the thought of taking up cultivation . One man , a ritual elder named Elema Arbu , told me that becoming a farmer was equivalent to becoming an outcast . " Without livestock , how can I provide bride price for my sons ? How can I pay my stock debts ? How can I make sorio and other sacrifices ? How can I give the stock gifts at my nephews ' circumcisions ? Without herds , how can I hold my head up ? " <p>                     