@@394009

For some time I have been asking myself whether there is a single rubric under which it might be possible to summarize the message of the present pontificate . I have thought about the Pope 's concern for the inner unity of the Catholic Church , the new evangelization , the dialogue between faith and culture , and reconstruction of the economic order . All these themes are clearly important to John Paul II , but no one of them permeates his teaching as a whole . In seeking a more comprehensive theme , I have hit upon the idea of prophetic humanism . In the case of this Pope , as in the case of any other , it is difficult to ascertain which of his statements are actually composed by himself and which are simply accepted by him after having been drafted by others . I have no inside information to help me in this discernment . My method will be to rely principally on books and articles that he published under the name of Karol Wojtyla before he became Pope , and then inspect documents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in substance . Several of his encyclicals are so personal in tone that it seems safe to attribute them to himself , even though he presumably had assistants in the final process of editing . Most of his major documents are amply furnished with footnotes that he would scarcely have had time to compose . 1 . THE CONCEPT OF PROPHETIC HUMANISM . The concept of prophetic humanism requires some explanation . Any humanism must be a system of thought centered on the human person . The Pope himself generally uses the term " man , " which , at least in Latin , has no reference to gender . In quoting or paraphrasing his statements I shall sometimes use the English word " man " to mean an individual member of the human race . Near-synonyms such as " person " are not always satisfactory , given the Pope 's understanding of personalization . Humanism , moreover , implies a high esteem for the human as having intrinsic value . As we shall see , the defense of the dignity of the human person and the promotion of human rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This program may be called prophetic for several reasons . A prophet is someone who speaks out of a strong conviction and with a sense of vocation . John Paul II evidently sees himself and the church as divinely commissioned to be advocates of authentic humanity . The prophet speaks with a certain sense of urgency . Karol Wojtyla , even when he writes as a philosopher , is never the detached academic . He is conscious of speaking to a world that is in the throes of a crisis  --  a crisis of dehumanization . Like most prophets , he senses that he is faced with enormous opposition and that his is perhaps a lonely voice . He is not afraid to confront others in his struggle to salvage human dignity . Yet the Pope is no pessimist . He is convinced that in the face of human needs God has provided an answer in Christ , who came that we might have life to the full . He sees the Gospel as a message of hope , love and truth , not for Christians or Catholics alone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believes , has an essential contribution to make to the task of making the world more human . He repeatedly quotes from Vatican II the statement that the church is called to be a sign and safeguard of the transcendence of the human person ( " Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World , " No. 76 ) . The central and unifying task of the church , for John Paul II , is to rediscover and promote the inviolable dignity of every human person . " Man , " as he puts it in his first encyclical , is the way of the church  --  " man in the full truth of his existence , of his personal being and also of his community and social being " ( Redemptor Hominis 1979 , No. 14 ) . The church 's mission must therefore be carried out with a view to humanity , and for that very reason with a view to God . Following Christ , who is both God and man , the church must link anthropocentrism and theocentrism in a deep and organic way ( Dives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HUMAN DIGNITY . The first point is to consider the Pope 's understanding of what it means to be human . Especially in his major philosophical work , The Acting Person ( 1969 , revised 1977 , English version 1979 ) , he develops an original anthropology that owes something to classical Thomism and something to modern personalist phenomenology , especially as represented by Max Scheler ( 1874-1928 ) . He is also conscious of points of contact with the philosophy of action of Maurice Blondel ( d. 1949 ) . In place of the Cartesian cogito ( " I think " ) , which begins with the thinking subject , John Paul prefers to begin with action . " I act , therefore I am , " might fairly characterize his starting point . Through action , he maintains , one can come to know the real character of the human being as a free , creative , responsible subject . By my free actions , he asserts , I make myself what I am . Although John Paul 's focus is initially on man as subject , his analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free and intelligent beings we are called to make decisions , and for these decisions to be meaningful they must conform to the truth . The root of human dignity consists in the capacity to transcend mere self-interest and embrace what is objectively true and good . One element in this objective order is the existence of other human beings with the same essential dignity as my own . With an explicit reference to Kant , Wojtyla declares that human beings must always be treated as ends , never as mere means . He frequently quotes from Vatican n the statement that , alone among all creatures on earth , man exists for his own sake For Wojtyla the ethical dimension is determinative for the value of all human action . When I act according to truth , I fulfill the deepest dynamism of my being and become good . When I do not act according to the truth , I do not fulfill myself and I become bad . In his philosophical works Wojtyla does not explain very clearly how a person intuits the truth . As George Hunston Williams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the conditions are for coming to the truth " ( The Mind of John Paul II , 1981 ) . Williams hints that the operative ethics behind Wojtyla 's proposal come from Christian revelation and Catholic tradition , and I suspect he is correct . Speaking prophetically , the Pope formulates his doctrine of freedom in opposition to a merely negative concept , according to which freedom would consist in not being coerced or not being obligated by law . Already at Vatican II Bishop Wojtyla had pleaded successfully for amendments to the " Declaration on Religious Freedom " to specify that freedom is not a mere entitlement to do whatever one pleases . During his first visit as Pope to the United States in 1979 , he warned that the concept of freedom should not be used as a pretext for moral anarchy , as though it could justify conduct that violates the moral order . Freedom , he insisted , is not an end in itself . It is a capacity to fulfill one 's deepest aspirations by choosing the true and the good . In this connection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The truth shall make you free " ( Jn. 8:32 ) . When freedom is rightly understood , moral norms do not appear as a limitation . Truth is the guide to meaningful action , action in accordance with conscience . We can , of course , disobey the voice of conscience and act against the truth as we perceive it . Violations of conscience do not bring about self-fulfillment ; they result in anti-values and frustration . The very ability to commit sin testifies in favor of the dignity of the person . Because we have the capacity freely to embrace the good , we also have the power to reject it . " To erase the notion of sin , " says the Pope , " would be to impoverish man in a fundamental part of his experience of his humanity " ( ' Be Not Afraid ! ' ' : Andre " Frossard in Conversation with Pope John Paul II , 1984 ) . The loss of the sense of sin , which seems to be an affliction of our time , is evidence of the failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth and goodness . Thus far , we have been looking at human dignity from a philosophical point of view , without reference to revelation , which confirms and enhances human dignity . As a theologian , John Paul II draws initially on the creation narratives of Genesis . Man , he holds , was created to the image and likeness of God and destined to have dominion over the rest of creation ( Gen. 1:26-28 ) . But the full meaning of human life can not be grasped except in the light of Christ , who , in revealing God , reveals humanity to itself ( Redemptor Hominis , Nos. 8-9 ) . There is no more impressive evidence for the value that God sets upon the human than God 's gift of His own Son as the price of our redemption ( No. 20 ) . Every human being is intended by God to be redeemed and to come through Christ to final self-realization . Some philosophers , influenced by Feuerbach and his school , have contended that God must die in order for man to attain his full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( The Drama of Atheist Humanism ) , argues just the contrary . The world must be reminded , he says , that while men and women can organize the world without God , without God it will always in the last analysis be organized against humanity . In denying the transcendent source and goal of our being , we would deprive man of the source of his true dignity ( Centesimus Annus 1991 , No. 13 ) . Without God as creator there would be no inviolable human rights . Without Christ as saviour , human hope would no longer extend to everlasting union with the divine . In this connection John Paul II quotes from Augustine the famous sentence , " You have made us for yourself , O Lord , and our hearts can not find rest until they rest in you " ( Confessions , 1 . 1 ) . 3 . HUMAN EXISTENCE AS COMMUNAL . Against excessive individualism John Paul II insists that human existence is essentially communal . He writes : " Man 's resemblance to God finds its basis , as it were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Man resembles God not only because of the spiritual nature of his immortal soul but also by reason of his social nature , if by this we understand that he " can not fully realize himself except in an act of pure self-giving ' ' " ( Sources of Renewal , 1981 ) . The Pope then goes on to explain that human beings are intended to exist not only side by side , but in mutuality , for the sake of one another . The Latin term communio indicates the reciprocal giving and receiving that goes on within this relationship . Human community is realized on many different levels , from the family to the state and the international community . Vatican II , in its " Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World , " had four separate chapters dealing with family , culture , economy and political community . On each of these levels conscience obliges us to transcend the narrow limits of our own self-enhancement and to contribute to the good of others . In a small unit such as the family , the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in larger groups the primary objective is the well-being of the group as such . As distinct from the " I-thou " community , the " we " - society comprises a group who exist and act together for the sake , primarily , of the common good . 4 . THE FAMILY . The family , according to John Paul II , is the basic cell of society and for that reason the primary locus of humanization ( Christifideles Laici 1988 , No. 40 ) . The Pope 's doctrine of the family , adumbrated in his early work Love and Responsibility ( 1960 ) , is amplified in several documents from his papacy . He sees the family in a state of crisis , especially because of the reigning consumerist mentality that leads to false concepts concerning freedom and sexual fulfillment ( Familiaris Consortio 1981 , Nos. 6 , 32 ) . He draws on the traditional Catholic teaching regarding conjugal morality , divorce and remarriage in order to protect the family as a stable community of generous love . Sexuality , he asserts , is realized in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the loving communion by which a man and a woman commit themselves to one another until death . The sexual relationship between married persons should always promote human dignity . The unitive meaning of marriage can not be separated from the procreative . The deliberate exclusion of procreation , according to the Pope , is detrimental to the unitive relationship between the couple . Although Christian preachers have often proclaimed that wives should be subject to their husbands , John Paul II goes to some pains to point out that the domination of the husband is a sign and effect of original sin . In the Christian order there should be an equality of mutual service between wives and husbands ( Mulieris Dignitatem 1988 , No. 10 ) . In this connection the Pope sets forth a doctrine of women 's rights based on the complementarity and communion between male and female . 5 . THE ORDER OF CULTURE . Culture has been a major concern of John Paul II from his early days , when he developed his talents for music , poetry and drama . Between 1977 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture . In 1982 , when establishing the Pontifical Council for Culture , he wrote in a letter to Cardinal Agostino Casaroli : " Since the beginning of my pontificate I have considered the church 's dialogue with the cultures of our time to be a vital area , one in which the destiny of the world at the end of the 20th century is at stake . " The Pope 's theory of culture is thoroughly humanistic . " Man lives a really human life thanks to a culture " ( address to UNESCO , Paris , 1980 ) . Man is the subject of culture , its object and its term . Culture is of man , since no other being has culture ; it is from man , since man creates it ; and it is for man , since its prime purpose is human advancement . Everyone lives according to some culture , which determines the mode of one 's existence . Culture , as a human achievement , involves our capacity for self-creation , which in turn radiates into the world of products . Culture is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time a spiritualization of matter . It thus serves to render our world more human . We should not imagine that every culture , just because it is a culture , is above criticism . John Paul speaks of a dialogue between faith and culture . Like everything human , culture needs to be healed , ennobled and perfected through Christ and the Gospel ( Redemptoris Missio 1991 , No. 54 ) . Because culture is a human creation , it is also marked by sin . The church must prophetically oppose what the Pope , at his visit to Denver last August , called " the culture of death . " On another occasion ( 1984 ) he said : " More than ever , in fact , man is seriously threatened by anti-culture which reveals itself , among other ways , in growing violence , murderous confrontations , exploitation of instincts and selfish interests . " In technologically advanced societies , people tend to value everything in terms of production and consumption , so that man is reduced to an epiphenomenon . Authentic culture , on the contrary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object . " It signifies the march towards a world where man can achieve his humanity in the transcendence proper to him , which calls him to truth , goodness and beauty . " One aspect of the contemporary crisis of culture is the crisis in education . To an alarming degree education has become focused on having rather than being . All too often it turns people into instruments of the economic or political system . In the alienated society , education is in danger of becoming a form of manipulation ( UNESCO Address , 1980 ) . The term " alienation , " which the Pope borrows from Marxist literature , is central to his social philosophy . For him it is the opposite of participation . In the good society all the members contribute to the common good and share in its benefits . Alienation arises when the society does not serve the dynamism of its own members , but unfolds at their expense , so that they , or some of them , feel cut off . The neighbor becomes the stranger , even the enemy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and alienation , which are the key to John Paul II 's theory of culture and education , are also central to his economic analysis . While he does not purport to give lessons in economics , he insists that any sound economy must accept the primacy of the human person and the common good as guiding principles . His teaching on this subject is set forth in three important encyclicals . In the first of these , Laborem Exercens ( 1981 ) , he concentrates on the theological meaning of work , as a fulfillment of the biblical mandate to subdue the earth ( Gen. 1:28 ) . He protests against systems in which man is treated as an instrument of production rather than as the effective subject of work . By transforming nature , says the Pope , man can achieve greater fulfillment as a human being . All too often labor is regarded as a mere means to the production of capital and property , to the detriment of workers themselves . As a champion of human dignity , the church has a duty to speak out in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encyclical on economics , Sollicitudo Rei Socialis ( 1987 ) , John Paul II recognizes personal economic initiative as a fundamental human right , stemming from the image of the Creator in every human being . Does not the denial of the right to take initiatives in economic matters , he asks , " impoverish the human person as much as , or more than , the deprivation of material goods ? " ( No. 15 ) . Drawing , no doubt , on his experience behind the Iron Curtain , he castigates systems in which citizens are reduced to passivity , dependence and submission to the bureaucratic apparatus . He likewise criticizes consumerist societies in which things take priority over persons . " To " have " objects and goods , " he writes , " does not in itself perfect the human subject unless it contributes to the maturing and enrichment of that subject 's " being , " that is to say , unless it contributes to the realization of the human vocation as such " ( No. 28 ) . In Centesimus Annus ( 1991 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of the same themes . He points out that while the natural fruitfulness of the earth was once the primary source of wealth , today the principal resource is rather the initiative and skill of human persons . He defends private property , profit and the free market as against the socialist alternatives . At the same time he cautions against consumerism , " in which people are ensnared in a web of false and superficial gratifications rather than being helped to experience their personhood in an authentic and concrete way " ( No. 41 ) . He speaks at some length of the alienation that can arise in capitalist as well as in socialist societies . From the beginning of his pontificate , the present Pope has shown a constant concern for the environment . Unlike some creationists , he bases this concern less on the inherent goodness of nature than on what is genuinely good for humanity . In Redemptor Hominis ( 1979 ) he noted that the power of humanity to subdue the earth seems to be turning against humanity itself . Many seem to see no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and consumption . Such exploitation , however , instead of making our life on earth more human , carries with it the threat of an " environmental holocaust " ( No. 15 ) . At the root of our senseless destruction of the natural environment , he observes , lies a prevalent anthropological error , further described in Centesimus Annus . We are often driven by a desire to possess things rather than respect their God-given purpose . We lack the disinterested attitude , born of wonder , that would enable us to find in nature the message of the invisible God . We also violate our obligations toward future generations . 7 . THE POLITICAL ORDER . The thinking of John Paul II about politics and the state is closely intertwined with his reflections about culture and economics . Emphasizing the human dimension , he consistently speaks of the personalist values of participation , dialogue and solidarity . The common good , he maintains , is threatened on the one hand by selfish individualism and on the other hand by totalitarian systems that trample on the rights of the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself by power upon the whole of society . The enormous increase of social awareness in our day requires that the citizens be allowed to participate in the political life of the community ( Redemptor Hominis , No. 17 ) . The Pope accordingly praises the democratic system " inasmuch as it ensures the participation of citizens in making political choices , guarantees to the governed the possibility both of electing and of holding accountable those who govern them and of replacing them through peaceful means when appropriate " ( Centesimus Annus , No. 46 ) . Yet even his endorsement of democracy contains a warning against certain popular misunderstandings . Too often our contemporaries assume that agnosticism and skeptical relativism are the philosophy and basic attitude that best correspond to democratic forms of political life . John Paul II replies that , on the contrary , a democracy without objective values and ethical responsibility can easily turn into open or thinly disguised totalitarianism . The rights of the human person must be acknowledged as inviolable . The Pope has repeatedly praised the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that was adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the United Nations in 1979 he enumerated , among the human rights that are universally recognized , " the right to life , liberty and security of person ; the right to food , clothing , housing , sufficient health care , rest and leisure ; the right to freedom of expression , education and culture ; the right to freedom of thought , conscience and religion . " This list ( too long to be repeated here ) ended with the " right to political participation and the right to participate in the in free choice of the political system of the people to which one belongs . " In speaking of human rights , the Pope frequently alludes to the evils of abortion and euthanasia , which he regards as scandalous violations of human dignity ( address to the United Nations , 1979 ) . All these declarations of human rights are abstract . The Pope clearly recognizes that philosophical and theological principles can not be automatically translated into positive law or judicial practice . The talents of statesmen and jurists are needed to determine the extent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to education or free expression  --  can be implemented in a given situation . 8 . THE CHURCH . Thus far , we have been speaking of essentially natural societies , whose existence does not rest on the Gospel and on faith . In dealing with them , John Paul II speaks primarily as a philosopher . As a theologian and teacher of the people of God , he extends his theory of personal action , participation and community into the order of revealed truth , where it becomes the basis of an ecclesiology . John Paul II 's ecclesiology is not a simple corollary from his general doctrine of society . The church has a unique status and mission . In a memorable phrase he calls it " the social subject of responsibility for divine truth " ( Redemptor Hominis , No. 19 ) . The Gospel , he reminds us , does not spring spontaneously from any cultural soil . It always has to be transmitted by apostolic dialogue , because it comes to the church through the apostles . The message is that of Christ , who declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but is from the Father who sent me " ( Jn. 14:24 ) . The idea of the Gospel as a word coming down from above might appear to conflict with the view that the human vocation is to active self-realization . John Paul II is aware of this difficulty , and he replies that God 's redeeming action in Christ comes to meet the deepest longings of the human heart for truth , freedom , life and community . The gift of divine adoption enables us to fulfill our deepest identity in a surpassing manner . The church as communion is the locus of this personal and communal participation in the divine . It reflects and shares in the trinitarian communion of the divine persons among themselves . Thanks to the presence of the Holy Spirit in the hearts and minds of the faithful , the people of God experience a unique awareness of their divine adoption . " The Christian bears witness to Christ not " from outside " but on the basis of participation " ( Sources of Renewal , 1981 ) . The entire people of God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priest and king ( Christifideles Laici , No. 14 ) . Each individual member is called to share in the life-giving mystery of redemption , to make a perfect gift of self and thereby to achieve definitive self-realization . For it is always in giving that one finds one 's true self . The members of the church share in the threefold office of Christ in differentiated ways . All the ministries , whether hierarchical or charismatic , serve to build up the one community in unity . The Holy Spirit gives the church a corporate " sense of the faithful " to discern the meaning of God 's word . This " supernatual sense of the faith , " however , is not a matter of majority opinion . It is a consensus achieved through the collaboration of the various orders in the church . In this process " pastors must promote the sense of the faith in all the faithful , examine and authoritatively judge the genuineness of its expressions , and educate the faithful in an ever more mature evangelical discernment " ( Familiaris Consortio , No. 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church is reiterated by John Paul II . Instituted by Christ , the episcopal order , together with the pope as successor of Peter , has an irreplaceable responsibility for assuring the unity of the church in the truth of the Gospel ( Sources of Renewal , 1981 ) . Like charismatic gifts , hierarchical office is essentially a service toward the community . Its whole task is to build up the community of the people of God . The Pope warns against a laicism that denies the proper role of the hierarchy . The contrary error is clericalism , which arises either when the clergy usurp the competence of the laity or when the laity shirk their responsibilities and throw them on the clergy . In his Christology and ecclesiology , John Paul II frequently appeals to the category of prophetic testimony . Jesus Christ , he says , is the great prophet , the one who proclaims divine truth . The church and all its members are called to share in His prophetic mission . The transmission of the sacred heritage of saving truth can be an extremely demanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ papal curia , Cardinal Wojtyla chose as his title Sign of Contradiction ( Crossroad , 1979 ) . After describing the burdensome vocation of ancient prophets such as Jeremiah , he went on to say that the church and the pope himself are often called to be signs of contradiction in our day . Secular society exerts heavy pressures on the church and its hierarchy to relax moral norms and permit unbridled self-indulgence . The then cardinal 's answer was typically firm : " In recent years there has been a striking increase in contradiction , whether one thinks of the organized opposition mounted by the anti-Gospel lobby or of the opposition that springs up in apparently Christian and " humanistic " circles linked with certain Christian traditions . One has only to recall the contestation of the encyclical Humanae Vitae , or that provoked by the latest declaration by the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith , Personae Humanae . These examples are enough to bring home the fact that we are in the front line in a lively battle for the dignity of man .... It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of all pastors to fight on the side of man , often against men themselves ! " In an important speech on Catholic universities , John Paul II made a special appeal to them to be a " critical and prophetic voice " in confronting the increasingly secularized society of our day . It would be a mistake , he says , for such universities to attenuate or disguise their Catholic character . They must take full cognizance of their responsibility to affirm a truth that does not flatter but is absolutely necessary to safeguard the dignity of the human person ( see John Paul II 's apostolic constitution on Catholic higher education , Ex Corde Ecclesiae 1990 , No. 32 ) . In the end , therefore , authentic humanism is compelled , for the sake of its own integrity , to become prophetic . Conscious that the dignity of the person rests both upon freedom of conscience and upon a transcendent order of truth most perfectly revealed in Christ , the faithful Christian must protest against dehumanizing forces , whether collectivistic or individualistic , whether absolutistic or relativistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christ , must be against the world for the world . By courageously taking up this task , John Paul II has made himself , in my estimation , the leading prophet of authentic humanism in the world today . Avery Dulles , S.J. , is Laurence J. McGinley Professor of Theology at Fordham University , Bronx , N.Y . This article is adapted from the McGinley Lecture delivered there Sept. 28 . <p>                     