@@397585

It seems as though every week , new studies on breast cancer are released . In the past few years , the influx of information on breast cancer has made it difficult to determine what 's pertinent and what 's not , even for the most knowledgeable researchers , who are trying to piece together the puzzle . Someday , they hope to discover the hows and whys of breast cancer , which this year alone will strike 180,200 women in America . Experts agree that a few factors will affect your risk for breast cancer . For example , women who begin to menstruate at a later age ( menarche ) and enter menopause at an eartier age have a lower risk of getting breast cancer . Likewise , women who have their first child before age 30 and breastfeed for as long as possible also are less likely to get it . On the other hand , the risks are greater among women who have a strong family history of breast or ovarian cancer , have a positive BRCA1 test ( the presence of the breast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from postmenopausal obesity , says Susan Love , M.D. , author of Dr. Susan Loves Hormone Book ( Random House , 1997 ) . But here 's some good news . According to the American Cancer Society , overall mortality rates from breast cancer dropped by 6 percent from 1989-93 , the last date for which statistics are available . This drop occurred only in white women , though ; the incidence of breast cancer in black women increased by 2.6 percent . Raging Hormones Some researchers now believe that breast cancer is caused , in part , by the amount of estrogen to which modern women are exposed through their monthly cycles , artificial hormones and other lifestyle factors such as exercise and obesity . " No one knows the exact effect of estrogen or progesterone in breast tissue , " says Love . " The current theory is that estrogen is a promoter of cancer , that it causes cells to divide and grow . " Breast cancer was much less common among our ancestors , who spent much of their lives either pregnant or breastfeeding , both of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the New England Journal of Medicine seems to confirm the estrogen-cancer link . The study showed that older women with the strongest bones , perhaps the result of a good lifetime supply of estrogen , also ran the greatest risk of developing breast cancer . ( Estrogen plays an important role in strengthening bones and , thus , helping prevent osteoporosis . ) Photograph Photograph // How do hormones aid in the development of breast cancer ? Malcolm Pike , Ph.D. , chairman of the Department of Preventive Medicine at the University of Southern California , explains that every month , a woman 's ovaries produce both estrogen and progesterone . These hormones then send a message to the cells that line the breast-milk ducts , signaling them to divide and multiply in preparation for pregnancy and breastfeeding . " This process , in itself , does n't cause mutations , " says Love , " but if there are mutations caused by other carcinogens , it will propagate them by causing cell division . " In other words , the cells that are dividing are vulnerable to harm , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While recent studies indicate that birth-control pills ( a combination of estrogen and progesterone ) do not increase the risk of breast cancer , the jury 's still out on postmenopausal hormone therapy . In 1995 , the Nurses ' Health Study showed that women between 60 and 64 who took hormones for at least five years after menopause increased their risk of getting breast cancer by 71 percent . But other studies do not support the correlation between breast cancer and estrogen replacement . Only one week after the Nurses ' Health Study results were published , a study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association found no increased risk of breast cancer from taking estrogen alone or a combination of estrogen and progesterone . Does Reducing Estrogen Levels Help ? Malcolm Pike and his USC colleagues Darcy Spicer , M.D. , and John Daniels , M.D. , believe they may have a solution to the estrogen debate . They 're working on a contraceptive regime that theoretically would prevent breast cancer by shutting down the ovaries and drastically reducing the levels of estrogen and progesterone in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells to divide . Birthcontrol pills on the market now also prevent ovulation by making your body think it 's pregnant , but because of the moderate levels of estrogen and progesterone , they still encourage cell division . Here 's how Pike , Spicer and Daniels ' solution , dubbed " Pike 's Pill , " would work : Every day ( with time off for childbirth ) , women would take a pill of the ovary-regulating , gonadotropin-releasing hormone , which would shut down the ovaries . The ovaries would n't release an egg or produce estrogen and progesterone , which means the breast cells would receive no message to divide . In addition , women would take .625 milligrams of estrogen daily and progesterone every three to four months to induce menstruation . In a study of 21 women , Pike and his colleagues found a considerable reduction in the mammographic density of the subjects ' breasts ( considered a risk factor for cancer ) after just a year on the regime . By Pike 's estimate , women who stay on the regimen for 10 years could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they could cut it by 75 percent . But it will be five to 10 years before Pike 's Pill hits the market , if ever . The experimental regime has yet to undergo large-scale clinical trials and the rigorous approval process of the Food and Drug Administration . And Pike 's Pill has its critics , too . " We have no idea about its safety in the long term , " says Love . " All of the artificial hormones we keep pumping into women , from birth-control pills through fertility drugs and now postmenopausal hormones , are bound to get us into trouble . I think we 'd be better off using lifestyle approaches , like exercise . " Detection and Prevention The American Cancer Society recommends women ages 40-49 get a mammogram every year , and the National Cancer Institute advises every one or two years . This is based primarily on Scandinavian studies showing that breast-cancer mortality in women who began screening in their 40s dropped by about 17 percent after 10 years . The recommendation remains shrouded in controversy because some researchers ca n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their 40s . ( For more on the controversy , see " Breast Test " on page 12 . ) But many researchers do seem to agree with a recent study conducted in Norway showing that regular exercise can reduce the risk of breast cancer in premenopausal women . Conducted on 25,000 pre- and postmenopausal Norwegian women and published in May in the New England Journal of Medicine , the study found that women who exercised at least four hours a week had a 37 percent lower risk of developing breast cancer than sedentary women . The more exercise the women reported , the less their risk of cancer . " This gives us greater confidence that we are correct in our theory that exercise reduces the risk of breast cancer in premenopausal women , " says Leslie Bernstein , Ph.D. , a professor in the Department of Preventive Medicine at the University of Southern California and author of a study on breast cancer and exercise similar to the Norwegian one . Bernstein says a number of questions still need to be answered about the positive relationship between exercise and cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of more than 10,000 women ( a third of whom are black ) as part of the Women 's CARE ( Contraceptive and Reproductive Experiences ) study , to understand how exercise affects production of estrogen during women 's cycles , the results of which will be available in two years . Meanwhile , although several new studies have failed to show conclusively the connection between a high-fat diet ( which researchers believe raises estrogen levels ) and increased risks for breast cancer , a new Canadian study has shown that a low-fat , high carbohydrate diet may lower at least one risk factor : breast density . The two-year study of 817 women , conducted by Norman F. Boyd , M.D. , an epidemiologist at the Ontario Cancer Treatment and Research Foundation in Toronto , found that when women adopted a low-fat ( an average 21 percent calories from fat and 1,700 calories ) , high-carbohydrate diet , they reduced the density of their breasts by an average of 6.1 percent , compared with a control group whose diet consisted of 32 percent fat and 1,800 calories and whose breast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially when examined in the context of large populations , is considered a risk factor for developing breast cancer . " We do n't know what the long-term effects of this change might be , but over five or 10 years , if this decrease in density continues , the change could be quite dramatic , " says Boyd , whose study is part of the larger Canadian Diet and Breast Cancer Prevention Study Group , which studies the connection between diet and breast cancer . In a nutshell , several current theories point to a link between estrogen levels and breast cancer . If exercise and diet reduce estrogen levels , they could play an essential role in reducing the risk for breast cancer . <p>                     