@@409089

Climate modelers have been cautiously predicting that the earth will gradually warm in the years ahead , producing similarly gradual changes in climatic patterns . For instance , the middle of North America will slowly grow arid . Comforted by the concept of gradual change , most economists confidently predict that market economic systems will readily adjust and that no precautionary action by government to forestall climate change will be required . A few scientists claim that there is no threat at all of global warming . But are either of these predictions likely to come true ? If not , what more realistic scenario can we consider ? In the summer of 1993 , nature 's lessons on the consequences of human impact on climate systems became insistently harsher . A stalled high-pressure system over the eastern United States brought torrential rains and flooding to the Midwest , while the southeast suffered from heat and drought . Crop losses in both areas were enormous , and other economic losses were far larger  --  not to mention the loss of many lives . Climatic aberrations elsewhere around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nepal , Bangladesh , and India . Why did the high-pressure system stall in the American East ? Climatologists ' best guess is that warming sea-surface temperature led to changes in ocean currents , which led to a changed direction of the jet stream , which stalled the high-pressure zone , which led to flooding and drought , which led to huge societal disruption and loss . This unpredicted set of events has made many people doubt that science , technology , and markets can ensure a good and secure future . VULNERABILITIES OF MODERN SOCIETY Three unspoken premises underlie the overall vulnerability of our society . These are the premise of continuity , the premise that nature can be controlled , and the premise of first-order consequences . The premise of continuity holds that patterns characteristic of physical and social systems in the past will continue into the future . Economic thinking abhors uncertainty about the future . If people do not have some confidence that the future will basically be like the past , investors will not invest , lenders will not lend , and people will not start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be realized in an aura of uncertainty . Confidence that climatic patterns will be much as they were in the past is the most fundamental of all premises of continuity . If climate behavior leads economic actors to doubt that planetary systems will behave as they have in the past , economic activity is bound to decline . The second premise holds that nature can be controlled , and it arises from the seeming success of science and technology in controlling nature . For example , people built huge and lengthy levees along the Mississippi River believing they could confine it to its normal banks . Farms , businesses , homes , and even cities were built in the flood plain under the illusion that they were secure . When unexpectedly high waters arrived , these human intrusions on nature were doubly vulnerable , bringing loss of life and devastating property losses when the levees were breached . Recent experiences with weather-induced disasters suggests that people will rebuild in these vulnerable locations , rationalizing that the disaster was only an aberration and that the climate will return to its " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible , first-order consequences of our actions are all that we need to consider in making decisions  --  is another mindset that makes us vulnerable . When parents decide to have another child , they think almost exclusively of the impact it will have on their own lives in the near future . Only rarely do people consider second- , third- , and fourth-order consequences , such as the impact another human would have on natural systems . The same could also be said about decisions to use energy , consume resources , or dispose of wastes , all of which have distant consequences . Yet , the patterns of global life systems are being changed by the cumulative consequences of these individual decisions , a phenomenon sometimes called " the tyranny of small decisions . " Other phenomena of modern thinking lead us to ignore long-term consequences and blind us to our own best interests . The " cult of the individual " places extraordinary emphasis on the rights of the individual , which encourages persons to pursue wealth and freedom at the expense of the larger society and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for himself " may also be related to a feeling of anomie , the perception that social , economic , and political problems are so huge and intractable that no effective course of action is available . Individual action is perceived as having little or no effect , and group action is seen as too overwhelmingly difficult . Yet , there is no escaping the first law of thermodynamics , which tells us that everything has to go somewhere . Everything is connected to everything else . We can never do merely one thing ; we must constantly keep asking , " And then what ? " CHANGE IS IN THE WIND Societal vulnerabilities are rooted in our way of thinking . Yet , collectively , we are unable to critically evaluate the validity of these beliefs . Many criticisms of these premises have been inserted into public discourse , but it seems that most people are n't listening . It is probable , then , that global society will not undertake effective collective action to prevent any further distress of global life systems . Instead , we must expect that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its present rate of growth , it will double in 40 to 50 years . This pressure will force people to build dwellings and cities in vulnerable places . Reacting to the pressure for meaningful employment and the consumption of goods by their growing populations , governments will force higher and higher levels of economic throughput , thus accelerating production of greenhouse gases . Higher throughput will also produce greater amounts of industrial and consumer wastes that will injure the planet 's life systems . At the very time when more and more people will look to life systems for sustenance , their actions will reduce the productive capability of these systems and their ability to absorb wastes . As this scenario plays out , it is improbable that the climate system will not change at all or that it will gradually change to a new pattern and settle down , as is assumed in most current economic thinking . The most-probable climate scenario is for even more chaos . Many meteorologists and climatologists already perceive the climate system as chaotic . If humans increasingly perturb that system , we could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chaotic will it become , what kinds of chaos might we expect , and how long will it last ? No one knows the answers to those questions . From chaos theory , we do suspect that systems which become extremely chaotic may collapse or shift to a new pattern  --  one that may or may not be stable . The climatic catastrophes of recent years do suggest one possible scenario of climate behavior . Frequent , unexpected climatic disasters may be interspersed into " normal " climate patterns . The resulting loss of life and property could reduce the human propensity to multiply and to increase economic throughput . Experiencing these losses may lead people to lose faith in the premise of continuity . This will retard economic growth despite the desperate efforts of governments to promote it . Another scenario suggests that there could be an extended period , perhaps a decade or two , when there is oscillation-type chaos in the climate system . Plants will be especially vulnerable to oscillating chaos , since they are injured or die when climate is too hot or too cold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food for all other creatures , plant dieback would lead to severe declines in agricultural production . Farm animals and wildlife would die in large numbers . Many humans also would starve . Several years of climatic oscillation could kill billions of people . The loss of the premise of continuity would also precipitate collapse of world financial markets . That collapse would lead to sharp declines in commodity markets , world trade , factory output , retail sales , research and development , tax income for governments , and education . Such nonessential activities as tourism , travel , hotel occupancy , restaurants , entertainment , and fashion would be severely affected . Billions of unemployed people would drastically reduce their consumption , and modern society 's vaunted economic system would collapse like a house of cards . LIFE AFTER CHAOS We know from both geological and fossil records that our planet has undergone even more wrenching changes than chaos in the climate system . Unfortunately , there were no human observers to record how living systems recovered and how long it took . Thus , we can only guess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , that a chaotic episode in the climate system and its cascading set of consequences would swiftly change human behavior to relieve the pressure on living systems that had set the chaotic sequences in motion . Sharp declines in travel and industrial output would reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases , thus allowing the atmosphere to slowly recover its normal balance . The deaths of billions of humans and other animals would diminish the pressure for production and consumption of bioproducts . Reduced population and consumption , along with careful reuse and recycling , would also diminish the waste load the biosphere formerly was asked to absorb . Once these climate oscillations began to taper off and plant communities began to recover , diversity and stability would be restored . Humans will react to the chaos in a number of ways . Some will revert to religious fundamentalism . Some will be led by demagogues to hope for overly simple solutions . Let us hope that many will seek creative solutions . Experiencing chaos in the climate system would very likely stimulate astounding changes in thinking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force an unlearning of obsolete beliefs  --  an unlearning that would have been impossible to achieve in earlier times . The three-centuries-old idea of the nation before everything else would weaken drastically as people realized that their destiny was inseparable from that of planetary life systems . The belief that humans can successfully dominate and control nature would have been discarded , as would the belief that we need not limit growth in population and economic throughput . We might also expect extraordinary feats of caring and sacrifice . People will likely discover unexpected abilities to learn and make do that they could not have discovered in a society that lauds specialization . The mindsets of modern industrial society will no longer block the ability of people to see and learn lessons about nature 's ways . As people struggle to make a life despite the calamities that beset them , they are also likely to discover that their quality of life is only marginally dependent on consuming material goods . The idea that death is a necessary part of living systems could find the acceptance that is elusive in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new society that will live in a long-run , sustainable relationship with natural systems . Thought given to this task in the 1980s and 1990s by such people as Fritjof Capra , Herman Daly , Donella Meadows , Hazel Henderson , Al Gore , and others will have served as a starting point . The memory of the chaotic episode will have stirred people to a pace of learning and political agreement that would have been impossible to imagine during the late twentieth century . Now it would become possible to mount a global project to build a truly sustainable society . No one knows what social and physical problems such an effort will encounter or how long it will take to build this new society . But we should not expect the same closed minds and gridlocked institutions of the 1990s . ABOUT THE AUTHOR Lester W. Milbrath is director of the Research Program in Environment and Society at the State University of New York at Buffalo and a professor emeritus of political science and sociology . He is the founding chair of HOLIS : The Society for a Sustainable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Learning Our Way Out ( SUNY Press , 1989 ) , which is available from the Futurist Bookstore for $24.95 ( $22.45 for Society members ) , cat . no . B-1411 . His address is the Department of Sociology , State University of New York at Buffalo , Park Hall , Buffalo , New York 14260 . Telephone 716/645-2417 , extension 470 . <p>                     