@@408185

One tinder-dry afternoon this past August , a research team from the National Marine Fisheries Service pitched camp in a stand of lodgepole pine along the South Fork of the Salmon River in central Idaho . The site overlooked a stretch of water that serves as the spawning grounds for one of the few surviving populations of summer chinook in the region . Early the next morning the team would implant tiny electronic tags in several hundred juvenile fish , offspring of the previous year 's run , in hopes of gaining information about their hazardous migration to the sea . I was there to watch them work . Since my arrival , at sunset , I had been listening to a Navajo flute recording played from the far side of camp by a fisheries technician named Rich , a native of the Flathead Indian Reservation in Montana . The music was agreeable if melancholy , reminiscent of the evening plaint of a solitary bird and subdued , unobtrusive , borne in and out of earshot on an intermittent breeze . But shortly after nightfall Rich replaced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Indian Movement . He then turned the volume up . Way up . Sometimes only the vernacular will do : Rich cranked it up . For the next hour or so Rich 's co-workers and I were treated to a bedtime harangue . Against a background of repetitive drumming and chanting , the speaker declaimed a litany of cruelties European civilization had inflicted upon the aboriginal peoples of the Americas and their ancestral homelands . His voice rang through the camp like that of a wrathful woodland god , except that this god lacked poetry . He was noisy but uninspired . With few exceptions , his fire-and-brimstone sermon was a list of stone-cold cliches burdened with ponderous references to " the captors , " their infernal machines , and the fall of Babylon , and delivered in a tone-deaf manner . Imagine a Hallmark Card translation of a Bob Marley lyric recited over a bullhorn by a disgruntled tour guide . Now imagine listening to this weird rant in the middle of the forest in the middle of the night . Compounding the surrealism of the occasion was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be seen of it in the enfolding darkness . At that point in the season open fires were banned by the Forest Service , so Rich positioned a Coleman lantern on the ground instead and pondered its monotonous glow from an aluminum chair . Parked a few feet away was his aging Chevrolet Suburban , in which he kept his gear  --  cooler , propane stove , the offending tape player . Most aspects of Rich 's camp , in other words , were derived from the selfsame civilization the booming voice condemned . And that voice . It smothered every other sound in the forest  --  the pines creaking . overhead , the stream riffling through the nearby meadow , the willows shifting along its banks . Worst of all , it dispelled the astonishing silence that at night permeates such places , superimposing on this still relatively untrammeled patch of the natural world  --  immediately at hand , in fact pressing in on all sides  --  a picture of the natural world , a picture in which pristine forest is subdivided into suburban lawns and parking lots . Magritte @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for reasons all his own . Quick to laugh and self-effacing , he apologized the next day , allowing that , yes , he had gone on the warpath and , no , he could not explain what had driven him to such lunacy , unless it was the wide white moon itself . The crew welcomed the opportunity , any opportunity , to heckle their workmate , whom they obviously liked , but no one seemed to have been bothered much by his rhetorical raid on their peace of mind . No one seemed to have been won over y it either , though I wondered if some phrases were not still ringing in their ears , as they had been in mine since I first heard them . Long after Rich had turned off the AIM tape and extinguished his lantern , certain passages lingered in my mind , unbidden but insistent . Here is one of them : " We see you in your loneliness , stranded in the universe , alone from the past , alone from the future . " The object of the pronoun was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ murdered , and subjugated Rich 's ancestors  --  including , of course , me . Although the observation was not original  --  a sense of abiding ontological solitude having become commonplace in Western culture-hearing it under those circumstances , being singled out , as it were , by a resounding , disembodied voice while sitting in the dark along the remote upper reaches of an Idaho salmon stream , made it strangely poignant and disquieting . WE SEE YOU STRANDED IN THE UNIVERSE . And there I was , the only one in camp still awake , still outside his tent , looking up through the treetops at the dazzling pitch of stars that is our galaxy . Who has not gazed at the night sky , mouth slightly agape ? The experience is so common , its effects so uniform , that a standard vocabulary has evolved to describe it . Invariably we speak of the profound humility we feel before the enormity of the universe . We are as bits of dust in a spectacle whose scope beggars the imagination , whose secrets make a mockery of reason . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast expanses of space and time it is that life does not count for much in the big picture ; all chat we do and make , regardless of how noble it may seem , is little more than a " stain on silence , " to borrow the unforgettable and unforgiving phrase Samuel Beckett used to describe his own doings and makings . Confronting indifference on a cosmic scale can not help but encourage feelings of diminishment , abandonment , implacable solitude . There is every reason to believe that we , the residents of Earth , are alone in the universe , stranded in a night that looms larger and longer with each new astronomical discovery . And unlike our fellow creatures , who have yet to look up from blessed oblivion , we are acutely aware of our position ; we are insomniac and obsessional , anxiously searching the sky for signs of significance . Despite the rhetoric that surrounds stargazing  --  the wonder in beholding such grandeur  --  this singularly human enterprise is shot through with dread . Think of the huge antennae we have aimed upward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the universe , will contact us . The alternative , that evolution is a game of solitaire , is unthinkable . WE SEE YOU IN YOUR LONELINESS . Whatever else it may be , the search for extraterrestrial intelligence is a cry in the dark , revealing the terrible longing around which our cosmology revolves . These days one does not hear much about dread or longing in conversations regarding the stars . Since early in this century , when cosmology became a full-fledged science , the subjective side of stargazing has been relegated to the margins of serious thought , the suspect terrain of astrologers and aboriginal peoples who still believe in correspondences between heaven and earth . But that has led to an impasse . Judging from the success of popular books and films-Carl Sagan 's television series , Cosmos , has now been seen by more than four hundred million people in sixty countries-we still seek from cosmology what we have always sought from it , which is to say , guidance in our attempts to construct a metaphysical map of the world , at a time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by negating the agent in which they arise . Take , for example , the theories of Stephen Hawking , probably the best-known cosmologist alive today and author of the best-selling book A Brief History of Time . He says that his goal is " nothing less than a complete description of the universe we live in , " yet his history , for all its conceptual dazzle , is not only brief but woefully incomplete , even impoverished . Stripped of the fanciful asides he adds to make the tale more appealing to the nonscientist  --  traveling into a black hole is a favorite  --  it is an exceedingly abstract account of dumb matter expanding and contracting , the universe as an insensate exercise in quantum mechanics and non-euclidean geometry . Lost in the hullabaloo over Hawking 's ideas* is the fact that his cosmos is lifeless , as are those described by most of his colleagues . In the creation stories told by mainstream cosmologists such as Hawking , Steven Weinberg , and Alan Guth , organisms are accidental details of such negligible consequence that they drop from view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such stories . To my mind this is an extraordinary omission , and it will persist as long as cosmology is treated as a branch of physics . For decades physicists have served as the self-styled tour guides of the universe ; they have monopolized the bullhorn , insisting that we look upward , " out there , " whenever we wish to encounter the cosmos . But does the cosmos not begin closer to home , on this planet , among the living ! Indeed , does it not originate " in here , " in the age-old desire to orient oneself with respect to space and time ? The ancient Greeks , who invented the art of conversing ( logos ) about the order of the world ( cosmos ) , thought so . Assuming that earth and its inhabitants are of a piece with the heavens , they saw cosmology as the study of man 's place in the grand scheme of things . Contrast this with the version promoted by physicists , a brilliant intellectual edifice , to be sure , yet utterly vacant , a landmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to extremes the message voiced in the AIM tape : for solitude it substitutes nullification ; for the unnerving condition of being stranded , the absurd condition of not being present at all . THERE IS NO ONE HOME . Why listen to this weird rant ? Why sit in silence , enduring a creation story that overlooks the part of the cosmos that lies within reach of our senses  --  the part that includes life , intelligent organisms , stargazers ! Certainly one reason we allow ourselves to be taken in by the tales Hawking and his fellow cosmologists tell is the pleasure provided by mental journeys . The mind delights in its own movement , and the action is mighty thrilling in the worlds conjured up by science popularizers . It is no accident that almost every commercially successful layman 's account finds a way to transport us to places where , happily , anything is possible , including time travel , interstellar travel , and excursions through alternative realities . Never mind that , like the endless permutations of Star Trek , all of this is make-believe  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the possibility of visiting another solar system before the species expires is so exceedingly remote as to be nonexistent , that such exotic realms as black holes and universes of more than four dimensions are by definition closed to embodied life forms . Never mind , in short , that we are earthlings . We also seem prepared to applaud a creation story that overlooks life if at some point during the drama a deity is rolled onstage . Two years ago , at a press conference to announce the detection of faint fluctuations in the radiation left over from the Big Bang , astrophysicist George Smoot declared , " It 's like looking at God . " Hawking , for his part , concluded A Brief History of Time by saying that discovering why the universe exists will be equivalent to knowing " the mind of God . " Even in clear-cut cases of metaphorical extravagance  --  remember " the God particle , " the discovery of which was to have shed light on how particles acquire mass ?  --  the use of religious language in otherwise scientific discussions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe reinforces the impression that physicists enjoy privileged access to domains of ultimate importance , that they are the secular equivalent of the priest or shaman , capable of interceding between mere mortals and the beyond , with the exception that their approach holds out the promise that one day eternity will be subject to public demonstration  --  no small attraction in an age when fewer and fewer people seem willing to make the leap that faith requires . Recently this trend reached its apotheosis with the publication of The Physics of Immortality , in which Tulane University physicist Frank J. Tipler puts forward his Omega Point Theory , a mathematical model of the end of the universe that he insists proves the existence not only of God but of heaven and the resurrection of the dead as well . It is hard to say what is more pitiful here  --  the arrogance in the claim that one can reason one 's way to immortality or the silliness in the notion that any deity worthy of respect would consent to appear as the outcome of a mathematical equation . If Tipler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cosmology a little sophistry truly goes a long way-in this case , to the omega of existence and back again . No matter . However vulgar or frivolous or downright fraudulent they are , explicit theological enticements give popular accounts of cosmology something we very much want them to have . Our pantheons may be empty but our hearts are not , and in our terrible longing we are quick to fall for anything that so much as smells of divinity , even if the scent comes from a bottle and wears off by morning . But there is another , far deeper sense in which this longing operates , one that cosmology has always addressed , though in its present , highly compelling form only since the 1970s . Back then theoretical particle physicists were casting about for ways to test the idea that three of the four fundamental forces in nature ( electromagnetism and the strong and weak nuclear forces ) are manifestations of a more fundamental force . Although incomplete  --  gravity is excluded  --  the different versions of this notion are thought to be necessary steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the universe , a goal that has long been the holy grail of physics . But there was a hitch : to test such sweeping theories with particle accelerators extremely high energy levels are required , levels that have been reached only once  --  at the dawning of the universe . So physicists turned to cosmology for evidence , albeit circumstantial , that would confirm their hunches , thereby merging the search for a unified theory with the attempt to describe the universe as a whole  --  two monumental ambitions made one . The alliance is best represented today by Hawking , who explores the cosmic implications of quantum mechanics , which concerns the vanishingly small , and general relativity , which concerns the staggeringly large , in the hope of finding a single law to explain why everything is the way it is . The quest for unity long predates science , of course , having been central to the monogenetic myths of prehistoric and aboriginal peoples as well as to the monotheistic religions that followed . In the Western intellectual tradition it can be traced back to the pre-Socratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which everything is made , and to Plato , who envisaged the eide , or Eternal Ideas , of which everything in existence is but a pale and perishable reflection . Theoretical physics , then , in which the latter approaches have been employed to great effect , is a modern way of pursuing a perennial interest : the quark , the most fundamental subatomic particle discovered to date , is our version of the universal stuff whereas the yet-to-be-realized unified theory , call it the final equation , stands as the eternal template upon which all of nature 's transient multiplicity is based . But the empirical vocabulary in which discussions of the quark and the equation are couched tend to obscure the extent to which the idea of a simple , unifying order underlying all of existence is exactly that : an idea , one whose persistence reveals the force of desire as much as it points to a feature of the world . In any form , the promise of unity engages a widely held , deep-seated longing . As manifest in physical cosmology , which combines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe , it engages us in spectacular fashion . Specifically , cosmology has aligned itself with what was once the exclusive task of religion  --  transcendence , of the world at hand , the world we actually inhabit  --  because that is the only route to everlasting unity . Proving the existence of heaven is much beside the point ; physical cosmology will escort us there . How the modest device known as the scientific method could immoderate a project as transcendence may not be obvious , but all that is needed is a willingness to push the method to extremes . Scientists are required to erase themselves from the pictures they construct ; at the scene of the perfect inquiry there should be no telltale fingerprints , no tracks leading back to the inquirer . Ideal science is a text without an author . The conventional way of putting this , of course , is that scientists aspire to objectivity . They strive to produce descriptions of reality that are independent of the biases of the individual scientist  --  to reveal the world as it is in itself . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the accomplishments of twentieth-century science can deny its effectiveness . Problems arise , however , when the scientific method is considered intrinsically superior to all other ways of coming to grips with the world , because when elevated to that status the sleight of hand that makes it possible becomes a liability . And what sleight of hand is that ! Disguising the origins of the inquiry itself : pretending that it is something other than a uniquely human enterprise , that its very existence is not a manifestation of interests and values reflecting rarely examined prepossessions about the nature of truth and the nature of man . Although the whole of science is implicated in this masquerade , it is easiest to detect in physical cosmology , where the most rigorous of the so-called hard sciences is placed in the service of attempts to apprehend the universe in a single glance . Imagine : in a single glance . To do that , one would have to remove oneself from the biggest picture of all  --  to back up far enough to view the cosmos from the outside . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eye that sees everything . If truth is knowledge of the world unto itself , then to aspire to the truth of the entire universe is to aspire to nothing less than the position of God . Small wonder that the creation story told in physical cosmology exercises a powerful hold on the imagination . The usual ways the deity is invoked in contemporary territorial disputes between science and religion  --  Does she exist ? Did she have a choice in the way she set up the universe ? Is she intervening at this moment ?  --  pale alongside a god conceived as truth ; for if one can , courtesy of cosmology , achieve transcendence , this is a god a human being can hope to become . Meanwhile , awaiting blissful ascension , one can take comfort in the belief that out there a divine point of view exists . Be prepared to wait a long time , though . There is an unwritten rule that applies to those who aspire to knowledge , one that has been illustrated with shocking force by performance artist Annie Sprinkle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculum and invited audience members to take a closer look  --  at her cervix . Obviously convinced that the times call for extreme measures , she left no doubt about her message : prurient interest is a type of abstraction by which the cosmos that is a human being is reduced to a body part or a facet of behavior . Moral issues aside , the lesson is that a speculum will not help one get to know Annie Sprinkle , no more than a microscope will , or , for that matter , a superconducting supercollider . Just the opposite is true : the deeper one looks the less one sees ; the object of inquiry is lost to sight , as it is for those who would fathom the universe by laying it bare . The greater their insistence on uniformity , simplicity , permanence , the more they are compelled to ignore what lies at hand : diversity , complexity , impermanence. o gain unity they must forsake the world . Reaching for the cosmos , they capture instead the quark . The second strategy favored by physicists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Ideas , requires an equally heavy sacrifice . Assume for the sake of argument that other women have joined Sprinkle onstage but that the intent  --  to get acquainted with her  --  remains the same . Unlike his aggressive counterpart , the idealistic suitor prefers to contemplate his interest from afar , stepping back for a view that will encompass the others as well . He wants to discover the fundamental quality all women hold in common , the feminine principle , and by doing so also identify what , to his mind , is most real about Sprinkle  --  that which is timeless . But she will remain a stranger to him . In shifting his attention from the particular to the general , the theoretician alienates himself from what makes Sprinkle Sprinkle  --  her individuality , her specific history , her ambiguity and fatality , everything that distinguishes her from other women , other people , other creatures , other phenomena . Setting out to possess the world , he acquires instead an Idea of the world , the entire kingdom of existence in exchange for a meager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity produces not transcendence but estrangement . And it could not be otherwise , because wherever one stands one occupies a position inside a worldview as well as inside the cosmos , creature of a twofold creation . We can no more climb outside our own minds than we can travel to an Archimedean point beyond the edge of the universe . The belief in transcendence is perhaps the most subtle worldview yet contrived , because by pretending to be something other than a worldview it suggests the prospect of a picture that paints itself , a centerless cosmology  --  which , however , is no less fictional than the geocentric cosmos Copernicus overturned some three hundred years ago . Despite claims to objectivity , physics is a sophisticated , highly specialized attempt to humanize the world , and that suggests why the creation story told in mainstream physical cosmology remains compelling despite its sterility . Earth , organisms , people  --  these may receive little or no notice , but just the same we are very much present , in the idea of unity , a sure sign of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longing . We , alone among creatures , wake to a world gone to pieces , and we alone try to put it back together again  --  in our maps and metaphors , in the way , essentially , that we talk about it . We , you must admit , are an odd bunch . " Every anomaly seduces us , " writes E. M. Cioran , " life in the first place , that anomaly par excellence . " In fairness it must be pointed out that science wisely sidesteps questions it can not answer , especially those regarding the singular event and the one-of-a-kind object , because they are the least amenable to its methods , which hinge on repeatability . This is why physics , were it to try to apprehend the likes of Annie Sprinkle , would avoid the fluid and multivalent middle range of phenomena and move toward the extremes  --  the quark or the equation . This also is why biology , aspiring to the condition of physics , would focus on , say , this or that gene sequence in trying to explain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way audience members respond to her behavior . Knowledge of the kind science seeks does not come by way of seduction . Science knows well its own limits , although some scientists , bless their hearts , seem not to . Take the handful of renegade physicists who have tried to restore life to a position of importance in cosmology . Two of their scenarios warrant consideration . Design is central to the first scenario , called the anthropic principle , which makes much of the fact that the universe displays exactly the characteristics necessary for the existence of beings like us . To proponents of the anthropic principle , like Tipler and John Barrow , this suggests that life was meant to be , that organisms were part of the plan from the start . To me it suggests that dogs are not alone in chasing their own tails . What kind of a universe could we occupy except one that is fine-tuned for our existence ? One might as well claim that salmon are latent in seawater . The other scenario turns on what is sometimes called the observer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a subatomic system quantities like position and momentum lack definitive values until they are measured . Paradoxical , yes , but it works remarkably well . The goofiness starts when this special-purpose mathematical tool is used to build an entire metaphysical framework , as John Wheeler , who coined the term " black hole , " has tried to do . In the absence of an intelligent observer , the reasoning goes , said physical system has no observable traits ; it really does not exist . And if this is so then we , or some other beings or Being , must be necessary to the existence of all physical systems  --  indeed , the universe overall  --  because it is only through being observed that what does exist could exist . Whoa . But for the jargon , this view would be indistinguishable from sympathetic magic . One of the most sophisticated ideas of modem science is here debased to New Age malarkey , providing aid and comfort to the reality- is-what-you-think- it- is crowd . Physical scientists who set foot on the shores of life tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best , which in their case means in terms of the rules and requirements of the physical sciences . If this is a flaw , however , it is an unavoidable one . To ask physicists to leave their conceptual prejudices at home would be to strip them of their primary means of seeing . But it is crucial to remember that most of the cosmos that is available to direct experience consists of exceptions to those rules , not in the sense that they contradict the rules  --  they most certainly do not  --  but in the deeper sense that they could never be predicted or even minimally explained by them . Where we reside is a shifting sea of anomaly . If we desire from cosmology something more than trivial intimations of divinity or an ancient religious impulse reflected back to us in abstract form  --  that pallid god , oneness  --  we must make room for organisms , history , consciousness . We must allow ourselves to be seduced . That will require an inversion of the present arrangement : no longer would astronomical findings and ideas in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be subsumed within a larger , extrascientific approach . At the same time , physicists would be stripped of their bullhorns and special vestments , their reign as reality brokers at long last brought to an end . We would shift our emphasis from trying to discern the structure of the universe to trying to reckon our place within that structure , the stargazer becoming the starting point in the quest to apprehend the stars . This is not as far-fetched as it might seem . Late that night on the South Fork of the Salmon River I underwent an experience at odds with the Big Bang and black hole script that usually rings in our ears when we ponder the night sky . Like anyone under those circumstances , I was impressed most by the sheer scale of what lay before my eyes , but at the same time I was made aware of something else , a stirring inside my chest that was no less real , no less inspiring than the stars overhead . What I felt was not diminishment but dilation . My whole being expanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ momentous revelation . And I think I know why . Precisely when we grasp the vastness of the universe we also glimpse an equally vast interior , the enormous geography of the soul , so to speak . Words may fail us afterward , forcing us to rely on hackneyed descriptions that emphasize our insignificance , but what we actually sense , if only for an instant , is largeness of spirit . At that moment I began to appreciate another intriguing passage from the AIM tape : WITHOUT EARTH THERE IS NO HEAVEN . By giving up the vain attempt to achieve a god's-eye view of the world , we find that the most pressing fact of existence is not that we are alone in the dark but that we are alive ; not that the cosmos is empty but that it is incarnate , right here , in this garden among the galaxies we call Earth . What 's more , we realize that who we are and where we find ourselves are two sides of the same coin . We are aware of the stars only because we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind and language  --  in which stars can be reflected , and in whose absence the cosmos would exist but cosmology would not . WITHOUT EARTH THERE IS NO HEAVEN . We now know that we do not occupy the center of the universe , but we sometimes forget that we will always stand at the center of our picture of the universe . That is our lot as conscious beings . The rightful axis of cosmology is therefore the human mind and , by extension , the plexus of life from which it arises . As language-using organisms . we participate in the evolution of the universe most fruitfully through interpretation . We come to grips with the world by drawing pictures , telling stories , conversing . These acts are our special contribution to existence  --  we make cosmologies . To have a workable cosmology is to be at home in the cosmos . To be in the process of creating a cosmology , a more common situation in a secular age , is to be traveling toward home . The story told by physical cosmologists is only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances but scarcely exhausting all of the ways we might profitably describe reality . No less fertile are the worldviews of life scientists whose sensibilities have been shaped by the study of natural history and ecology . Despite a decades-long process of capitulation , during which biology , striving for certainty , largely abandoned fieldwork among organisms and ecosystems for laboratory experiments on genes and cells , some fearless life scientists continue to struggle with the big mysteries of the universe  --  contingency , individuality , transformation , time , any of which makes corralling a quark seem like child 's play . Consequently , they have a great deal more to say about being alive in the cosmos than do those who call themselves cosmologists . And scientists are far from alone in developing valid ways of " feeling the total push and pressure of the cosmos , " as William James put it . Poets and plumbers have as much right to speak for the world as do physicists and paleontologists . Indeed , in certain instances  --  facing death , say , or when the water is rising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plumber 's view of the cosmos makes much more sense . Not all worldviews are equally useful or uplifting , of course , but that in no way justifies a hierarchy in which science is considered intrinsically superior to other ways of apprehending reality . To take leave of science is not necessarily to take leave of the facts , for there is no fact that is not also the work of desire . In theoretical physics the ideal fact accords with our longing for unity  --  a sublime ambition , yes , but one whose satisfaction entails the sacrifice of all that is tangible , all that we hold dear . Today we live under a prohibition against the wanton commingling of fact and desire , and understandably so . In the past this unholy alliance bred paralyzing superstition and , when vested with power , enslavement , pain , and death . But it is no less superstitious to think we can separate fact and desire . Besides , the difficulty lies not with the way we come by our worldviews , a process that always will be problematic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether we employ force or persuasion . What is most exemplary about science is that at its best it proceeds by means of discourse and justification , an approach all human beings should encourage . What we should resist , however , is the belief in absolute truths that can be grasped whole , a fiction that has outlived its usefulness . What is the alternative ? I wish to suggest something that might be called enlightened anthropomorphism , by which human thought is measured primarily by how widely it ranges , not how closely it approximates the truth , by its amplitude instead of its verisimilitude . In cosmology this would seem to give credence to any crackpot who wants to hold forth on the universe , no matter how cockamamie his ideas . And in a sense it does , because the only credential that should be needed to enter any conversation about the nature of the world is one 's humanity . Who 's to say who is a crackpot ! None of us is qualified to make that judgment . None of us is capable of pronouncing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own minds , and even that is debatable . This is why we best serve the cause of truth by expanding and defending the domain in which thought is free to roam , by opposing any attempt to restrict human expression , from outright persecution to arbitrary initiation rites and membership rules , like those imposed in the name of scientific objectivity . Picturing the search for knowledge in this way  --  in pragmatic rather than epistemological terms  --  may seem odd at first , but the switch in perspective leads to a liberating cosmology . By admitting that all creation stories are in significant measure anthropomorphic , we finally assume full responsibility for what we say , no longer pretending that our utterances have the blessing of an extrahistorical authority . In effect , we transform the cosmic quest from the elitist , solitary contemplation of the stars into a free-for-all conversation about the stars with other human beings , scientist and nonscientist alike . No gods , no priests , no conclusions , but  --  and this is the best part  --  everyone has a place at the table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if you share my taste for Irish whiskey , a stool at the bar . The heart of this cosmology is a heightened sense of our shared condition and fate , our singular and precarious place in the universe . We need not love , much less understand , other human beings to realize that they too suffer , that they are conscious of their mortality , that a longing burns inside them , that they have their own maps and metaphors . For the moment , and perhaps only for the moment , we find ourselves at the center of all cosmologies , not because the species is more intelligent or more powerful or more significant than any other but because we alone are capable of giving voice to the cosmos ; it is our immense good fortune and grave responsibility to sing the songs of creation . * Hawking 's theories should not be confused with the Hawking phenomenon ; that is , the fascination nonscientists rightly have for a mute and immobile wheelchair-bound man who would dare to tame the heavens by force of mind alone . Edwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives in Butte , Montana . <p>                     