@@408032

On a blustery April afternoon , 12 parents gather around the long tables at the Ajax , Ontario , public library , to talk , and to listen . The subject goes to the core of their parental responsibilities : educating their kids . Soon it 's apparent that common threads of anger , exasperation , and resolution run through each of their comments , binding a diversity of backgrounds and experiences . Anger at a school system that seems to discourage their efforts at taking a hand in their children 's education , exasperation at having many of their efforts at reaching out rebuffed , and resolve to do something about it . All of the 12 are taking a crack at teaching their kids at home , and this conference is an initial step in that direction . The two women leading the conference , Wendy Priesnitz , 44 , and her daughter Heidi , 22 , are respectively the leading Canadian organizer in the field of home schooling and a prize product of home schooling in action ( at one stage Heidi refers to herself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herself a former teacher in the Ontario school system ( " I went through teacher 's college and quit the profession in disgust after four months " )  --  is , in fact , the high priestess of home schooling in Canada . She is the author of School Free , a self - published primer , and founder and co - ordinator of the Canadian Alliance of Home Schoolers , a network comprising some 3,000 participants across the country . Heidi is a writer and editor who , having been homeschooled , first attended regular high school at 13 , and now suggests that if she could do it all over again , she would n't have attended school at all . " I was the only girl in the school whose parents actively encouraged their daughter to drop out , " she quips . In her presentation , it 's apparent early on that Wendy Priesnitz sees the home - schooling phenomenon as more than simply a decision to opt out of a provincial school system . She is also quick to point out that her interests in education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ places her firmly on one side of the intellectual divide that neatly ( and in Canada almost equally ) classifies the two major groups of home schoolers in North America : religious and non - religious practitioners . " To my mind , " says Priesnitz , " the most important facet of education is that it nurture independence of mind , thought and action ... One of the things you will learn early on in the course of schooling your child at home is that children learn best when they choose what to study , when to study , and for how long ... and that the best learning is spontaneous learning or self - directed learning . It 's an approach that says , " I may not feel like studying math this morning , but I 'd really like to watch the tape of that interesting show that was on television last night . ' ' " Juanita Haddad , of Duncan , British Columbia , is a home - schooling mother of two girls aged 14 and 16 , both of whom have never been to school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spontaneous and self - directed . That does n't mean her daughters are completely on their own . " Although I have never directed their interests I have facilitated them by answering whatever questions they might have as best I could . " The girls " classroom has been 30 acres of land , cows , chickens and a working garden . " Learning in our home evolves naturally from the day - to - day operation of the household . " Both children learned to read on their own and developed math skills naturally from the problems posed in the course of domestic chores . Recently they enrolled in a math correspondence course and scored near - perfect marks at a level commensurate with their ages . Haddad talks a lot about the need to make commitments to your children and set priorities based on those commitments . She is skeptical of those who would pull their kids out of school based on a " back to basics " agenda . As head of a local support group tied to the Canadian Alliance of Home Schoolers , she has fielded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home schooling is more a reaction to what they see as the failings of the school system rather than affirming what are the inherent values of home schooling . " What are the inherent values of home schooling ? First , it is the idea that learning is a natural , self - directed activity . " The early learning of complicated concepts occurs spontaneously as a result of desires and curiosity , " according to Priesnitz . " Home - based educators have shown that children continue to learn in the same way as they grow older  --  if they are allowed to follow their curiosity . " The opportunity to work directly with your child - one - on - one  --  is unique , one that the school system rarely affords . Says Kelly Green , a home - schooling parent in Ajax , Ontario : " I find one - on - one activities to be particularly useful in helping children develop their powers of observation . Whether a child is keeping a nature journal or observing the connections between word families , the one - on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it 's not too obtrusive , can help the child make connections and observe differences and similarities . " In addition , Priesnitz posits that home schooling enhances family life by providing more time for activities that draw family members together . " The more relaxed pace of home - based education allows for the close relationships and round - the - clock learning that result from a wide variety of family - centred activities . " The focus on the needs and interests of the child is at the heart of the approach advocated by Priesnitz and rooted in the teachings of the late John Holt , America 's pre - eminent thinker on alternative education . In his ground - breaking book Teach Your Own , Holt describes how in the ' ' 60s he worked for school reform devoted to providing greater opportunity for self - direction in the learning process . By the early ' ' 70s the reformer had turned revolutionary , concluding that the structure of universal education was so rotted only a complete gutting would save it from utter collapse . " Most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in any other school - like environment ... I suspected this was true of most people . " Twenty years later Holt 's radical approach has been vindicated by the performance of home - schooled children . With at least 400,000 kids in the U.S. and Canada taught at home , growing evidence suggests that home schoolers do as well or better than their peers in the regular system . Whether it 's home - schooled kids being actively recruited in the U.S. by Ivy League universities , or scoring on average at or above the 80th percentile on standardized achievement tests , teaching your kids at home can hardly be considered merely an eccentric alternative anymore . ( Canadian states are rare , though a 1990 report by Priesnitz indicates that of home schoolers reporting results of standardized tests , 88 percent scored above - average results for their grade level . ) Still , Holt 's epiphany begged an important question . How do parents manoeuvre around a bureaucratic structure whose raison d'e@tre may be threatened by the very idea of home schooling ? Although Wendy Priesnitz advocates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boards and ministries of education , given its inherently political nature , it 's not surprising that the primary philosophical objection to home schooling turns on the extent to which the home schooler compromises the state 's legitimate interest in providing compulsory education . John O'Leary , president of Frontier College ( a national non - profit literacy organization ) and a member of the federal government 's blue - ribbon panel on national strategies for education and training , recognizes this dilemma . " While acknowledging the problems in our school system and encouraging parents to take an active role in their children 's education , I have serious concerns that home schoolers are to some extent opting out of what should be a fundamental community enterprise . Education is one of the few areas in which we as a society can cross ethnic and demographic borders to discuss a common issue . " Figure not transcribed Home schoolers tend to respond to this critique in one of two ways . Today 's Parent writer Teresa Pitman , who educated her two oldest children at home , concedes the point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any kind , when you 're talking about your own child it 's difficult to see a broader social agenda . " Confronted with the same criticism , the group in Ajax for the most part parroted Pitman 's theme . But Kelly Green , who has a background in organizing various forms of co - operative education , offers an interesting variation . " In an ideal world I would prefer to see a collaborative , co - operative effort whereby children and families could take part in the public education system instead of being subsumed by it ; where we could have access to gyms and music lessons without being held accountable for every moment of the day . Unfortunately the debate over education has been likened to the debate over abuse  --  keeping your child out of school is perceived to be a form of abuse and it 's up to the parent to disabuse the system and the rest of the community of this notion . " Still , co - operative relationships can develop . Elaine Callas , an Edmonton lawyer who home - schooled her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struck an agreement with her child 's school principal whereby she could borrow books from the school library and use the school 's computer room whenever the need arose . Such ad hoc arrangements must be negotiated , however , since as yet there are no specific policies mandating co - operation between school boards and home schoolers . Socialization is another important point that 's raised in the home - schooling debate . If you teach your children at home , how , where and when will they interact with their peers ? Home schoolers report that standard extracurricular activities  --  piano and swimming lessons , scouting programs , organized sports  --  plus special activities like field trips with other home schoolers , provide a more than adequate substitute for the social benefits of conventional schooling . Elaine Callas suggests that socialization may , in fact , be more of an issue for other parents suspicious of home schooling in general , rather than the children themselves . " My daughter spent that year socializing with a variety of children younger and older . I believe this helps a child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own age . " Other parents agree that socialization  --  or , rather , the potential lack of it  --  is not an obstacle . Sometimes , the issue is resolved by the kids themselves . University of Saskatchewan education professor Michael Murphy , an advocate of secular home schooling and father of three home - schooled children , argued against his kids ' decision to attend secondary school . " I told them not to go , " recalls Murphy , " but , at that stage in each of their lives they did n't want to be identified as weirdos and , given the approach I espouse I had to respect that decision . " Lara Murphy , now 22 , says that entering school at grade nine was a major adjustment : " The formalized and ritualistic routine was something we had never experienced as home schoolers . " The academic adjustment was relatively rapid  --  all three of the Murphy children were able " to handle pretty much anything that came along . " The real payoff , however , came years later . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that from home schooling to high school , " recalls Lara , who recently graduated with honours from the University of Saskatchewan . " The spirit of independent inquiry and critical thinking was already well - established . In that sense home schooling is much closer to a university experience than it is to high school . " And it is that very spirit that was originally sparked by an important decision  --  the decision of a parent to teach his kids himself , at home . Resources The Canadian Alliance of Home Schoolers , 272 Highway 5 , R.R. 1 , St. George , Ontario NOE lNO . A readymade network of some 3,000 mostly secular home schoolers . Their information package provides advice on the practical and political implications of home schooling ( available for $2 ) . The alliance can supply anyone interested with a list of provincial organizations . A conference called Home Schooling ' ' 94 will take place August 27 in Mississauga , Ontario , to serve the Ontario community of home schoolers . Seminar speakers include David and Micki Colfax , authors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Original Backyard Scientist , and Wendy Priesnitz , founder of the Canadian Alliance of Home Schoolers . The cost is $32 ; $5 to browse through the exhibit hall featuring 35 vendors . For more information , contact Colin Singleton , 4109 Pheasant Run , Mississauga , Ontario L5L 2C2 ; ( 905 ) 828 - 1684 or 1 - 800 - 669 - 0724 . Books School Free , by Wendy Priesnitz , Village Books , 1987 . Currently this introduction to secular home schooling in Canada is only available in spiral bound format and must be ordered from The Alternate Press ( same address as the Canadian Alliance of Home Schoolers , above ) . Teach Your Own : A Hopeful Path for Education , by John Holt , Dell Publishing , 1981 . The guru of secular child - centred home schooling in North America , Holt combines a passionate statement of principles with articulate testimony from home schoolers from varied backgrounds . Homeschooling for Excellence , by Micki and David Colfax , Warner Books , 1988 . The chronicle of one family 's effort to educate their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the children have since graduated , with honours , from Harvard . How to Get Started 1 Start by informing yourself . Home schooling is legal across Canada , but provincial/territorial education laws vary . In general home schoolers must be prepared to prove that they are providing " satisfactory , " " efficient " or " equivalent " instruction to exempt children from compulsory school attendance . Copies of education legislation is available in most public libraries . Find out from a home - schooling organization how home schooling is practised in your area . 2 Be honest with yourself . Are you willing and able to teach your own children ? Do you have what it takes ? Do you enjoy learning yourself ? Do you enjoy spending a lot of time with your children ? 3 Evaluate your time . Home schoolers cite time management as a special challenge . How would you need to reorganize your time ? What about finances  --  could one income sustain your family ? 4 Clarify your ideas about learning . If your children are in school , you probably have thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Longrange goals ? How would you translate these goals into a curriculum ? 5 Contact the educational authorities . Depending on where you live , this might be the Superintendent of Schools or the Minister of Education . Some legislation requires formal permission and program approval before you can begin . Where this is not the case , some parents may feel more comfortable meeting initially with authorities to set up lines of communication . Prepare a written outline of your educational philosophy , methods , curriculum and preferred method of evaluation . Include not only a statement of purpose , but also a plan and timetable for achieving your objectives . Try to deal with issues such as socialization and preparation for postsecondary education . 6 Establish record keeping  --  perhaps a daily lesson plan log . This is not just good organizational practice , it will help in complying with the law . 7 Network . Home schoolers say establishing support is critical in continuing home schooling . Support could include : A home - schooling group . Other home - schooling parents who can share expertise and possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schooling families the mother is the primary teacher . Do n't leave your partner 's abilities untapped . Tutors for certain subjects . Home - schooling seminars  --  for instance , in 1993 the University of Calgary introduced seminars for home schoolers . Home - schooling magazines and books . 8 Look for curriculum resources . Consider books , video , audio , computer software , correspondence courses , etc . Establish a budget . Decide what to borrow and buy . 9 Explore your community . Is there some curriculum area that could best be taught outside the home ? Use services such as community theatre , athletics , music groups , nature centres . Do n't rule out co - operative programs with the public schools . 10 Finally , be realistic . Realize that the first year of teaching will be challenging . Think , though , of the confidence and expertise you will have gained by year two . Portrait of a Home Schooler Ajax , Ontario 's Kelly Green is in many ways a good example of the new wave of home educators . She and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank in Toronto , both did extensive research on the educational options available to their two young sons , currently aged four and six . " We examined public and private schools ( Montessori and Waldorf ) . We were particularly unimpressed with what we saw going on in the public system schools . They told us they would n't allow us into our son 's classroom until after Christmas . We could n't understand why a five - year - old should be separated from his parents for that length of time . It seemed arbitrary . " Green had already been involved in setting up a co - operative nursery school in her area , one where the parents hire teachers , handle the administrative load and spend time volunteering . Having done all this , she still decided to educate her older son entirely at home ( under the auspices of an Ontario private school established specifically for homebased educators ) . Today , a visit to the Greens ' home confirms that they 've organized their entire living space in a manner conducive to learning . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory . Not surprisingly , arts - and - crafts activities are restricted to the kitchen , where the inevitable mess can be handled relatively easily and cooking and baking can be integrated into the program . In the dining room blankets are hung to create a cave or hiding place , dolls and a puppet theatre are set up in one corner of the room , and a mini - trampoline sits in the other . This comprises what mom/teacher Green calls the imaginative play area or the gross motor area . Basically , " she says , " that means the part of the house where they can use their big muscles  --  the sort of stuff they would do outside during good weather . " The den contains all their Lego puzzles , Brio trains and mass manipulatives like wood or foam blocks that give an idea of comparative size , proportion and pattern . " It 's a quiet room that allows them to play alone and , in so doing , work on their fine motor skills . " The family room is devoted to music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a piano in the room and though we 're not starting them on piano lessons quite yet , they 're very much aware of it , as both my husband and I play . " Part of the reason that the Greens have been so conscious of the educational design of their home is the fact that they 've taken the TV out of the house and kept it out for two years . " We 're not fanatics - - they watch it at their friends ' houses or at my parents ' ' , just not at home . " Because Green is committed to helping develop her children 's interests , the acquisition of skills like reading , writing and math evolves naturally . For instance , six - year - old Brian wrote away ( with assistance from his mother ) to a nature reserve in Zimbabwe for information on crocodiles . The package arrived and , having supplemented the research with a visit to the library , an entire avenue of study incorporating biology , zoology and geography was vigorously pursued over several weeks . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the help of his father . He calculated cost and return , to ensure a profitable operation . Kelly Green 's biggest concern is the isolation she feels from other secular home schoolers . " I worry that I 'm not getting enough feedback as to the various approaches to child - centred learning . " Still she feels the situation has improved even in the year since she decided to teach her children at home . And for the time being she has no plans to change course . " Our objective is to develop our kids ' natural inclination to self - directed learning . The ability to pull things together from a variety of sources is a skill they will carry with them the rest of their lives . " <p>                     