@@403538

The preponderance of false and misleading information on the Internet , coupled with a declining ability to think critically , spells big trouble ahead . // According to many who predict the future , we will all sit at computers to work , play , shop , socialize , and more . Such futurists describe this scenario in glowing terms , but those of us who work hands-on with information content disagree . The way people request , process , and use information suggests that we are moving in a troubling direction . What many of the techno gurus overlook , in sketching their design for the future , is human nature . On the cusp of the twenty-first century , eight catalysts of chaos are preparing to lead our society astray . By not paying attention to these catalysts , we are much like the people of the fable who did not pay the Pied Piper , causing him to lead their children away . More Access , Less Sharing The first of these catalysts is increased access to information , thanks to the proliferation of sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think we are entitled to all the information there is . This has led to feeding-frenzy conditions and a sometimes voyeuristic approach to information . No one wants to entertain the suggestions that information may be private or that it should be restricted to people who understand it . The merest mention of censorship invariably produces howls of dismay . We want it all , we want it nowbut please do n't ask any of us to share our own information ! Along with this sense of entitlement to information comes a counterforce , a marked decrease in sharing . Legitimate privacy concerns are only part of this trend : It makes sense to be careful with the release of Social Security numbers or credit-card information , but we no longer feel a sense of obligation or civic duty to participate in the collection of information . Survey participation has declined ; people do not wish to be interrupted ; they do n't want to get involved . Survey researchers react with surprise when a human actually answers the phone-especially one willing to answer questions . Who among us has n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , averting our eyes , so we wo n't have to take time for a survey ? This phenomenon produces an unfortunate skew of information since available opinions tend to reflect only the views of those willing to release data-often a vocal minority rather than a cross section of society . This situation is particularly ironic in societies that value free speech ; such provisions , though they are written on paper in constitutions , will not survive if they are not exercised by the majority as rights . Some will counter that the obvious solution is to pay people for their information while conducting surveys over the Internet . But paying people for information will attract those who , first and foremost , need the money . Government policy and societal decisions should not be shaped solely with information contributed by those who are desperate for cash . More Bad Information If these two opposing catalysts are not bad enough , consider the third and fourth : the increase in quantity and decrease in quality of information . More and more information of dubious merit proliferates on the Internet and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , skewed , and often hopelessly inaccurate , but that seems to escape the notice of those who believe in the virtues of cyberspace . Unlike trade magazines , newspapers , and other " archaic " print sources , the Internet does not vet its information : There is little copy editing or fact checking . Anything and everything gets circulated in electronic form , including wild rumors , junk science , appalling misinformation , and inane gibberish . An unfortunate byproduct of the current cybercraze is that some people believe as gospel truth anything that comes out of a computer . This is particularly noticeable among those in their teens and 20s , who have not learned the necessary skills to seek out alternate sources and verify information . The proliferation of sources in this so-called Information Age masks another development : the consolidation of reasonably reliable information into the hands of fewer and fewer organizations . This consolidation applies as much to print sources as it does to electronic information . Whenever such consolidation occurs , competition dwindles , leaving a world with declining quality of data . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three directories or " industry bibles " per industry . Today there is usually only one , and the level of detail is down significantly . Then there is the impermanence that characterizes all electronic information ; if you find information of value on the Internet and do n't download it right away , six months later the chances are you will not be able to find it . Imagine the horror stories if the information is needed to prove a point-as in a legal caseand can not be found ! More Barriers Between People Contrary to what the gurus predict , technology fosters the fifth catalyst , an increase in barriers , an excuse to dodge person-to-person interaction . Many organizations with a mandate to collect and disseminate information to the public use their Web sites as a way to avoid answering questions person-to-person . Phone up an association or a government department and you are more than likely to be told to consult the Web site . If a human actually answers the phone to tell you this , the phone will then quickly be hung up in your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer your particular questions seems to be of little concern . As is obvious to anyone who has ever used it , Web site information is controlled by those putting up the site . The danger here , if we allow this trend to continue , is that we will become not a society that asks the questions it wants to ask or the questions that need to be asked , but one that asks only the questions for which answers already exist . There is already a marked tendency among younger people to conclude that their questions were not worth asking in the first place if they could not find answers on a Web site . Even twentysomethings employed at professional research firms exhibit this tendency . When desired data does not magically appear on the computer screen , they consider their jobs finished and resist the notion of picking up the phone to track the answer down . This is a very dangerous phenomenon . Discourtesy and Dishonesty The increase in barriers coincides with a marked decrease in courtesy , the sixth catalyst propelling us in a very different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even with older technologies such as the telephone , it has already become acceptable to not return phone calls or respond to messages . With the newer forms such as e-mail , impatience often produces strongly worded exchanges . Imprecise use of language in electronic commerce leads to " flaming , " the electronic equivalent of being chewed-out in public . This is all part of a larger trend of rude behavior . No society anywhere in human history grew to greatness by placing a premium on discourtesy . The general level of rudeness does not bode well for future human connectedness . Discourtesy goes hand-in-hand with the seventh catalyst , increase in dishonesty . The Information Age is rife with cheating and plagiarism . This produces a climate of deceit . And those who do cheat-downloading essays off the Internet to pass courses , for example-should stop to think : At what point will they themselves be cheated ? Losing Our Skills Those who use the Internet for deceit , such as plagiarizing essays , tend not to have the know-how to do their own work , and this leads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skills . The ability to access information-and lots of it-does not create an ability to evaluate it . All the catalysts described up to now are really supporting actors to this most central player . Thirty years of experimentation in the schools with reading methodologies , mathematics , and other basics have eroded these real skills while fostering pseudo-skills such as self-esteem . Young people believe anything on the computer , lack the know-how to verify what they find there , and think that , if the information is n't on the Web , then the questions are n't worth asking in the first place . The result ? Into a world with widespread access to information , controlled by fewer and fewer parties , comes a generation with a naive belief in the computer and few skills to defend itself . The stage is set for this generation to be led astray : Get ready to welcome the electronic Pied Piper . If this steadily burgeoning chaos is allowed to take its full course , no foreign power intent on conquering a country such as the United States in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cumbersome things like aircraft carriers , amphibious vehicles , and ordnance . A much simpler way to take over a country will be to simply post information on the Internet and bamboozle the people . Those who laugh and say it could not happen need to remember that it already has-almost . On the evening of October 30,1938 , " The War of the Worlds , " a radio program that described a fictional invasion of Earth by Martians , was broadcast in America . A substantial number of radio listeners believed what they heardand ran like rabbits . They took to their cars , they took to the highways , some even committed suicide to escape the dreadful events being broadcast . But not all listeners responded this way . What characterized those who did not panic is that they sought out sources of information other than the radio . Some made visual checks of the street and noticed people going into restaurants and coming out of movies and hailing cabs ; the National Guard had not been called out . These people , therefore , reserved judgment . Others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled broadcast , and sat down to listen . But those who relied on the information coming out of the radio , and believed in that single source , panicked . Those who want a technologydrenched future where we spend our lives hooked up to computers may not believe an entire nation could be duped by false information on the Internet . They should consider this more recent anecdote . In a large North American city , a story appeared on the Internet about a woman who was assaulted by her taxi driver late one night . The woman was supposedly a member of the advertising and communications community , and her story attracted attention from other advertising agencies , public relations firms , and the like , spreading like wildfire . People called up their listservs and zapped the story all around the city . It multiplied like mushrooms after the rain . Even when the police investigated and could not find the woman , could not find the taxi driver , and further verified that the cab company in question did not even have a cab with the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the truth was known , supposedly reasonable , well-educated people preferred to believe the lie simply because it appeared on the Internet . It is time for those who anticipate a computer- or infotech-dependent future to recognize the downside of their visions . We must consider where the electronic Pied Piper is leading us . Author Affiliation About the Author Author Affiliation Deborah C. Sawyer is president of Information Plus , a research-services firm . She is author of Sawyer 's Success Tactics for Information Businesses ( Burwell Enterprises , 1998 ) and Getting It Author Affiliation Right : Avoiding the High Cost of Wrong Decisions ( St. Lucie/CRC Press , 1998 ) . Her address is Information Plus , Inc. , 14 Lafayette Square , Suite 2000 , Buffalo , New York 14203 . Telephone 1-716-852-2220. // <p>                     