@@409302

Abdel Gadir was the first of my baby African spurred tortoises and I treasured him accordingly . Thirty years ago , when I taught zoology at the University of Khartoum , we kept a number of these desert tortoises , the world 's largest mainland species . ( Only the Galapagos and Indian Ocean island giant tortoises can top them . ) In November 1965 , one of our females laid seventeen eggs , of which only one hatched the following June . Our Sudanese laboratory staff named the baby Abdel Gadir , or " servant of God " in Arabic  --  a common nickname for tortoises . Until we could make a proper enclosure , I used to put him on the lawn to graze on the small , succulent shrubs that he evidently preferred to the grass that his parents ate . In order not to lose him , I confined him beneath a clear plastic microscope cover in the shade of a palm tree . One day , on my way home to lunch , I remembered that I had forgotten about Abdel Gadir . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he was no longer in the shade ! Indeed , the poor little creature was extremely hot , and frothing all over his head and neck . I took him into the laboratory , gave him a drink , and went back to lunch . On the way , a thought struck me . When jerboas and kangaroo rats get overheated , they salivate onto their throats ; this cools them and can prolong their life , in an emergency , for up to thirty minutes . ( Small mammals can not afford to cool themselves by sweating and do not possess sweat glands . ) Could tortoises respond in a similar way ? The next day , Abdel Gadir found himself in an incubator at 131deg F. He was removed every thirty minutes to be weighed and have his body temperature taken . During the first hour , his weight decreased only slightly but his temperature rose from an initial 77deg F to 105deg F. At this point , Abdel Gadir began to salivate and froth at the mouth ; his temperature stabilized , but he began to lose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out and gave him a drink of water . He soon recovered and seemed to be none the worse for his experience . Spurred tortoises do not normally drink , for they obtain sufficient moisture from their vegetable food . After salivating , however , Abdel Gadir , and all the other tortoises that I tested , enjoyed a good long drink . In 1969 , I was at the University of New Mexico , in Albuquerque , where physiologist Bud Riedesel , my wife , Anne , and I were testing the responses of ornate box turtles to heat . These turtles also used evaporative cooling  --  not only by salivating but also by urinating on their back legs . We found that the heartbeat rate increased only when the body temperature increased , but that salivation could be induced by heating the head alone . If you think that box turtles are pleasant , docile animals to work with , you are mistaken . They have a well-developed hinge midway across the length of the lower shell that enables them to enclose the head and extremities . After a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they objected to future tests by snapping their shells closed . If we were not careful , we got our fingers pinched hard . Also , they became exceedingly wary . We had to creep up on them and wedge a cork between their shells to keep them from closing . That was not the end of their revenge for our experiments in temperature regulation . Like other land turtles and tortoises , the box turtle is endowed with a very large bladder that has several functions . It can be used for emergency cooling , as well as to store water for use during long periods of drought , hibernation , or estivation . But it also emits a foul smell that is an effective deterrent against predators . We soon learned that when picking up a tortoise , you always want to keep its ventral side pointing away from you ! Since our early investigations , a great deal of research has been undertaken on the ways in which tortoises and land turtles of various species regulate their body temperatures . In addition to the considerable insulation provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and frothing at the mouth , urinating on the back legs , moistening of the eyes , and panting . Another way in which they achieve thermoregulation is by varying the heart rate according to body temperature and by dilating the peripheral blood vessels in response to heating . Animals can be categorized by the major source of their body heat : endotherms , which warm themselves mainly by metabolic processes , and ectotherms , which depend upon external heat from the environment . Reptiles are ectothermal : they regulate their temperatures largely by their behavior . When presented with a choice , tortoises and turtles may select exposed logs or rocks , where they bask until their bodies reach the preferred temperature . From their behavior , it appears that the optimal temperature for metabolism must be surprisingly close to the critical upper temperature at which the animals seek shade . After basking , land and desert tortoises retreat into cool burrows . Not infrequently they emerge again in the evening and continue to bask until the sun begins to set . In general , they lead a leisurely existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of midday retreat to the burrow , the temperature on the top shell of the American desert tortoise may be as much as fifty degrees above the deep body temperature . Both heating and cooling rates are affected by thermal gradients between the core of the animal and the temperature of the environment . Some years ago I worked with nuclear physicist David Butt on Mediterranean spur-thighed tortoises . These tortoises live on the fringe of the Sahara where they estivate during the hottest part of summer and hibernate in winter , becoming active only in the spring and fall . When we measured metabolism and evaporation at different air temperatures , we learned that up to about 75deg F , the metabolic heat gained and evaporative heat lost were about equal . At higher temperatures , however , evaporative heat loss could not keep pace with metabolic heat production . These experiments led us to speculate that with the advent of seasonal climates 60 million years ago , hot summers rather than cold winters might have had something to do with the demise of dinosaurs . Our calculations showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reptiles in a stable , moderately warm climate , but higher temperatures were likely to cause severe thermal stress . During our work on temperature physiology , one of the tortoises ate the cobait thiocyanate paper used to monitor humidity , defecated over the temperature sensors , and blocked the entry port for air , so that it nearly suffocated . " We certainly have technical problems in physics research , " my partner from the " hard sciences " commented , " but never have I experienced anything like this ! " <p>                     