@@394002

In the front page of The Boston Globe I recently found an example of the worst kind of moral argument . It quoted a retired army colonel predicting that to curb a commander 's ability to investigate gay behavior would " devastate cohesion , morale and trust . " This argument against changing policy because it would undermine authority is a commonplace . Though we can find examples of it any day in any newspaper , most of us are unaware of its name , the frequency with which it is used and the great obstacles it presents to ordinary moral reasoning . This article addresses these three points . Slippery slope arguments , as they are called , are not just invoked in newspapers . We first encounter them during childhood . To understand , then , why they are so called , let me return to childhood and reflect on encounters between parents and their firstborn children . We ( yes , I 'm one ) would wait as Mom and Dad stood atop the slippery slope and resisted yet again giving us permission to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the party , to hang out with those friends , to take that particular trip , to see that new movie . Other parents gave in to their children , but our Mom and Dad hesitated and regularly refused . Mom and Dad thought it better to err by being cautious than by leniency . We thought otherwise : Mom and Dad worry too much , wo n't let us grow up . Faced with sanctioning our request , my parents feared sliding down the slippery slope of permissiveness and so stood their ground . If they yielded on this occasion , what , after all , could brake their descent ? What argument would they have for saying " no " next time ? Permissive parents , they knew , slid rapidly through leniency into laxity , finally crossing at breakneck speed the finish line of irresponsibility and recklessness . They knew , too , that my metamorphosis from innocent to wanton depended on their own sure-footedness ; but , lacking experience , they trusted the solid ground more than their own untested deftness on the perilous slope . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dad learned to negotiate the field of permissions and found a moderate course of trust and accountability , of give-and-take . One sibling after another " got away with murder . " We firstborns were convinced of one thing : Mom and Dad went down the slippery slope after all ! Despite the fact that the slippery slope argument is rooted in profound self-doubt , betrays a lack of experience and depicts the future as unavoidably worse than the present , it gets invoked more often than any other form of moral argument . It is cited more frequently than the principles of double effect , material cooperation or toleration , certainly more than " the lesser of two evils " and more than the principles of justice or the common good and probably as much as " the greater good " or the principle of utility . It enjoys great popularity . Consider this recent round of debates : Concerning the television networks ' proposal to forewarn viewers of violence , the overwhelming reaction from the media was , " Where could this lead ? If we issue warnings now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set limits today , someone else will impose them next year . We have curtailed and threatened artistic expression more than it can stand . " In the midst of these dire predictions driven by alarm over control , few words were uttered by the networks about the amount of violence on television . Likewise , the military argued against permitting gays in their ranks . A high-level officer fears for his son 's well-being . Other officers predict that their soldiers will willfully disregard their orders and threaten to harm , or even murder , their gay colleagues . Others fear taking showers , sleeping in bunks or going to the latrine . Here we have ( mostly ) men capable of policing the most dangerously destabilized areas of the world predicting a collapse into lawlessness of arguably the most sophisticated military ever to have served in human history . Whether , all things being equal , gays ought to be in the military is really not debated . Impending chaos becomes the issue-a clear example of the slippery slope : Against the abortion lobby , any moderate attempts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a late pregnancy or parental permission for minors have often met slippery slope arguments . Harvard law professor Mary Ann Glendon observes that while many Western European countries have legislated these same measures , the United States , with the most liberal abortion policy in the entire industrial world , remains firm against any modification of Roe v. Wade . These measures , then , are not really the issue . Rather , they are perceived as steps onto a steep chute away from Roe v. Wade . Finally , like pro-choicers , pro-lifers have long resorted to the slippery slope , and from distant peaks both have so pitched the debate that little ground has been gained ( or lost ) regarding fetal rights . Can the fetus , or even the embryo , be regarded as a patient , as in many pregnancies both parents and physicians regard them ? Some political scientists , like Andrea Bonnicksen , see this as a clear descent onto the slippery slope . She wrote recently : " The embryo as patient runs the danger of personalizing the embryo and further confusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sets the stage for elevating the embryo to the status of an entity with rights . This restricts experimental protocols and defines the embryo as ill or needy , which in turn creates a new set of medical " needs " for embryo therapy " ( " Genetic Diagnosis of Human Embryos , " Hastings Center Report 22.4 , 1992 S5-S11 ) . The question about whether the embryo is entitled to patient rights has grave and problematic consequences . Like other users of the slippery slope , this writer wants to scare proponents away from entertaining the question in the first place . Mom and Dad , the military , pro-lifers , pro-choicers , the media , researchers and a host of others use the slippery slope argument to frighten the opposition . Surprisingly , despite the extraordinary frequency with which it is used , it is usually not successful , simply because those against whom it is used are rarely persuaded by it . Our suspicion of it is rooted in childhood insights : When parents used it , we knew that they would not allow reasonable discussion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their position as simply " intransigent . " We find the slippery slope argument implausible when used against us , but ironically we use it against others as much as anyone else does . When we do , it reveals as much about us as it did about our parents . First , when we use the slippery slope argument we are putting ourselves on high moral ground . Those making a contrary proposal approach us from a lower vantage point . The only people with whom we see eye to eye are those who share the same ground . Convinced that our position is , from our viewpoint , patently self-evident , we talk among ourselves reassuringly . As Mom and Dad commiserated with one another , so too do the military officers about the gays , the television producers about the censorious parents , the pro-choicers about the pro-lifers . Reinforced by these closed discussions , we view the counter-proposal 's proponents from above , and our act of engagement with them becomes an act of condescension . The proponents , of course , are not necessarily bad or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " As Mom and Dad responded " Because " when asked " But why ? " we likewise assume that our opponents can not see the manifest merits of our position . Thus , instead of explaining , we predict and take on an air of wizardry in our stance , tone and words . Second , the proposal 's proponents are often either subordinates or simply outside the field . Not being parents , researchers , television producers , military officers or lobbyists , they lack competence . From that vantage point their proposals appear intrusive . The new proposal is being raised by someone other than the normal rule-makers . They want change in our home , in our military , at our networks , at our research labs , places we run . If the proposal 's proponents find those in authority intransigent , those in authority find the proponents impertinent . Third , the central threat we perceive is the loss of authority . Our bottom-line fear is not that we will fall into the muck and mire of unethical conduct , but that we will no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Were we to lose our authority , who would be in charge ? Our opponents do not have the training , experience or discretion that we have . Their apparent lack of good judgment and their evident inability to appreciate the demands of leadership make them , in our eyes , incapable of governing . Just what do they know , after all , about embryos , the military or programming ? We use the slippery slope argument , then , because we believe that the proponents are unable to see what we do : Their proposal does not simply change a rule , it changes the way we govern . Fourth , we really do not believe that , given the full picture , our opponents ' interests are that important . The researcher on embryos is interested in curing Alzheimer 's or helping couples become parents ; the military wants order and efficiency to carry out its dangerous mission ; the pro-choice advocates want to protect against any possibility that women will be treated as objects again ; the networks want to depict life as it is  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Best . " Therefore , embryo rights , gay rights , parental consent , viewer warnings are all more trouble than they 're worth . Fifth , as Americans we value our individual liberties and we resent any encroachment on the exercise of our prerogatives and responsibilities . Nor will we tolerate bullying . Just as Mom 's and Dad 's " Because " is sometimes no more than an exasperated response to an ever-insistent firstborn , similarly our slippery slope is sometimes no more than an equally tired reaction to constant , willful challenge . In a word , we believe we are entitled to be intolerant and unreasonable when beleaguered . Sixth , when using the slippery slope argument , we reveal what we can not ourselves see : The proposal is raised by proponents who see things otherwise . Like the firstborn who believes that it is time for a change , other proponents see the need for new rules precisely because the rule-makers themselves do not . Thus , while those making the proposals do not have the experience of leadership within the field that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prompts their call for reform . They are adolescents who want greater freedom , they are parents whose children have too much access to violence on television , they are people who see the fetus as more than a threat to privacy , they are gays tired of being intimidated and compromised . The slippery slope argument is used by those with power against those seeking reform . At its core it is an authoritarian device designed to dismiss reformers ' proposals as dangerously intrusive into daily operations . It forestalls any discussion and basically operates on the presumption that the only significance the proposal has is the degree of authority it can undermine . Moreover , those who advance the slippery slope argument never consider the reformers as equals . On the contrary , the reformers are children , subordinates , outsiders , uninformed . This stance often engenders an equally hostile response from the reformers who have been stonewalled out of the deliberative process . But , perched above the reformers , those who advance the argument simply repeat their utterances about " the view from here . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnoticed . Worse , their intrasingence prompts the reformers to abandon any recognition of those in power as having authority . Good thinkers and leaders often abandon the slippery slope argument and search out a context for discussion . Parents , as noted above , may initially meet their child 's innovative requests with some fear and reluctance . They typically invoke the slippery slope argument to forestall such discussion . Eventually , however , most parents begin to recognize their child as less a subordinate asking for change and more a person growing into responsible self-governing conduct . They may also admit their fear of a loss of authority or of unforeseen consequences . As the occasion for discussion , slippery slope language provides parents with an opportunity to share adult concerns with a growing child . Likewise , medical ethicists and researchers often ask whether genetics will take us down the slippery slope . The slippery slope enables us to entertain two issues simultaneously . First , what may we reasonably anticipate as the consequences of this course of action ? What will we do , for instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our reproductive cells and , in turn , on our progeny ? Will we experiment for cosmetic , as well as health-related , reasons ? Second , once we engage this course of action , what type of authority will we have to exercise control over our choices ? As we begin genetics , will we become so enamored of the engineering that we will be unable to place limits on its use ? Will we allow the wealthy such access to genetics that only they will benefit from it ? Thus , the slippery slope language allows us to speculate about consequences and to articulate our fears about the extent of our authority in the future . The use of slippery slope language as an occasion for deliberation differs from its more frequent argumentative use . Rather than being used against a proposal , this language is used precisely to entertain the proposal by anticipating difficult consequences . Second , descriptive language is used to encourage advancement of the argument , rather than to engender fear . When slippery slope language is not used as an argument , it occasions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Rather than predicting unavoidable disaster if the course of action is taken , it notes the difficulty of forecasting the future and sees its cautions as provisional . In turn , the steps it recommends are equally modest . Alert to possible dangers , this modesty drives the entire inquiry . Moreover , uncertain about the future but believing steps can and ought to be taken , it seeks a variety of advisers and therefore broadens the context for discussion rather than restrict it . Finally , fostering dialogue , it displays within its leadership considerable self-confidence . This leadership promotes the tolerant exchange of proposals precisely by assuming that its own viewpoint is not all encompassing . Our parents gave up the slippery slope as an argument and instead faced it as a real concern . Could they trust us with responsibility ? Would we adhere to the new rules ? Would we continue to recognize their authority ? Instead of using the slippery slope argument , they developed the habit of talking to us , their children , on a new level , a level occasioned by our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again today , that ignoring others remains the worst moral alternative . Moreover , they instilled in us the guideline that those who will be affected by decisions ought to be brought into deliberations whenever possible . Finally , they taught us that dialogue between people of varying ages , competencies and interests can be considerably successful . Through these lessons , they helped us to see how true it is that models for right moral reasoning are found first and foremost in the experienced judgments of parents . James F. Keenan , S.J. , is associate professor of moral theology at the Weston School of Theology in Cambridge , Mass . <p>                     