@@393639

The keynote address had been delivered that afternoon , the opening panel had convened and inspired . Still , true to the traditions of Africa 's diaspora , the symposium " Toward Definition : An Examination of African American Craft Art " was not birthed  --  not sanctified  --  until the opening-night reception , when the ase ( life energy ) was summoned forth with cries , chants , drums , dance and libations . The weekend 's nearly 200 participants  --  artists , students , scholars , educators , museum and gallery administrators  --  had been transported in three buses from their hotel outpost in Dayton , Ohio , to the National Afro-American Museum and Cultural Center in Wilberforce . At the museum awaited one cause for celebration : the exhibition " Uncommon Beauty in Common Objects : The Legacy of African American Craft Art , " the first collection of craft art by African Americans to tour the nation see page 44 . The weekend symposium , touring exhibit and related artist-in-residence program were organized by the museum ( under the leadership of its director , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artists and art historians . Sponsorship was provided by the Lila Wallace-Reader 's Digest Fund . IN THE PRESENCE OF THE ANCESTORS It was clear on that Friday evening last November that those present were not mere spectators , but individuals who embraced their heritage , luxuriated in the mixing of mediums . T-shirts , blue jeans and Air Jordans mingled freely with exultant bead-work , ebony and pearls . Mud cloth decorated denim jackets ; Kente cloth beautified baseball caps , as well as traditional head wraps and robes . Few seemed to escape the joy at this occasion . Even if only familiar with a person 's work , the artists greeted one another as family or old friends . An explosion of drums followed the welcoming cry of William Bowman , the gathering 's chief musician and priest , calling all to assembly . Flanked by two other musicians , Bowman lent his hands to the blur and thunder of an African drum ritual . " We approach this art of ours for its healing aspects , " Bowman told the audience . " We will try to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Africa . Of course there we would not be surrounded by concrete , but the spirit is here . " Indeed , the musicians " first presentation left the museum 's vast anteroom in a state of tranquillity . The cement walls seemed to dissolve , giving entree to the quiet Ohio woods . During the second composition , several members of the audience abandoned their chairs , accepting the musicians ' invitation to dance . One by one they entered the invisible circle that separated performers from listeners , paused and waited for the drums ' power to possess them . Then  --  arms extended , feet enflamed  --  each flew into the presence of the ancestors . DOCUMENTING A LEGACY A fusion of many elements  --  history , design , technique , politics , economics , collective memory and vision  --  provided this symposium with its single cornerstone . The participating artists  --  ceramists , fiber artists and workers in beads , glass , metal and wood  --  represented a full spectrum of the craft world . Together , their unique and practical concerns often gave way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and post-emancipation craft work , as well as the experiences shared by African American artists today . As America 's mainstream craft community establishes a new position within the art world , African American craft artists are aware that their responsibilities have become even more profound . To be denied their integral position in the American craft movement and its documentation would both undermine their potential influence and betray their legacy of craftsmanship . This legacy , it was observed , is rich and extensive . The conference highlighted such examples as the woven baskets of the Sea islands ; slave quilts ( some displaying family trees , others encoding the routes to freedom ) ; the architectural structures of countless plantations ; the 1820s furniture businesses of Henry Boyd in Cincinnati and Thomas Day in North Carolina ; the silversmithing of a Louisiana man named Jacoba and the goldsmithing of John Frances in Pennsylvania ; and the wrought iron gates , grilles and railings made by African blacksmiths  --  both enslaved and free  --  which frequently incorporated ( or " masked " ) tribal symbols of resistance . Every speaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future , it is imperative that African American craft artists at last be both seen and heard . TO SPEAK THROUGH ART Murry Norman DePillars , dean of Virginia Commonwealth University 's School of the Arts , threw down the gauntlet in his keynote address . " To a large extent , black artists have been entrapped in the Renaissance dichotomy and supplicants to the prevailing whims of America 's cultural enterprise , " DePillars said . " Since America 's ethic of racial inclusion has proven to be impractical , black people , as well as black artists , must seek alternatives . These alternatives are based on human dignity , cultural independence and structural change that results in human dignity and healthy black institutions . The economic power of black people is a non-negotiable imperative in this structural reordering of America and its institutions . " Concern with the exclusion of African Americans from the documentations of American craft history was a theme echoed by others throughout the weekend . Moreover , given the grass roots nature of the craft movement , the impact of this omission extends beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The vitality of the movement is engendered not only by each ethnic group 's participation , but by the independence of each group 's expressions . " Being in the spirit is not necessarily being in the passive or plausible reality , " explained Nkiru Nzegwu , professor of philosophy and art history at the State University of New York at Binghamton , during the opening panel , " The Defining Characteristics of African American Craft Art . " " Instead it talks about how we understand ourselves , and how in understanding ourselves we position our objects or creations to stand for us . It is at that point that I see most of the works of the artists and sculptors charting the direction  --  defining the world , picking up on the main concepts that are important to human life through their work , and using the work to speak for the larger community . " THE POWER OF PERSONAL VISION The guest curator of the " Uncommon Beauty " exhibit , ceramist Willis " Bing " Davis , concurred . " I have gone to many craft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the marketplace sort of dictating what was in that year , " Davis observed . " I have seen craftsmen making changes and jumping through hoops because they were concerned about being accepted . " I 've often felt and said that as a result of the difficulty of surviving in this society , the African American craftsman , and African American artists in general , have indirectly received a special ability . Because doors were closed and opportunities often were not presented , because the broader community did not embrace , nurture , preserve and reward , these craftsmen often went ahead and did what they felt they should do . As a result , their integrity came forth , and it is that integrity that gives their pieces their uniqueness , their life force . I believe that eventually those individuals whose contributions are acknowledged will be those who insisted on maintaining their own personal vision . " SYMBOLS AND SURVIVAL Artistic symbols and artists ' survival were the subjects examined at the Saturday morning panels . In one room , fiber sculptors Marcella Welch and Xenobia Bailey , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion entitled " Economic Issues for Artists " ( or as Jones-Henderson put it , " a blueprint for bringing the cottage craft out of the college craft and into the corporate world " ) . To inspire consumers to embrace craft as a viable part of their daily lives , Bailey presented plans for a model home using African-influenced objects , shapes and motifs . Jones-Henderson discussed the public art commissions he has received and the principles at play in their actualization . Sin , who " tried five years to get into the ACC shows , " talked about the issues of salesmanship and creating work that is both honest and marketable . Leslie King Hammond , director of graduate studies at the Maryland Institute , College of Art , moderated the discussion of " Africanisms and African Retentions " in an adjoining conference room . Howard University 's art department chair , Floyd Coleman , shared insights into recent craft scholarship and the challenges awaiting African American art historians . Frank Cummings explored African symbols and retentions in his own turned and carved wood vessels , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curator of the African American Cultural and Historical Museum of Washtenaw County in Ann Arbor , Michigan , discussed the influence of African folklore and spirituality apparent in the ceramic work of Bing Davis and the fiber creations of Betty Leacraft . Rosalind Jeffries , an art historian and instructor at City College of New York , focused on historical African American quilts and the need to examine such early works carefully to identify Africanisms . Ceramist Yvonne Tucker described the creative partnership she had shared with her late husband , Curtis Tucker , and how their increased awareness of Africanisms transformed their pottery into spirit vessels . At that morning 's third panel , " Exhibiting African American Craft Art , " moderated by Francis Equaroje , curator of the African Heritage Center at North Carolina 's AT &T; State University , the participants  --  Nannette Acker Clark , director of Philadelphia 's Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum , enamelist Angela Franklin , Kenneth Young of the Smithsonian Institution and Barry Gaither , director and curator of Boston 's Museum of the National Center of Afro-American Artists  --  presented insights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more successfully with museum and gallery professionals . INGENUITY AGAINST THE ODDS " Sometimes they put a hump in your back and you do n't straighten up " til you get down the road , " quipped Philip Simmons , an 82-year-old blacksmith , in the luncheon address . Resilience , determination and professionalism were the keys that the Charleston , South Carolina , resident urged his fellow artisans to retain as he conducted a slide presentation/tour of his astonishing creations . With easygoing alacrity Simmons described the early crisis which led to the discovery of his artistry . " When I was working in the blacksmith 's shop , people would come by whenever anybody bought a car , " he recalled . " ' Blacksmithing is a lost art , what are you going to do ? ' they would say to me . I talked to the man who had trained me , and he said , " Just keep your head , there will always be something for a good blacksmith to do . ' " I kept hearing the words " lost art , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what happened after the horses left .... " The slide projection of a horse and buggy was replaced with one of an elaborate wrought iron gate . The audience cheered , sighed , applauded  --  all were hoping for a happy ending . " I used the same hammer and the same coal , " Simmons reported proudly , " but I had to get out and use my mind and my imagination to create a job of my own . " Later , when the demand for gates declined , he employed the same ingenuity and expanded into the realm of deluxe burglar bars . Were there problems along the way ? Sure , Simmons admitted , but he attributed his continued success to a simple axiom . " The customer is boss , " he stated several times during his presentation , lest anyone forget . THE CASE FOR A MULTIETHNIC HISTORY The artist demonstrations following the luncheon had many racing from the hotel 's basement , where David MacDonald threw a pot while quietly captivating observers with his story of survival , to a first-floor conference room in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvisational beadwork , to an upstairs balcony upon which metalsmith John P. Beckley amazed onlookers by casting a bronze mask using the lost-wax process and his own inventive setup : an electric furnace and a five-gallon paint bucket . " I simply made a coffeepot that melts bronze , " Beckley explained . Five concurrent sessions followed : " Traditional Pottery in Ipetumodu " with ceramist Winnie Owens-Hart ; " The Influence of Folk Art on Craft " with William Wiggins , Jr . of Indiana University 's Folklore Institute and fiber artist Raymond Dobard ; " African Craftsmanship and Historical African American Craft " with ceramist Ampofo-Anti ; " Legal Issues for Craft Artists " with attorney Leonard DuBoff ; and " Critical Analysis " with Nkiru Nzegwu and architect Richard Dozier . This last panel launched a heated debate after it was mentioned that the American Craft Museum intends to document craft in the 20th century and is seeking multiethnic participation . Some artists insisted that this time frame ignores the early contributions and influence of African Americans on the nation 's craftsmanship , and further , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artisans by the legal and apprenticeship systems . An American Craft Museum curator , April Kingsley , took center stage to persuade those present of the museum 's good intentions . She was unsuccessful . Unexpectedly , the Craft Museum 's project had touched the conference 's central nerve : the necessity for multiethnic representation at the inception , and in the research and decision making that leads to presentations of the nation 's craft art . Defining American craft art without such input , it was reiterated , sorely limits the examination of craft expressions to those achievements recognized by the mainstream , thereby cheating the entire field of its exciting scope and potential . " If we are going to connect with the established crafts community , then that community is going to have to acknowledge and respect us as a community , as a creative tradition , " said Marvin Sin . " Without that , they will miss all that this represents  --  the body of spirit and history that has the potential of revitalizing and energizing the development of craft in America . " " WE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning 's closing session . Many participants , until now in the background , expressed additional concern for the future of African American craft art  --  notably , the need to encourage greater student awareness and artist mentoring . As the moderators , led by John Fleming , took notes and responded to comments from the speakers , others present passed around their " Uncommon Beauty " exhibit catalogs with a deftness reminiscent of high school . What had started out that weekend as a memento of the artists featured in its pages had become a sort of yearbook , in which old and new friends were welcomed to jot down a few words of appreciation . " Some new people coming in think that they 're going to see some intellectuals and some nice little craftspeople get together , " observed Rosalind Jeffries . " But some of us were 20 and 25 years old when we met , and now we 're over 50 . We have grown together . Each of us knows what the other thinks . As creative people we look through each other 's eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . " I think that this is probably the same reality that existed during the era of slavery . People knew that the potter was over here , the seamstress and the blacksmith over there , but nevertheless , some kind of communication took place . That in essence became the Underground Railroad . What we 're seeing here today is our Overground Railroad . " Sharon Fitzgerald , a free-lance writer based in New York City , has contributed to American Visions , Essence and other magazines . A selection of lectures delivered at the symposium " Toward Definition : An Examination of African American Craft Art " have been published in the January/February 1994 issue of The International Review of African American Art , available for $12 from the National Afro-American Museum and Cultural Center , which also offers related videos , slides and teaching kits . To order , call 1-800-BLKHIST . <p>                     