@@414590

What will society look like under the evolving institutions of interactive multimedia technologies , which are still in their infancy ? One probable  --  if not inevitable  --  change resulting from advances in communications has to do with the nature of news : The media will transform both the message and what we do with it . Turbonews is a term I coined to describe the vast masses of news and information that can now reach us at the speed of light . Rapid technological changes are occurring in mass communication , and media executives resemble drivers at the start of an Indy car race , rushing to jump-start their turbonews vehicles and push them onto the infobahn . Turbonews is the result of these advances now being embraced by very new and different media . The birth and development of fiber optics , communication satellites , and CD-ROM technology will have far wider impacts on journalism than even television had . In fact , there is a definite sort of B.C./A.D. turning point represented here : before computers and after disks . To be sure , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affect the mass media . The past three decades have seen advances in newsgathering and processing technologies ranging from offset presses to electronic newsgathering equipment and satellite news vans . Why make such a bold statement about this latest round of technical wizardry ? Because up to now , the changes all went together to produce the same forms of news product : either an ink-on-paper , hard-copy journal or a strictly electronic program . The latest round of changes promises a new multimedia format with characteristics of both print and electronic media . Another important difference is that print and television journalism produce information for mass audiences , while the new media de-massify  --  even personalize  --  information consumption . By changing media formats , we change the way information is gathered , presented , processed , and quite possibly the way consumers are affected by it . For instance , with the turbonews-gathering process of on-line newspapers and magazines , the reporter is working under a more immediate deadline , much the same as the live television correspondent does . But accuracy and speed mix about as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with examples of stories that would have been great if only they had been true . Unfortunately , with the advent of turbonews and real-time reporting , and the rush to create a medium that is instantly accessible by users , accuracy can suffer greatly . Commenting on the effect that television 's live coverage of the Gulf War was having on Americans , ABC television 's media analyst Jeff Greenfield wrote in 1991 : We watch almost hypnotically ... and yet we watch with a growing sense of frustration , a hunger to hear every fragment of information linked with the knowledge that much of what we learn we will unlearn in the next half hour . With turbonews , you take a product like a newspaper or magazine that relies on linear thinking and transmogrify it into what is essentially a nonlinear video program , such as the newsmagazines have experimented with via their CD-ROM versions , complete with video boxes and narrators . Turbonews thus imitates television in trying to deliver the **28;599;TOOLONG experience . Yes , there are still words on the screen that could conceivably be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the use ( and therefore success ) of multimedia services often rises and falls on the video , graphics , and quality of color , speed , and movement of each . The Knowledge Gap The new information media may actually be making us dumber . Communication theorist Marshall McLuhan warned that television is helping to destroy literacy . Turbonews could make things worse . The power of CD-ROMs to store massive amounts of information and the hyperspeed ability of fiber-optic technology to deliver all this to the user is astounding . We could become a much more learned and informed society if we took advantage of all this information . But the average American now spends less than half an hour a day reading a newspaper . Will people really go to the trouble of accessing the vast amounts of information that may become available instantaneously in the years ahead ? The gap between the knowledge available and the knowledge assimilated might actually increase instead of decrease . Some observers conclude that , despite what information overload can do to us , having more information is better than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widening knowledge gap  --  that between the haves and have-nots  --  is the result of the rising cost of accessing information . Television used to be free ; now viewers must pay to subscribe to most of the channels . Users must also pay to subscribe to on-line databases such as Prodigy and CompuServe . Nexis and Lexis cost even more , and search time for most databases is very expensive . The average magazine sells for $3 or more , and even the daily newspaper costs 50c . People with less income will likely receive much less information than people with higher incomes . Each of these parallel gaps-income and knowledge  --  will increasingly exacerbate the other . A rising diffusion of information in a society will lead to increasing knowledge gaps among individuals who live in different socioeconomic sectors of society . Social groups occupying lower-strata positions may gain information , but not as fast as those people in higher-strata groups . Therefore , the predictive element here is socioeconomic class : The richer classes will be able to receive more information than the poorer classes . Thinking Skills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also affect traditional critical thinking skills . In the pre-television era , when the print media were the dominant vehicle for news , information , and entertainment , one set of critical thinking skills was needed . Many assumed it was the only kind needed . It was a time when we could read the assertions of writers and take time to evaluate them for their veracity . The same was true in print advertising : Claims could be made , and we could sit and ponder their logic . Telling the difference between truth and lies has never been an easy matter , but it did seem easier when we were reading claims instead of being subjected to a multitude of fleeting images  --  many having a screen life of only a few seconds , or even fractions of seconds . The kind of information media that people use exerts a strong influence on the type of education that society should be providing-if part of education 's goal is to help students discern truth from lies . Television analyst Neil Postman writes : If , for example , we were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discourse were a product of the printing press , and an oratory rooted in the printed word , then it would make sense to educate our students in logic , rhetoric , and semantics , and leave it at that . He adds , however , that this type of education  --  while still useful  --  is inadequate to meet the needs that the age of turbonews has thrust upon us . We need electronic literacy for the electronic age . Such electronic literacy training would provide insight into the ways and means television uses to create imagery and substantiate its assertions . Its purpose would be to provide a kind of behind-the-scenes look at how video images are made , much like an English teacher might diagram a sentence to show students its various components . It would be like showing how a magician performs tricks . The point of this training would be to demystify what seems to be a startling end result . Simply watching television does n't provide this insight any more than watching a skillful magician shows audiences that what they see is n't really magic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the ways in which moving sights and sounds connect with our senses and how that is different from a more linear connection . For example , Michael Deaver , media aide to former President Ronald Reagan , has explained how he manipulated the visual messages coming out of the White House . Deaver was in charge of providing the president 's photo opportunities to the media on a daily basis . These photo ops were carefully created to present pleasing images of the president , and often they were used to counterbalance negative stories about him . One example was when the day 's news was going to be that housing starts were down nationwide . To counteract that , he arranged for Reagan to fly to Fort Worth , Texas , and walk through a new home that was being constructed . Television followed dutifully and matched that video with the reporter 's story about housing starts . Even though the audio portion of the story was that housing was in a slump , what viewers saw was President Reagan touring a home under construction . The viewers may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more powerful . Thus , the impression left in many minds was , " Hmm , housing starts must be up . " Deaver concludes , " In the battle behyeen the eye and the ear , the eye wins every time . " That is why educating students in a new kind of literacy  --  and new kind of critical thinking skills-is so important . Every election year , viewers choose their officeholders more on the basis of manipulated and carefully crafted visual imagery than on a more substantive basis . Postman recommends that students get a course in media ecology , which would focus on how the media control the form , distribution , and direction of information and thus the cognitive and behavioral patterns of viewers . Turbo-Consciousness Still another possible effect of the new media is what psychologist Kenneth T. Gergen has called postmodern consciousness . He uses this concept to describe the syndrome of Americans who are so bombarded with a multitude of media images , personalities , and relationships that they have trouble hanging on to their own personal identity and recognizing the authenticity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind postmodernism is technology  --  notably communication technologies " that shower us with social relationships both direct and vicarious . " Included in these technological applications are the telephone , radio , television , motion pictures , mass publication , photocopier , cassette recordings , CDs , satellite transmission , the VCR , computer , fax , and mobile telephone . These technologies give us instant access to the world at large . " No longer is our social existence tied to a small town , a suburban community , or an urban neighborhood , " Gergen warns . " Rather , as we wake to Good Morning , America , read the papers , listen to radio talk shows , ... answer faxes and electronic mail , ... take an evening graze through cable-TV channels , we consume and are consumed by a social world of unbounded proportion . We are exposed to more opinions , values , personalities , and ways of life than was any previous generation in history . ... There is , in short , an explosion in social connection . " That explosion could result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gergen and others warn that we could see the collapse of a centered self as the mass media must accommodate multiple audiences . A man in today 's environment must simultaneously demonstrate professional responsibility , soft and romantic sensitivity , macho toughness , and family dedication ; he must have expertise in sports , politics , software , the stock market , mechanics , food , and wine ; he must have a circle of friends , a fitness program , the right CDs , interesting vacation plans , and an impressive car . On the other hand , these expanding technologies also offer a large possibility for positive human development , Gergen points out . Women today have many strong role models depicted in the media that did not exist a half century ago . Some images are true and some are false , but at least there are more for women to choose from . Global Village or Tower of Babel ? Will multimedia and turbonews give us the global village that Mar shall McLuhan and his co-author Harold Innis envisioned would result from the growth and spread of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western programming invaded other cultures and , over time , brought them in line with Western values and behavior . It would be a world shrunk by a ubiquitous medium that delivered a more uniform type of cultural language and set of values through popular programming and informational content . On the other hand , communication technologies may create a Tower of Babel in which everyone , instead of speaking the same cultural language , is speaking radically different languages and pursuing radically different interests . This scenario can already be seen in magazines , which have moved from general-interest , mass-circulation to narrow-interest , small-circulation products . This specialization , which began in earnest in the 1970s , has led to a plethora of magazines targeted at thousands of special interests and tastes , most of which are very narrowly defined . And the " de-massing " trend has been emulated by cable television and other media . Someday soon , a typical family could come together around the dinner table , fresh from perusing distinctly different magazines and CD-ROMS , watching distinctively different cable-TV channels and videos , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have absolutely nothing in common to talk about . Work in the Multimedia Age Multimedia communication technologies will profoundly alter the way we work in the decades ahead . In a virtual workplace , your office is no longer defined by one specific location . The integration of computers , telephone modems , fax machines ( fixed and portable ) , mobile phones , conference phone calls , and videoconferencing all make it possible for you to take your office wherever you go . Journalists , for instance , no longer must return to the newsroom to write and file their stories . They simply pull out their laptops , attach a phone modem , and transmit the written copy right into the editor 's computer . The creation of a workplace virtually anywhere that workers choose is becoming at least a partial solution to other vexing problems , such as providing day care for children . Parents can work at home , while their children play in another room . The virtual workplace could also change the demographic landscape of nations , since companies no longer must locate in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connected to phone lines or can bounce signals off communication satellites , headquarters can be located anywhere . Thus , clothing manufacturer Patagonia locates its customer-service staff in Montana , and Citicorp has put its credit-card operations in South Dakota . About the Author Jim Willis is the Hardin Professor of Journalism at the University of Memphis and former chair of the Communication Department at Boston College . His address is Department of Journalism , 300 Meeman Journalism Building , The University of Memphis , Memphis , Tennessee 38152 . Telephone 901/678-2401 ; fax 901/678-4287 . He is the author of The Age of Multimedia and Turbonews ( Praeger , 1994 ) , which is available from the Futurist Bookstore for $18.95 ( $16.95 for Society members ) , cat . no . B-1836 . To order , use the coupon on page 52 . <p>                     