@@410480

In a widely used ecumenical creed Christians routinely state that we believe in God , the creator of all that is  --  seen and unseen . The Bible opens with the statement that God created the heavens and the earth " in the beginning . " Apparently , as long as humans have been thinking they have found it fascinating to ask questions about the beginnings of the universe . How long ago was the beginning ? How was creation accomplished ? What was it like in the earliest times ? Questions such as these form one meeting ground for science and religion . Science in the 20th century has been interested in the origins of all things . The field of science engaged in this study is cosmology . Cosmology is different from most other sciences  --  first , because our universe is unique , and second , because it is so big . Scientific experiments usually involve the criterion of repeatability : unless one can repeat an experiment many times and get nearly the same result each time , people will not believe what one claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we see is the only one we have . Furthermore , most of our universe involves planets , stars and galaxies that are so far from us that we can not do controlled experiments on them . All we can do is observe through telescopes the things that happened in those far-off places . And because light takes a long time to travel ( four or so years from the nearest star to here ) , the events we see took place a long time ago ; there is no way we can experimentally manipulate such happenings . Given these limitations in scientific cosmology , it 's not entirely surprising that the nature of the universe 's beginning has been debated by scientists along two competing lines : continuous creation vs. single-event creation . Before 1964 the continuous-creation theories appeared to be winning . Many of those championing this view were committed to an antireligious viewpoint . They typically described the universe as having neither beginning nor end . The observation ( by Edwin Hubble in the 1920s ) that all parts of the universe seem to be receding from each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation of new matter on a spontaneous basis . According to this type of theory , the universe looks the same whenever or from wherever it is viewed . The contrary view , that the universe was created in a single event once and for all and has been evolving since then , received a scientific basis in the early 1920s when a Russian named Aleksandr Aleksandrovich Friedmann discovered that Einstein 's equations of general relativity allow the possibility that all of space , time and matter can flow out of a single point of space-time . This groundbreaking discovery was published in the U.S.S.R. but went unnoticed in the West . A few years later the same discovery was made independently by a Belgian physicist named Georges Lemaitre who was also a Roman Catholic priest . The irrepressible Russian physicist George Gamow later coined the name " big bang " for this single event of creation , and Lemaitre has often been called , because of both his scientific and religious roles , " the father of the big bang . " Although the theoretical foundations of the big bang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compelling scientific reason to reject continuous creation until the 1960s , when Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson were studying microwaves at AT &T; Bell Labs . Microwaves are essentially light waves , but at so low a frequency and so long a wavelength that the human eye can not see them . They form the basis of radar for aircraft navigation and also for rapid cooking in the kitchen . Penzias and Wilson were trying to build the best microwave receiver ever built . As part of an an effort to establish how good it was , they pointed it to a patch of sky devoid of stars , hoping to get no signal . Instead they got a continual noise ; furthermore , the noise persisted no matter what part of the sky they checked . It appears that microwaves are distributed evenly throughout all of space , although at a very low level quantitatively and at a correspondingly low temperature  --  2.8 Celsius degrees above absolute zero . There is no way that a continuous-creation theory can account for such a uniformly distributed radiation . If a continuous creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zero a long , long time ago . Big-bang theories , on the other hand , provide a natural explanation for these microwaves . Such theories suggest that sometime after the big bang , radiation appeared at a very high temperature . The subsequent expansion of the universe then caused this radiation to cool down almost uniformly to the levels we observe today . This explanation follows from the findings of Penzias and Wilson , and it also coheres nicely with Hubble 's observation about the constantly expanding universe . Microwave radiation in Hubble 's universe should behave just as big-bang theory suggests : it should continue to cool down as the universe expands , and its temperature should vary depending on when you measure it . Penzias and Wilson shared a Nobel Prize in physics for their discovery ; ever since , the big bang has been strongly favored as the best scientific description of the origin of the universe . Measurements of the microwave background in the sky have consistently showed that all parts of the sky send us the same quantity and quality of microwave radiation  --  until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was reported by scientists who used a satellite called COBE ( Cosmic Background Explorer ) designed to get above the earth 's atmosphere in order to study radiation that does not reach us through the blanket of air surrounding our planet . Data from COBE showed large-scale regions of space where the temperature differs very slightly from the average  --  so slightly that early measurements were too coarse to detect the difference . The popular press began to resound with headlines such as " The Handwriting of God " ( Newsweek ) or " A Look Back to the Beginning of Time " ( U.S. News &; World Report ) or " Echoes of the Big Bang " ( Time ) . The observation was likened to seeing ripples of the big bang , and leading scientists were quoted on how this latest observation served to support their own view of cosmology . Good press , but the observations should n't be that astonishing . One likely interpretation of the varying temperature of space simply strengthens the big bang 's hold on contemporary cosmology . If the universe did not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existed , then any variation in microwave radiation should have been eliminated a very long time ago . In other words , the wrinkles of the universe would have been flattened by now . If on the other hand there was a definite beginning to things , the wrinkles would have been decreasing in time , but they would have not yet completely vanished . If one thinks about the early universe , it seems not entirely surprising that these deviations from uniformity should exist . There are at least two separate reasons for thinking so . First , the universe can be likened to a bubble of air that is released at the bottom of a very large container of water . The act of releasing can be a metaphorical big bang . As the bubble rises in the water it expands , just as the universe has done . Now a bubble of air rising in water is close to spherical , but it is never perfectly so . It is too much to expect perfection in such a case , and so it should n't be especially startling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that COBE detected variations in the microwave temperature from various directions around the sky . The second reason to expect nonuniformity is that the universe is broken up into clusters . Stars themselves are not evenly distributed around the sky , so why should anything else be uniform ? Such deviations aside , astrophysicists have derived a coherent picture of the universe from observations of visible light from stars and from invisible light  --  infrared , ultraviolet , microwaves , X-rays . About 15 billion years ago there was a prodigious event , the big bang , that gave rise to the universe . The details of events that happened in the earliest fractions of a second are still under debate because there is no single theory that can describe space , time and matter under the terribly cramped conditions of the universe just after the big bang . There are only incomplete sketches of possible theories , most of which call for a rapid expansion of the early universe ( " inflation " ) , followed by a clumping of matter into stars , galaxies , clusters and superclusters as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other at high speed . At this point in the discussion many people with a religious background will be tempted to feel triumphant : the way modern cosmological science has discovered a starting point for the universe proves that the Bible was right all along . For several reasons it would be wise to resist this temptation . 1 ) The theory of the big bang is winning now , but there is no assurance that it will keep a permanent scientific grip on cosmology in the future . What if new scientific discoveries were to revive interest in some altered form of continuous creation ? 2 ) Given that the big-bang theory is basically correct , the problem of working out the details of the early universe still exists . One high-profile version of the big-bang theory , proposed by Stephen Hawking , involves a redefinition of the concept of time . As a result , Hawking 's theory appears to deny a specific starting time for the universe and so is not really consistent with many people 's idea of a unique event of creation . 3 ) The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only biblical account of creation . Different creation stories may " fit " more closely with other scientific accounts of the world 's beginning . Other accounts do exist ( such as Genesis 2 , Job 38 , Psalm 104 and the first chapter of the Gospel of John ) , each with its own perspective on God 's role as creator . Genesis 1 is by no means the oldest of these accounts . It is , of course , the most familiar because of its favored position at the beginning of the Bible and because of its universal themes and its majestic language . It is also the most explicit in pointing to a unique origin of the universe , as seems consistent with the big-bang theories . Further , Genesis 1 is correspondingly less concerned with God 's sustaining action than other parts of the biblical narrative . Both science and religion have often dealt with beginnings as though God were Creator and nothing more , as in deism . The metaphor of " clockmaker " for this kind of God has been used almost since the invention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's relationship to the cosmos too closely with the big-bang theory may give undue warrant to a contemporary deist-like conception of God . And certainly the God of the Bible  --  both Old and New Testaments  --  is more than the deist 's clockmaker or the big bang 's cosmic explosives expert . The biblical tradition teaches that God sustains the universe subsequent to creation ; God cares for the universe and loves it . If the big bang were to fall out of scientific favor to be replaced by a resurgent form of continuous creation , it might very well happen that the sustaining aspect of God 's creative activity would receive appropriate and needed emphasis . Scientific cosmology is not concerned only with origins and beginnings , however . Even with all the attention given to the world 's earliest moments , scientific inquiry about endings is also becoming a more respectable topic . Will the galaxies continue to fly apart ? Or will they come back together again ? How will the universe end ? Over the centuries , religious people have frequently speculated about the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this topic ; the most famous is the Apocalypse , or the Book of Revelation . Unfortunately , although an apocalypse is supposed to disclose and reveal , the biblical examples seem better designed to conceal . Daniel , Ezekiel , II Peter and Revelation were all written to encourage believers during times of hardship and persecution . They envisioned an end to current oppression , but they could not afford to speak too explicitly for fear of provoking more persecution as a consequence of their resistance to the secular regime . In any case , biblical and scientific speculation on the end-times constitute quite distinct approaches to the subject matter . Scientists can present various scenarios for the end of the world , although it is not possible for them to say which will turn out to be correct . In some scenarios the end of the world is construed according to short-term or abrupt causes , such as nuclear holocaust , large-scale chemical pollution , or extinction of humans from some new disease against which we have no immunity and for which there is no cure . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an asteroid or a large comet . In the relatively longer term , if we manage to escape all these horrors , our descendants will one day have to live under a sun that is growing into a red giant  --  eventually becoming so large that it will engulf Mercury , Venus and Earth . Humans can in principle survive this catastrophe by migrating to some place farther from the sun . Perhaps one of the satellites of Jupiter or Saturn could serve the purpose . A long time later the sun will have burned all its fuel and will cool off to the point that all the planets of our solar system will be too cold to sustain life . Humans will have to migrate to some other star system in order to survive . As for the universe as a whole , cosmologists can calculate that if the total mass of the universe exceeds a certain amount , then all the gravitational attractions of the different parts for each other will cause the expanding universe to slow down , turn around and begin to contract . Then all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will recede back upon itself in what is called the " big crunch . " Life as we know it could never survive such a shock . But the big crunch is not the only end-of-the-world scenario suggested by scientists . It may be that the universe does not have enough mass to turn things around . In that case , the expansion of the universe will proceed without limit . The microwave radiation that is now 2.8 Celsius degrees above absolute zero will cool to even lower values . Everything else will cool off also , leading to what is sometimes called " heat death " for the entire universe . Which will it be ? The best measurements of the mass of the universe are terribly uncertain , and they point to a figure that is right on the border between the big crunch and heat death . It should be emphasized that astronomers do not even know how much mass is in our own galaxy , the Milky Way ; so any estimate of the mass of the universe needs to be treated with considerable skepticism . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or heat death , since it will take at least 20 billion years for either one to occur . Since we will very likely die before the end of the world anyway , what difference do these speculations make ? And why should we care about the big bang , since it happened so very long ago ? My answer to this type of question involves an affirmation of belief in God as the creator of time , space , matter , visible light and invisible light . God created the universe to run according to certain principles that are sometimes called the laws of nature . They are subtle and interesting , at least the ones we know about . The more we know about these laws , the more we know about the mind of God . Scientists are in the business of trying to find out as much as they can about these laws or principles of nature , to discover new ones , to establish new relationships among principles that are already known . Hardly anything excites a scientist so much as discovering that two or more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences of one overarching principle . In the 19th century there occurred an example of one theory subsuming several others in such a wonderful way that much of modern theoretical physics has been inspired by it . For centuries electricity , magnetism and light were understood at an elementary level as separate subjects of investigation . In the early part of the 19th century hints began to appear that a connection existed between electricity and magnetism . Then in the 1860s the existing information was arranged and augmented by a devout Christian from Scotland named James Clerk Maxwell who established a set of equations now known by his name . Maxwell 's equations joined electricity and magnetism so thoroughly that they will never again be separated by physicists . Furthermore , the theory of light  --  both visible and invisible light  --  is a straightforward consequence of the Maxwellian theory . In our century considerable progress has been made along similar lines in theoretical physics . New phenomena are discovered , and then it is shown how they can be integrated into larger and more elegant schematic principles of nature . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to a widespread conviction that there is indeed a pattern to nature . We do not yet know the pattern fully , but we have figured out certain portions of it . And the subpatterns that have emerged appear so interesting and beautiful that it is natural to assume that the portions still unknown and yet to be discovered will be equally rewarding when we finally understand them . It is the expectation of finding new and interesting insights of subtle beauty that mainly drives those whose research is in pure science . If they were interested in fame or money , they would do better to follow the route of applied science  --  to patent new inventions to improve the quality of life for us all . Beyond encouraging a conviction about nature 's pattern , reflection on scientific discoveries has encouraged the view among both scientists and nonscientists that God as Creator exists , and that creation has been endowed with a rare and subtle beauty . Such a view in no way assumes that God must exist . It is not a position which claims to rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , a proof from design . Science can not prove the reality of God the Creator . It is possible , however , to state with basic consistency one 's faith in God who created in exquisite detail the universe to operate reliably according to principles that we know in part . Furthermore , this faith readily includes a trust in God who loves and sustains the created universe , including , and especially so , human beings , and who will not abandon us , no matter which of the scientific scenarios of the end may come about . John R. Albright , professor of physics at Florida State University in Tallahassee , is a visiting scholar at the Chicago Center for Religion and Science . <p>                     