@@409921

When we think of what makes somebody unique , we not only call forth an image of what he or she looks like  --  blond hair and blue eyes , for example  --  but we see this image flavored by that person 's particular personality . Some have a dour , pessimistic temperament while others seem perpetually cheerful . Many of us know people who are impulsive , doing things without really thinking about their consequences , while others may seem odd  --  a bit out of step . Yet while we 're accustomed to thinking of personality as something that is shaped by early experiences , primarily with parents and other caregivers , researchers are now discovering specific genetic and biologic factors that flavor normal personality and may play an important role in the development of personality disorder  --  just as they do for the color of one 's eyes or hair . The idea of a biology of temperament  --  that is , the innate tendencies toward how someone relates to their environment  --  is not a new one . We have now , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we can begin to explore the underlying mechanisms that contribute to specific temperamental styles . New tools to probe brain chemicals , as well as new imaging techniques to actually visualize how the brain works , allow scientists to get a dearer idea of how individual differences in brain functioning might contribute to differences in personality . While temperament may be present at birth , personality develops , through ongoing experience , over the course of a lifetime . Personality is a complex constellation of traits , coping strategies , and defenses against seemingly built-in vulnerabilities . Some people struggle through life , for example , because they fly off the handle too easily ; others seem to be born already armed with a set of defensive tools to combat life 's difficulties . In our laboratory , we try to identify and evaluate certain traits to discover how they relate to personality and its related disorders and discomforts . Frank was a middle-age man who came to our evaluation program because his boss suggested he seek psychiatric treatment . He was a good accountant but nevertheless was always passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Quiet and conservative , he rarely made eye contact with colleagues and when faced with pressure or deadlines , he would perceive coworkers ' questions as intrusive and become angry and abusive . He generally felt misunderstood by others and considered himself a loner . When he completed the testing program , I reviewed some of the findings with Frank . I explained to him that his ability to organize information seemed to decline rapidly when he was under stress and became upset . At this point he would lash out at what he imagined was the source of his distress , often finding meanings in events or comments where they were not warranted . In the course of our discussion , Frank began to feel that some of his angry behavior and peculiarities were finally being understood by someone . He also latched on to the idea that a chemical imbalance in his brain may have caused his problem . I explained that much of our research was still preliminary , but that , with proper medication , the disorganization he experienced under stress ( which was causing many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THREE KEY TRAITS While a knowledge of the biology of the brain and its relation to personality will not allow us to predict an individual 's behavior , it may offer us a vocabulary to understand why some people are more prone to outbursts of anger , for instance , while others are painfully shy and fearful of social contact . In addition , understanding the biologic vulnerabilities to traits such as impulsivity or irritability may also help physicians to identify medications that will reduce these troublesome tendencies . It should also help them find more adaptive solutions to their life dilemmas . In our program , we focus on three personality traits  --  impulsivity , emotional reactivity ( which can also be thought of as sensitivity or irritability ) , and eccentricity  --  in people whose disturbed thoughts , feelings , and/or behaviors are severe enough that they result in problems at work or in their relationships . In their extreme form of expression  --  when they are not episodic but characteristic of how someone relates to the world around them  --  these traits are analogous to more serious mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kleptomania ; emotional reactivity to depression ; and eccentricity to schizophrenia . In order to better define the biologic bases of certain personality disorders , we have focused on individual differences in neurotransmitter systems and their relation to these key traits . The first trait , impulsivity ( a tendency to act aggressively rather than reflect ) , rather consistently appears to relate to brain chemistry . Abnormalities in one of the brain 's messenger systems  --  the release and uptake of serotonin ( a neurotransmitter involved in aggression and ambition , among other functions )  --  have been found in people who get into trouble because they act without thinking . They may be irritable and get into fights ; experience stormy , unstable relationships ; or have trouble with alcohol and drugs . New drugs such as fluoxetine ( Prozac ) , which prolong the effect of serotonin by slowing its reuptake in the brain , might be beneficial in improving not only mood but also the tendency toward impulsive , aggressive , or self-destructive behavior . The second key trait , emotional reactivity or sensitivity , seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood pressure , stimulates heart rate , and sharpens perceptual processing in response to new events , especially those that may be threatening or dangerous . In our preliminary studies , we found that people with overactive norepinephrine systems may be more likely to be the risk-takers of the world , to be irritable or in other ways overreactive to their environment  --  seeking novelty and adventure whenever they can . Lower levels of norepinephrine activity often lead to depression and detachment from life . The third trait , eccentricity , may lead people to appear somewhat odd and experience reality in a peculiar fashion . Some may feel , for example , that they are constantly being watched because they are " bad " ; some may be suspicious or wary of the motivations of others . In these people , increases in the brain chemical dopamine , which is important in initiating and regulating thoughts and behaviors , may be involved . Here , drugs that block the activity of dopamine may mute the suspiciousness and distorted perception of more paranoid individuals , including schizotypal patients  --  that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program at Mt . Sinai , we have developed and are in the process of implementing several specialized tests designed to evaluate people who are troubled by these feelings of impulsivity , emotional reactivity , and/or eccentricity  --  people who have altered perceptions of the world around them and difficulty connecting with others . We use a variety of psychophysiologic , information-processing , neuropsychologic , brain-imaging , and neurochemical tests  --  as well as complete diagnostic , psychologic , and family history evaluations to better understand the biologic roots of these personality traits . SEROTONIN AND IMPULSIVITY At the National Institute of Mental Health ( NIMH ) , in the lab of researcher Dennis Murphy , I worked on a study of hormone responses to a medication called fenfluramine , an anti-obesity agent that causes the brain to release serotonin . This serotonin release in turn stimulates production of a hormone called prolactin . By measuring levels of prolactin in blood samples taken before and after fenfluramine is given , we may get a reflection of serotonin activity in the brain . In the NIMH study , patients who reported feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower levels of serotonin activity . Later , in our work at Mt . Sinai , my colleague , Emil Coccaro , and I found that both depressed and borderline personality disorder patients  --  including those who acted impulsively , exhibited angry outbursts , or had made suicide attempts  --  had the same lowered prolactin response to fenfluramine . In fact , the degree to which the response was blunted , or decreased , was directly proportional to how much the patients exhibited impulsive or aggressive behavior such as getting into fights and losing their temper easily . These results appear to support our belief that reduced serotonin activity contributes to impulsive and/or aggressive behavior . In fact , low serotonin activity might make it harder for people to actually learn from their experiences , especially those with negative consequences , and to turn life 's sometimes difficult lessons into positive methods for improvement . Impulsive or antisocial people do n't seem to respond to punishment , for example , and have trouble suppressing behaviors that are later punished , Joey came to our clinic depressed after losing his job and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major depression , he was upset and angry . A scrapper all his life , as a child he was constantly hauled into the principal 's office for getting into fights . His parents were divorced and he lived with his mother and six brothers and sisters . As a teenager he joined a gang but was really at the margins of the group because of his erratic behavior and hot temper . In his early twenties he married and had two children , but drifted from job to job because he was constantly being fired for getting into arguments with coworkers . Just prior to coming to the hospital for evaluation , he had slammed his fist through a plaster wall . In a rage like this , he reported , he would often throw things , get into fights , or sometimes even take it out on himself by cutting his arm . On his admission into the hospital for testing , his mood varied widely . In our evaluation program on mood and personality disorders , Joey scored high on rating scales for hostility , aggression , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced prolactin responses to fenfluramine we had ever seen , indicating very low serotonin activity . As a result , we started him on fluoxetine . Soon after , his mood improved , his wide fluctuations of emotion were reduced , and he was ultimately discharged from the hospital and followed as an outpatient . NOREPINEPHRINE AND REACTIVITY Another neurotransmitter that may be related to both impulsivity and emotional reactivity is norepinephrine , which acts on other brain systems to enhance the signal of incoming information . Basically , it serves as an arousal system that says , " Pay attention ! This may be important ! " It is particularly reactive to events that act as stressors and is quiet during restitutive functions such as sleeping , resting , or eating . Abnormalities in this system have been suggested to play an important role in depression . Decreased efficiency of this neurotransmitter may be in part responsible for the altered states of arousal , sleep , daily activity , and goal-directed behavior of depression . Since norepinephrine enhances information processing  --  akin to increasing the contrast and intensity of color @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribute to a lack of pleasure and engagement with life , analogous to watching a bland , washed-out picture on TV . In contrast , increased activity may be associated with impulsivity and seeking stimulation in activities such as gambling or sexual promiscuity . Like all neurotransmitters , norepinephrine acts in the nervous system by attaching to specific receptors , initiating a cascade of events in the receiving cell . The responsiveness of these receptors appears to be blunted in people who suffer from major depressive episodes . Here , we test the system by administering clonidine , a medication for high blood pressure . Clonidine acts on one type of norepinephrine receptor to stimulate growth-hormone secretion . By measuring growth hormone in blood samples taken before and after clonidine administration , we may be able to gauge the system 's efficiency . So far , we have found that depressed patients have a more blunted response to clonidine than normal volunteers , while high responses indicate an increase in emotional reactivity or sensitivity . Carol , another patient who came to our clinic for evaluation , had been moody and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ father had been an alcoholic and her mother was frequently depressed . At age 10 she took an overdose of aspirin , and as a teenager she started abusing drugs and was quite promiscuous . By her mid-20s , as a divorced mother , she reported feeling " angry and worthless . " Her relationships were stormy and unstable , usually ending in a violent argument . In her initial interview in our program , she appeared engaging , almost childlike ; however , she became irritable and angry when discussing her boyfriend or child . When we administered the fenfluramine test , we found her prolactin response was lowered , suggesting she had reduced levels of serotonin . Then , when we gave her the clonidine test , we found that she had an exaggerated growth hormone response , which suggested increased norepinephrine responsiveness . The combination of the two may have contributed to her difficulty with feelings of impulsivity and irritability  --  the impulsivity might stem from her low serotonin level and the irritability from her overactive norepinephrine system . After her evaluation , she was started on sertraline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some patients feeling less of a " jittery " side effect . After several days her mood brightened up . Soon she no longer felt the need to abuse drugs and alcohol and felt much more comfortable with herself . DOPAMINE AND ECCENTRICITY Scientists are now trying to understand what might cause the abnormalities in brain structure and function that account for personality traits such as eccentricity , social isolation , and suspiciousness . Some hypothesize that alterations in the development of the brain  --  for example , the migration of nerve cells to their appointed spots  --  may somehow go awry . It is also possible that key chemicals are deficient in regions of the brain such as the frontal lobe . One candidate for such chemical deficiency is dopamine , which seems to be important in the maintenance of " working memory "  --  that is , in holding information on line for further processing . It is precisely this function that is apparently problematic in people with eccentric personalities who have difficulty processing information . On the assumption that making more dopamine available in these regions might improve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information processing task called the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test ( WCST ) after giving them amphetamine  --  a drug that releases dopamine . The WCST is a kind of solitaire game in which subjects must sort a deck of cards marked with four different colors , numbers , and shapes . They are given no rules as to how to initially sort the cards  --  in fact , the rules change periodically throughout the test . Our preliminary results indicated that people with eccentric personality disorders do worse on this test than patients with other personality disorders . In fact , these people actually performed better on the WCST after amphetamine was administered than after a placebo , raising the possibility that dopamine or related chemicals might actually improve their cognitive performance . With further experimentation , we may be able to determine whether long-term administration of medications designed to increase dopamine might help improve the social isolation of eccentric personality types . Paradoxically , too little dopamine in the frontal cortex may be the result of too much in the more primitive areas of the brain-those regions regulating emotions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perception of reality . In fact , people who have taken amphetamines ( as a recreational drug ; ) in too high doses for too long a time may become paranoid , fear others are watching them , or focus on repetitive thoughts and behaviors  --  in effect mimicking those with eccentric disorders . One might imagine the role of dopamine in these people with subtle alterations in brain structure and processing as akin to the powerful amplifier in a stereo system . The static and noise on an old record is similar to the slippage and errors of cognitive processing in the eccentric person . But when such a record is played on a powerful stereo that amplifies the distortions , the result is a horrendous cacophony of sounds , with much of the music being lost . Medications that block the receptors for dopamine appear to " turn down the noise . " Barry was a man in his early 50s who looked perhaps 10 years older than his real age . His shoulders were stooped , he wore ill-fitting pants , a belt that was only partially buckled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pocket . He appeared at the same time out of place and forlorn . He lived alone in an apartment , spending the day doing crossword puzzles and watching TV , going out only occasionally to grocery shop . While Barry never became " clinically " depressed ( such that he lost weight , had a poor appetite or trouble sleeping ) , he derived little pleasure from his life and felt that the rest of humanity was like a passing parade of which he was only an observer . He was wary of others ' motives and rarely confided in anybody . In his initial interview , he showed little emotion and his voice had a flat , monotonous quality . On the WCST , he made numerous errors , but his performance greatly improved after he got amphetamine . It changed little with the placebo . We also performed a spinal lumbar tap to remove and test a sample of cerebral spinal fluid  --  and found that concentrations of a dopamine breakdown product were slightly low , indicating lowered levels of dopamine . I explained to Barry that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as well as holding in and organizing information from his environment . He acknowledged that sometimes he felt " overloaded " and had trouble keeping track of what was happening , and that sometimes , because of this , he worried that others were making fun of him . That was part of the reason , he said , he felt so uncomfortable around people . Barry 's treatment involved taking Wellbutrin , an antidepressant that makes dopamine more available in the brain , in the hopes that increasing his dopaminergic activity might improve his symptoms . " FLYING LESSONS " This model of testing , diagnosis , and treatment , while still hypothetical and based on preliminary evidence , at least illustrates how neurotransmitters  --  the biologic messengers of the brain  --  can act in a negative function to create difficulty and discomfort in people with certain personality disorders . It becomes even clearer , in certain patients , how two neurotransmitters might work in tandem to modulate problematic behaviors such as violence or suicide attempts even across different psychiatric categories . In Carol 's case , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have stemmed from her overactive norepinephrine system , while a deficit in her serotonin activity may have contributed to her impulsive anger and led her into stormy , sometimes violent relationships . The two systems working  --  or not working  --  together , influence the behavioral expression of each other . And when we consider the possibility that there are hundreds of neurotransmitter systems working together in the brain , it seems clear that we 're wired for certain traits that contribute to the overall sum of who we are and how we act . For researchers , the trick is to map out the chart of brain wirings and separate the innate from the environmental  --  and to discover where the " short circuits " are . Newer and newer drugs that act more specifically on a particular " short " are appearing on the market , although further research is needed to test their ability to ease one problem without creating other , more serious discomforts . In addition to the immediate benefits of relief for the patient , medication might also promote the learning of new , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impulsive individual , who can not easily reflect upon the consequences of his behavior , may have difficulty benefiting from psychotherapy alone . Proper medication , though , may permit patients to incorporate more positive ways of interacting  --  in psychotherapy as well as in relationships . In addition , while having a " tantrum " when frustrated or upset may have brought them to the attention of their parents as children , it certainly does n't work for them as adults  --  and can lead to repeated job loss and divorce . So the calming effects of medication may in fact enable people to learn to reflect upon and talk more about their needs and frustrations without short-circuiting to the often inappropriate action that had previously gotten them nowhere . Medication may give them the language they need to communicate in a positive , forward-moving fashion , free of the distortions and angry outbursts that clouded their life beforehand . In the words of one patient , " Medication gave me wings ; now I need to learn how to fly . " Psychotherapy , in this context , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UNDERSTANDING = HELP Finally , a simple understanding of the source of a patient 's underlying temperamental vulnerabilities  --  such as irritability or aggression  --  can help the therapist , family members , spouses , and others close to the patient feel more empathy and have more patience with that person 's particular struggles . We might learn to understand the outbursts of an impulsive person , for instance , because we know he has more difficulty weighing the consequences of his behavior before acting than most of us . We might also have more patience with the knowledge that he is not simply ignoring his punishment  --  whether it be repeated firings or relationship fights  --  but that a chemical deficiency makes it difficult for him to learn from it : His behavior is not simply malevolent but stems from his difficulty in reflecting . ( This does not absolve individual responsibility : He still needs to learn how to compensate for this vulnerability , just as a person with ulcers or diabetes must learn to deal with their illness and watch their diet . ) Similarly , the process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even help the patient understand the vulnerabilities he or she is struggling with , as in Frank 's or Barry 's case . This understanding alone may be beneficial to the patient 's recovery . As we learn more about the biology of the brain , we may become better able to regulate and alter the neurotransmitters important in mood and personality . Of course , some may ask whether people with even " normal " variations could be in some way " improved " with medication , a question often raised in connection with drugs such as Prozac , which has reportedly " transformed " people . While these drugs may be of enormous benefit to those suffering from depression or prone to impulsivity and other disorders , it is not clear what role they would play in those not experiencing any serious distress from these problems . The question , however , is complicated by the fact that a large proportion of the population  --  up to one in five  --  at one time or another may experience some form of depression . Personality disorders are also not as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent , according to some studies . Yes , medications may have an impact on a wider population of people than has been previously imagined . We already know that stimulants such as amphetamine can improve performance and brighten mood in people who may be slightly depressed or fatigued-yet we do not endorse the widespread use of stimulants , nor would they prove appealing to a well-rested , highly functioning person . As we better understand the ways medications modify the brain and help individuals with specific kinds of problems , there will hopefully be a more consensual set of guidelines for the appropriate use of them . Because of the reduced side effects of newer drugs , however , their potential impact on a wide range of psychological and emotional problems seems great . <p>                     