@@409580

In the airy dining room of her sleek , contemporary one-story Scottsdale , Ariz. , home , Sherri Chessen , still youthful looking at 60 , reaches for a copy of The Arizona Republic . " Look at this ! This just shocked me , " she says , pointing to the paper 's fullpage story about debilitated infant victims of fetal alcohol syndrome . It is 30 years since Chessen , then Mrs. Robert Finkbine , herself made headlines by seeking to legally abort a fetus damaged by her ingestion of thalidomide , a tranquilizer then widely prescribed in Europe but whose unforeseen side effects had resulted in some 7,000 babies being born without arms or legs . Chessen 's agonizing dilemma is recounted in A Private Matter , an HBO movie starring Sissy Spacek , to debut on June 20 ( see review , page 13 ) . It is a period in her life that continues to shadow her , and even now she is shaken by the tragedy of drug-impaired children forced to cope with lifelong handicaps . Still , she emphasizes , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the child . They have my love and my empathy . That 's what the choice issue is all about . " In 1962 , 11 years before Roe v. Wade , the historic U.S. Supreme Court decision that would legalize abortion nationwide , the choice was Chessen 's . At the time she was the popular host of Phoenix 's version of Romper Room , the nationally franchised children 's series . A 30-year-old mother of four children ranging in age from 20 months to 7 years , she was two months pregnant with her fifth child . During that period , following highly active sessions with her Romper Room kids , she had taken more than 30 thalidomide pills , which had been prescribed for her husband , Robert Finkbine , a Scottsdale high school history teacher , when he was touring Europe with his students the previous summer . Alarmed by the reports of birth defects , she contacted her obstetrician , Edward Sattenspiel , who informed her there was a 50-50 chance that the baby could be born deformed . Chessen was horrified . And she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severely disabled child along with four healthy kids . So she and Bob sadly decided to terminate the pregnancy . Although Arizona was one of 31 states that banned abortion except when the mother 's life or health was endangered , the law was interpreted flexibly , and a local hospital , Good Samaritan , scheduled Sherri 's operation . But then Chessen , concerned that other pregnant mothers around the country might also be taking the tranquilizer , decided to tell her story to The Arizona Republic , the state 's largest newspaper . Though her name never appeared , the front-page article led publicity-wary hospital administrators to ask a judge to define the legal basis of Chessen 's abortion . The judge declined to rule , but in the process her name leaked out to the press . What ensued was a media free-for-all . The story had spread around the country , and reporters and TV crews swarmed outside the Finkbines ' four-bedroom home , forcing the family to live behind closed drapes for nearly two weeks . Because of the publicity , Chessen soon lost her high-visibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the abortion . Unable to find any other hospital in the U.S. willing to perform it , Sherri and Bob wound up in Stockholm , where she underwent what she then referred to as " the operation . To protect myself , I never called it anything else . " The 12-week-old fetus turned out to have no legs and one arm . Back home , the couple were greeted with obscene phone calls and hate mail so vicious ( " People threatened to cut off the arms and legs of my children , " says Chessen ) that two FBI agents had to move in for a month and escort the two older kids to school . Gradually the hysteria dissipated , and the Finkbines got on with their lives . Six months after her abortion , Sherri returned to local TV with Here 's Sherri , an afternoon magazine show , and then as host of Phoenix After Dark , a late-night talk show . ( She now does animation voice-overs and is negotiating to do local newscast reports about aging . ) But her eldest daughter , Terri @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , remembers Chessen confiding , years after Sweden , that she was having nightmares about an armless baby . " ( Growing up ) I had a strong sense that abortion was only a last resort , " Terri says . " This has really haunted her . " " I knew the emptiness in me had to be filled by another child , " says Chessen . It soon was . In 1965 , Chessen gave birth to a healthy baby , Jody , now 27 and a sportscaster in Idaho . But another pregnancy resulted in miscarriage . Determined to try again , she and Bob produced Kristin , now a bright , strikingly beautiful 22-year-old actress and writer who lives at home . The Finkbines divorced in 1973 . Both say the abortion was not a factor ; in fact , says Sherri , " the time we went through the abortion brought us closer together . We just grew to a point where our differences were greater than what we shared . " ( They remain friends , and Bob , who , at 61 , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) After leaving TV , Chessen opened two clothing boutiques in Scottsdale and then sold real estate in La Jolla , Calif. , moving back to Arizona in 1982 . Now a grandmother of four , she last year married David Pent , 63 , an obstetrician and gynecologist . Even at the height of the turmoil , Chessen never sought therapy . " I probably should have , " she acknowledges . Indeed , the memories of her abortion still reverberate , sometimes painfully . Last month Chessen was to appear on a local TV talk show with two sisters , ages 9 and 11 , who are serving as the " research department " for her and a close friend , illustrator Michele DeLacey , on a series of children 's books that the women are planning . But the girls ' father , who is antiabortion , refused to let his daughters appear in public with Chessen . " I cried my heart out , " she says . " It was like a repetition of Romper Room telling me 30 years ago , " You 're unfit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has helped is belated recognition by the women 's movement . At a 1980 Minneapolis feminist rally , Gloria Steinem hugged Chessen and said , " Poor baby , you had to do it all alone . " Says Chessen : " That gesture made me feel warm and good . " Now Chessen , who is assisting the campaign of her friend Claire Sargent , a pro-choice Arizona Democrat running in her party 's primary for the U.S. Senate , believes advocates and opponents of abortion may " start bridging our differences . " She recalls her anger the day her doctor agreed to see her for a checkup after the abortion  --  provided she enter by the back door . " Now I can use the waiting room , " she says , with a wry smile , " and even read the magazines ! " <p>                     