@@353912

At 9 a.m. last Thursday , Richard Holbrooke strode into the seventh-floor study that U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher favors for informal staff meetings . Like his boss , Holbrooke was in shirt sleeves . But unlike the dapper Christopher , the chief U.S. negotiator on Bosnia looked rumpled and exhausted . More than five weeks of shuttle diplomacy in a bid to bring peace to the Balkans had sapped him of the nervous energy that usually suffuses his ample frame . But if the sparks were not exactly flying off Holbrooke , the news he brought to Washington was electrifying enough . As a clutch of State Department officials peered over his shoulder , he unfolded a map of Bosnia atop Christopher 's desk , took out a ball-point pen and drew a line running from the northern border town of Dvor south to Sanski Most , then snaking southwest to the city of Jajce . <P> What Holbrooke 's rough cartography captured was nothing less than the changing face of the battle for the heartland of Bosnia , which in recent weeks has seen the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country 's Croat-Muslim federation capitalizing on NATO 's bombing campaign . The results of that offensive  --  demarcated on Holbrooke 's map  --  produced a strategic shift on the ground that , working with the grain of U.S. diplomacy , opened the most inviting window of opportunity for peace that Bosnia has seen in years . By the time the Bosnian Serbs had withdrawn most of their heavy guns from around Sarajevo last Wednesday night  --  thus meeting a NATO deadline and staving off renewed air strikes  --  the Croats and Muslims had recaptured nearly 1,500 sq . mi. of disputed real estate and whittled the portion of Bosnia controlled by the Serbs from about 65% to just under 50% . That land grab initially provoked fears that a possible peace agreement was in danger of being wrecked . But by week 's end , the Croat-Muslim federation had put the brakes on its offensive , and suddenly the Clinton Administration appeared tantalizingly close to a diplomatic triumph that could redeem its reputation both at home and abroad . <P> Before the champagne is uncorked , though , numerous problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction takes place this Tuesday when representatives from the so-called Contact Group  --  Germany , France , Russia , Britain and the U.S.  --  meet at the U.N . in New York City with the foreign ministers of Bosnia , Serbia and Croatia . Although a new map of Bosnia and Herzegovina has yet to be drawn , they are expected to announce a breakthrough in defining the complex government structure that will rule over it , if and when peace is signed . Consensus has also been reached on constitutional arrangements for the Serb and Muslim-Croat " entities " inside Bosnia . " It 's an awkward structure , " concedes a State Department official . " But it 's a hell of an improvement over killing people . "                     