@@657585

<p> In Concord Baptist Church in Boston 's South End , the gospel chorus stills each heart in the packed white-and-oak sanctuary with a rendition of " Hush , Someone 's Calling My Name . " Across town in Greater Victory Temple on Blue Hill Avenue , worshippers take turns testifying to the power of the Holy Spirit . Down the road in Mattapan , green-blazered ushers communicate via headsets as they search for any vacant seat among the singing and swaying crowd in New Covenant Christian Center 's third overflow service of the day . The Sabbath is alive and full of praise to God in the city 's black churches - as in similar neighborhoods across America . And whichever the denomination , worship is not a quick one-hour affair , but a mindful , joyous sharing of the Word and a celebration of its living power . But as polls continue to show African-Americans as more religious and more active in their practice than other Americans ( see chart ) , black churches confront new tests that may be as worrisome for them as rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black church is at its most crucial stage since its emergence " in American life , says Forrest Harris Sr. , director of Vanderbilt University 's Kelly Miller Smith Institute on the Black Church in Nashville , Tenn . " It 's struggling with an identity crisis , " insists James Thomas , pastor at Jefferson Avenue Baptist Church in Nashville . While it still ministers to enthusiastic congregations , the church 's historical role is threatened , many worry . It has always been where the whole community came together . Since early slaves found a religious consciousness of freedom that sustained them under the direst circumstances , the church has spearheaded African-American liberation and fueled the creation of a unique , vibrant culture that has left its mark worldwide . Now , not only are large numbers of urban poor growing up " unchurched , " but classism has reared its head , and many young people complain the traditional church is too stuck in its ways . Some are opting for other church experiences or none at all . Since 1992 , the institute has been sponsoring a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be black and Christian - and how to reenvision the church 's message to respond more profoundly to these challenges as well as the social maladies that disproportionately affect the black community . " There will be a generational problem , and there is a growing class problem , " says Lawrence Mamiya , professor of religion and African studies at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie , N.Y . " The largest growing segment of the unchurched in black communities is among young , urban poor males and females . There have been two generations of young people not raised in the black tradition . " Some churches are working hard to reach out , he says , but the class divide is not always easy to overcome , even among " very aware pastors and churches with large social programs . " For example , Abyssinian Baptist Church in New York 's Harlem , a large church of about 8,000 , with many members driving in from other areas , " is having difficulty getting people in the neighborhood to come . " Also , Dr. Mamiya says , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past . " While they have n't yet lost large segments of the population , as have white churches , he says that could happen in the 21st century . Young blacks are very concerned with spiritual questions , says Renita Weems , assistant professor at Vanderbilt Divinity School , but they are n't hung up on denominational boundaries . The cultural environment makes them ambitious to go after what they want , she says , and they want transcendence ; they do n't want to feel like victims or just survivors . Music is a key generational issue - what some call the most divisive issue in churches today , both white and black . " For some youths , the pipe organ seems otherworldly , out of touch with their lives , " says Sherman Tribble , musicologist and a Baptist pastor in Nashville . Music is so essential to the black church - a close second to preaching - that it can be a survival issue . Another trend unsettling some churches is the sign , as in the society as a whole , of shifting allegiances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lose out to more conservative sects - Jehovah 's Witnesses , the Church of God in Christ and other Pentecostals - and to nondenominational megachurches , says Darren Sherkat , a sociologist at Vanderbilt . The number of black megachurches is growing , Mamiya says . Many are part of the neo-Pentecostal movement , and the deep spirituality and more contemporary music appeal to young people . <p> Two preachers about 25 years into their ministries here exemplify the leadership role the church has long played and how it is responding to the challenges . One pastors an 80-year-old Baptist church ; the other , a new megachurch with a multicultural clientele . Both base their ministries on the Bible and are committed to community outreach that has a spiritual foundation . The Rev. Conley Hughes Jr. , in his 11th year as pastor at Concord Baptist Church , is working to prepare his congregation for the future . " The challenge for traditional churches is to seek renewal in terms of our methods . Our principles remain the same , because they are divine principles , but our methods must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in teaching than in traditional preaching , and they are used to consumer choices . They look for what you offer in addition to the worship service and one-hour Friday prayer . People want focus groups and seminars - spiritual resources to help in their vocation . ' You 're teaching us biblical principles about stewardship , ' they say , ' now we want to see how those relate to the management of our financial plans . ' " Concord 's active membership of about 1,000 is " upwardly mobile but inclusive , " Pastor Hughes says . And on any given Sunday , they may have visitors from several countries . " Some do n't always look kindly on new immigrants - from the Caribbean , for example . But the black church has to prepare itself for the 21st century - to be multilingual and multicultural , " he says . He makes it a regular theme for his congregation - the need to embrace those who are different . Hughes has also tackled head-on the issue of music . " I 've insisted on a variety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and old hymns and spirituals . " Yet the young need to appreciate the old songs - and the history they represent . Hughes remembers vividly the church of his childhood in Jacksonville , Fla. - old hymns with syncopation ( some from Africa ) and the narrative preaching that made the Bible come alive . " That is what drew me ... I do n't want young blacks to abandon the rich cultural heritage of the black church ... My hope is that they hold onto our heritage as a people but transcend that , so they will have both roots and wings . " Concord has 28 ministries and each develops a partnership with a community institution to serve people 's needs , such as those of single parents . They have a Saturday church school for kids from preschool to 17 , and a housing and economic-development corporation to develop affordable housing and spur entrepreneurial growth . " Jesus said , ' I have come that you might have life and have it to the full . ' This is what our faith teaches us , " Hughes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our communities ? " The Rev. Gilbert Thompson is senior pastor of New Covenant Christian Center , a 3,500-member megachurch he and his wife started 16 years ago . The church holds its Sunday services , 5 a.m. weekday prayer meetings , and other activities in a remodeled supermarket . Pastor Thompson comes from a conservative theological background , but he has built his thriving church on what some call the " social gospel . " He resigned from his previous post when that church felt it was wrong to become involved in the community . " While praying in the fall of 1982 , I heard the words , ' a church without walls . ' I had never heard or read that before , so I began to pray about what that meant , " he says . What he learned became the vision for New Covenant : the people of God banding together as a building of " living stones " to create the kingdom of God in the inner city . " The social gospel involves empowering the community spiritually , economically , socially , politically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God by fleshly means . " So Thompson has concentrated first on teaching the Word and building up a community of " mature believers . " Then , " we can do something in the community that could not be done by each of us alone , " he says . That vision is what drew Betsy Stewart , a public-health nurse , to New Covenant more than a decade ago . The huge congregation sustains a sense of involvement and purpose through the church 's " cell structure , " she says . Every member belongs to a small group of up to 12 that meets weekly in homes . Ms. Stewart herself has become a district pastor , helping minister to a number of the small groups . Thompson concentrates on the spiritual work , and others on the staff " apply the truths we learn in the Scriptures " in political , economic , and social strategies , he says . They range from the Boys ' Action Ministry ( all the youths in the program have graduated from high school ) to working with gangs and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the city . " We try to mix up the worship and styles of what we do so that it appeals to a variety of people ... I believe that the church is not black or white , and that in a world where division reigns , only the church or the redeemed community can mirror unity . " There is no organization that can act more powerfully to bring about change than the church , " Thompson says . " The church must see itself not in a demonstrating , protesting role , but as people called of God to preach the good news that He has promised abundant life to all of us. " 