@@657542

<p> George Orwell got it wrong , of course . His book " 1984 " forecast the rise of totalitarianism . Instead , democracy flourished . Government and corporate officials still use Newspeak - saying one thing and meaning another . But communications technology makes it much easier to catch someone in a lie . TV , satellite phones , and especially the Internet have shined a bright light on the world , ushering in an age of transparency . In a transparent world , dissidents organize and publish information more freely . Activists keep a closer eye on corporations . Consumers compare prices all over the globe . And while dictators still seize power in the age of exposure , would-be Hitlers and Stalins find it much harder to hide their misdeeds . It sounds almost idyllic . But be careful what you wish for . An earlier age might have investigated an American president 's personal misdeeds . The transparent age broadcasts them so widely and quickly that school children from Boston to Berlin can read the original investigative report - in all its graphic detail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light that shines on dictators , governments , and corporations also shines on us . Our privacy is under attack - not just from government but also from corporations and even ourselves . It 's an irony Orwell would appreciate . We have finally met Big Brother . And he is us . " We 're talking about completely changing the way of analyzing , disseminating , and absorbing information , " says George Trubow , director of the Center for Information Technology and Privacy Law at the John Marshall Law School in Chicago . " If somebody observes and hears something , he can bring it to the attention of the world instantly . But ... the downside of the transparency is that we are becoming a surveillance society where people are encouraged not only to watch but to report . " Consider today 's business world . True , marketers for decades have used data many individuals would rather keep secret : how much they earn , where they shop , what they buy . Now , the Internet and computer technology expands their scope . They can track @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finely that a grocer can find out how many shoppers who stop by his bakery section will also pick up vanilla ice cream . That 's not all . Companies are keeping a sharp eye on their workers . The old techniques - recording phone calls and videotaping the factory floor - have a new twist : Internet monitoring . By one estimate , a quarter of American employees are subject to electronic surveillance . For example , many managers allow workers to use e-mail and the Web occasionally for personal reasons . They liken it to gathering around the water cooler to chat . But there 's a crucial difference . Around the water cooler , inappropriate remarks go no farther than a few ears . On the Internet , they 're recorded and stored . Although many American companies do not monitor their employees ' electronic messages , they do n't hesitate to search that traffic , if they suspect wrongdoing . Leak confidential data in an Internet chat group and a senior manager will give you a stern warning . Browse a pornographic Web site at work and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in June by Elron Software found that nearly one-third of responding companies had punished employees , including firing them , for inappropriate Web surfing . That 's appropriate , because bringing pornography into the workplace constitutes sexual harassment , argues Megan Barry , director of business ethics at Nortel , a Canadian telecommunications company that has fired an employee for browsing pornographic sites . But the company has taken Internet monitoring a step further . Any employee - not just senior managers - can check to see the last 25 Web sites that any other employee has visited . " It 's all about transparency , " says Ms. Barry . " It 's about the employee being able to see the Web travels of the manager too , because we 're all responsible . " Of course , the technology that encourages us to be our brother 's keeper also goads us to be each other 's snoop . Technology has put into our hands data that only professionals could access a decade ago . Electronic snooping is not only legal , it 's laughably easy for anybody who can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a transparent world . " Right now , it 's a bygone notion , " says Nate Lenow , a private investigator in Memphis , Tenn. , who regularly uses the Internet as a tool of his trade . But Internet-watchers argue that transparency offers too many benefits to start building new barriers in cyberspace . For example : Burmese activists have gone online not only to rally support behind their country 's leading dissident , Aung San Suu Kyi , they 've also used the technology to organize worldwide protests and consumer boycotts . Jody Williams , last year 's Nobel Peace Prize-winner , used the Internet to rally people around her cause : banning land mines . The transparent age does n't challenge governments alone . Corporations are under increasing scrutiny . For example , the Sierra Club has set up a Web site so activists around the US can determine what compounds local manufacturers are releasing into the environment . What might have taken weeks or months to find out from the Environmental Protection Agency today is within a few keystrokes of anyone with Internet access . Online @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upper hand with retailers . Before the Internet , consumers wanting to compare prices had to call each establishment for a quote . Today , they can go online to find the prices of , say , a computer all over the world . Several sites run daily auctions of new equipment , where consumers , not retailers , set the price . One Web site - priceline.com - goes a step further : Consumers decide the price they want to pay for an airline ticket . If an airline accepts , the ticket gets issued . " The transparency issue is huge , " says Kathleen Seiders , a marketing professor at Babson College in Wellesley , Mass . " The Internet proved to be a tool that consumers could use against retailers . " Soon , consumers may not even have to do comparison shopping at all . Software companies have created " agents " to seek out the best deals automatically . Retail companies face a difficult trade-off . If they let the shopping agents into their Web site , they may create an all-out price war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price-war 's first casualties . Even champions of the Internet , however , agree there is such a thing as too much transparency , at least for individuals . Today 's networked societies need some degree of anonymity and privacy so workers do n't operate in a fish bowl ; so consumers are n't deluged by marketers and scam artists ; so dissidents can express themselves without fear of retribution . In an age of bright light , people require some shade . " The paradigm shift that we 're looking at is openness of information when it 's necessary , privacy being the general rule , and the power to make that choice in the hands of the individual , " says Craig McLaughlin , chief technology officer at Privada , an Internet privacy company in San Jose , Calif . His company offers one solution : technology that lets police tap a suspect 's Internet messages the same way they tap a phone . Ultimately , governments will have to set the rules . So far , there 's little consensus about what to do . Many are willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cyberspace . But there 's less agreement on curbing transnational Internet gambling or cyberscams . Some governments restrict personal information marketers can gather , but they have yet to protect consumers online . Even when they do , it 's not clear how effective those actions will be . Transparency weakens governments . " Nation-states no longer control exactly what is going on in their borders as they once did , " says Elizabeth Rindskopf , a Washington attorney and former general counsel with the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency . The technology improves so quickly , the information flows so fast and thick , governments have trouble keeping up . 