@@615335

<p> Cherokee development officials and county YMCA team up for new day care center ... ' Run the Reagan ' will shut down most of Ronald Reagan Parkway in Gwinnett today ... New post office is on the way to McDonough METROSCOPE Outkast invitation Local rap duo Outkast is inviting 2,500 people to the Tabernacle today to participate in a video shoot/performance . Outkast 's third album , " Aquemini , " will debut at the no. 2 position on the Billboard pop charts Monday , so the get-together is also being viewed as a celebration , according to Atlanta-based LaFace Records . Anyone interested in attending should go to the downtown venue at 152 Luckie St. , N.W. at 6 p.m . Outkast is taping a concert scene for the video of its new single , " Skew it in the Bar-B , " featuring Raekwon of the Wu-Tang Clan . Five area teachers named finalists Five metro Atlanta teachers are among the 11 state finalists for the 1999 Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching , given by the National Science Foundation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hiestand of Fayetteville Primary School ; Margaret Tierce of Hightower Trail Elementary School in Conyers ; Pamela Poppe of Brookwood High School in Snellville ; and Theresa White of Snellville Middle School . Four winners from each state will be awarded . ATLANTA Development for young adults Leadership development and civic participation among 18- to 24-year-olds will take center stage at an upcoming two-day conference at Clark Atlanta University 's Science Research Center . The conference runs from 5 p.m. to 7:30 p.m . Monday and from noon to 4:45 p.m . Tuesday . It is sponsored by the Center for Policy Alternatives ' Southeast Community Policy and Leadership Forum , CAU 's Southern Center for Studies in Public Policy and the Brisbane Institute of Morehouse College . Information : 404-880-8085 or 404-681-2800 , ext. 2254 . Officer to address Midtown group The Midtown Neighbors ' Association will hold its monthly public safety meeting Tuesday at 7:15 p.m. at Mary Mac 's Tea Room . Neighborhood residents will have a chance to meet the Atlanta Police Department 's new Midtown mini-precinct lieutenant and will speak with other police representatives about community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ YMCA and the Cherokee Development Authority are planning a day care center at Airport Industrial Park . The county intends to apply in November for federal Community Development Block Grants to cover construction costs of the project . Under the plan , the authority would donate about 8 acres for the center , and the YMCA would operate the facility . The center is intended to help employers attract employees in Cherokee 's tight labor market . Cherokee has a 2.1 percent unemployment rate compared with the statewide average of 4.6 percent . CLAYTON Meeting on HIV reporting system The Clayton County Health Department will host a community meeting to gather comments on developing an HIV reporting system in Georgia . The meeting is part of the state 's response to a recommendation from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that HIV reporting systems be set up to track the deadly infection . The meeting is from 10 a.m. to noon Oct. 16 in the Continuing Education Building at Clayton College &; State University in Morrow . COBB Teachers to meet with legislators Safe schools , funding to reduce class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be on the table when legislators and members of Georgia 's largest teacher organization gather in Cobb County today . The Professional Association of Georgia Educators will begin meeting at 6 p.m. today at Campbell High School , 5265 Ward St. , Smyrna , to set the group 's legislative priorities for the 1999 Georgia General Assembly session , which begins in January . County recruiting police Cobb County will hold its next police recruitment test on Monday at 8:30 a.m. at Southern Polytechnic State University . For an application , call the Cobb County Recruitment office . Information : 770-528-2532 . DEKALB More time for home demolitions DeKalb County has received verbal approval from the Georgia Emergency Management Agency for a deadline extension for taxpayer-funded demolition of homes damaged in the April 9 Dunwoody tornado . The county has demolished 27 homes under the program but still has at least another dozen left to go . Although the program was set to expire Friday , six months after the tornado struck , county officials are discussing an extension through Jan. 9 . Insurance company problems are the major cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coalition plans meeting The DeKalb Civic Coalition , an organization of neighborhood groups throughout the county , plans to discuss the structure of the county 's government and proposed changes in the county 's zoning ordinance . The meeting will be held Monday at 7 p.m. at the Red Cross Center , 3486 Covington Highway , near Memorial Drive . FAYETTE Chamber grants award Florida Rock Industries in Tyrone and Matsushita Communication Industrial Corp . ( Panasonic ) of Peachtree City have won the Fayette Chamber of Commerce 's first-ever Spirit of Industry award . Florida Rock won in the category for companies with fewer than 50 employees and Matsushita won in the category for larger companies . The award honors companies on the basis of quality standards , civic involvement , economic contributions and employee enhancement programs . Running club seeks volunteers The Peachtree City Running Club is seeking volunteers to help with the Peachtree City Classic Road Race , to be held Oct. 17 . Volunteers will help pack runners ' goodie bags Oct. 16 , and will distribute water , sweat shirts and goodie bags Saturday , Oct. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ runners from Braelinn Shopping Center to the race starting point . About 3,000 runners are expected to participate in the 5-kilometer and 15-kilometer races . Information : Teri Besche at 770-487-9215 or Susan Bershinski at 770-631-2610 . FULTON Pig roast to benefit park Eat a pig , help save a river . That 's Roswell Mayor Jere Wood 's message for his coming pig roast to benefit the proposed Chattahoochee River Park . The proceeds from the Oct. 24 roast will go to help the river park trail that will stretch from Martin 's Landing to the Chattahoochee Nature Center . The city is in the process of collecting parcels along the river . Information : 770-641-3727 . Late principal honored Tom Zachary , the late Roswell High School principal who died unexpectedly last year , is being honored for the years he guided the school . A ceremony has been set for 4 p.m . Thursday to dedicate a marble bench in Zachary 's memory . The inscription on the bench , a PTSA donation , states : " In memory of Tom Zachary , principal 1989-1998 . He led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ribbon School , 1998 . " GWINNETT Reagan Parkway closed for run Nearly the entire length of Ronald Reagan Parkway from Lilburn to Snellville is closed all day today for the fifth annual " Run the Reagan . " After the series of races starting at 8 a.m. , the road will remain open all day for anyone without a motor , from skateboarders and in-line skaters to baby strollers and bikers . Officials hope 1,500 people will run this year in the 1-mile , 5- and 10-kilometer and half-marathon races . HENRY Post office contract awarded A contract has been awarded for construction of a new post office in McDonough . The $ 2.89 million project was awarded to Baggette Construction Co. , of Decatur , Ala. , according to the U.S. Postal Service . The 23,371-square-foot post office on South Cedar Street is scheduled for completion in September 1999 . ROCKDALE Schools negotiate construction The Rockdale school system is negotiating with Beers Construction of Atlanta to be the construction manager on the renovation of Rockdale County High School . Beers , which had construction manager duties on Memorial Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ School 's gymnasium , a project it took over last winter after the district terminated its contract with Roswell 's Vantage Builders . If Beers signs on as construction manager , its duties will include : guaranteeing a maximum cost and completion date for the project , and agreeing to perform work on construction of which the system does not get a reasonable bid or any bid at all . 