@@631340

This is the second time around in a top government job for Carol Browner . She was director of the Environmental Protection Agency under Bill Clinton and has returned as a senior adviser to President Barack Obama for energy and climate change . Browner says eight years has made a huge difference in public attitudes and that Americans are more willing than ever to work for energy independence . In a recent interview with U.S. News , Browner discussed Obama 's " green " objectives and how his agenda might play out in 2009 and beyond . Excerpts : How committed are Americans to improving energy conservation , and how will the economic stimulus package move the nation toward that goal ? The president made very clear during his campaign that he wanted to create a new energy future for the people of this country , one that was based on domestic sources , renewables , efficiencies -- that he wanted to address the challenge of climate change , and that the stimulus really represents , I think , a very significant down payment toward those commitments . What 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? I think the American people have a better understanding of why we need an energy transformation . That may be the experiences of , whether it was oil prices that are not predictable or reliable , the impact on their own pocketbook . People understand that we ca n't continue to think about energy in the way we did in the past . It was sort of , you know , available without a lot of thought . And most Americans now know that as we look toward an economic recovery , an important part of that is going to be an energy transformation . Are people more optimistic that this can be done ? I think there 's also this great belief that we can do better , that with American innovation , American ingenuity , we really can build wind farms and power our cities with clean energy , with homegrown , American , renewable energy . We look around the world , and we see these things starting to happen in other parts of the world , and I think for many Americans the question becomes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , absolutely here , that we can do this . What are some of these examples from around the world ? You see the pictures of the wind farms in Europe , the stories about , you know , our battery technology is being imported , that the thin film that 's used for solar is exported , that the global demand is greater than our domestic demand -- and those are all things we can fix . The stimulus will be an important part of making that change . How much have attitudes shifted on climate change ? I think , first of all , that the science has just become incredibly clear -- that the impacts are real , they will be real , and that we need to do something . There are businesses that quite frankly see an opportunity , recognize that if you have requirements in terms of reducing greenhouse gases , that their innovations , their ingenuity are going to allow them to capture some opportunities in the marketplace . That 's a change . There 's a long history of the government making decisions and creating opportunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing number of businesses in this arena that understand that . Were there elements in the administration 's " green " agenda and in the stimulus package that Obama has been particularly insistent on ? Yes , the smart grid . If we 're going to double renewables -- it 's taken us 35 years to get as many renewables as we have today -- if we 're going to double that in the near term , part of what we have to be thinking about is how we 're going to move those renewables to where the people are , and a smart grid is a piece of that . What is the genesis of President Obama 's thinking on this ? He talked about it during the campaign , and I think what we 've been able to do in the stimulus is really fill that out . So , as I said , it 's bigger , better , smarter . Bigger means we need the new high-voltage lines for renewables . Better means we need to take our existing lines and upgrade them . And then , smarter : We need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the smartest way and using the most cost-effective electricity at the right time of day . Eventually , we can get to a system where an electric company will be able to hold back some of the power so that maybe your air conditioner wo n't operate at its peak , you 'll still be able to cool your house , but that 'll be a savings to the consumer . And so we will be giving people and companies a role in the management of how we use electricity .                     