@@615372

<p> ATLANTA Work Sessions Scheduled The Atlanta City Council Finance Committee has scheduled three work sessions to discuss the city 's 1999 budget . On Thursday , the committee will meet at City Hall with Atlanta 's public safety officials to discuss their needs for the coming year . The committee will discuss city courts from 9 a.m. until 3 p.m. and police from 3 p.m. until 5 p.m . The committee also will conduct budget work sessions Dec. 22 and Dec. 29 . A public hearing on the 1999 Atlanta budget will be held at 6 p.m. on Jan. 7 in City Council Chambers at City Hall . Donations collected The South East Coalition of Urban Retailers Inc. is holding a holiday drive through Dec. 22 . SECUR 's goal is to collect donations of canned goods , clothing and toiletries from its customers for the Atlanta Food Bank . Donations may be made at Ear Wax , 1052 Peachtree St. , and Audrey 's Music Room , 118 James P. Brawley Drive S.W. All customers making a donation will receive a grab bag filled with goodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ball Ground residents and city officials will meet with representatives from the U.S. Postal Service Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the town library to discuss plans for a new post office in the city . The agency originally had announced plans to close its downtown site and move its operation out to Ga . 5 . However , after numerous complaints , the postal service is considering moving closer to the city 's business district . CLAYTON Sex shop regulation Clayton County commissioners will consider an ordinance Tuesday designed to control sexually-oriented shops and video stores . The proposal would restrict the businesses to areas zoned for heavy industrial use . Some commissioners fear the restriction would create the impression the county is setting up a sex district . COBB Early Christmas for kids Marietta police officers are playing Santa Claus this week at the Lyman Homes public housing project . Several officers plan to give toys Thursday and Friday to the parents of children 13 years old and younger who live in the project . The toys were donated by CVS Pharmacy . The early Christmas will be at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neighborhood this fall . COWETA Design firm hired The Newnan City Council has hired Nimrod Long &; Associates of Atlanta as the design firm for a major project to make downtown more pedestrian-friendly and restore its turn-of-the-century look . Work should begin in 1999 and is scheduled for completion by the summer of 2000 . A big portion of the money will come from a $ 1 million federal grant . The Atlanta firm submitted a base bid of $ 155,000 for its services . DEKALB Holiday light show intown It 's not as elaborate as the displays at Lake Lanier or Callaway Gardens , but DeKalb County has its own holiday light show at the REACH Gardens , 1815 S. Ponce de Leon Ave. , near the Fernbank Museum of Natural History . There are 100,000 lights displayed on the 36-acre wooded tract , the former home of Cator Woolford , who co-founded Retail Credit Co. ( now Equifax Inc. ) in 1899 . The gardens are open for walking tours from 6 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. every night except Saturdays until Dec. 23 . Admission is $ 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be closed Tuesday for a private party . Information : 404-370-1011 . Day of hot topics Residents interested in two hot neighborhood topics  --  trees and zoning  --  may want to attend Thursday work sessions of the county commission . At 9:30 a.m. , in the Finance Department conference room , the commissioners will have another in a series of sessions to discuss a stronger tree ordinance . At 2 p.m. in the same room , they will talk about proposed changes to the county zoning ordinance . FAYETTE Blood drive is Wednesday The American Red Cross will hold a blood drive on Wednesday from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. at 205 McIntosh Trail in Peachtree City . Healthy people 17 or older who weigh at least 110 pounds can donate . Information : 1-800-GIVE-LIFE . FULTON Register to vote at school Roswell High School will hold a voter registration drive beginning at 3:20 p.m . Tuesday for students 18 or older . The RHS Voter Registration Project was initiated by Tyler Mann , a senior who is discouraged by statistics that show less than 50 percent of Americans 18 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election . The school , located at 11595 King Road , plans to hold registration days throughout the school year . Educators recognized Two Fulton County educators have been recognized by the Georgia School Counselors Association . Milton High counselor Cynthia Hansen was named Region III secondary counselor of the year . Nancy Jones , the district 's director of guidance and counseling , was named Region III administrator of the year . GWINNETT Land use study unveiled After a year and a half of deliberations , the Five Forks-Trickum Road Land Use Study is complete and is scheduled to be presented to the Gwinnett County Commission on Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Gwinnett Justice and Administration Center . The study was commissioned by County Commissioner Judy Waters after public outcry over an attempt to redesignate the use of property along Five Forks-Trickum Road between Catherine Drive and Dogwood Road . Area homeowners worked with Waters and Steve Logan of the county Planning and Development Department . HALL New high schools funded Hall County school board members are anxious to start work on two new high schools funded through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not determined whether to build the schools at the same time or one at a time . When the boundaries are established this spring for two new middle schools opening in the fall , planners will have a clearer picture of when construction should start . HENRY Board approves grant The Henry County school board has approved a $ 75,000 donation from developer Gerald Hudgins to fund an SAT preparation program in the county 's high schools to improve declining scores . Hudgins donated the money because the county 's average SAT score declined by 23 points to 965 last year . The developer believes declining scores may negatively impact economic growth in the county . ROCKDALE Commissioners needed Rockdale County Parks and Recreation Director Linda Evans is accepting applications for two Recreation Commission positions after the recent departure of member Lewis Carr . After serving nearly two years , Carr bowed out last month because his insurance business began keeping him too busy to serve , Evans said . Carr 's term was to have ended in September of next year . For months , the Rockdale Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in vain for someone to replace former member Bart Christian . Any residents interested in serving on the recreation commission should call 770-785-5922 . Teen gift shortage The Rockdale Emergency Relief Fund is busy collecting donations for the holiday season , but it is coming up short on gifts for teenagers . Tennis shoes , sweaters , jackets , watches and radios are some of the items the agency seeks to fill the gap , said Executive Director Joy Jones . Rockdale Emergency Relief helps working families who need help getting through financial emergencies , such as the death of a family breadwinner or the loss of a job . During the holidays , families can apply to the organization for toys , clothes , food and other items they ca n't afford . <p> Map shows the following counties : Bartow , Cherokee , Forsyth , Hall , Paulding , Cobb , Gwinnett , Dekalb , Douglas , Carroll , Fulton , Coweta , Fayette , Henry , Rockdale. 