@@631330

Do n't give 110 percent . I have a client who always gives 110 percent . Yes , he reaps rewards , but he 's stressed out much of the time , makes mistakes as a result , and has n't developed close relationships . The most successful people I know give 90 percent . They stay in the moment , tackle their projects slowly but steadily , and do n't waste time worrying about what 's ahead . They also have the emotional reserves to develop relationships and enjoy work . Get evaluated by your colleagues . You know you should get a 360-degree evaluation . Most people are too scared to ask trusted colleagues for feedback , but force yourself . It 's key to your growth . It 's better to know the bad news so that you can try to improve . You may receive more praise than you think . Become an entrepreneur . America has entrepreneurship woven into its warp and woof , so it 's easy to learn . Take a course at a university extension , read a good book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Check ) , or take a job -- even a menial one -- at the elbow of a successful entrepreneur . Then start a low-cost venture , such as a Web-based service ( rather than something involving a product ) . Be pleasant . Standard advice usually omits this key to success : Be enjoyable to be around . Whether you 're an employee or self-employed , people prefer to work with those who make their lives more pleasant . They 'll often prefer a likable person even over a more competent one . Cure your perfectionism . A number of my clients are such perfectionists that they make every task painful to complete . I suggest that for every major task , you set a timer for three minutes and , in that time , list all the steps needed to complete the task . Make the steps as fun as possible . Then tackle each step sloppily , perhaps in just three minutes each . Then keep revising each step until it 's done well enough . Cure your lazy procrastination . If you 're consciously procrastinating , the cause and cure usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure , or fear of success . If it 's laziness , remind yourself that , like a drug addict , you 'll find that the long-term pain will outweigh the short-term pleasure . Also , think how good you 'll feel when you get the task done and reap the benefits . Cure your fearful procrastination . Sometimes fear of failure is a legitimate self-warning , but often it 's irrational . Remember that if you do n't try , you ensure failure . If you try and fail , wo n't you survive ? Failures may help you realize you are average ; not everyone can be a star . But plain folk are worthy , too . Some people procrastinate because they fear their success will make someone feel bad . Remember that worthy people will rejoice in your success . No one who resents your success deserves your self-sabotage . Stop pursuing happiness . I could be happy watching movies , eating , and having sex all the time , but that would hardly be a life well led . If happiness occurs while I 'm producing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own sake distracts from making a contribution , which is the core of that well-led life . Be nice , even when it 's inexpedient . Being nice to your boss can lead him to conclude , " He 's happy here . I do n't need to give him a raise . " Be nice anyway . That ensures that even if you 're just an average person , you 'll have been a positive influence on the world . Many stars ca n't say that . Marty Nemko is a career coach and U.S. News contributing editor . Job Universe The Job Universe is just one of many handy tools in the Best Careers section . Pick from a menu of interesting occupations , and get the skinny on what the job is all about ( both good and bad ) , as well as what experience and education are required . You can also find out salary info . This tool is so educational it ought to be called the Job University . Join the Discussion It 's impossible to create a list called " Best Careers " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is overrated or that hairstylists do n't belong on the list . Got strong opinions on librarians or genetic counselors ? We have a place for you to air them . Give us your perspective and join the discussion at usnews.com/careers . Job Search There are lots of places to look for jobs online these days , but it 's hard to know where to start . At jobs.usnews.com , you can search thousands of postings by location or keyword . It 's a clean , streamlined application , and ( bonus ! ) all the career tools and expert advice you expect from U.S. News are right at your fingertips .                     