@@631329

During the first half of the decade -- with the real estate craze in full swing -- purchasing a home was like picking stocks in a bull market . Buy a property , sit on it for a couple of years , and then refinance -- even cash in , if you were a speculator . But more than two years into a real estate crash that 's already dragged home prices down nearly 27 percent from their peaks , a market once bursting with liquidity has gone dry , leaving many homeowners unable to sell without suffering painful losses . " It 's as if you are in a movie theater and they turned out the red exit signs , " says Nicolas Retsinas , director of Harvard University 's Joint Center for Housing Studies . " You ca n't get out the door . " The home-price collapse has dragged 1 in 5 mortgaged properties " underwater "  - -  meaning they are now worth less than the loan 's outstanding balance . Fortunately , many owners of these homes can avoid realizing huge losses by hanging on to the property until the market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to leave town to take a job -- at a time when employment opportunities are growing increasingly precious -- can find themselves in a real jam . To help homeowners who find themselves in such a fix , U.S. News spoke with a handful of experts to compile a list of key moves to make : Talk to your boss . Underwater homeowners who need to relocate for a job should first discuss the situation with their employer . It 's not uncommon for a company to provide financial assistance for employees who move from one location to another . According to compensation consultant Morey Villareal , that assistance could be $5,000 to $10,000 for a midlevel professional . And given the current real estate mess , an employer might be willing to put some of that cash toward helping a homeowner out of a bind . For example , an underwater property owner might ask the employer to chip in to cover part of the deficit between the mortgage balance and the home 's sale price , perhaps splitting it fifty-fifty . " I would think that employers in this economic environment would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come work for them , they are going to have to give you some assistance in selling your house , " says Gail Cunningham of the National Foundation for Credit Counseling . Contact your lender . Underwater homeowners who need to sell should talk to their lender immediately . By working with the bank , homeowners may be able to reach an agreement that enables both sides to make the most out of a tough situation , such as a short sale , in which the lender accepts less than the loan 's outstanding balance . Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody 's Economy.com , expects that some lenders will be willing to cooperate with homeowners facing this predicament . " It 's hard to handicap the odds of striking an agreement , but it 's certainly a shot worth taking , " he says . Instead of simply hoping that the lender will come through , Zandi suggests asking a community group for additional support . Still no results ? " If I was in a pickle , I would call my congressman , too , and see if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rent it out . Selling is n't the only option for underwater homeowners . Should the mortgage contract permit it , a homeowner could always rent out the property and put it back on the market when real estate values recover . This approach works best if the rent is enough to cover the monthly mortgage payments . ( Still , taking a small monthly loss might be preferable to selling into the teeth of a real estate crisis . ) However , homeowners turned landlords will face a slew of unfamiliar headaches -- from locating a responsible tenant to fixing broken appliances -- that could make the proposition less desirable . " If you have never been a landlord before and now you are going to be an absentee landlord , you may be asking for a whole new level of complication in your life that you are ill prepared to manage , " says Keith Gumbinger of HSH Associates . Rent , do n't buy . Of course , those who rent out their properties will most likely also become renters themselves in their new communities . ( Without profits from a home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payment on a new house . ) But even for employees who manage to sell their previous homes , renting is n't such a terrible idea , says Michael Larson of Weiss Research . It offers increased flexibility -- in case the new job does n't work out -- while enabling employees to get the lay of the land before buying a house . At the same time , renting provides a viable alternative for those who do n't want to put hundreds of thousands of dollars into an asset that could be worth significantly less six months later . " It can make sense , since house prices are likely to continue to decline , " Larson says . And ducking losses in a real estate market like this might make a great first impression on a new boss .                     