@@615345

<p> ATLANTA School gets outdoor center M. Agnes Jones Elementary School in West End has a new outdoor learning center for environmental education , one that features a landscaped gardening area , a nature trail and a 200-seat amphitheater . The learning center , a first for the Atlanta Public Schools , is the result of a collaboration between Georgia-Pacific Corp. , the school , its PTA and students . CHEROKEE Sequoyah in drama contest The drama team at Sequoyah High School in Canton will represent Region 6-AAAA at the state One Act Play Competition at Perry High School on Nov. 21 . Sequoyah 's team , which performed a scene from " Marvin 's Room , " won the regional competition for the second year in a row and will compete against seven other teams for the state title . Sequoyah 's Michelle Yother was named the region 's Best Actress . Cherokee High School placed third in the region competition . CLAYTON Program focuses on gangs , drugs Jack Halliday , a former Navy SEAL and Drug Enforcement Administration agent , will present an informational program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jonesboro Middle School PTA meeting at 7 p.m . Tuesday . Halliday created a gang intelligence and prevention unit at the state Pardons and Parole Board , the first of its type in the nation . Water manager named Wade Brannan , who has been Clayton County 's director of transportation and development for six years , has been named general manager of the Clayton Water Authority . Brannan , who assumes his new duties Nov. 23 , replaces Richard Calhoun , who was moved in a management reorganization . Wayne Patterson will be interim director of transportation and development until commissioners appoint a permanent director . COBB Some license costs may decline Getting a county business license soon could be easier if you 're a home-based entrepreneur without employees . At the request of commissioners , the county business license division is considering changes in license requirements , which could reduce the cost to those small business owners . The action is in response to complaints from local music teachers who did n't realize they needed a business license and then were penalized for the years they 'd worked without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to three years the retroactive time a business could be charged for operating without a license . Commissioners said the current penalties create a financial hardship for small business owners . Pollster to speak at breakfast National pollster and demographer John Morgan will discuss the recent local , state and federal elections and trends in voting at 7:30 a.m . Wednesday at the Georgia Public Policy Foundation leadership breakfast . The event will take place at the Cobb Galleria Centre , Ballroom C. Information : 770-455-7600 . COWETA Home cleanup ordered The Newnan City Council has given retired schoolteacher Doris Greer until the first meeting in February to make progress on clearing her overgrown yard and bringing the exterior of her home at 221 LaGrange St. up to city standards . The council also required that she allow a city building inspector to see the interior of the home by no later than Jan. 25 . City officials say the home has been unoccupied since the early 1970s , but Greer said the home has not been abandoned . DEKALB Principal gets a free ride The principal of a county elementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present from her staff . Donna Asbell , principal of Idlewood Elementary , rode to an administrators ' meeting and to lunch in a stretch limo . Her staff hired the limo as a treat . Asbell also took several other principals along for the ride . Meeting set on Emory Village As residents of Druid Hills fight to keep a neighborhood grocery store , Emory University President William Chace is scheduled to meet Friday with key parties in the dispute . The Kroger is expected to close at the end of the year and be replaced by a CVS Pharmacy . Chace has called neighborhood , student and business representatives together to " discuss common ground , " said Emory spokeswoman Nancy Seideman . FAYETTE County economy characterized Florida-based economic expert William Fruth told a group of local political , business and community leaders this week that the county 's economy is heavily dependent on the economic and political events in surrounding counties . Fruth said 73 percent of the income of Fayette residents is earned outside the county . The retail and service trades , which have the lowest-paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy , he said . Fruth said the local economic development effort should target industries that pay an average salary of at least $ 33,375 . FULTON Charter schools considered The Fulton County Education Board is to hold a workshop on charter schools at 4:30 p.m. today at Woodland Elementary School , 1130 Spalding Drive , Atlanta . District staff members will brief board members on the law . The Charter Schools Act of 1998 allows citizens to organize tax-funded , tuition-free schools that operate under self-designed plans outlined in charters . The charters are approved by the state and local school boards . Teacher honored by council Julie Yost , eighth-grade teacher at Alpharetta 's Webb Bridge Middle School , has been named the 1998 Outstanding Social Studies Educator . The award is given annually by the Georgia Council for the Social Studies . GWINNETT 112-home development killed Although no opposition appeared and the Planning Commission approved the project , the Lawrenceville City Council just could n't bring itself to go along with plans to build a third high-density subdivision on Five Forks Trickum Road . The council voted 2-1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watched in disbelief . " It 's totally dumbfounding to me , " said Fred Schwaemmle , a principal owner of Benchmark Properties . Councilman Sonny Brand has had misgivings about a new zoning category approved in March that would allow as many as five houses to the acre . Brand said he feared the density was too high , considering there were two other subdivisions with a total of 211 lots already approved in the vicinity . HALL Prints recall early Gainesville A Gainesville artist has released the first print in a series of painted photographs entitled " Gainesville Before the Storm . " The series depicts life in Gainesville before 1936 , when the town was leveled by a tornado that killed more than 250 people . The first print is called the " New Holland Cotton Mill circa 1925 . " The artist , Stephen Dale Echols , spent years collecting original negatives . The images are painted in artist 's oils and are signed and numbered . Information : 770-532-7074 . ROCKDALE Sewer moratorium extended County commissioners have once again extended a temporary sewer moratorium in south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any new tie-ons to the county 's sewer system in the Snapping Shoals drainage basin because of a lack of treatment capacity . The action has , in effect , banned all new development in the basin . The most recent extension of the moratorium gives commissioners another 60 days to increase treatment capacity in the basin and draft a new process for developers to tie on to the sewer system . GEORGIA Readiness program gets award The U.S. Department of Agriculture today will award Georgia 's Office of School Readiness a USDA Pyramid of Excellence Award . The Georgia OSR , which oversees the lottery-funded pre-kindergarten program , was honored as being extraordinarily effective in administering one of the USDA 's nutrition assistance programs . The pre-k program installed state-of-the-art computer equipment and improved training to streamline the program that provides food to poor children during the summer . Other winners included the South Dakota Food Stamp Program and Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Chicago . 