@@615341

<p> ATLANTA Morningside meeting is Saturday City Council member Cathy Woolard will host a transportation town hall meeting at 9 a.m . Saturday in the fellowship hall of Rock Springs Presbyterian Church , 1824 Piedmont Ave . N.E. , in Morningside . The public forum , which is open to all residents of District 6 , will cover sidewalks , pedestrian safety , traffic control and other issues . Woolard sponsors meeting City Councilwoman Cathy Woolard is sponsoring a town hall meeting Saturday to talk about transportation issues in her district . Representatives of the police department , the city 's public works and planning departments , MARTA , and the pedestrian group PEDS will join Woolard from 9 to 11:30 a.m. at the Rock Springs Presbyterian Church , 1824 Piedmont Avenue . Traffic enforcement , pedestrian safety and sidewalk installation will be on the agenda . CHEROKEE Proposal picks up steam An anti-bullying proposal sparked by the fatal beating of a 13-year-old boy in Cherokee County is picking up support from state lawmakers . Rep. Chuck Scheid ( R-Woodstock ) proposed legislation after meeting with Bill Head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classroom at Etowah High School in March 1994 . Scheid plans to introduce a bill that would require schools to post state laws on school conduct and notify police and parents of an accused bully and his or her victim . Scheid explained his proposal Wednesday to a national television audience on CNN . Meanwhile , he has collected support from several legislative colleagues . CLAYTON Airport expansion opposed County commissioners have promised residents in the panhandle area of Clayton County there will not be any major expansion of Tara Field , the county-owned airport in Hampton . Chairman Crandle Bray and Commissioner Gerald Matthews , who represents the panhandle , said reports of a proposed terminal with 18 gates and a longer runway are unfounded . " We 're putting the kabosh on that right now , " Matthews said at a town hall meeting in the panhandle this week . COBB Rezoning request withdrawn Jacoby Development Inc. has withdrawn  --  for now  --  a rezoning request to build a shopping center on Dallas Highway west of Westhaven Drive . Zoning attorney John Moore said the company made the decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retail center at the site fell through . Jacoby withdrew original plans to build a Wal-Mart on the property after west Cobb County residents complained about the size of that project . Since then , Jacoby has been courting smaller retailers and grocery stores for the site . Moore said Thursday that Jacoby would abandon efforts to rezone the undeveloped property from residential to commercial until a suitable commercial tenant had been found . DEKALB Rail meeting canceled A neighborhood meeting set for next week on a proposed MARTA light rail spur from Emory University to Northlake Mall has been canceled , but not because there was too little interest in the issue . The Nov. 18 meeting had been scheduled for the Clairmont Place condos near the Veterans Affairs Medical Center but has been canceled because the expected crowd would be too large for the location . Another meeting has not yet been scheduled . Isakson welcomes Japanese Johnny Isakson , chairman of the state Board of Education and candidate for House Speaker Newt Gingrich 's 6th District congressional seat , will welcome a group of Japanese visitors today to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of 50 Japanese visitors , here as part of the Japan-America Summit cultural exchange , also will tour DeKalb schools , with half going to Druid Hills High School , a charter school , and the other half going to Fernbank Elementary . Children focus of Emory meeting A daylong public conference on " Child Protection in the 21st Century " will be held this weekend at Emory University . Speakers will include experts from medical , legal and public policy arenas addressing ways to ensure the health and quality of life for children . It will be from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m . Saturday at Tull Auditorium , Emory University School of Law , 1301 Clifton Road . The conference is free , but registration is required . Information : 404-727-9170 . FAYETTE Restaurant plans reviewed The Fayetteville Planning and Zoning Commission is reviewing preliminary plans for a four-restaurant development between Ga . 85 and Ga . 314 at Banks Road . Representatives of the developer , JDN Development , say Chuck E Cheese 's and Applebee 's Neighborhood &; Grill &; Bar are the only companies who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Water should be boiled The Fayetteville Water and Sewer Department says about 900 residents of Fayetteville should boil their water until further notice because of a water main break . The affected area is east of Ga . 54 and Rosewood Drive to the city limits . A subcontractor for Atlanta Gas Light broke the 10-inch water main while digging Thursday afternoon . FULTON Riverfront park forum set Want to know more about Roswell 's seven-mile riverfront park ? The city will hold a citizens forum 7 p.m . Wednesday at City Hall to outline plans for the project . The city is collecting parcels along the Chattahoochee River for the multimillion dollar park that will include bike and walking paths and nature trails . Subdivision wants to join Roswell The developer and homeowners association for the Edenwilde subdivision have approached Roswell officials with an interest in joining the city . The 186-acre subdivision of 393 lots , 258 of which have been developed , has seen some commercial rezonings near its location just northwest of Roswell . Residents of the subdivision on House and Crabapple roads say they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ council than the County Commission . Airport exec to visit East Point Airport expansion plans will be the topic when Hartsfield International Airport Manager Benjamin DeCosta meets with residents of East Point at 7p.m . Tuesday in the city auditorium . He will take questions for 30 minutes . Representatives from neighborhood associations will speak . GWINNETT Snellville towing fees increased The Snellville City Council has approved an increase in towing fees to match those being charged by Gwinnett County . The fees will not exceed $ 60 , up from a ceiling of $ 35 . The new charge for storage is $ 8 per day , up from $ 5 . Also approved was a new fee of $ 15 for absorbent material to soak up oil or other fluids . HALL New superintendent hired The board of trustees of Riverside Military Academy in Gainesville has hired an Army officer and military educator as the school 's new superintendent . Lt. Col. H. Michael Hughes replaces Gen. David M. Williams , who resigned in May as head of the all-male boarding school . Hughes does not plan to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will visit the campus frequently but will continue working as director of the Center for Enhanced Performance at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point . HENRY Projects to be discussed The County Commission is expected to discuss Monday the recommendations for construction projects funded by the special 1 percent local option sales tax , including expansion of the county courthouse . A committee overseeing the county 's tax-funded projects has recommended expanding the courthouse on the square , instead of building a court facility elsewhere . The committee also recommended proceeding with designs for a hub library and two senior centers . ROCKDALE Fowler to recite rosary today Nancy Fowler , a homemaker who has attracted a worldwide following for her claims that she receives messages from the Virgin Mary , will recite a rosary today , at her Conyers farm , but crowds are not expected to equal the thousands of pilgrims who came Oct. 13 . Besides talking with pilgrims , a spokesman said Fowler will reiterate that she is not moving to Florida and that she and her followers will build a church in the area . 