@@630360

POLITICAL ANALYST STUART ROTHENBERG Once Said of Arlen Specter : " He 's an intimidating senator and very successful at any game of ' Survivor . ' " Indeed , Arlen Specter might as well have been born to be champion ofthat reality show . He 's beaten cancer , a brain tumor , and overcome long odds to win five terms in the U.S. Senate . In April , faced with the almost certain prospect of losing to Pat Toomey , his 2004 GOP primary challenger , Specter pulled his ultimate Houdini trick and switched parties to once again become the Democrat he used to be . The good news for Democrats is that they certainly got some assurances from Specter that he would be more cooperative with their agenda than he has been to date . " We do n't know what assurances he got from the Democratic leadership , " Democratic consultant Richard Goldstein told Fox News . Indeed , I 've no doubt that Democratic leaders offered to help clear the field for him in the 2010 Democratic primary as well as direct key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be an automatic vote for the Democratic battle plan . He is notoriously resistant to lobbying and possesses a personality so alienating that it has led many in the state to dub him " Snarlin ' Arlen " or " The Arlenator . " He has always been a fierce proponent for open debate and amendment in the Senate , and is therefore unlikely to support parliamentary moves by Majority Leader Harry Reid to shut down extended debate and push through a radical health care plan with a bare majority of Senators behind it . Indeed , Specter 's standing with Democrats back home may give him some leeway to continue his independent course . A recent Quinnipiac University poll showed him trailing badly in his GOP primary against Toomey but scoring a 71 percent favorable to 16 percent unfavorable approval rating from Democrats . He is likely- but not certain- to win the Democratic primary , but then will likely face a tough general election against either Toomey or another Republican . The secret of Specter 's success is his dogged work ethic , his utter lack of political shame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When he was chairman of a key appropriations subcommittee he personally earmarked hundreds of millions of federal dollars every year for home-state projects while telling conservative donors he believed in ending the earmark process " because it 's gotten out of control . " The reality is that Specter loves pork so much that critics joke he might be loath to kill off animals infected with swine flu . " My adversaries accuse me of voting for pork , but I call it bringing home the bacon , " he told me last year . Indeed , so zealous is Specter in securing grants for the National Institutes of Health that he was once chastised on the Senate floor by then senator Pete Domenici , a former chairman of the Budget Committee . Domenici , a well-known advocate of greater science funding , nonetheless said the NIH had " turned into pigs . You know , pigs ! They ca n't keep their oinks closed . They send a senator down there to argue as if they 're broke . " Specter promptly rose to respond , " The NIH did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my own research . " What concerns some Pennsylvania officials is that the senator 's research into what projects should receive federal funds may include a blatant analysis of his own political needs . In 2004 , Andy Roman , a Lehigh County commissioner , said that Specter 's staff told him that his request for a local rail project " will never happen " because Roman was supporting Pat Toomey in the GOP primary . " If you cross Arlen Specter , you pay a price , " is Roman 's conclusion . " He does n't suffer from a desperate desire to be popular , " Thatcher Longstreth , who ran for mayor of Philadelphia in the 1970s with Specter as his campaign manager , said once . " He suffers from a desperate desire to be elected . " To that end , Specter has built up an incumbency machine that takes credit for projects in every one of the state 's 67 counties . He travels the state constantly . When I had dinner with him last year in New York , he knew not only my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He focused like a laser beam on the issues he thought would be of interest to me and doggedly made his case . Specter developed his tireless work ethic early as he rose from humble origins to graduate from Yale Law School . He then moved to Philadelphia to enter politics . Originally a Democrat , he became a Republican at 35 when in 1965 the local Democratic machine turned down his request to be nominated for district attorney . The GOP nomination was his for the asking , but he covered his bases . He changed his party registration only after he had won . After he narrowly lost a race for mayor of Philadelphia in 1967 , he was advised by a friend that he needed more warmth . " Okay , I 'll get some , " he replied . After three defeats for elected office during the 1970s , the " never say I 'm not running " Specter hit political pay dirt in 1980 when he narrowly won the GOP nomination for U.S. Senate and defeated a Pittsburgh mayor in a test of regional strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spared no effort to line up the fundraising and endorsements he needed to survive in the GOP primary . His string ran out this year , which is why he has returned to the Democrats . While Specter has survived , the same can not necessarily be said about his staff . A 2000 Washingtonian magazine survey of congressional staffers rated him the third-meanest senator . The Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call once named him to a select list of " Simon Legree " bosses for his " tendency to humiliate underlings . " The Washington Post concluded the worst job on Capitol Hill was " Specter flunky . " Douglas Troutman , a former aide to Specter , told the Philadelphia Inquirer that the atmosphere in the Specter office was " white-collar boot camp . " When told of that description , Specter replied , " I have n't heard that one , but I would n't argue with it . " If his office is akin to a boot camp , Specter is exacting in specifying how he is to be treated on his many official foreign trips . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaked to the Washington Post cable traffic detailing Specter 's demands . " Please have a case or two of Evian water for us to take with us at each embassy , " read a planning memo directed to the embassies . Officials were told to schedule " no evening events , including dinner with the ambassador or at the embassy . The Specters like to do their own thing at night . " Easy as it is to lampoon a senator for fussiness on foreign trips , Specter has never let perks distract him from his devotion to duty . But even there his exacting standards can be seen from two different points of view . In 2002 , Specter was on his way from Washington on a Metroliner to New York to catch a plane to the Middle East . His press secretary called him to tell him that the Senate would be holding four floor votes that night . A worried Specter told the conductor , " I just heard we were voting four times . Is it possible to go back to Washington ? " Although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee that approves Amtrak 's budget , he had to inform him that the rest of the train 's passengers could n't have their schedules disrupted . Specter got off at a station outside Baltimore and took a cab back to Washington . Now Specter has left the Republican Party at age 79 to pursue one last term as a Democrat . But would he make it his last term ? Despite his claim that he " would not suffer from a lack of interesting and important things to do if I were a private citizen , " his colleagues say that the Senate has become his entire life . " Arlen Specter has observed how staying in the Senate kept Strom Thurmond younger than his years for quite some time , " a former colleague of Specter 's told me . " I would n't be surprised for him to try to emulate old Strom and try to stay in office till age 100. "                     