@@615310

<p> METROSCOPE University System honors Miller The 34 campuses of the University System of Georgia and the system 's Skidaway Institute of Oceanography will join the board of Regents Wednesday to host a salute to Gov . Zell Miller for his eight-year contribution to higher education . " The Tribute to Zell Miller " will be at the Georgia World Congress Center beginning with a 5:30 p.m. reception and book signing followed by dinner at 6:30 p.m . More than 1,500 people , representing all sectors of the University System community , will be represented at the gala . Regents Chairman Edgar Jenkins will roast Miller , and University System Chancellor Stephen Portch will make special presentations . ATLANTA Board votes in favor of project The board of the Atlanta Empowerment Zone on Monday approved a $ 12.4 million package of federal loans and grants to help revitalize the Pryor Road corridor in the city 's southern sector . The zone board voted 12-1 in favor of the project . The Atlanta Development Authority will oversee the work , which will extend along Pryor Road from University Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phase calls for a redevelopment of the Joyland shopping center , currently occupied by a liquor store and several vacant stores . CHEROKEE Moxley 's foes meet Wednesday Organizers of the effort to recall embattled Cherokee School Board member Tim Moxley are set to meet 7 p.m . Wednesday at the Cherokee County Justice Center in Canton . Moxley has been at the center of a controversy over reports a board member threatened members of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools when they were investigating the county 's school system . Moxley denies any involvement with the threats . CLAYTON Hicks leading Water Authority Terry Hicks has taken over as interim general manager of the county Water Authority until a successor for former General Manager Richard Calhoun can be found . Calhoun , who is nearing retirement , has been named manager of general services , overseeing a department newly created by the authority . Hicks is the authority 's deputy general manager . Council may be reconstituted The County Commission is scheduled to discuss reviving the county 's Human Relations Council at a work session at 2 p.m. today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The council fell dormant for several years , and the Clayton chapter of the NAACP has requested that it be reconstituted . COBB Road project contract expected County commissioners today are expected to award a construction contract for the Atlanta Road project , which will improve the five-lane road between Windy Hill and Richardson roads and will reroute a section of the road under the CSX railroad tracks at Dixie Avenue . The road project is expected to cost about $ 10 million , and will be paid for with proceeds from Cobb 's 1 percent sales tax for transportation improvements . Heagy to discuss Overton Park The Cobb Chamber Cumberland Council will host John Heagy to discuss the Overton Park development at I-75 and Akers Mill Road . Heagy , Hines vice president of marketing , will speak at the 11:45 a.m . Wednesday lunch at Doubletree Suites on Cobb Parkway at Whitley Road . Cost is $ 15 for members and $ 20 for nonmembers . The Overton Park project , developed by Hines , will include office , retail , residential and hotel facilities . Information : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Lights and Water decided Monday to choose a marketing firm to work with the city in starting a city-owned natural gas company . The board , which operates the city 's power and water system , expects to name a marketer in about two weeks and to start selling gas by mid-November , said BLW Manager Jim Hanson . The move follows the recent statewide deregulation of the natural gas industry . Coverdell to be guest speaker U.S. Sen. Paul Coverdell will be guest speaker at a meeting of the Cobb County Republican Women 's Club at noon Wednesday in the Marietta Conference Center . Cost is $ 15 . Information : 770-424-5777 . DEKALB Officials to meet with students Representatives from about 50 moderately priced regional colleges and technical schools , including the University of Georgia , Georgia State and Georgia Tech , will meet students and answer questions at Decatur High School from 2:30 to 5:30 p.m . Wednesday in the school cafeteria at 310 N. McDonough St. Parents and students from anywhere in DeKalb County are invited to attend the free event . Information : Decatur High @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shelter Decatur Cooperative Ministry has purchased the former Atlanta Dream Hostel in downtown Decatur and plans to convert it to an emergency shelter for mothers and their children . Now the organization is holding a contest to name the facility . The winner will receive a $ 100 gift certificate to a local retail store . The proposed name should not include the word shelter . Information : 404-377-5365 . FAYETTE Two teachers finalists for award Two Fayetteville teachers have been named state finalists for the 1999 Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching . Crestina Roth , a math teacher at East Fayette Elementary School , and Mary Hiestand , a math teacher at Fayetteville Primary School , are among the 558 finalists nationwide . The teachers were chosen for their ability to help students learn and their leadership in improving math and science teaching methods . FULTON Presbyterian Church adding on Roswell Presbyterian Church , a community presence since 1839 , will head into the new millennium with a new three-story sanctuary that seats 900 people . The new sanctuary , located on Atlanta Street near Oak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original church building next door . It will cost about $ 8 million , and will open in late 1999 . " Five years ago the church had 1,000 members . Now there are 1,800 , " said Senior Pastor Lane Alderman . GWINNETT Expo planned Saturday The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is sponsoring a free Family Emergency Preparedness Exposition on Saturday . The expo , 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the church 's Atlanta Stake Center , 1947 Brockett Road in Tucker , will feature experts and more than 30 displays on how to prepare for various types of emergencies , from natural disasters to extended illness to loss of employment . HALL Council says no to ethics code The Flowery Branch City Council is not interested in adopting a code of ethics that one of its members recommended . Council member Robin Carlisle , who took office in August after a protracted election challenge , said the code would ensure there are consequences for violating the public 's trust . But when she asked the rest of the council to adopt the code , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring it up at every meeting until I lose an election or I 'm recalled , " Carlisle said . HENRY Locust Grove adding school County school officials will break ground for the new Luella Middle School at 4:30 p.m . Monday at 2075 Hampton-Locust Grove Road in Locust Grove . Luella is the fifth of six new schools to be funded by a one percent local option sales tax passed last year by county voters . The $ 10.5 million , 123,000-square-foot school , which will hold 1,000 students , is being built by Salloum Construction of Athens and is scheduled to open for the 2000-2001 school year . ROCKDALE 60-day moratorium extended Conyers City Council extended a 60-day moratorium Monday on all new multi-family housing . Council members are taking another 90 days to update their ordinances governing apartments , town homes and duplexes . They also are studying the developments ' potential effect on city services . 