@@615337

<p> Cherokee election gives schools another Thanksgiving day off ... Controversial rezoning request for Sprayberry High area is on the table Tuesday in Cobb ... Grading scale may be lowered in Gwinnett METROSCOPE Admissions fair is Sunday The Marist School , the Lovett School , Greater Atlanta Christian School , Woodward Academy and 22 more of the area 's major private schools will hold their first metrowide admissions fair Sunday from 2 to 4 p.m. at Oglethorpe University 's student center , 4484 Peachtree Road , in Brookhaven . ATLANTA City gets $ 1 million in aid The city of Atlanta received $ 1 million in federal assistance on Friday toward the environmental cleanup of a planned business park in its Empowerment Zone . The money will go toward cleaning up and redeveloping the proposed North Yards Business Park near Vine City . In conjunction with the Centennial Olympic Park Area Inc. and the Atlanta Development Authority , the city is working to redevelop environmentally tainted land into a light-industrial and office park , a mixed-income apartment community , and a multipurpose community center . Bikers ' run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zip through the streets of Atlanta on Sunday for the 15th annual Christmas toy run that benefits the Salvation Army 's Angel Tree Program . Sponsored by the Salvation Army and the local chapter of the American Bikers Active Toward Education , the motorcade will leave Chastain Park at 2 p.m. and conclude at 695 North Ave . in Midtown . Bikers are planning to ride through the city with toys strapped to their bikes , following the lead of " Harley Santa and Mrs. Claus " on their sleigh bike . At the end of the motorcade , a Salvation Army will receive the toys for the Angel Tree Program . Last year , the Angel Tree program benefited more than 25,000 children and elderly . CHEROKEE No school on Nov. 24 Cherokee County students and teachers will get an unexpected day off Tuesday , Nov. 24 , because of the runoff election for state public service commissioner and the countywide vote on increasing the property tax homestead exemption . Eighteen of Cherokee 's 28 schools are used as polling places . The missed school day will be made up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Council will look at a petition Monday to annex close to 400 acres for a planned golf-club community off Cooper Lake and Pebble Creek roads . The development , proposed by John Wieland Homes and Easland Capital , would have 200 single-family homes and 141 town homes on 169 acres , and an 18-hole golf course designed by Robert Trent Jones Jr . on 205 acres . The final vote is Dec. 9 . Rezoning issue to draw crowd A rezoning request that would allow almost 250 apartments and nine single-family homes across from Sprayberry High School is expected to draw a crowd of opposition to Tuesday 's county commissioners ' meeting . More than 150 residents turned out to oppose the rezoning at the Nov. 3 county Planning Board meeting . That board recommended that commissioners deny the rezoning request . Tuesday 's meeting begins at 9 a.m. in the County Commission meeting room , 100 Cherokee St. , in Marietta . DEKALB Students compete at Redan High school students and parents will learn about essay writing , passing the Georgia High School Graduation Test , and the SAT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Academically Krunk Day . " Students from Redan , Towers , Stephenson and Lithonia high schools are invited to the 9 a.m. to 2:20 p.m. program that includes student competition in verbal marathons , vocabulary volley , and geometry relays . Parents can learn about financial aid for college . The event is at 5247 Redan Road in Stone Mountain . Scarlet fever warning issued Students at DeKalb 's Lakeside High School have been warned to be on the lookout for symptoms of scarlet fever after a student at the school was treated for the acute and contagious disease . Parents were told to monitor children for symptoms , which include sore throat , fever and headaches . Parents with questions were told to call their physician or DeKalb County Health Department nurse Shelby Abernathy at 404-508-7851 . FAYETTE Boiling water recommended The Fayetteville Water Department says Fayetteville residents who live east of Ga . 54 and Rosewood Drive to the city limits should keep boiling water until further notice . The Water Department fixed a broken water main serving that area late Thursday , but said boiling should be continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information . Commission rejects request The Fayette County Commission has rejected a request by two incoming Fayette County commissioners to delay all rezoning votes until January when the new commission takes over . Commissioner Harold Bost made a motion to delay the rezonings to be decided in December , but it died for lack of a second . Joint worship service Sunday The tent set up outside First Baptist Church of Fayetteville is for a joint worship service Sunday . The church usually has three services each Sunday but will combine them , along with the choirs and orchestra , as part of a fund-raiser kickoff . The church hopes to raise $ 6 million for a new multi-ministry center . It will break ground as soon as $ 2 million is in hand . FULTON Recycling center can be toured Residents can tour the Roswell Recycling Center from 1 to 3 p.m . Sunday as part of America Recycles Day in Georgia . The event , hosted by Keep Roswell Beautiful , is being held to educate citizens about recyclable materials . Door prizes and refreshments will be available at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . GWINNETT Lower grading scale urged Gwinnett school officials Thursday recommended lowering their grading scale to prevent students applying to state colleges from being penalized under the Freshman Index . Starting in 2001 , the Board of Regents will use the index , a formula based on letter grades and SAT scores , to determine a minimum admission standard . Because Gwinnett and some other metro school districts have a slightly higher grading scale , parents and educators feared their students would be unfairly shut out of Georgia Tech , the University of Georgia and other schools . Forsyth and Fulton lowered their scales this year . Gwinnett board members are expected to approve the new scale Dec. 10 . HALL Regulation changes approved The Hall County Commission this week approved several changes to the county 's zoning regulations but postponed voting on a proposal intended to slow growth . The changes that were approved include requiring developers to submit rezoning applications at least 30 days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting at which they will be heard . The previous requirement was 20 days . The board also increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all developments of 100 or more residential units . The board , however , tabled a proposal to temporarily establish one-acre minimum lot sizes in residential areas . ROCKDALE I-20 section getting face lift A portion of I-20 from the DeKalb County line through Rockdale County has been approved for a $ 578,134 face lift . The Georgia Department of Transportation has awarded L.C. Whitford Co . Inc. of Alpharetta a contract to replace and install fencing along the expressway . Work is scheduled for completion in July 1999 . GEORGIA 10 teachers get certification Ten more Georgia teachers have just received certification from the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards , a demanding one-year process considered the first-ever model for making teaching a profession on a level with the law or medicine . Board-certified teachers , of which there are now 29 in Georgia , receive an additional 5 percent increase in their base state salary . The four newly certified teachers in the metro area are : Sharon A. Kirby , a science teacher at Marietta High ; Glenda Gail Sherer , an English teacher at Henry County Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mary C. O'Shea , a Special Instructional Assistance teacher , both at Dolvin Elementary in Alpharetta . Dolvin , where SIA teacher Brenda Palmer is also nationally certified , is the only school in the state with more than one teacher certified by the national board . 