@@630353

I WORRY THAT BY THE TIME OBAMA is through with us , the U.S. will be a second-class country . A lot of people feel the same way . A similar concern has been in the back of my mind for years . In the Carter era I also worried about the fate of the country , but I have to say that the hazards seem far greater now . After the Berlin Wall came down I thought the obvious lesson- that socialism does n't workwould penetrate the skulls of our domestic intelligentsia . But somehow it never did . They never regard a limit to government expansion as a desirable thing . Nothing seems to have been learned from the fall of Communism- the great history lesson of the 20th century . Consider health care , much in the news . When I first came to America , people would inquire about Britain 's " socialized medicine . " Their tone was politely skeptical . Was it really free ? Well , no . You 're not charged when you go to the doctor , but everyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service was introduced in 1948 ( it now employs more than 1.3 million people ) , and before that , if you went to the doctor , you paid for the service . To blunt the blow of misfortune there was private insurance , and doctors recognized a moral obligation of charity toward the indigent . Today , almost everyone will acknowledge that America 's private health system delivers better services than the state does in Europe . ( " Formerly private , " I should have said . ) Do n't forget , the Soviet Union also had " free " medical care , and good luck if you went to a doctor in Leningrad . Maybe things have improved now that it 's St. Petersburg again . Yet today , with little sense of dj vu , America is moving toward nationalized health . Obama made " a promise " of " affordable high-quality care available to every American . " The thrust of politics will be to make health care much more expensive for the nation as a whole , and of lower quality- without intending any such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 19th century , it too was something that the customer paid for . By the 1870s , however , all states were providing " free " elementary education . Today , private schooling has become a much more valuable good than it was 50 years ago , when government schools still functioned properly . They had not yet collapsed under the influence of teacher unions , progressive politics , and the decline of the family . So government schooling remained a viable alternative . Even today , in the better suburbs vigilant parents have been able to maintain standards to some extent by keeping close track of what goes on in school . The true victims of public education are the inner-city poor , where all liberal reforms have worked to their disadvantage . A comparable trend may well reappear with universal health care . I sometimes wonder whether progressive elites really care about education . My suspicions were aroused when I read in a book by Robert Conquest that Lenin said he did n't care about the education of the Soviet masses , disavowing Communist propaganda on the issue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and obey the Party 's instructions . Do the liberals care about our chaotic urban schools today ? No doubt some do . But effective action would mean challenging unions and the whole progressive mindset . As long as the unions keep delivering the votes , they will continue to exercise a major influence over the Democratic Party and will be allowed to run their own show- whether or not the inner-city kids learn to read or write . The recent shutdown of the voucher program in D.C. showed that the education of poor blacks is not an important consideration for the establishment . Obama surely does understand that instructing inner-city blacks has become a big problem . But he will only be able to do something about it only if it becomes his top priority . That is not going to happen-other issues will always be more urgent . Instead he will preserve the comfortable fiction that education can be reformed by increasing the dollars appropriated for it . Let me also say something about the energy madness that engulfs us . Here lies the real threat to America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " energy independence " have the potential to do real harm . Liberals really believe that oil and coal will have to make way for renewables , notably wind and solar , and they believe that this transformation can happen within a few years . They think goodwill can surmount all problems . The potential for harm was increased when the Environmental Protection Agency ruled that carbon dioxide threatens our health and welfare . Before that a prudent delay had seemed likely , but the EPA may push Congress into something really foolish . I WAS FRUSTRATED BY GEORGE BUSH on the energy front . He failed to confront the bogus science of global warming and he tiptoed around nuclear power . He favored it , but quietly , as though hoping to avoid arousing the opposition . But you either confront the anti-nukes directly or they will defeat you . When irrational fears drive policy , only full-bore presidential power can turn things around . The same was true of global warming . Bush never accepted that it was man-made , yet he did n't confront it , even though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It 's a house of cards that could have collapsed ( and could still ) with the right opposition . But Bush did n't want to stick his neck out , and that meant the " warmmongers " won . Now we find ourselves in the murky waters of cap and trade . A bill that hits the manufacturing , oil , and coal-producing states with higher taxes will be resisted by lots of Democrats as well as Republicans . But the relevant congressional chairmen are leftist ideologues- Reps . Waxman and Markey and Sen. Boxer- determined to impose big penalties on C02 emitters . No one knows how this will play out . I was cheered the other day when the president of the Cato Institute , Bill Niskanen , told me that cap and trade wo n't pass the Senate . The Democrats just could end up hoist on their own petard . The propaganda on behalf of " renewables " has been so misleading that most Americans- probably a sizable majority- have no idea how far we are from being able to replace coal , oil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't include hydropower ) . Al Gore actually called for all of the nation 's electricity to come from wind and solar within a decade . Currently , only 1 percent does . Obama wants 10 percent of electricity to come from these sources by the end of his first term , but that too is a fantasy . Late in the day , some journalists have begun drawing attention to problems with renewables . It was as though they had found out about them for the first time . Climate change advocate Juliet Eilperin reported on page one of the Washington Post that wind and solar projects " may carry costs for wildlife . " The land area needed for renewable energy is far greater than that required by traditional energy sources , she reported . If a nuclear power plant occupies one square mile , for example , 15 square miles would be needed to generate the same power by solar technology and 30 square miles for wind power ( according to the Post ) . Those ratios struck me as far too low , minimizing the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puts out a newsletter called The Energy Advocate . For wind farms , he told me , the year-round average output " translates into 300 square miles per 1,000 megawatts , the size of a nuke . " So it seems the Post reduced this particular renewable problem ( there are many others ) by a factor of 10 . Just about everything we have been told about renewable energy is a fantasy , but that does n't mean the Democrats wo n't try to cram it down our throats . So get ready for difficult times ahead , and pray for the country .                     