@@630369

IT IS PROBABLY WELL KNOWN to our readers that the British government , on the advice of Jacqui Smith , the Home Secretary , recently prevented Geert Wilders , a member of the Dutch parliament , from visiting Britain , to which country he had been invited in order to show his short film Fitna to a group of peers in the House of Lords . Fitna means " turning away " or " temptation , " and denotes the sin to which young Muslims are exposed in Western societies . The film purports to demonstrate the terroristic nature of the Koran and to give a warning against the Islamization of Europe . It has not been banned in Holland , but it is clearly a no-holds-barred attack on Islam as a creed and a social force . Prominent among those agitating to keep Mr. Wilders out of Britain was a certain Lord Ahmed , one of those cronies of Tony Blair who were shot into the House of Lords some 12 years ago in order to turn that venerable institution into the yes-machine favored by New Labour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , announced that he could muster thousands of the faithful in order to make Mr. Wilders 's visit a serious problem for the government . Rather than test this insolent remark as it demanded , the government went along with what it took to be Muslim opinion , and made no effort to defend Mr. Wilders 's right , as a member of one European parliament , to explain his views to another . A short while later Lord Ahmed was jailed for driving his car on the motorway while drunk and sending text messages- eventually running into the back of a stationary car and killing the driver . Whether his lordship 's reputation as a voice of the faithful will survive this particular episode is anybody 's guess , but no doubt some other self-appointed representative of the Muslim minority will step forward to dictate things the next time the Koran is threatened with a public examination . I am fairly sure that Mr. Wilders 's exposition of the Koran and its doctrines is biased . Like many non-Muslim readers of the Holy Book , I have been struck by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrative that is , in itself , a heartfelt invocation of the pious life , and a profoundly serious attempt to reconcile the belief in the one God , allseeing , all-knowing , with the moral chaos of human communities . I regret the fact that Muslims take this text to be the word of God , rather than a particular person 's attempt to give human words to a revelation that he should have sat on a little bit longer before being sure he had got it right . Like Mr. Wilders , I find parts of the Koran disturbing in their bloodthirsty and unforgiving anger . But I find the book of Joshua similarly disturbing from beginning to end . So what ? The book of Joshua emerged from a life-and-death struggle , in which God was conscripted to the winning side . The same is true of the Koran , which is as clearly marked by a great emergency as is the book of Joshua . This is normal : only in the Gospels does God appear ( to His inestimable credit ) on the losing side . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no way forward for Europe if it is n't said . Whether it is right to say it in the tone of voice of Mr. Wilders is another matter . But free speech is not about permitting only those voices of which you approve . It is about understanding your own beliefs and the beliefs of those who disagree with you . It is about creating the public space in which truth and falsehood can openly contend for their following . Free speech is critical to all the other freedoms that we enjoy , and the impulse to defend it- and in particular to defend the free speech of those with whom you disagree , of whom you disapprove , or who have been targeted by some mob or faction determined to silence them- is proof of the democratic spirit . The capitulation of our government before the hazy threats of one of its own criminal cronies is a disturbing indication of how things have changed in Britain , and how they are changing on our continent . It would not be correct to say , as it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grey ) in 1914 , that " the lamps are going out all over Europe . " But our governments , who have the responsibility to keep those lamps alight , have no guts for the task . WHY IS THIS ? To answer the question we must see the Wilders episode in its full context : the context of the Netherlands , into which country , unresisted by the guilt-crippled liberal elite , whole communities of Muslims have immigrated from North Africa and the Near East . The Dutch are a tolerant and moderate people who never go to extremes except in showing how tolerant and moderate they are . They have ostentatiously stepped down from the throne of their old convic- tions and left it vacant . But they never expected what immediately happened , which is that the immigrant communities jumped onto that throne and began to dictate the terms under which they would accept what had been offered , admittedly in bad faith , as hospitality . The Dutch were shocked and , without having any clear idea of what they were up against or how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything to a people tolerant of everything except intolerance . This is the context that changed the Netherlands from a quiet place where nothing ever happens to the improvised stage on which the drama of Europe is played out . The film Submission , made by Theo van Gogh to a script by Somali immigrant , Ayaan Hirsi Ali , brought death to the director and exile to Hirsi Ali , by then a member of the Dutch parliament . In the meantime Pirn Fortuyn , a leftish academic , had led his party to power on the strength of popular revulsion against the dictatorship of righteousness that the Muslim immigrants wished to impose . Fortuyn was assassinated by an animal rights activist , and his party collapsed in disarray . But nothing by then remained of the old Dutch consensus , in which toleration was the ruling principle . Everything that happens in Holland is now closely watched by other European leaders , anxious to know where Europe itself is going . And when the opportunity arises to take sides in a Dutch issue- as in the Wilders affair- our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that this involves jettisoning our inherited freedoms and the ground rules of democratic politics is of little significance , compared with the opportunity to show preemptive acquiescence in whatever demands the Muslim minority might be prepared to make . THE MAIN ARGUMENT PRODUCED BY those who censor people like Geert Wilders and Ayaan Hirsi Ali is not that their views should be silenced , but that their views should not be expressed in an inflammatory way . Even the most fervent democrat will admit that the right of free speech should not be used to stir up social conflict or destroy the civil peace . It is not just that you do n't shout " Fire ! " in a crowded theater . You do n't shout " Sieg heil ! " in a crowded synagogue , or " God is dead ! " in a crowded mosque . And by extension , you do n't make provocative films like Submission and Fitna that are bound to be taken as insults by those whose faith they criticize . However , who is to decide what is , and what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takes two to make a provocation , and while it is right to be provoked by some things , it is wrong to be provoked by others . If I am so constituted that any criticism in my presence of the philosophy of Hegel causes me to boil over with anger and assault the speaker , does this make criticism of Hegel into a threat to the civil peace ? Surely not : it is /who am a threat to the civil peace , and a true defender of free speech would have me locked up , rather than the anti-Hegelians who so enrage me . Of course , criticism of the Koran is not quite the same thing as criticism of Hegel . But if we allow only those who resent such criticism to define how far it can go we are in effect surrendering to intimidation . It is for the community as a whole , and the politicians who represent us , to distinguish legitimate criticism from inflammatory provocation . To allow the issue to be settled , as at present , by the ostentatious outrage of Muslims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where all this is leading is anyone 's guess . Nobody ( other than al Qaeda ) wants to change the resentments of Muslim communities in Europe into a state of open war . We are entering a situation that must be carefully managed if our legal and political inheritance is to survive . But one way of mismanaging the situation is to allow a belligerent minority to dictate terms to the rest of us . Our governments must face up to the fact that Geert Wilders was elected to the Dutch parliament , and enjoys considerable popularity , precisely because he has not been intimidated . You may not like what he says or his way of saying it , but it is people like him , and not the ones who censor them , who are defending the political order of Europe .                     