@@630352

THE SCIENCES AIM TO EXPLAIN THE WORLD : they build theories that are tested through experiment , and which describe the workings of nature and the deep connections between cause and effect . Nothing like that is true of the humanities . The works of Shakespeare contain important knowledge . But it is not scientific knowledge , nor could it ever be built into a theory . It is knowledge of the human heart . Shakespeare does n't teach us what to believe ; he shows us how to feel- case by case , person by person , mood by mood . As universities expanded , the humanities began to displace the sciences in the curriculum . Students wished to use their time at university to cultivate their leisure interests and to improve their souls rather than to learn hard facts and complex theories . And there arose a serious question as to why universities were devoting their resources to subjects that made so little discernible difference in the wider world . What good do the humanities do , and why should students take three or four years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if they were interested , they would read in any case , and which , if they were not interested , would never do them the least bit of good ? In the days when the humanities involved knowledge of classical languages and an acquaintance with German scholarship , there was no doubt that they required real mental discipline , even if their point could reasonably be doubted . But once subjects like English were admitted to a central place in the curriculum , the question of their validity became urgent . And then in the wake of English came the pseudo-humanities- women 's studies , gay studies , and the like- which were based on the assumption that , if English is a discipline , so too are they . And since there is no cogent justification for women 's studies that does not dwell upon the subject 's ideological purpose , the entire curriculum in the humanities began to be seen in ideological terms . The inevitable result was the delegitimizing of English . Unlike women 's studies , which has impeccable feminist credentials ( why else was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dead white European males whose values would be found offensive by young people today . So maybe such a subject should not be studied , or studied only as a lesson in social pathology . People of my generation were taught to believe that there are human universals that remain constant from age to age . We were taught to study literature in order to sympathize with life in all its forms . It does n't matter , we were told , if Shakespeare 's political assumptions do not coincide with ours . His plays do not aim that would set our imaginations and our sympathies on fire . Of course , Shakespeare invites judgment , as do all writers of fiction . But it is notpo/zizcaZjudgment that is relevant . We judge Shakespeare plays in terms of their expressiveness , truth to life , profundity , and beauty . And that is how you justify the study of English , as a training in this other kind of judgment , which leaves politics behind . This other kind of judgment used to be called " taste . " When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to develop taste in literature , art , and music . And so it remained right down to the time of my youth . The central discipline of a subject like English was criticism , and you taught criticism by getting students to raise questions about their own and others ' emotions , and by exploring the ways in which literature can both ennoble and demean the human condition . It was not an easy task , but there were examples to follow- great critics like R. P. Blackmur , F. R. Leavis , William Empson , and T. S. Eliot , who had raised the study of literature to a level of seriousness that justified its claim to be an academic subject . The same was true of art history and musicology . Both subjects involve historical and technical knowledge . But when they emerged as university disciplines they were inseparable from the cultivation of taste . You taught these subjects by way of introducing students to the great works of our civilization ( and sometimes of other civilizations too ) , and all the knowledge you conveyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to justify aesthetic judgments . To teach in this way is to run a great risk . Taste and judgment are faculties that we develop ; they form part of the great transition from youthful enjoyment to adult discrimination . To teach them is to offer a rite of passage into the adult way of life . And young people today are suspicious of rites of passage unless they themselves devise them . Their rites of passage are not from adolescence but more deeply into it . This , I believe , is the key to understanding their musical taste . The songs , styles , and groups that appeal to modern adolescents are invitations to join the gang . And criticism of their music by anybody who is outside the gang is offensive- an existential affront that threatens their core experience of social membership . This attitude makes judgment all but impossible , and it is one reason why departments of musicology are now " into " pop music and heavy metal , and refrain from creating the impression among their students that they regard the Western canon as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I recently had the experience of teaching a course on the phi- losophy of music to young people in a British univer- sity , and was acutely aware at every moment of the resentment that now greets any criticism of pop . Only comparative judgments are acceptable , and the comparison has to be between one piece of pop music and another . This is in fact an interesting exercise . You can learn a lot from comparing Peter Gabriel and the Kooks which you probably will not learn from comparing Bach and Vivaldi- a lot about the varied forms of self-indulgence in music , and the many ways of failing to make voice-led harmonies or melodies that are capable of prolongation . But you are not allowed to judge . Lives have been built around this stuff , and they are lives that are armored against the adult world and determined to avoid any passage into it . Students would listen respectfully to my examples from the classics . But they were examples of my music , and in no way to be understood as examples for them to follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the horizon- the spectacle of a distant , exotic , and in the end irrelevant form of human life . Teachers in subjects like English and art history have also encountered this flight from judgment , and it is one source of the crisis in the humanities , since judgment is what the humanities are really about . Subjects like English and art history grew from the desire to teach young people how to discriminate art from effect , beauty from kitsch , and real from phony sentiment . This ability was not regarded as an unimportant skill like fencing or horse riding , which students are free to acquire or not , according to their interests . It was regarded as a real form of knowledge , as vital to the future of civilization as the knowledge of mathematics , and more closely connected with the moral health of society than any natural science . It was only on that assumption that the humanities acquired their central place in the modern university . If , however , the humanities are to avoid the cultivation of taste , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrown into doubt . Given their prominence in the modern university , and the fact that increasingly many students come to university unprepared for any other form of study , any change in the humanities is a change in the very idea of a university . Conservatives often complain about the politicization of the universities , and about the fact that only liberal views are propagated or even tolerated on campus . But they fail to see the true cause of this , which is the internal collapse of the humanities . When judgment is marginalized or forbidden nothing remains save politics . The only permitted way to compare Jane Austen and Maya Angelou , or Mozart and Meshuggah , is in terms of their rival political postures . And then the point of studying Jane Austen or Mozart is lost . What do they have to tell us about the ideological conflicts of today , or the power struggles that are played out in the faculty common room ? The true conservative cause , when it comes to the universities , ought to be the restoration of judgment to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult a task the recapture of the universities will be . It will require a confrontation with the culture of youth , and an insistence that the real purpose of universities is not to flatter the tastes of those who arrive there , but to present them with a rite of passage into something better . And the word better simply raises the problem all over again . Who has the right to say that one thing is better than another ?                     