@@631325

Sorry , Gen Y , Bosses Rule Again Just a short time ago , employers worried about " trophy kids "  - -  the term meant to describe generation Y 's seemingly spoiled rearing that had created overly confident and demanding adults . There were concerns that the loyalty and work ethic of the labor force that was dominated by baby boomers would be less pronounced among younger workers , who would instead insist on flexible schedules and wide-open ladders to ascend at their companies -- otherwise , they 'd leave . These days , such worries have given way to basic economic law : There 's way more supply than demand , so employers rule . In January , there were 11.6 million jobless American workers chasing 3 million available jobs -- or nearly 4 workers for every opening , according to the Labor Department . There were 1.7 workers for each opening at the start of the recession . Workers gain bargaining power in tight labor markets , like the one we had in the early 1990s , says Sylvia Allegretto , a University of California-Berkeley economist . In markets like this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are scaling back business travel , and a quarter are reducing health benefits , according to a recent CareerBuilder survey . Gen Y is staying put , at least for now . " Companies can take away perks and benefits now without risk of losing their Gen Y employees because everyone 's a little scared right now and they are waiting this recession out , " says Ryan Healy , cofounder of Brazen Careerist , a career website aimed at younger workers . But the winds may not have shifted long term . " When the economy picks back up , expect Gen Y to continue pursuing jobs at great companies and leaving jobs at companies that are slashing perks and benefits just because the current environment allows for it , " Healy says . Government Work Is Hot . Really ! President Barack Obama is widely credited with making government work kind of cool again , particularly with younger workers . But the president 's youthful allure is n't the only thing drawing interest back to working for Uncle Sam . For one thing , government has been hiring . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between February 2008 and February 2009 , government has continued to add jobs . The stimulus package is expected to create even more . The public sector also appears to be the last bastion of job security . Here , for instance , you 'll find rich healthcare benefits and savings plans -- both under attack in the cost-conscious private sector . Those sorts of packages are increasingly appealing to a risk-averse American public , which posits " financial security " as the crux of the American dream , according to a 2008 survey by ad agency JWT -- a marked departure from the equal-opportunity vision at the heart of the American dream when the term was coined in the 1930s . Most job-search websites are seeing bigger traffic numbers as the unemployment rate ticks up , but interest in the federal government 's jobs site , www.USAjobs.gov , is really booming . The site was averaging 361,000 hits each weekday , as of February . The number of job applications nearly quadrupled between 2006 and 2008 . The government also saw a record number of applicants to its Presidential Management Fellows program this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Personnel Management , describe federal work is like traveling back in time and working for a tech company in the late 1990s : family-friendly employer , improved benefits , telecommuting opportunities , and competitive pay . The major bonus here , however , is there 's not much reason to fear a bubble bursting . Older Folks Are Flipping Burgers This trend is n't so much new as it is accelerating , thanks to the downturn . When college-educated older workers who devoted decades to white-collar , middle-skilled work ( think inventory management or tax preparation ) see their occupations get automated ( or sent offshore ) , they get jobs at McDonald 's . That 's a little glib , but the fact is that the cost benefits of choosing machine over man only increase in a recession . David Autor , a Massachusetts Institute of Technology economist , has been researching the " hollowing out " of the job market : Low-skilled and high-skilled jobs have been growing in disproportion to middle-skilled jobs over the past 30 years . Autor says jobs that are unlikely to become automated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persuasive arguments , for example -- as well as manual jobs that are hard to automate but are not highly skilled -- sweeping floors , driving trucks , mowing lawns , cleaning houses . Low-skilled service jobs are actually growing as a percentage of the American workforce . Because older workers are less likely to retrain or re-educate for different careers once their occupations have become automated , they will probably fill a growing percentage of the 5.3 million service jobs the economy is expected to add between 2004 and 2014 , according to Labor Department estimates . " You look at people who are 40 to 55 in 2005 , " Autor says , " you are much more likely to find them in lower-skilled jobs than in 1980 . It 's especially true for college-educated workers . " Women Gain the Upper Hand Men have traditionally experienced the brunt of job losses in economic downturns . During the Great Depression , some married women were even barred from employment so they would n't take jobs away from male heads of household . But in the 2001 recession , women suffered job losses on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had permanently turned . A report prepared last year for the Joint Economic Committee of Congress warned , " It now appears that , unlike in decades past , families can no longer rely on women 's employment to help boost family income during a downturn . " But that 's not been the case during the current downturn . Instead , this recession has done major damage to men rather than women , because of steep losses in male-dominated fields like construction and manufacturing . Men account for nearly 80 percent of the jobs lost since February 2008 . They had a higher unemployment rate than women in February -- 8.1 percent versus 6.7 , according to Labor Department data . While that poses a new challenge for households accustomed to male breadwinners , it may also be a saving grace , as , on average , the families who have experienced an increase in real income over the past three decades are those with a working wife . Revenge of the Nerds he patina of prestige has been wiped from Wall Street for this year and probably a lot longer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain . The stimulus package directs big money to the sector , including $21.5 billion toward federal research and development , with $10.4 billion for the National Institutes of Health , $3 billion for the National Science Foundation , and $2.5 billion to the Department of Energy . This would provide the first real increase in federal research funding in five years , and most NIH institutes and centers will have record-breaking budgets in fiscal year 2009 , according to the American Association for the Advancement of Science . Shirley Malcom , AAAS 's head of education and human resources programs , says she sees more opportunities for people already in the sciences and even the possibility of making science as exciting to students today as it was to her generation -- the " post-Sputnik generation . " Bright students in recent years have flocked to careers in business and the law , in part , because the science industry did n't make its case very well , Malcom says . But there 's another factor too : " It 's not clear that they were getting a sense from the general culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pricey plans for science might put innovations and accomplishments back where they once were -- on the front pages of the newspaper ( or its home page , where today 's student 's might read it ) . Indeed , when the front pages tell of anything other than recession , workers will know they 're on their way back up . In the meantime , expect an altered working world , and prepare to embrace a few new rules .                     