@@631333

As a reporter , I 'm paid to cover the ailing job market -- the spiraling unemployment rate , the weekly jobless claims , government stimulus efforts . I 'm also paid to write about the job hunt -- rsum mistakes , social networking sites , interview tricks . Between reporting on the ugly economics and relaying career advice , it 's easy to ask : With some 13 million Americans out of work , why not me ? Indeed , what employed person has n't reluctantly settled into bed on a Sunday night , the economy 's woes sparking position at an Ohio middle school in March , for heaven 's sake . Why not me ? Larry Hughes lost his job in February . His was just one of the 651,000 positions wiped from the payrolls that month . It 's a little strange experiencing personal tragedy en masse : your paycheck , livelihood , and nameplate eliminated along with a group roughly equal to the population of Memphis . It 's also incredibly frustrating because , during a recession , layoff notices rain down on the competent and incompetent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at HarperCollins , where he drummed up publicity for such suddenly ironic titles as Bulletproof Your Job and Executricks : Or How to Retire While You 're Still Working . His anger was real -- but brief , as he realized the scale of the losses put him in good company . Losing more than a job . Within weeks , he 'd given himself a new job title : " the most visible unemployed publishing industry publicity director . " Hughes immediately put his transferable skills to work in his unemployment . He wrote a column for Publishers Weekly the day after he 'd lost his job . He sat on a Fox News set with two other unemployed men for a segment titled " Taking It Like a Man . " Because his layoff was largely unanticipated , I wondered what Hughes would have done in the months prior if he had been able to see into the proverbial crystal ball and perceive his empty office . ( It might have been more honest if I 'd pleaded : Be our cautionary tale ! ) Hughes was generously willing to oblige @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mouth . Ignore this advice at your peril : " First , I would have made sure I had a database of my industry contacts somewhere other than my work computer , " Hughes says . " The morning I was let go , I was dismayed to find that by the time I got back to my desk , I 'd been locked out of my computer . No access to the address book I 'd created there -- and that included not just work-related contacts but friends , my doctor , the woman who cuts my hair . I 've had to rely on memory and have spent a lot of time figuring out how to reconnect with those people . " Hughes muses that many of us settle in and make a home for ourselves in our workplaces . " As I 've learned , that can all be taken away , " he says . Job Lesson : Assume the ax could fall at any time . " Second , I would have prepared a better record of my professional accomplishments , " Hughes says . His portfolio would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authors he 'd worked with . In other jobs , the accomplishments worth recording or preserving would obviously be different . The key is to recognize that , if you wait , the information may be unavailable to you right when you need it the most . Job Lesson : Be at the ready to market yourself . " Third , I 'd have ramped up my networking -- something I really have n't paid sufficient attention to , " he says . Well , he corrects himself : " I think the truth is , I 'm not comfortable doing it and do n't feel that I 'm particularly good at it . However , if you wait until you 're out of a job to begin , it 's twice as hard because you feel your motives are completely transparent . " Job Lesson : Always be networking . But what if , by the time you read this , you 're already out of work ? What if the question " Why not me ? " was answered with " Yes , indeed , you ! " Well , Hughes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my own recent experience , that people are unbelievably supportive and are happy to help you if they can , even if you have n't been in touch for years . " There 's an important lesson there , too . The vast majority of working Americans will hang on to their jobs through this recession -- just as 75 percent of workers were employed at the peak of the Great Depression . If we 're lucky , the worst of the payroll cutting is already behind us . Just do n't sit on your office laurels , counting on such luck . Most economists expect job losses to continue through the end of this year and very likely beyond . If you happen to be employed right now , spend some time helping a friend , colleague , or family member improve a rsum , practice interviewing , or make a connection . You may find yourself knocking on that person 's door in the not so distant future .                     