@@631336

Online social networking was once something mostly left to kids looking for the next hot band or hot date . It was not an avid pursuit for Kevin Kimball , a 56-year-old who had only dabbled in a few such sites until last fall . Then the Silicon Valley resident lost his job in the high-tech industry as the economy headed into a free-fall . " That 's when I took the deep dive , " he says of online networking . In a cold economy , he 's heating up links to friends and colleagues as he pursues contacts at companies that are hiring . " It 's now something I use every day , " Kimball says . He 's just one among millions . Registrations at leading professional networking sites are exploding amid the nation 's worst economic downturn since the Great Depression . LinkedIn , the best-known site for connecting those with jobs and those looking for work , was adding about 1 million users a month for most of last year . Then the economy began its meltdown in September . " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Krista Canfield , a career expert and spokeswoman at LinkedIn . The site is now adding a million new members every two weeks . More than 37 million have signed up worldwide . " It is n't just job hunters , either , " Canfield says . " This economy has been a wake-up call for a lot of folks . " Amid the burgeoning interest , professionals are finding a similar surge in online tools they can use . Job hunters and advertisers are invading social sites like Facebook , lawyers are discovering like-minded colleagues on Twitter , and top managers are getting tips from peers at Meet the Boss . That site restricts membership to financial executives , usually at the C level ( as in " chief " ) , and is one of a num-ber of more focused communities that are springing up . Epernicus is for scientists . Graduate Junction caters to graduate students ; for those already out of school , MyWorkster connects professionals with fellow alumni . At the other end of the hiring process , Jobvite helps companies tap the power of social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In short , online networking tools are surging at a time when we need them . The Web enables us to push beyond the 12 or 15 best friends that anthropologists say we typically have or even the 150 that we can maintain as steady acquaintances . " The reason the Web is so effective is because you do n't have to know people intimately to connect with them , " says Matthew Fraser , coauthor of Throwing Sheep in the Boardroom : How Online Social Networking Will Transform Your Life , Work , and World . Fraser 's book explains , for example , how Web network-ing reflects groundbreaking social research of the 1970s that showed how careers advance almost wholly through weak ties -- friends of friends -- rather than tightly knit networks of cronies . Fraser calls it the " kindness of strangers . " It is remarkable how people will help each other , share information directly , or otherwise post it for people they scarcely know or do n't know , he says : " There simply is no way that those same people could have been helpful to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Not that anyone is suggesting we abandon real-world tools . As anyone who has tried online dating sites can attest , the impact of electronic communication pales next to the power of a voice or the chemistry of a person 's presence . Some even discount the value of online networks for building their careers or businesses . New York City lawyer Scott Greenfield scoffs at the rising cadre of attorneys he sees on Twitter , for example , where they trade snippets about legal precedents and the course of their practices . Too many , he says , are simply hunting for business and referrals . " Most of what I 've learned is that there are a lot of desperate lawyers out there , " Greenfield says of his " reluctant " dip into Twitter . Web tools go beyond networking and job hunting . UpMo is among those selling online career coaching . The start-up links users to profiles of others who have achieved success in a given field , providing a career to model . The service , which is free during beta testing with fees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Based on the user 's goals , it prods periodic exchanges , whether it 's a simple E-mail update or an in-person lunch date . Reminders are persistent , if gentle . The nudges and guidance might be a particular help to young professionals . Recent law school graduate Christine Eichinger is using UpMo as she looks to grab her first career rung . " I have a whole new appreciation now for the art of networking , " the Chicagoan says . While the networks are diverse in their approach , common netiquette is emerging that is particularly important when using them professionally : Explore a network before diving in . Lurk ( or , in Twitter , " follow " ) for a bit to learn its personality . Twitter is about being noticed for having something interesting to say . And while the lines are blurring , Facebook remains a mostly horizontal world where users usually want to connect with more friends and fewer bosses , underlings , or even colleagues . LinkedIn , on the other hand , is as much about helping those below as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Describe yourself in words that a recruiter would use in a search for specific talents , experience , or accomplishments . Massage your bio as opportunities change . Link to your blog or to a website that showcases your thoughts , work , or at least a longer biography . It 's about sharing , not selling . Shameless self-promotion is as distasteful online as it is at a cocktail party . Adding wit or wisdom to a Twitter conversation gets noticed . Approach other members prudently and almost always through a mutual friend or contact . Offer them help , such as a lead you 've gleaned from networking . Or maybe ask a recruiter who has a job that 's not quite right for you : " How can I help in what you 're currently looking for ? " Know they 're watching . Professionals need to present a sober and thoughtful personality . Employers increasingly prowl networks to find new candidates and to eliminate existing ones . A key source of income for LinkedIn is from companies that pay to get access to more information than is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can work in your favor or not . Search for people , not just for jobs . Target companies of interest , and find friends of friends with responsibilities similar to yours or in positions you seek . Approach them through a referral . Try to have something to offer , perhaps industry insight or a news item . It 's crucial to have someone inside who can push a rsum forward from the stacks of online applicants . Get creative . Learn all you can about someone you 're meeting for the first time , particularly anyone who 's interviewing you for a job . Research your competition : If you have names , knowing their backgrounds can help shape the emphasis you put on your strengths or experience . Keep in mind , too , that competitors will be looking at your profile . And while still employed , do n't compromise your company 's information or strategy . Understand privacy . It 's growing more awkward as professionals in Web networks increasingly mix work and fun . Many of the sites have privacy settings that can control which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then you can confidently accept your boss 's friend request . Join in . Most networking sites have groups that focus on particular fields . Or you might find a Facebook group for former colleagues at a particular company , which can be an invaluable resource for staying in touch after a round of layoffs . Discussions related to your field , such as Q &As; on LinkedIn , are a great way to get noticed by others who share your interest .                     