@@630358

IN MID-APRIL , AT GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY , President Barack Obama said he wanted to " rebuild " our ( economic ) house upon a biblical rock . The president used Jesus 's Sermon on the Mount as a centerpiece of his speech , even though his staff wanted all the religious symbols behind the podium covered up . Obama argued that the current downturn " was different " from a normal cyclical recession and represented a " perfect storm of irresponsibility . " Therefore , he continued , we " can not rebuild this economy on the same pile of sand . " Instead " we must build our house upon a rock , " we must lay a new foundation . This foundation should be built on " five pillars that will grow our economy . " This is what he proposed : 1 ) New rules for Wall Street 2 ) New investments in education 3 ) New investments in renewable energy and technology 4 ) New investments in health care 5 ) New savings in our federal budget Having our president follow the lead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world is more powerful , and if the president of the United States does not look up , then he stands very much alone . Without moral or spiritual guideposts , his decisions can appear capricious or motivated by politics or personal desire . All this aside , the president 's interpretation of the Sermon on the Mount is nonetheless suspect . His five pillars are more like plumbing , staircases , or windows . When Jesus talked about building our house upon a rock , he was talking about the ground , the base , the land . He was not talking about anything having to do with the actual structure . Jesus was using a metaphor to describe the condition of our souls . If our souls , or our fundamental beliefs , are not with God , then we will be swayed by worldly things and led astray . There are other metaphors in the Bible that address the same issue , such as the parable of planting seeds in rocky , thorny , or fertile soil . The seed sown in fertile soil will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not about what kind of seed is planted or about some particular arena of economic activity ; it is about the condition of the soul . To remain philosophically consistent , President Obama should not have made specific recommendations . He should have made a clear case for the fundamental economic order he favors . He should have argued that socialism is the rock and capitalism is the sand . His pillars- new rules to regulate Wall Street , new government spending on health care , education , and the environment- are not a new theology or philosophy . These are arguments the left has made for decades . They are plans to alter the allocation of scarce resources in certain parts of the economy . A capitalistic system would count on competition and innovation to bring progress and lower prices . A socialist system uses the government to allocate these same resources by coercion . As you read this , you have probably concluded that this is exactly what the president wants . However , the left knows that moving to socialism can not happen quickly . Not in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a result , the president would rather use the current political environment and financial market crisis to move incrementally toward more government control over key sectors of the economy . National health care is not a fix for the financial crisis , nor will it keep another crisis from occurring , but it is a desire that the left has had for decades . The liberal cause in America has always pushed for greater governmental control over the economy , all in the name of fairness , equality , and social justice . The financial crisis and recession have provided a new opportunity to intensify this push . This happened in the Great Depression as well , when the government used the economic crisis to sow doubt about the private sector and expand its reach into the economy . Such a response to the current crisis is flawed on three fronts . First , the government is at least 75 percent responsible for the financial market crisis . Alan Greenspan 's extremely easy monetary policy ( 1 percent interest rates ) and the government 's willingness to use Fannie Mae @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encourage more people to buy houses are a major source of the problem . Yes , financial firms ( and individuals ) made mistakes , but when government creates an artificially attractive environment to buy houses , it 's easy to understand why a bubble forms . A fair analysis of current troubles would never put the entire blame on capitalism . What 's more , our financial problems today are no worse than those of the 1980s and 1990s , when roughly 3,000 banks failed . But for some reason , perhaps the recent decades of prosperity , the American people seem very vulnerable to a downturn . While 8.5 percent unemployment is painful , it is hard to fathom how anyone can believe that it signals a complete breakdown of the capitalist system . Second , the American system of free market capitalism has been exponentially better at creating wealth and raising living standards than any other system on earth . American capitalism is no longer an experiment . This does not mean that human nature has changed . Nor does it mean that capitalism is perfect . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other side of the fence . Thus when problems inevitably occur , it is very easy for people to desire fundamental change . This is a huge mistake . There is absolutely no proof that government allocation of resources lifts living standards . Third , men 's souls are undermined by government . When government assumes responsibility for creating jobs or providing retirement and health care , some people are encouraged to stop taking care of themselves . When people count more on government , they lose sight of God and start taking personal responsibility less seriously . Socialism is like sand . It promises more than it can actually provide . Government allocation of resources undermines the human condition . Why work hard , innovate , or create when success has limited reward ? And why work hard or innovate when lack of success has little consequence ? A socialist system also provides its leaders ultimate power over others that often leads to its gross abuse . Capitalism , despite its flaws , honors hard work and innovation . As a result , it is like rock . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be . The capitalist system rewards people who serve their fellow man . Those who provide goods and services to others at low cost and high quality win . Every day consumers vote with their own hard-earned money on which products or services they value . Producers who do n't make the grade go out of business , while those who provide what people want continue to prosper . It is true that some people on Wall Street either abused or appeared to abuse the system in order to reward themselves . But these issues can be handled by creating rules to keep firms from becoming " too big to fail " and to stop the abusive use of stock options . Clearly this will not be enough for many politicians . While President Obama has not declared socialism better than capitalism , his use of the rock and sand parable from the Sermon on the Mount suggests this is what he believes . Because of its history , America has always run away from this vision . Our country was founded by individuals who believed in freedom and responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a people still believe .                     