@@631352

CHANTILLY , VA.  - -  The scene is one part Battlestar Galactica , one part detention center . Inside , picture a tall , metal fence -- a cage , really -- with a doorway guarded by a uniformed security officer . Behind it , row after row of whirring , blinking machines . Data servers , stacked on top of one another , stand about 8 feet high . Neon lights glow . Fiber-optic cables debouch like grapevines . SoftLayer 's newest data center sits in a nondescript building in an office park in suburbia . No big sign announces its presence . Deliberately anonymous , nothing hints at its essential role in the digital age . Or its appetite for energy . In the paper-to-pixel revolution , server farms like SoftLayer 's are the foot soldiers , and Northern Virginia is one of the major hubs of activity . More than 50 percent of all Internet traffic in the United States flows through this tech-rich region . Twenty-four hours a day , seven days a week , hundreds of thousands of servers here rapidly transmit E-mails , process Internet search queries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store videos and medical records . And suck up megawatts . These server farms are growing fast , fed by an apparently recessionproof demand for electronic information . By 2012 , Virginia-based Dominion Power estimates that fully 10 percent of all the electricity it sends to northern Virginia will be gobbled up by these data centers . Ashburn , Va. , about 30 miles west of Washington , D.C. , is home to servers used by Yahoo , AOL , AT &T,; and dozens of others and is a particularly big energy hog . Nationally , data center electricity use has more than doubled between 2000 and 2006 , and is expected to double again by 2011 . The energy implications of this growth are huge . Power companies are starting to fret about predictions that show them running out of sufficient generating capacity as early as 2011 , raising the specter of rolling blackouts . Energy costs for the companies that operate these constantly running machines are climbing . And with increasing concern about greenhouse gases , server farms are attracting the same sort of furrowed-eyebrow scrutiny as other heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ambitious effort to make these facilities more energy efficient . There have been isolated attempts for the better part of the past decade . But in the past year or two , some of the field 's giants have started to share data . One is Google , which is notorious for being tight-lipped about data-center operations , refusing to reveal even the locations of most of its facilities . Lately , though , it has begun to speak out about energy efficiency as the industry grows . " We 've got close to 1.5 billion people online , which is a lot , but it 's only 20 percent of the world 's population , " says Erik Teetzel , Google 's energy program manager . " So , yes , we are going to need more computing power , but you do n't necessarily need to use more energy . " Cooling towers . There 's obviously ample room for improvement . In 2005 , researchers at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory found that " a single high-powered rack of servers consumes enough energy in a single year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times . " In the average data center , in fact , only about half of the energy is used by processors themselves ; the other half is gobbled up to cool the facility . Google says it has been able to reduce the energy needed to regulate the temperature in its facilities to about 20 percent of the industry average , in part by using water-based cooling towers . Some energy gains can come from simple structural changes . At SoftLayer 's Chantilly facility , which opened last May , the servers are stacked in dense vertical racks , the racks are arranged in rows , and between the rows are alternating hot and cold aisles . The cold aisles have vents in the floor that emit cold air that cools the front faces of the servers ; the hot rows get the exhaust from the back side . The racks also are tightly packed -- up to 44 servers per rack . The higher the density of the servers -- the more servers per square foot --  the fewer feet in need of cooling . As data centers become more sophisticated , new strategies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small to medium-sized business that " are just becoming overwhelmed with their technology and data storage requirements , " says SoftLayer CEO Lance Crosby . So its Virginia facility is smaller than many -- with 5,000 servers at the moment , but expandable up to 10,000 -- and packed densely for efficiency . Big companies like Google and Yahoo , meanwhile , have opted to build their own facilities from the ground up , which gives them more control over a facility 's design and engineering , particularly its heating and cooling systems . Meanwhile , the server farms are also spreading out . Northern Virginia remains popular , in part because it has some of the country 's cheapest electricity rates , at about 4 to 5 cents per kilowatt-hour , compared with more than double that in a place like Dallas . But new spots are opening up . Yahoo , in something of a back-to-basics approach , has homed in on temperate West Coast climates . " The most efficient ways to keep these servers cool is very simple and elegant -- we open the windows , " Christina Page , Yahoo 's director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's California site . " Because of the climate , we get free cooling 75 percent of the year . " Low profile . Even in Virginia , post-9/11 security concerns have pushed companies to look further out : to areas south around Richmond and southwest to Harrisonburg , and outside of the 50-mile " blast radius " of Washington . " We 've been fairly successful at looking beyond the Northern Virginia boundary , " says Michael MacNeilly , business development manager for the Virginia Economic Development Partnership . He says the state has identified about 125 potential data center sites , including many in central and southern Virginia . Given the secrecy associated with data centers , it has taken a while for them to attract national attention . But that 's slowly changing . In 2006 , Congress ordered the Environmental Protection Agency to put together a report on energy consumption by private and federal data centers . The report , released in 2007 , found data centers consume about 61 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity annually , which is about 1.5 percent of the country 's total electricity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The report also raised mild concerns about greenhouse gas emissions associated with increased electricity use , but it countered them by noting that the benefits of E-commerce and telecommuting -- less driving , for one -- might outweigh the downside . To which Google 's Teetzel adds a familiar refrain : Without the data centers to power the Internet , global warming awareness would very likely be much lower .                     