@@615362

<p> METROSCOPE 61 roads lead to court The Georgia Conservancy , Sierra Club and Georgians for Transportation Alternatives on Tuesday filed a " notice of intent " to sue federal and state transportation agencies over their decision to allow 61 road projects to proceed after the region fell out of compliance with clean air laws . The groups contend federal officials permitted the state Department of Transportation to abuse a provision allowing some road projects that have long been in the funding pipeline to be " grandfathered . " Gov. - elect Roy Barnes declined to take sides in a legal action that could halt road building in metro Atlanta for the foreseeable future . Barnes did not comment on the particulars of the notice , which gives government officials 60 days to remedy the situation or negotiate a settlement before an actual lawsuit can be lodged . ATLANTA Tire Amnesty Day is Saturday The city of Atlanta plans to give residents a chance to properly dispose of used tires Saturday as part of Scrap Tire Amnesty Day . Individuals can drop off as many as five tires per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drop off a larger number from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Atlanta City Hall East , 675 Ponce de Leon Ave . CHEROKEE Board member to apologize Tim Moxley is scheduled to make a public apology at the county Board of Education meeting 7 p.m . Thursday at Canton Elementary School . Moxley , a board member , will apologize for taking home the W-2 forms of school system employees in February . The apology is required under terms of a settlement in a lawsuit filed by five school system employees who said Moxley violated their privacy rights by taking home the forms . CLAYTON Parkway name change delayed The county is preparing to honor the nation 's armed forces by renaming Commerce Parkway to Veterans Parkway . On Tuesday , commissioners discussed the name change , which was requested by the local Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 6330 in Jonesboro . The VFW is located on Commerce Parkway . Because another business is located on the street , the commission decided Tuesday to delay consideration of the renaming until December . COBB Board wo n't meet counselors Marietta school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session with professional counselors to help soothe strained relations . The board fractured into two camps in August after a 3-4 vote about where to locate a replacement for Marietta High School and plans for the middle school . Board members delayed the scheduled planning session until Dec. 6 and decided to work on better communications among themselves . Board member Patricia Smith said she would not participate in such a session , and that trust among board members has deteriorated to such an extent that facilitators could not be successful . Board members Annette Lewis and Jeanie Carter agreed that counselors are not needed . Composter nears capacity The Bedminster composting plant should be running at full capacity and ready to be accepted as a county facility on Jan. 11 , two months later than scheduled , commissioners said Tuesday . As of this week , the facility was processing 120 tons a day of solid waste and sludge in two of its five digesters , said Willem van Zyverden , plant manager . Flags to be raised in Marietta The Marietta Kiwanis Club will place more than 300 miniature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of six national holidays the club observes by placing flags  --  for a $ 25 annual fee  --  in subdivision yards , at local high schools , and at many companies . The Kiwanis Club then takes the flags down and stores them until the next holiday . The money raised benefits the YWCA Battered Women 's Shelter , Cobb County 's Read and Lead Program and high school scholarship funds . To participate , send a request to the Marietta Kiwanis ' Flag Program , P.O. Box 3191 , Marietta , GA 30061 . DEKALB Projects to be reviewed The DeKalb Historic Preservation Commission is scheduled to meet at 7 p.m . Thursday to review a list of construction and renovation projects in two historic districts : Soapstone Ridge and Druid Hills . The preservation commission has the power to approve or reject construction and renovation projects in those two districts , although the panel 's decisions can be appealed to the County Commission and to the courts . The meeting will be held in the Maloof Auditorium , 1300 Commerce Drive . FAYETTE Council cancels two meetings The Fayetteville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its regular meeting scheduled for Monday because the agenda only included one item . The next regular meeting is Dec. 7 . FULTON Building plans opposed Three Alpharetta activists on Tuesday asked the Fulton County Board of Education to revise its school building plans , especially for a new north Fulton high school . Alpharetta Councilwoman Debbie Gibson , resident Lainey Ambery and Julie Bromstad , chairwoman of a north Fulton PTA panel , told board members that a high school should be built by the year 2002 . District plans call for the school to be ready in 2004 . The speakers , who addressed the board at a pre-board meeting , said parents and students are tired of crowded campuses and classrooms in north Fulton County schools . Intersection changes dropped Traffic lights and turning lanes will not replace the four-way stop signs where Mount Paran Road crosses Long Island Drive and Lake Forest Drive in Sandy Springs . Fulton County Commissioner Tom Lowe and public works officials canceled the proposed intersection changes after Sandy Springs residents voiced strong opposition at a recent public hearing . City manager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept a similar job in a Kansas City , Kan. , suburb . A search for his successor will begin soon and could take up to six months . Wilkes , who 'd been with the city for six years , will become city manager in Olathe , Kan. , a city of 90,000 , which is more than three times Alpharetta 's size . Wilkes said he 's leaving because the new job will be a career advancement . His last day is Dec. 18 . GWINNETT Politics news goes online The Snellville NetGazette , an online newspaper for the local community , began about three months ago . It 's now receiving more than 3,000 visitors a month , and most are coming to the site for information about the local political process and crime reports . To complement the reporting , the online news service is launching an interactive mail list called Snellville Politics . For more information , visit the list home page at http : **38;458;TOOLONG . HALL Soccer complex on agenda County commissioners and the Gainesville City Council will meet Monday to discuss a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two governing bodies . The complex would be located on city-owned property off Monroe Drive just east of I-985 in Gainesville . It would include about 10 or 12 soccer fields . County and city policymakers will hear presentations from the heads of their recreation departments , but no action will be taken Monday . HENRY Librarian 's future undecided The Henry County Library Board of Trustees recessed after a three-hour executive session Monday night without deciding on the future employment of Library System Director Flora Walker . The Board of Trustees will continue Walker 's annual job evaluation at 7 p.m . Monday , but the location of the meeting has not yet been determined . Walker , who has hired an attorney , has threatened to sue library board members Clyde and Charlotte Newbury , saying they have made " false and damaging statements . " ROCKDALE Councilman named to post Conyers Councilman Martin Jones has been selected to serve on the Finance , Administration and Intergovernmental Relations Committee of the National League of Cities . The committee meets twice during the year to discuss issues of national concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1989 , is chairman of the Finance Committee for the city of Conyers and he serves on the board of directors for the Georgia Municipal Association . 