@@774006

txt // Members of the political opposition were , however , equally as vigilant as those of Charles 's administration in following the British dimensions of Restoration Scottish politics . In 1667 , for instance , an increasingly sizeable Scottish militia had been established for use in Charles II 's service throughout the three kingdoms . Amid growing fears in England about the spread of popery and arbitrary government , such legislation could be construed as part of a grand political design to destroy Protestantism and rule by law . Campaigning in the English House of Commons against the maintenance of standing armies , William Sacheverell argued that the Scotch Act of Militia .. . puts the King in power plainly to alter any thing in Church or State , and so , by this army , Popery may be set up ' . His fears were shared by his parliamentary colleague , Sir Thomas Littleton , who warned , i t is in vain to act here , without converting our thoughts to Scotland ' .22 Domestic opposition in Scotland also swelled as further repressive legislation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which made it a capital offence to preach at outdoor religious conventicles . To register their deep discontent , successive deputations of Scots nobles travelled to London where they were seen daily concerting a correspondence with Buckingham , Shaftesbury and others who were discontented there ' .23 Upon such information , the earl of Shaftesbury delivered a vehement speech to the English House of Lords in 1678 , graphically depicting the manner in which the Scots were seeing their lives , liberties and estates sequestered to the will and pleasure of those that govern ' . As he conceived , the Scots ' predicament was of immediate domestic relevance , for until the pressure be fully taken off from Scotland ' , no reassurance could be gained that the principle is not changed at court , and that those men that are still in place and authority have their influence upon the mind of our excellent prince ' .24 III In an age of cuius regio , eius religio , when few early modern monarchs had ever successfully ruled over territories of different religious confessions , the greatest challenge faced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberty of conscience that would encourage political security throughout the multiple monarchy . In the Declaration of Breda of 1660 , Charles II had declared a liberty to tender consciences ' , by which no man shall be disquieted or called in question for differences of opinion in matters of religion which do not disturb the peace of the civil 100 // magistrate ' .25 Theoretically this commitment encompassed not only spiritual freedom , but also the payments of tithes , the rights of lay proprietors , gentry pre-eminence and university monopolies over clergy training . Despite the pledge made in the Declaration , the Restoration appeared to signal a return to the pre-civil war era throughout the multiple monarchy . Short of formal religious disestablishmentarianism , contemporary logic denied the possibility for one monarch to possess a different religious conscience in each of his different dominions . In England , the Declaration had appeared to offer a sufficient guarantee for most presbyterians and former puritans in England to acquiesce in Charles ' restoration . Nonetheless , a narrow form of Anglicanism was subsequently imposed , legislatively enshrined by the Clarendon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Uniformity ( 1662 ) , enjoining consent to the Book of Common Prayer on pain of deprivation , the Conventicle Act ( 1664 ) proscribing attendance at nonconformist meetings and the Five Mile Act ( 1665 ) forbidding ejected ministers from residing within five miles of their former parishes . When episcopalian exclusivity was also restored in Scotland in 1662 , an act was passed requiring all ministers ordained since 1649 to seek presentation from their patrons and collation from their bishops . A quarter of ministers refused and were thus subsequently deprived , the majority from parishes in the southwest of Scotland . Unlike the English and Scottish churches , the Church of Ireland had never formally been disestablished during the civil wars , but when the narrowly Anglican Act of Uniformity was enacted in 1666 , it only reflected the religious sensibilities of around a third of Irish protestants and tinder one tenth of the country 's whole population . Forced to compete with increasing numbers of English and Scots presbyterians , Independents and Quakers , the Church of Ireland 's monopoly over Protestant worship had been ended forever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to impose religious conformity throughout the multiple monarchy , domestic peace was not secured immediately in an age when the defence of religion was perceived as one of the few legitimating pretexts for political resistance . In Scotland , as growing numbers of nonconformist clergy were ordained in England , Ireland and on the Continent , increasingly serious challenges were mounted against the royal supremacy by theocratic presbyterians . In order to attract the loyalty of more moderate dissenters , the government responded by drafting successive indulgences and schemes for accommodation in the late-1660s and 1670s. 101 // Irreconcilable divisions between moderate presbyterians and more extreme elements emerged as a result of such initiatives . Particularly in the aftermath of the murder of Archbishop James Sharp of St. Andrews in May 1679 , civil disobedience escalated and the subsequent effects of the Killing Times ' soon reverberated outside Scotland . On his arrival in Dublin in 1683 , the outlawed Scots Covenanter , James Renwick , proclaimed that the Lord has a special hand in my coming to this place . . . he has kindled a fire which I hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1682 , another Covenanter , James Fraser of Brea , similarly confirmed that he looked upon wicked folk , though Scotsmen , as the greatest aliens , foreigners , strangers to me ; a godly man in England or Ireland is more my countryman than a wicked Scotsman ' .27 Among those presbyterians who elected to remain and suffer in Scotland , resentment was also directed towards those who had fled to Holland from Scotland , meerlie for their oun peace and quietnes , treacherouslie deserting the interest of the Lord and leaveing their charges and the poor persecute flocks ' .28 Apprehensions generated by the increased militancy of the Scots Covenanters were feared most acutely in northern Ireland . Particularly in Ulster , the government actively sought to achieve some form of accommodation with moderate presbyterians in order to deter them from combining with more extreme Scottish elements or with those English sectarians who remained unreconciled to the Restoration settlement . From 1672 , therefore , presbyterian clergy in Ulster began to receive the regium donum , an official subvention derived from Irish customs revenue . That same year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was promised a list of proscribed persons in Scotland that would enable him to shut the doore upon them in Ireland , &; soe prevent the Contagion they may bring of their doctrine into Ireland , from which they were banisht from their owne Countrey ' . hi this objective , Essex considered the Irish army as crucial to maintaining the security of all three kingdoms , given that the Kingdome of England is not in the most composd condition that could bee wisht , and that of Scotland very uneasy ' .29 Elsewhere in Ireland , the religious situation was even more complex since economic realities alone dictated the need for de facto toleration of Catholics who comprised around four-fifths of the total population . Although traditionally perceived as intrinsically disloyal and subversive on account of the 1641 Rebellion , various sections of the Catholic community resolved to demonstrate that political loyalty was not incompatible with religious nonconformity . With the outcome of the land settlement still pending in the early 1660s , for instance , a // number of Irish Catholics formulated a remonstrance offering unqualified acceptance of Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporal affairs . By firmly denying that political loyalty was compromised by recognition of the papacy 's spiritual authority , their Gallican-style arguments sought to undermine the case for imposing civil disabilities upon the majority of the Irish population . Condemned outright by the Pope and other foreign observers , this initiative was , however , formally rejected by a national congregation in Dublin in 1666 , after which an official anti-catholic reaction ensued across Ireland . To a large extent , the divisions that arose over the remonstrance reflected older civil war differences between those Old English factions who had remained loyal to the king and their more radical Gaelic co-religionists who had supported the endeavours of the papal nuncio , Cardinal Rinuccini . Perhaps the greatest impediment to securing civil peace in Ireland was , however , the uncertain direction given by the court itself . As one Protestant magistrate complained of the Catholics in 1672 , i f the king would stand neuter , he doubted not but we were able to beat them into the sea ' .30 Suspicions about Charles II 's own pro-Catholic leanings intensified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a treaty which had been allegedly concluded between Charles II and Louis XIV at Dover in 1670 . In Ireland , the removal of the staunchly Anglican duke of Ormonde as lord lieutenant was widely regarded as reflecting changing religious policies at court . As Thomas Carte later claimed , whoever notes the smiles and frowns which his grace of Ormond received at different seasons from the court , may form a good judgment of the church of England at those times ' .31 Two days before war was declared against the Dutch in March 1672 , Charles issued a Declaration of Indulgence in England ordering that the execution of all manner of penal laws in matters ecclesiastical , against whatever sort of nonconformists or recusants , be immediately suspended ' .32 Not only was this declaration promulgated without parliamentary consent , but its timing coincided with extensive military preparations . When the English Parliament reconvened in February 1673 , fears emerged that the Declaration was part of a design to establish absolutism and Catholicism by military means and French finance . Fuelled by such apprehensions , strong attacks were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Declaration was soon withdrawn . Amid this atmosphere of mounting suspicion and distrust , few professions of political loyalty reassured English or Scottish Protestants of Ireland 's fidelity . Exaggerated and fabricated rumours // of Irish subversion thus became a structural feature of Restoration politics throughout the multiple monarchy . The most spectacular of these rumours concerned the putative revelations made by Titus Oates in 1678 of a Popish Plot ' to murder Charles II and install his Catholic brother on the throne . The dramatic spectres generated by this alleged conspiracy ensured the random execution of eighteen priests and several Catholic laymen in England and the groundless execution for treason of Oliver Plunkett , archbishop of Armagh . In Scotland , graphic reports circulated of a plott of the papists and Irishes for cutting off the Inglish and Scotts , man , wife and child ' .33 Despite this widespread panic on the mainland , not a single execution of a Catholic priest or layman occurred in Ireland as a result of the plot . In the opinion of one Limerick gentleman in April 1680 , a s to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoken of it there in England than we hear of it here ' .34 Even after the Catholic James WI and II succeeded to the throne in 1685 , entrenched perceptions of Irish disloyalty remained . Writing anonymously to James in 1685 , one Irish priest condemned the manner in which the Irish that have not rebelld since 41 ... must be still branded with the ignominious names of a rebellious barbarous &; bloodthirsty nation but Munmouths &; Argiles rebellions that struck so imediately at the very root of monarchy are already forgot as if they had bin a dream ' .35 Iv In the absence of any imperial British vision emanating from the court of Charles II , it was initially unclear whether subsequent attempts would be made to redefine the relationships between the constituent parts of the multiple monarchy . Charles ' hapless experiences at the hands of the Covenanters between 1650 and 1651 had engendered within him little desire to return to Scotland in person , or to seek a closer political relationship with his Scottish subjects after 1660 . According to the earl of Clarendon , Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ models ' , apparently perceiving many reasons to continue Scotland within her own limits and bounds , and sole dependence upon himself .36 Such sentiments were evidently shared by his Scottish subjects who had been deeply disillusioned when the Cromwellian theory of incorporating union had translated into the unpleasant reality of military occupation . As the earl of Lothian reflected in May 1660 , albeit we are in another world againe , and there are people newe moddelling this land ... wee must be a 104 // free Independent nation , brethren and good friends , let us be under one soveraigne and head , but no parte of England .37 Scotland 's constitutional status may not have been openly challenged during the Restoration , but the same was not true for Ireland . Although it was not until 1698 that William Molyneux 's Case of Ireland being bound by acts of parliament in England , stated provided the most extensive defence of Irish standing as an independent kingdom , the reality of such claims were often undermined during the Restoration . As a former Cromwellian soldier , Richard Lawrence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , enacted by English parliaments , administered by English judges , and guarded by an English army ' .38 The most significant constitutional shifts in Anglo-Irish relations arose , however , as a result of changing English economic policy . Before 1660 , Irish and English trading interests had largely been treated as identical , with Irish merchants protected by the English Navigation Acts . After the Restoration , this policy was criticised , as the blame for falling English land values was increasingly placed on cheap Irish competition , particularly Irish cattle . Subsequent proposals to place a legislative embargo on the importation of Irish cattle into England encountered virulent domestic opposition in Ireland where cattle represented the chief export . In England , such motions were also recognised as undermining Charles II 's assertion that he was equally King of all , and obliged to have a Care of all ' .39 Speaking in the House of Commons against a draft bill prohibiting the import of Irish cattle in 1665 , the Solicitor General , Sir Heneage Finch , accepted that England is the older brother and noe doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserved to you ' . Nevertheless , Finch wondered can the King who is the Common father of his people , ruine the younger brother only to comply with the Impatient unmindedness of the older ? ' 40 Despite Finch 's warnings , and the personal opposition of Charles II , in 1667 the importation of Irish cattle into English ports was entirely forbidden . Ironically , the effects of the Act only served to assist the expansion of the Irish economy , in ways unforeseen by the English Parliament . Forced to develop a trade in barrelled beef , Irish merchants quickly exploited lucrative new Continental markets where they successfully undercut English commodities . In 1666 , Finch had warned that Dutch Gazetts will bee very ready to boast if the King must have one of his kingdoms disabled to subsist ' , and indeed by 1672 it was universally known that Louis XIV 's navy was being victualled by Irish provisions.41 But apart from considerations of economic rivalry , the 105 // Act also represented a change in English constitutional perspectives towards Ireland . As English acquisition of overseas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland . With reference to the Cattle Act , English ministers subsequently came to resent the fact that the Irish enjoyed growing economic prosperity while falling English rents conspicuously failed to recover . For this reason , Sir Edward Harley protested to the House of Commons , that since Ireland is but a colony of England . . . Can any story give any account that Colonies have been so indulged , as to prejudice the territory whence they came ? ' 42 Changing economic priorities in England also carried implications for Scotland . Unlike their Irish counterparts , Scottish merchants had always been subjected to English protectionism as traders of an independent nation . But as members of the Stuart multiple monarchy , Scots frequently found themselves also excluded from Continental markets on account of Charles II 's foreign policy . Complaining that t he Scots are obliged to fight for maintaining the Trade of England ' , Sir George Mackenzie thus conceived it unjust , that we should be put to defend the Interest of such with our Lives and Fortunes who will not allow us any share in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with previous experience , Mackenzie pointed out that under the Franco-Scottish alliance which had subsisted before 1603 , not only had the Scots enjoyed free trade with France and her colonies , but they had not incurred any reciprocal obligations to endorse French foreign policy . Fearful of any Scottish attempts to renew such alliances with English enemies , limited support for Anglo-Scottish free trade slowly emerged in England as traditional fears of cheaper Scots competition receded . In the House of Commons in 1667 , for instance , the Cavalier MP , Sir Thomas Clifford , supported a relaxation of Anglo-Scottish trade restrictions , confident that what we lose upon France , we gain upon Scotland . . . Manufactures they have few , because their people run most in clans , and the rest are slaves . . . Scotland is our Indies , as Colbert calls England the King of France 's Indies ' .44 But when legislative proposals for an incorporative union based on free trade between England and Scotland were tabled in the late-1660s , mutual suspicions on both sides conspired to render such initiatives abortive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1669 , the earl of Lauderdale declared , y ou can not imagine what aversion is generally in the Kingdome to the Unione . The indeavour to have made us slaves by garrisons &; the ruine of our trade by severe lawes in England frights all ranks of men from having to doe with England ' .45 As Sir 106 // George Mackenzie later confirmed , it was unlikely that the proposal of an Union could have been less acceptable to the people at any time , than at this , in which the remembrance of their oppression from the Usurper was yet fresh with them ' .46 Similar proposals for an incorporative Anglo-Irish union remained confined to the private scheming of interested individuals . Albeit quixotic and impractical , the most comprehensive and detailed projects were devised by the political economist , William Petty , who admired the incorporating union between England and Wales in the early-sixteenth century as manifesting all the good effects of a union ' . For Petty , one of the chief merits of an incorporating union would be that under a British parliament , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be impartially scann 'd and considered ' .47 By promoting Anglo-Irish intermarriage and the future resettlement of populations on both sides of the Irish Sea , Petty also trusted that incorporating union would permanently end all evils in Ireland , which by differences of birth , extractions , manners , languages , customs and religion that have continually wasted the blood and treasure of both nations for above 500 years , and have made Ireland for the most part , a diminution and a burthen , not an advantage to England ' . Moreover , it could be argued that the union of all his majesties territories ' would make England as strong and rich as the kingdom of France ' and enable it to gain the real sovereignty of the seas and to undermine the Hollanders trade ... without war and bloodshed ' .48 V When James VII and II acceded to the throne in February 1685 , there were those in Ireland who believed that Petty 's projects for an incorporating British union could soon become reality . In 1686 , one priest wrote anonymously to James , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several rights and titles of the Irish Scotch Pictish Norman Saxon and British kings are so miraculously concentr 'd that those 3 Kingdoms formerly so divided and distracted in themselves are now three in one ' . According to the priest , the three kingdoms now required nothing to compleat the Union but Unity in religion that might joyn the heads hearts &; hands of the 3 nations to make your MaLe the most potent King upon Earth ' .49 In Edinburgh , the public proclamation of James as king was greeted with an Universal Acclamation from more than 30000 of all Ranks of people present 107 // ... and the Night concluded with all imaginable Demonstrations of Joy and Satisfaction ' .50 When the English House of Commons convened in May 1685 , Whigs represented only around one-tenth of MPs and a rebellion raised in the west country by Charles II 's illegitimate son , the duke of Monmouth , was quickly suppressed . The power and authority of the Stuart monarchy appeared invincible throughout their British dominions . Any threat to Protestantism posed by a reigning Catholic monarch was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to James ' Protestant daughter , Mary , upon her father 's death . Despite this theoretical reassurance , James ' actions as king quickly provoked alarm throughout the multiple monarchy . In Ireland , control of the armed forces was immediately conferred upon a Catholic , Richard Talbot , later created earl of Tyrconnell . Following the disbandment of the largely Protestant militia in 1685 , Tyrconnell radically restructured the Irish army ; by the following summer Catholics comprised two-thirds of the rank and file and two-fifths of the officers . After Tyrconnell displaced the Protestant earl of Clarendon as lord lieutenant in February 1687 , increasing numbers of Catholics continued to enter the army , as well as central and local government , the law courts and the bureaucracy . When the Restoration land settlement came under review in mid-1687 , suggestions were mooted that Cromwellian and post-Cromwellian grantees should be required to surrender one-half of their estates to their former owners . Aware that any such alterations to the Restoration land settlement would require parliamentary consent , Tyrconnell also embarked upon a policy of packing city and burgh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the widespread panic generated by Tyrconnell 's activities was reflected in a steep decline in trade and the retreat of several of the British into England ' .51 Nevertheless , despite a general act for liberty of conscience and exemption from paying tithes to the Church of Ireland , the Act of Uniformity remained on the statute book . No attempt was made to respond to calls for either the grant of established status for the Catholic church , or the formal repeal of all antiCatholic legislation , or even a transfer of lands and ecclesiastical buildings from the Church of Ireland . In Scotland , James VII and II continued to rely heavily on the political support he had forged during his time as commissioner in the early 1680s . Writing from London to congratulate the duke of Queensberry , as Commissioner , on his successful parliamentary management of the 1685 session , James expressed his hope that the 108 // parliament here will follow such good presedents as you have given them ' .52 But James 's catholicising policies ultimately demonstrated that Scottish political obedience was not unconditional . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scotland as an incentive , the Scots Parliament refused to be cajoled into enacting religious toleration by statute in 1686 . Growing resentment was also engendered by the manner in which political power in Scotland was increasingly vested in the hands of a few Catholic converts , notably James Drummond , earl of Perth and his brother John , earl of Melfort . The rise of the Drummond brothers in Scotland reflected a wider power struggle throughout Britain in which Tyrconnell had gained the ascendant over Clarendon in Ireland , and Robert Spencer , earl of Sunderland increasingly supplanted Clarendon 's brother , the earl of Rochester as James ' chief political advisor in England . In England , mounting opposition to James ' rule culminated in the second Declaration of Indulgence in April 1688 . When seven Anglican bishops were subsequently acquitted of seditious libel for having refused to read the declaration , a campaign of widespread civil disobedience ensued . An already volatile situation was exacerbated when James 's wife , Mary of Modena , was reported to have given birth to a son in June . The Prince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the prospect of a perennial Catholic succession . At the end of June 1688 , a formal invitation was dispatched by a number of English politicians to James 's son-in-law , William of Orange , which pledged full political support if William chose to mount an armed intervention from Holland . When William landed at Torbay on 5 December , James panicked and fled the country . In February 1689 , a specially-convened Convention in London established William and Mary as joint monarchs and debarred all Catholics from future succession to the throne . In Scotland , James ' flight to the Continent presented a practical opportunity for the Parliament to vindicate its independent right to confer the Scottish crown on whomsoever it pleased , as had been widely proclaimed in 1681 . As one anonymous memorial boasted in 1689 , Scotland represented the ballance of Europe ' , for if Scotland declared for James VII rather than for his son-in-law , i t is lyke that Scotland &; Ireland with King James his pairtie in Ingland with the french assistance would have been too strong for King William and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treasuries of all the princes in the league ' .53 In reality , however , the British dimension of revolutionary events heavily affected the Convention of Estates ' decision to follow the English example and crown William and Mary 1.09 // as joint monarchs . As another anonymous pamphleteer conceded , it were a meer dream to imagine it possible to support and preserve K. James in his power here , without wronging the K. of England and his Interest ' . For as most were aware , it was unlikely that K. James would value this Crown further then that he might thereby be enabled to recover that of England ' . i4 The Scots were , however , keen to derive some material advantage from their dutiful compliance with England in this juncture . In particular , James ' departure presented an apparently propitious opportunity to seek incorporating union with England , since free trade was widely regarded as the only means to support an Impoverish 'd and sinking Nation ' . Construed within the context of a pan-British Protestantism , Anglo-Scottish union could also be depicted as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be intirely laid out for the Relief of our Neighbouring Protestants , yet groaning under the heavy yoke of their Antichristian Romish Tyrants ' . i5 Nonetheless , it was eventually conceded that if the Scots postponed their decision to conferr the croun upon the king of Ingland before the Union be settled t hen the king and parliat of Ingland will be so dissatisfied t hat certainly they will take occasione from this to make Scotland a province ' . By that scenario , we most accept of what conditiones Ingland pleases to give us as Ireland he s done ' .56 In hreland , the Revolution provided an unprecedented opportunity to obliterate such precedents and instead secure independence by a successful military campaign to vindicate James ' lawful right as monarch . Irish , Scots English , French , Dutch , German and Danish troops thus engaged in hostilities with one another on Irish soil between 1688 and 1691 , before Williamite victories at the Boyne in July 1690 and at Aughrim in July 1691 prompted the eventual surrender of the Jacobite army in October 1691 . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that while Irish reasons for supporting James were primarily domestic , James himself would settle for nothing less than the recovery of his British crowns . This conflict of interests appeared most clearly when the Irish Parliament reconvened in May 1689 . The success of Tyrconnell 's policy of remodelling political constituencies was clearly reflected in the fact that only six of its 320 MPs were non-Catholics . Once elected , those MPs pressed immediately for policies to bring domestic relief , such as a thorough recension of the Restoration land settlement and measures to reduce Ireland 's political dependence on England . Upon James ' arrival at the Parliament , however , such aspirations were soon 110 // frustrated by the prevention of attempts to repeal Poyning 's Law and the Act of Settlement . As the French ambassador D'Avaux perceived of James , ' his heart is too English for him to agree to anything which could displease the English . He still counts on being re-established soon in the kingdom of England and ... will do nothing to remove Ireland from its dependence on the English ' .57 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims to hear applications regarding confiscated lands , the Irish Parliament independently produced an Act declaring that over 2,000 named Protestants had recently forfeited their life and property by rebellion , only to be infuriated by James ' riposte , What , gentlemen , are you for another 41 ? ' In the context of subsequent military defeat , James 's caution ultimately proved accurate . The radical nature of the political aspirations articulated in the Jacobite Parliament not only exacerbated existing religious tensions in Irish society , but also served to polarise anti-Catholic opinion in England . Increasingly repressive penal legislation ensued and the foundations of the Anglo-Irish protestant ascendancy were laid during the 1690s . By contrast , although often criticised for being the reluctant revolutionaries ' , it was the Scots who arguably experienced the most Profound political and religious changes as a result of the events of 168889 59 Having formally decreed that James VII had forfeited his right to the Scottish throne on account of his illegal actions as king the Scottish Convention of Estates composed a Claim of Right establishing a number of fundamental constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based . As a result of the abolition of the committee of the Lords of the Articles , Scottish parliaments became increasingly independent and intractable during the 1690s . Furthermore , presbyterianism was established as the state religion , episcopacy having been denounced in the claim of Right as an intolerable grievance . . . hostile to this nation and contrary to the inclination of the generality of the people , ever since the Reformation ' .60 Henceforth , any attempts to create a unitary British state would thus need to accommodate formal religious pluralism . As far as the constitutional politics of the British multiple monarchy was concerned , the Revolution of 168890 provoked more questions than it resolved . While the fluctuating forces of convergence and divergence continued to dictate Anglo-Scottish relations into the eighteenth century , the Prospect of Irish submergence remained . 111 114 // British ' History in the PostRevolutionary World 1690 ? 1715 Tony Claydon As other contributions to this volume make clear , there have been many reasons for the upsurge in interest in British ' history in the early modern era . John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played a part : as have contemporary political questioning of the legitimacy of the United Kingdom ; cross fertilisation from the study of other periods ; the pressure to invent new undergraduate courses ; and the endless search by younger historians for new approaches with which to make their names . For the seventeenth century , however , one over-riding factor has been behind the fascination with Anglo-Celtic relations . This was the revisionism ' which came to control early Stuart historiography towards the end of the 1970s . As revisionist scholars demolished old accounts of the origins of the English Civil War , they found themselves increasingly dependent upon British ' scholarship , since without it they were unable to explain the most basic events of their period . Once they had rejected traditional interpretations of the slide to conflict ( such as the rise of an assertive parliament , or a growing rejection of divine right ) , revisionists were at a loss to say how this terrible thing had happened , and were forced into British ' history to make good their position . ' Consequently the Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By the late 1980s a whole industry had sprung up advancing three kingdoms ' interpretations of the early Stuart era , and as a result , the British problem ' became the central conundrum for all seventeenthcentury specialists.2 This origin of British ' history in early Stuart revisionism is interesting because it contains a considerable irony for scholars of the late Stuart world . Paradoxically , whilst something like revisionism has operated for the reigns of William III and Anne , the effect upon 115 // archipelagic ' studies has been the opposite of that in the earlier era . Although scholars have been as busy demolishing traditional myths in the period 1690 ? 1715 as they have for the early Stuart era , this has not noticeably bolstered British ' history . Rather , the latest work seems to have confused and undermined an old sense of the importance of Anglo-Celtic interaction , and has , therefore , questioned the close link between revisionist ' and three kingdoms ' history which holds for other parts of the early modern era . In a strange reversal of the early Stuart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decades after 1688 which told clear and embracing British ' stories . By contrast , whilst the latest accounts of William and Anne 's reigns have stressed the entanglements of the three kingdoms , they seem to lack the encompassing sweep of the more ensconced versions of history , and no longer have a simple , archipelagic tale to tell . I To see the reversal clearly , it is necessary to consider the traditional accounts of post-revolutionary Britain . The most influential of these interpretations might be labelled the whip ' vision . As embodied in the work of many historians , this account of the last two Stuart reigns saw the period in terms of the successful consolidation of the liberal achievement of the Glorious Revolution . It was a time when the Westminster parliament settled down as the central institution of the British state ; when the monarchy finally came to accept limitations upon its power ; and when a stable , free , representative , ( and ultimately world-beating ) , political system was established in these islands . At first glance , this whig vision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress towards a parliamentary and liberal paradise , the account concentrated on the growing calm and openness of debate which characterised English politics under the last Stuarts , and played down the greater uncertainty , instability and potential violence of contemporary Scotland and Ireland . Thus much was made of the advent of peaceful and functional party politics at Westminster , whilst the fact that factional divisions were simultaneously bringing Scottish and Irish administration to the brink of collapse was treated as an inconvenient footnote . Similarly , the whig account concentrated upon moments of English parliamentary history , seeing these as staging posts to an emerging liberty and greatness , but gave much less coverage to events in other kingdoms which 116 ' BRITISH ' HISTORY IN THE POST-REVOLUTIONARY WORLD 1690-1715 often seemed to point in the opposite direction . Much was therefore made of such statutes as the English Treason Trials Act ( 1696 ) which gave subjects greater guarantees of fair judicial process ; of the English Act of Settlement ( 1701 ) which excluded absolutist-minded Stuarts from the throne and extended controls on the monarchy ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up a recognisably modern system of taxation and public credit . Rather less attention was given to the Irish penal laws which cut away at Catholics ' basic civil rights ; of the anarchy in parts of the Scottish Highlands ; of the very real danger that the Scots parliament would not accept the principles of English succession after 1701 ; or of the continuing inability of either the Dublin or Edinburgh legislatures to arrange a sufficient flow of funds into the administration 's coffers . Where such events were covered , they were treated as Macaulay treated the Glencoe Massacre of 1692 ( an incident in which troops supported by William III 's ministers in Edinburgh killed members of a formerly Jacobite clan , despite the clansmen 's capitulation to the new government , and their extension of hospitality to its soldiers ) .3 These were lawless , shameful actions , well outside the proper standards of English liberalism , and if they were to be analysed at all , they were so chiefly to be condemned . For whiggishly-inclined historians , it was late Stuart England which most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decades . These writers , therefore , pushed England into the spotlight.4 However , whilst England was undeniably at the centre of the traditional whig interpretation , this never meant that that account lacked a British ' dimension . Events in the north and west might receive relatively short shrift , but that did not mean the old interpretation had no sense of a wider archipelagic story . in fact , whiggism ' had a clear vision of English interactions with the Celtic kingdoms , which could occasionally lead historians writing in the tradition to quite extensive coverage of the three kingdoms . This vision of interaction centred upon the gradual extension of English achievements out into the north-western hinterland , and the encouraging convergence of Scotland and Ireland with the enlightened English model . Progress in this area might be slow , and Scotland and Ireland might be neglected in periods when they were not making rapid advances towards the south-eastern utopia , but among whig historians , belief in the progress was real . Where Celtic convergence with English politeness and liberalism could be demonstrated , whig scholars celebrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided a strong framework for interpreting the development of Britain and Ireland as a whole . 117 // Two areas of the whig historiography of 1690 ? 1715 demonstrated its British ' sense particularly clearly . The first was the treatment of the Act of Union of 1707 . Almost uniquely amongst events outside England , the decision by the Scots parliament under Queen Anne to merge itself with its Westminster counterpart was seen by whig scholars as a thing of great moment . In fact , it was canonised as a crucial stage of national history . In whig works it became one of the key foundations of the British constitution : a step towards a liberal Britain very nearly as significant as the Magna Carta , the Protestant Reformation , the 1688 revolution or the 1832 Reform Act . The reason for this apotheosis of 1707 was that it could be fitted into the strong whig vision of archipelagic development . Whilst much that had happened in Scotland and Ireland was disappointing for historians who believed in liberal convergence , the Union stood as a shining beacon . hn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seal on nearly two centuries of development towards a free , English-style polity . Effectively , the Scots had guaranteed the future of their representative institutions , their limited monarchy , and their protestantism , by joining them to the more robust models for these achievements south of the border . Similarly , the Union could be shown to have aided further convergence towards liberal England once it had been effected . 1707 could be shown leading to economic boom and intellectual enlightenment in eighteenth-century Scotland , and so to have underpinned the free political system with a propertied and educated society . Taken overall , therefore , the Union could be moulded into a powerful symbol of the whole whig version of British history , whose prominence demonstrated the strong archipelagic awareness of this historical school . ' ' The second feature of whig historiography to reveal its British ' sense was its vigour amongst historians of Scotland and Ireland . Whilst the whig history written by English scholars was strongly anglocentric , the importance of whiggism 's British dimension meant that it could be used by Irish and Scots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteenth to the twentieth centuries , historians of the north-western kingdoms wrote national stories in terms of a steady progress towards a liberal apotheosis , and celebrated the closer ties or parallels with England which this had brought about . Thus , as Colin Kidd has recently shown , many Scots were happy to share the English whigs ' view of 1707.6 For them , incorporation within Britain set the seal upon centuries of Scottish advance . It demonstrated that Scotland had abandoned a backward and barbaric past and had embraced a prosperous , polite 118 ' 14NPI ISII ' 111111 ) 121 ' IN ' 1 ' 11E I ' ) S I RI(V)I. i'I'IONARY WWII ) 1690-1715 and prestigious future in her partnership with another great nation . Similarly , scholars such as W.E.H. Lecky , who have been identified as Ireland 's whips ' , were relieved that that nation remained within the English sphere under William and Anne . ' William 's victory over James II 's forces in 1689 ? 91 might have allowed a vicious antipopery and a high-handed English administration of Ireland which whigs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backsliding into the ignorant tyranny of Jacobitism , and provided a space in which Irish protestants could begin to develop and demand a parliamentary system on the English model . Indeed , for writers such as Lecky , the 1690s were ? in some ways ? a time of great liberal progress . Saved from James II 's absolutism by the new English ruler , and perhaps inspired by the new importance of the Commons at Westminster , Irish legislators secured regular parliamentary sessions , greater control over revenue and the initiation of statutes , and closer scrutiny of the functions and finances of the administration . If whig historians had a strong British ' interpretation of history in the late Stuart period , the same was true of other traditional accounts of the post-revolutionary period . These were the nationalist historiographies of Ireland and Scotland , which insisted on the separateness of those countries , and which centred on the creation , survival and resurgence of national feeling within them . Among nationalists , an archipelagic interpretation of 1691 ? 1715 was virtually inevitable . Whilst these historians insisted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions in which these differences had to be asserted , and the challenges which they met , were always considered in a British framework . For nationalists , after all , the past only made sense as a record of Anglo-Celtic interaction . In their view , the English had devoted centuries to illegitimate expansion into the north and west ; whilst the peoples of Scotland and Ireland had resisted and had heroically pursued their national destiny through their struggle with the London-based state . Within such a broad interpretation , it was easy for nationalists to find late Stuart examples to fit their historical understanding , and so to interpret post-revolutionary events in a three kingdoms framework . For example , for Scots , the years 1703 ? 05 assumed a special importance . Then , the Edinburgh parliament had stood out against English imperialism , insisting on new limitations on the crown to protect its independence , and threatening to break the dynastic link with England if it did not get them . Such defiance was a potent reminder of the autonomy of Scotland before the Union , 119 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regain that freedom . Similarly , the English response to 1703 ? 05 was held up as an illustration of the southern attitudes . Commercial retaliation , the threat of force , and the browbeating of the Scots parliament to vote itself out of existence in 1707 , demonstrated the ruthless expansionism of England and so emphasised that London 's British ' ambition was the chief dynamic of Scots history.8 Irish nationalist historians also utilised the late Stuart period to show the importance of archipelagic interactions . For example , all agreed that the Irish Woollen Act ( 1698 ) , passed at Westminster , was a central event of the period . By preventing the export of Irish wool , and therefore legislating for Ireland without its consent , the English had again demonstrated that colonial desire to control both islands which had been evident from the first the medieval invasions , and which would culminate in the absorption of the Irish parliament in 1800 . Irish resistance to English expansion within the archepelago was similarly crucial to nationalist interpretations of the period . In this case , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about what to highlight . Some nationalists could celebrate the independent-mindedness of the Irish parliament in this period , thus joining in a curious alliance with liberal historians such as Lecky . Legislative scrutiny of a largely English executive was a nationalist as well as liberal virtue , and contemporary claims about the constitutional autonomy of the Irish parliament ? most notably Molyneux 's Case of Ireland stated ( 1698 ) ? could be celebrated as cogent denunciations of English ambitions . In fact so close could certain nationalist interpretations come to liberal accounts , that some scholars have seen a third strand of Irish historiography , explicitly termed whig-nationalist ' , which has borrowed assumptions from both visions.9 However , whilst this strand of interpretation has been important ( perhaps too dominant for some scholars ) , it was not the only brand of nationalism available . For some historians , the protestant nature of the Irish parliament ( Catholics had been excluded under an English statute ) , and its role in passing the anti-Romanist penal laws , meant it could not be an appropriate representative of an essentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a colonial Ireland ? a body representing privileged and alien settlers who cooperated with their metropolis in the oppression of a brutally conquered people . For the anti-whig ' nationalists who thought in this way , the archipelagic struggle against England was still crucial : but it took the form of heroic survival in the face of persecution . ' ? 120 ' BRITISH ' HISTORY IN THE POST-REVOLUTIONARY WORLD 1690-1715 Thus for nationalists , as for whigs , a British approach to the late Stuart period was important . Although these historiographic traditions had pedigrees some centuries older than the new British history ' , they were aware of Anglo-Celtic interactions and placed them near the centre of their analyses . Given this , the impact of the recent scholarship of the period 1689 ? 1715 has been the reverse of what one might expect . New generations of scholars have challenged old accounts : but , far from making readers more aware of an archipelagic story , the challenge has confused the British ' interpretations which the established traditions contained . In the latest scholarship , much attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Ireland have affected each other . However , the patterns of relationships have been shown to be far more complex and ambiguous than older visions asserted . More interestingly , and perhaps more importantly , evidence deployed in the latest scholarship has even suggested that Britain ' might not be the most appropriate level on which to understand the events of the period .. II To illustrate these trends this essay will examine two areas which are crucial to understanding Stuart Britain and Ireland , and in which scholars have recently been active . The first of these is the developing relationship between the three separate legislatures in Westminster , Edinburgh and Dublin . In broad outline , this development can be briefly summarised . In the aftermath of 1689 , all three parliaments experienced a renaissance . They began to meet far more frequently , took a closer role in scrutinising their local executive , and handled a greater quantity of legislative business than any of them had before . Unfortunately , this common parliamentary resurgence created problems in the coordination of policy . Whilst the monarchs in London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to choose ministers in all three realms , and whilst the Irish body remained legally subordinate to the English Privy Council , growing opposition within ? and competition between ? the three parliaments meant that it became even more difficult for the court to construct a coherent strategy for ruling all its kingdoms . In the 1690s , the Irish parliament disputed the right of the English parliament to legislate for it in areas such as foreign trade and the allocation of confiscated land . At the same time an Irish country ' movement criticised the conduct of William 's government ( especially over its 121 // generous treatment of catholic Jacobites after the 1689 ? 91 war ) and demanded greater control over the initiation of Irish money bills . In Scotland , a similar spirit of autonomy existed , and was made more threatening both by the northern kingdom 's legal independence from London , and by the fact that bitter factional rivalries among Scots politicians guaranteed overwhelming opposition to whoever had been appointed ministers by the king . Under William , Scots dissatisfaction with England came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This scheme ? an attempt to establish a Scots commercial settlement in central America ? had failed after hostile interests in the English parliament had persuaded the English ministers to hamper it , and had blocked English investment in the proposed trading company . Resentment at such conduct fed a vigorous opposition to whatever ministry the king tried to construct in Scotland , and made stable administration virtually impossible . Later , under Anne , Scots protested at the way the English had settled the succession of the crown on the house of Hanover , without consulting the Edinburgh parliament . In the famous Act of Security ( 1703 ) , the northern legislature insisted on tight limitations on the prerogatives of any new monarch , and asserted that the Scots had the right to choose a different ruler from that chosen by the English . Given such instability and challenge , it was vital for the crown and ministers in London to find a way of coordinating the different legislatures . In Ireland this was achieved through English ministers coming to terms with leading Irish politicians known as ' undertakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boyle influence over policy and patronage , these local legislators undertook ' to manage the king 's business in parliament , carefully building alliances which would vote the necessary business through . In Scotland , a more dramatic solution to parliamentary separatism was found . From 1703 , English ministries pursued a vigorous policy of persuading the northern parliament to accept a union with its counterpart in the south . In 1707 , this policy succeeded , when the Scots legislature voted itself out of existence . Henceforth , statutes and financial supply throughout Britain would be granted by a united body in Westminster ? with the proviso that Scots law , education and established religion would remain distinct from their English equivalents , and would be dealt with separately by the new assembly . " As we have seen , there was much in the above story which could fit into the whig and nationalist traditions with their strongly British ' interpretations of the period . For example , English difficulties in Dublin , and the eventual compromise which ended them , could be 122 ' BRITISH ' HISTORY IN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a liberal nation which would support or challenge London 's rule ( according to whether one took a whigunionist , or a whig-nationalist , view ) . Alternatively , the Dublin parliament , and the undertaker system which made it work , could be vilified as another example of English ability to reduce Irish populations to colonial lackeys . Similarly the 1707 Union could be celebrated as the creation of a liberal polity to embrace the whole of Britain , or could be denounced as the final stage in England 's ruthless annexation of Scotland . What all these interpretation have in common is their virtual demolition by the latest revisionist ' scholarship . Recent accounts of parliamentary development have contradicted whig and nationalist assumptions , and have consequently obscured the archipelagic vision they contained . With 1707 , for example , work since the 1960s has undermined any notion that the union resulted from the gradual convergence of Scotland with England , or from any widespread desire to create a strengthened parliamentary polity . William Ferguson and P.W.J. Riley , examining the process by which the Edinburgh legislature came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political job ' . The ministry in London bribed unprincipled Scots magnates to throw their weight behind the idea , and a semi-feudal , and highly factionalised , political class lacked the independence to take a different line from their masters.12 In the new view , Scots public opinion was both deeply hostile to the idea of union , and utterly irrelevant to the course of events . As Mark Goldie has argued in a recent article , Scottish and English political cultures were probably diverging rather than coming together in the late Stuart period ( Scots were showing greater attachment to their distinctive society , political assumptions , religion and legal code ) ; and as David Hayton has suggested , Union could probably have been achieved at any point after 1689 since determined English efforts to manage magnate opinion would have been successful as soon as it was tried.13 Clearly such an interpretation sinks the whig vision of late Stuart Britain . It might , of course , support a nationalist view by suggesting that English ministers cynically extinguished Scots autonomy ? but in fact , this alternative analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First , the very investigation which revealed the jobbing nature of 1707 , has called attention to the behaviour of Scots magnates . Quite apart from the obvious moral question of whether it was more cynical of the English to offer bribes than for the Scots to accept them , close investigation of the events of 1703 ? 07 shows that Scots leaders were not simply capitulating in the face of superior 123 // English influence , but were actively calculating their own political advantage and exploiting the political situation as it evolved . Scotsmen voted for Union because they thought it would increase or preserve their access to local power and court patronage.14 Some of them , as Hayton has shown , gained influence as they became the equivalent of Irish undertakers ' . They came to manage the Scots representation in the new united parliament.15 In this perspective , the Union may seem less an English takeover of Scotland , than merely one stage in the endless battle among the leaders of Scottish factions to displace each other from positions of power . A second trend to weaken any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ideological background . Perhaps in reaction to simple ' jobbing ' interpretations of the union , some historians have looked at the intellectual arguments surrounding the event , and have found a surprisingly rich vein of political argument.lf ' Unfortunately for the whig tradition , the pamphlet debates of Queen Anne 's reign provide little evidence for liberal convergence between England and Scotland . Between 1703 and 1707 Scots were debating many alternative political futures , of which Union was only one ; and the arguments for joining with the southern kingdom were generally economic rather than constitutional . Despite this , however , public discussions in Scotland contained a more reasoned , solid and widelyaccepted case for union than any nationalist vision of English bribery would imply . The economic arguments for union were not simply those of particular merchants who wished to gain access to the English commercial system , or were frightened of English customs being used against Scots goods if the two countries went separate ways . Rather , as work by John Robertson and David Armitage has shown , union was advocated as part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated that Scotland would need global commercial expansion if it were not to be dominated by foreign powers busy tying up the world in their own commercial empires . It also suggested that Scotland could not build an empire on her own ( the too bitter experience of Darien demonstrated this ) ; and then offered amalgamation with England as a solution . In such a view the Scots would not be annexed by the English , but would join with them to fulfil their own destiny as an imperial nation . Such arguments were very cogent in the late Stuart era . Even those who rejected Union , such as Andrew Fletcher of Saltoun , wrestled with the problem of Scotland 's position among global empires , and were prepared to see changes in Scotland 's constitutional and national status as a way out . Fletcher 's analysis led him to suggest that Scotland ( and all other 124 ' BRITISH ' HISTORY IN THE POST-REVOLUTIONARY WORLD 1690-1715 European polities ) should be broken up into a series of smaller city states in order to save the world from universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central point about all such imperial ' thinking was that it was neither whig nor nationalist in character , and consequently was perhaps not particularly British ' in focus . It concentrated , not on Edinburgh 's relationship with London , but on Scotland 's position in a much wider world . Trends in the history of the Irish parliament have similarly undermined the old interpretations . Whig ' and whig nationalist ' celebrations of the vigour and independence of the Irish parliament in the 1690s have been undermined both by new emphasis on Irish unionism , and by new thoughts on the strength of contemporary parliamentarianism . Work by James Kelly has disinterred the strength and depth of the desire for parliamentary union with Westminster among the Irish political classes under William and Anne . Union was formally requested by the Dublin parliament on several occasions in the late Stuart era , and even men such as Molyneux ? most closely associated with the Irish patriot cause ? argued for greater independence as a second-best , since union was a happiness not to be hoped for ' .18 Given this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly be ascribed to its proud spirit of autonomy . Rather , as David Hayton has shown , it stemmed from the fact the Ireland had fewer great magnates than Scotland ( so a system of undertaking ' could work without political rivals of the undertakers having an automatic majority in parliament ) , and from the insecurity of Ireland 's protestant rulers which meant they could not threaten the sort of separation whose prospect had converted Westminster to union with Edinburgh.I9 In the same article , Hayton further detracted from the gloriousness of Irish parliamentary achievement by putting it into the context of a general renaissance of representative bodies in all three kingdoms in the 1690s . With William 's desperate search for the finance with which to fight France , all sorts of such institutions revived . William , and his successor Anne , tried to use parliaments as places where they could meet , placate and negotiate with the political classes which would have to approve wartime taxes . We have seen the strength of the Dublin , Edinburgh and Westminster legislatures in the period : Hayton reminds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland , and the Convocation of the Stannaries in Cornwall . In such a context , the vigour of the Irish body looks much less remarkable . Furthermore , the monarch 's use of parliaments in order to gain revenue suggests that the body able to deliver most money would become most 125 // influential . Since this was the English parliament , and since this assembly had ambitions to legislate for Ireland , the situation actually limited Dublin 's autonomy . Monarchs could not afford to block demands made by Westminster ? as the history of the woollen and land forfeitures acts demonstrate . Irish parliamentary spirit was real in the 1690s , but it was founded on conditions which ultimately led to its humiliation.20 Of course , the relative helplessness of the Irish parliament might support the vision of a subservient , colonial Ireland which lies at the heart of non-whiggish nationalism . Yet here again , recent interpretations have questioned the basic assumptions of the model . Whilst the late Stuart era may have been no golden age for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland can be regarded simply as exploited by the English . As work by several scholars has shown , Irish protestants , at least , found ways round the institutional subordination of their parliament , and gained considerable freedom to run their own affairs . Although English ministries could over-rule Irish opinion at times of crisis , they realised that in day-to-day management they would have to work with the local inhabitants , and would have to grant degrees of influence and independence to them . Thus Irish undertakers ' came to have considerable influence of policy making and government appointments ; Irish suggestions for legislation were usually taken up and approved by the English Privy Council ; the English representative in Dublin ? the Lord Lieutenant ? trod sensitively in his dealings with parliamentary leaders ; and the English administration proved flexible when its actions proved unpopular in the other island ( a fact proved dramatically soon after the end of this survey , when the Wood 's Halfpence crisis resulted in a complete reversal of policy in the face of Irish protests ) .21 Moreover , any English high-handedness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ignorance rather than interference . English ministries had no grand plan for the future of England 's relations with Ireland , and seem to have been happiest when they could ignore what was happening on the other side of the Irish Sea . This attitude created a situation where the London government preferred to leave Ireland to run itself when this did not create problems elsewhere . In the work of Sean Connolly such findings are taken further to question whether any notion of Ireland as an English colony is appropriate . Connolly accepts that the English in North America ( colonists by any definition ) enjoyed a freedom from central interference comparable with that of the Irish : but he points out that American colonial autonomy stemmed more from distance than from the 126 ' BRITISH ' HISTORY IN THE POST-REVOLUTIONARY WORLD 1690-1715 unwillingness to interfere which governed English relations with Ireland , and also points out that the Irish were in a different position from the Americans because of their reciprocal influence over English affairs . Geographical proximity , and the lack of cultural barriers to Irish activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable impact in the metropolis . They sat in the Westminster parliament ; married into leading English families ; corresponded with important English politicians ; wrote books , sermons and plays for London audiences ; and owned economic enterprises operating on both islands . Given this , Connolly doubts that those represented in the Dublin parliament can be seen as a colonial class and thus casts further doubt on any nationalist interpretation of relations between the two polities.22 Overall , then , work on the three parliaments under William and Anne has blurred the old historiographies , and caused problems for their clear interpretations of archipelagic development . More profoundly , however , they have also questioned whether Britain ' is the correct level of analysis for the phenomena they have discovered . Whilst the latest scholarship provides many interesting examples of interaction between peoples in the islands , often a more local or a more global focus seems appropriate . For example , understanding the 1707 Union has become a matter of working out what advantages Scot politicians saw in Scotland , and what factional games they were playing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely left to themselves in this period , then local , Irish ambitions and conditions would have been the greatest influence on action in the Dublin parliament . At another level , recent work suggests that contexts wider than the British Isles need to be taken seriously in any interpretation of the period . For instance , we have seen that those Scots constructing intellectual cases for and against the Union were most worried about the competing world empires of European powers . Parochial relations between London and Edinburgh were only a subsidiary part of their thinking . Again , if the crucial problem in the late Stuart period was the simultaneous renaissance of three competing legislatures , then attention should be focused on the continental factors which caused this . After all , the parliaments of Westminster , Edinburgh and Dublin could seize their opportunities only when a Dutch king , determined to lead a European alliance against France , called upon his subjects to become involved in this overseas enterprise . The various legislatures exploited both the royal need for wartime finance , and a royal willingness to allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be free to devote most of 127 // his attention to his international conflict . They may also have benefitted from a foreign-born king 's more relaxed attitude to legislatures . William 's political experience in the Netherlands had taught him to expect to have to deal with representative assemblies . In the light of all this , it seems local and extra-Britannic contexts are central to understanding parliamentary history in the late Stuart era.23 They will become evident again in consideration of national identities in the period ? the second area of recent scholarly activity to which this essay will now turn . Traditional accounts of the development of national identities in the late Stuart era have had a strongly archipelagic focus . Either they posited a new transnational identity which embraced all the peoples of the islands , or they stressed the survival and strengthening of individual nationalities in the face of imperialistic expansion throughout the region by the English . On the island of Britain , for instance , whiggish historians , celebrating the creation of the novel liberal polity through the 1707 Union , were keen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the new country . From the eighteenth century , Scots writers in particular had tried to present people both north and south of the border embracing the new nationality , and had rewritten the past to demonstrate a longstanding and developing identification with it.24 Much more recently , this British ' reading of late Stuart national feeling has become popular with a new generation of historians who have seen it as one foundation of later imperial expansion . Whilst scholars such as Linda Colley and John Brewer have not recognised a liberal paradise in the state created in 1707 , they have been at one with the whigs in seeing Britain as a country marked out for greatness by its peculiarly inclusive political system , and in seeing a new Britishness ' as a sentiment which could harness popular energies to this destiny.25In contrast to this , nationalist historians of Scotland denied the authenticity of any all-embracing identity in the late Stuart age . If there was any new feeling for the island group as whole , it was confined to those few Scots who had been duped by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , whilst nationalists attacked Britishness ' , their own accounts of identity in the period still had a British ' focus , since they argued that London 's expansion into its Celtic hinterland had triggered reactions among the Scots population . They suggested that English aggression strengthened and defined Scottishness and gave that identity clear content , enemies and voices . Thus for some historians , late Stuart spokesmen against England ( especially 128 BRITISH ' HISTORY IN THE POST-REVOLUTIONARY WORLD 1690-1715 Fletcher of Saltoun ) came to be heroes who provided a developing nationalism with greater intellectual rigour . Again , some nationalist writers saw a sort of purification of Scotland in 1707 , as certain Scots ruled themselves out of their nation by cooperation with England . True patriotism came to mean unsullied opposition to the Union . If this was joined by an attachment to the indigenous , but displaced , Stuart dynasty ( of the sort which produced heroically unsuccessful Jacobite risings in Scotland in 1708 and 1715 ) , so much the better.26 In Ireland , issues of national identity between 1688 and 1715 were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no late Stuart union of parliaments , but mainly it stemmed from a series of parliamentary acts attacking Catholicism which deepened old difficulties in defining a real Irish nation in the face of religious divisions . From 1695 , the protestant parliament in Dublin passed a series of statutes , soon to be known as the penal laws , which mounted a sustained attack on the faith of the bulk of the population . Over two decades , statutes were enacted to hinder the operation of the Roman church ( bishops and regular clergy were to be expelled ) ; to remove non-protestants ' political and civil rights ( catholics were banned from public office and eventually from voting ) ; and to erode the economic position of followers of the Roman faith by denying them entry to certain professions and disqualifying from inheriting land . Given the depth of the confessional divide which these acts revealed , it has been impossible for historians to treat Ireland 's population as a single , united community , and this shaped both national and liberal approaches to Irish identity . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws had to be condemned . They broke basic tenets of representative government , and , perhaps worse , they bred faction and bigotry in a community whose identity should centre on an enlightened liberal consensus . Lecky 's trenchant denunciation of the acts was therefore widely borrowed , both by those who thought a united and liberal Ireland must develop into a sovereign state , and by unionists ( like Lecky himself ) who believed that it should not.27 Non-whiggish nationalists were less embarrassed by the penal laws , but their hostile interpretation of them had the cost of casting the protestants who had promoted them out of the national community . A group which had tried to degrade the bulk of the Irish people were enemies of that people , and the penal laws confirmed that only the oppressed catholics were the true Irish nation . Clearly these interpretations of the penal laws and of Irish identity were divergent . Once again , however , the different visions were united 129 // by their strong archipelagic focus . For non-whiggish nationalists , the penal laws were only what was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . English expansion had garrisoned conquered territories with alien and intolerant settlers who had imposed a sort of apartheid which was yet another instrument of colonial power . Whiggish condemnations of the penal laws were similarly dictated by British ' considerations . Whig nationalists ' saw these act as dividing a community whose claims to proper representative government would eventually counter English expansion . In this view , protestant spokesmen such as Molyneux , or Jonathan Swift , saw some of the injustices of English rule ? but failed to realise that the best way to end it would be to include catholics in the political nation ; establish a common , liberal identity with them ; and then lead the united community in resistance to the occupying power . Unionist whigs on the other hand , worried that the penal laws revealed an Ireland incapable of sharing in a wider Britishness ' . Such religious discrimination threatened the shared enlightenment which was bringing the different populations of the islands together , and so ran against the most important trend in the late Stuart archipelago.28 Yet as with the history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholarship has questioned old whig or nationalist accounts , and led to far more complex , and perhaps less obviously British ' centred interpretations . In the latest work , ambiguity , confusion , and multiple levels of identity abound ; and it has become harder to tell any clear story of archipelagic development . These trends are clearest in writing on the identity of the ascendant Anglicans of Ireland . In traditional interpretations , this group was either discovering its essential Irishness ' in the period ( coming to lead challenges to English hegemony ) ; or was revealing itself as a agent of English domination ; or as a third possibility , was coming to share more deeply in a wider British ' culture . In recent work , however , none of these developments is readily apparent . Instead of clarifying their identity in one of the ways suggested , Irish protestants appear increasingly caught between different ways of thinking about themselves , so that Jim Smyth ( quoting a contemporary source ) has likened them to amphibious animals ' .29 On one hand , ascendancy protestants were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been the term they had always used to describe the native catholic population , and was therefore tied up in their minds with images of superstition , ignorance , barbarity , poverty , hostility and treason . On the other hand , British ' was also an unavailable label . This was partly because the adjective British ' had never been in common use , and partly 130 ' BRITISH ' HISTORY IN THE POST-REVOLUTIONARY WORLD 1690-1715 because it suggested identity with Scots presbyterian settlers in Ulster ? a group to which ascendancy Anglicans were as hostile as catholics . By tradition , the protestant ascendancy had called itself English ' , or the English in Ireland ' . Unfortunately , tensions with the Westminster government from the 1690s onwards made this an unworkable description as well , since it was hard to talk of people as English , when it was English policy to which they objected . Irish Anglicans could , of course , describe themselves as protestants . However , this tag identified the group with an international community of faith which spread far beyond Ireland or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precise position in the world . ' 30 In the face of these difficulties , Irish protestants seem to have adopted the practice of changing their identity according to momentary calculations . For example , they could insist on their own Englishness when facing English contempt ; claim to be the true Irish nation when defending the kingdom 's constitutional rights ; and make a play of their protestantism when travelling in Europe and seeking hospitality from reformed Christians . Similarly , and according to specific audience , they could justify their privileged position in Ireland by saying they had participated in an English conquest of the country ; or by claim-ing to be a superior sort of Irishmen whose rational and unsuperstitious religion gave them the right to rule unenlightened papists . In such rapid shifts and equivocations , there are none of the neat patterns of identity developing within a British ' context which were evident in the older historiographies.3 ' As one might expect , interpretations of the penal laws have matched the greater complication of other studies of Irish identity . In the light of recent work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ code as a measure of how far the Irish had advanced towards any true Irishness ' . Scholarship has tended to downplay and deconstruct the late Stuart penalties against catholics , so that it has become harder for nationalists to portray them as instruments of foreign colonialism , or for Whigs to be sure they represented a betrayal of Ireland 's liberal destiny . For example , studies on the passage of the laws has revealed no systematic plan behind them . The acts were passed haphazardly over several parliamentary sessions ; they did not form a coherent system when they were in place ; they sprang from a great variety of individuals and pressure groups ; and they appeared to lack an underly-ing philosophy . Thus the terms of different acts contradicted each other as to whether the catholic church should be allowed to func-tion at a simple , parish , level ; and from the legislation as a whole , it was unclear whether the intention was to force mass conversions to 131 // protestantism , or merely to exclude catholics from positions of any power.32 If the penal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it becomes more difficult to draw any overall conclusions about it , and it therefore become harder to say what the discrimination said about Irish identity , or Ireland 's relationship with the rest of Britain . Similarly , recent suggestions about the effects of the laws have implied that they did not perform any of the roles previously ascribed to them . Sean Connolly , in particular , has argued that the penal legislation of the late Stuart period had a rather limited impact . He has suggested that powerlessness in eighteenth century Ireland stemmed primarily from not owning land ? and then points out both that this was true in all ancien regime societies , and that the penal laws were not the main reason for catholic landlessness , since catholics had been dispossessed well before 1689.33 What Connolly leaves us with is not an Ireland defined by ? or defined against ? the penal legislation , but a fairly typical European community of its day . In all countries real estate carried political and social influence , and everywhere religious allegiance affected the chances of holding land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finding archipelagic interpretations of the penal legislation , it also asks if such a level of analysis would be appropriate . If Ireland was just a typical European community , then it should not be treated as if relations with England or Britain affected its every feature . Work on other national identities within Britain and Ireland in the late Stuart era is less advanced than that on the Irish protestant ascendancy and its penal legislation . However , future efforts in these areas appear likely to reveal similar levels of confusion and ambiguity . For example , Irish catholics may not have come to see themselves as the real Irish nation in the way that some nationalist accounts have insisted that they did in the penal era . The history of Irish catholic jacobitism in this period , for instance , is less the history of a nationalist risorgimento , than of Irishmen fighting for a far broader cause . They joined French armies , and saw action across the continent as they attempted to restore the Stuarts to the English and Scottish , as well as the Irish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations in rural Ireland , then the catholic population viewed protestants not as an alien force of occupation , but primarily as landlords . Attitudes to the ascendancy were those of tenant or peasant groups elsewhere , and protestants were seen as economic , not national , enemies ( if they were seen as enemies at all ) .3 ' Scots national feeling too , is coming to seem a complex and ambiguous thing . As has been shown , debates on the union were not simply between 132 ' BRITISH ' HISTORY IN THE POST-REVOLUTIONARY WORLD 1690-1715 British ' or Scots ' visions of Scotland 's future , but between sophisticated intellectual positions which viewed Scotland as a European community , as well as a separate nation or as a part of a United Kingdom . Again , work on the Scots Highlands at the time of the Glencoe Massacre has confirmed how little highlanders had in common with other Scots , and how much more important old ties to kinsmen and locality were than any feeling of wider nationality.36 Obviously , by itself , such questioning of older interpretations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level of analysis is inappropriate . More recent accounts may lack the simple archipelagic vision of whiggery and nationalism , but they often retain the importance of interactions between peoples in the British Isles . In the case of the Irish ascendancy , for example , national identity appears to have been ambiguous , precisely because these people were caught up in webs of relationships with Scots presbyterians , Irish catholics and English administrations which rendered any way of describing themselves difficult . In many ways the latest scholarship calls , not for an abandonment of the British ' approach , but for a more complete and less simplistic understanding of the British ' context . Yet , at other levels , there is again a sense in which doubt has been case on the new British history . As with parliamentary history , surveying recent scholarship suggests that more local , and more universal , layers of analysis must at least run alongside . any Britannic focus . In the late Stuart period , it has become clear that people had many different identities from which to choose . Alongside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subnational identities ( such as Highland clan loyalty , or the sense of being tenants of a particular Irish landlord ) and supranational identities ( such as protestantism , Stuart legitimism , or a sense of participation in a general European culture ) . Moreover , it is not obvious that the choice of which identity to adopt would always be taken using a British ' perspective . Often very personal , particular and momentary circumstances must have dictated the decision . People would have taken on and changed personae to gain advantage within small scale family disputes , conflicts within their immediate neighbourhood or political battles within each constituent nation of the British Isles . They may also have presented different faces to match extra-British audiences ? from foreign governments , to international churches , to hosts encountered during European tours . In all this , the sort of interactions between different British nations which has dominated the new British history may not have been central . The archipelago 133 // certainly influenced identity , and provided one of the spheres in which it would be enacted or altered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only important context . To conclude this essay it is worth reflecting on what wider lessons can be learned from this survey of relations between parliaments and national identities in the late Stuart British Isles . The first of these , undeniably , is the extraordinary richness and complexity of interac tions between inhabitants of England , Scotland and Ireland after the Glorious Revolution . Despite the scepticism about the new British history ' which has been expressed , the stories told above throw up many examples of different peoples modifying the conditions of one another 's existence ' in Pocock 's much quoted phrase . Yet the scepti cism is also important . The latest scholarship demonstrates the importance of examining the British ' background to late Stuart events ? but it also suggests that archipelagic studies produce as much confusion and ambiguity as deeper understanding , and also reminds us ( more clearly than traditional accounts of the three kingdoms did ) that the archipelago can not explain everything . Indeed , recent work on the period 1690 ? 1715 may sound a warning about the new British history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach have become so loud that they risk imposing a methodological monopoly on early modern history , a monopoly which may be as distorting as the anglocentrism and Celtic isolationism it was supposed to replace . The work reviewed here suggest that insistence on the British context may sometimes be as dangerous as ignorance of it . 134 135 // Patterns of British Identity : Britain ' and its Rivals in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries* Arthur Williamson .. a new history of Britain should be written with the utmost regard to accuracy . ' ? Sir Thomas Craig , De unione regnorum Britannice tractatus , 1605 ' THE CONSTRUCTION OF PATRIOTISM Andrew Melville memorialized Queen Elizabeth 's death in 1603 with verses describing her as the divine mother of the Britons . ' 2 Strangesounding indeed , for whatever Elizabeth 's varied titles , her Britannic majesty ' was not one of them . Moreover , the queen had utterly rejected Melville 's Presbyterian church polity , discounted much of his theology , and eventually destroyed his English colleagues and counterparts . Yet , despite such drastic faults , Melville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been the terror of the Iberians , the protector of Scotland , France , and the Netherlands ? and , implicitly , of the reformations within each of them . Through these commitments her long reign had restored the golden age . However severe her shortcomings , she had undertaken what Melville regarded as the British project . What made Elizabeth mother of the Britons ' involved still more *This essay was made possible through the support of the Committee for Research and Scholarly Activity at California State University , Sacramento . I am also most grateful to my friend and colleague , Paul McGinnis , who kindly translated the poems of Andrew Melville and of David Hume of Godscroft , as well as part of Godscroft 's De unione insulce Britannice . Tractatus I. In addition , Professor McGinnis discussed a number of the themes in this essay with me , conversations that did much to clarify my thinking . // than her British policies . Most immediately , she was the progenitrix of King James VI and I , whom Melville proclaimed as rex Britanniarum . ' Far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literally king of the Britannias ' ? that is , of Scotland and England , and , more generally , the British Isles . Melville 's enthusiasm for Britain fully equalled that of the king whom he celebrated , even if their British visions turned out to differ significantly . Melville the Briton was also Melville the Scot . British effusiveness in no way qualified his Scottish patriotism . Melville was one of the very few early modern poets to undertake a Scottish national epic . Known today as The Gathelus , ' the poem draws on the full range of Scottish patriotic mythologies , materials through which at least since the high Middle Ages Scots had averred their realm 's autonomy and dignity . Yet in Melville 's hands , Scotland 's epic experience would culminate in an apocalyptic British crusade , led by its Scoto-Britannic ' champions . Scottish destiny achieved fulfilment in the latter-day British struggle against the gigantic Iberian Empire ? a contest Melville imagined as taking place between Isaac and Ishmael , between the spirit of justice and the spirit of conquest , between religious freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His younger associate , David Hume of Godscroft , seems to have had no interest in an anti-Spanish crusade , very limited interest in imperial expansion , and , so far as we can tell , precious little interest in the apocalypse as any kind of organizing category . He was also one of the most commit-ted and articulate promoters of Scotland 's autonomy and parity during this period . In fact , he is one of the very earliest to introduce the neologism patriot ' into the vernacular . His attitude towards Middle Scots , the Scottish variant of the southern language , was equally determined . Although Hume noted in his history of the house of Douglas that Archibald Douglas , the 6th earl of Angus ( c.1489 ? 1557 ) , had learned the English tongue and tone which he did thereafter delight much to use , ' this was in no way admirable . For Hume learning the southern forms was simply affectation . ' It was a mean occupation to study what was no more than a dialect of one 's own speech ? and just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ? and why not , to Scottish-men ? ' ? a language which he thoroughly enjoyed using . During the first decade of the seventeenth century Hume entered into a pamphlet campaign against James ' newly intruded bishops , vigorously defending Scottish institutional integrity against English tyranny . ' His appeal could prove arrestingly direct . I may say as a 139 // Scotishman , ' he expostulated to James Law , the bishop of Orkney , to you as a Scotishman and , I trust , not without some regarde unto your native countrie . ' By the end of his life he had become obsessed to publish his great history of the Douglases , a history exemplary of the aristocratic patriotism he saw as in decline . Perhaps surprisingly , none of this was in any way incompatible with the new Britain , nor deflected him from what were genuinely British commitments . Hume described himself as a Scoto-Britannus , ' and with manifest ardor wrote tracts and poems advocating union . The union he sought would be neither federal nor confederal , but a fusion and synthesis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways supplanted both Scotland and England . Mere federalism could only be inferior , ' the result of larger failure . Nor did any of these aspirations simply arise from the highly charged years surrounding 1603 . Quite the reverse . Here were ideas long in the maturation . One of Hume 's early poems was addressed to the young James VI ? De Iacobo Sexto Scotorum Rege adhuc puero , Expectatio ' ( Anticipation concerning James VI , king of the Scots though still a child ) ? and it can not have been written much later than 1580 when James was 14 and Hume between 20 and 24 . James would bring Scotland ? otherwise buried in shameful darkness ' ( a play on the traditional derivation of Scot ' from the Greek oxotio ; , meaning darkness ' or obscurity ' ) ? into the light of day , / Now more brightly shining than all other shores . ' And how would James achieve this much-sought return of the golden age ? It would be accomplished by nothing less than the creation of British public space . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regno medium Britanno.5 And now the stars promise you lasting peace , Finding the public good in the British kingdom . Scotland 's emergence issued in a British order , and thus Scottish identity generated British consciousness . If Melville and Hume strike us today as very odd patriots , they did not seem at all that way to their age . When Hume began speaking of the good patriot ' in the mid 1580s , he was probably not alone and he would soon be joined by growing numbers of others from many places within Britain . ' The armada crisis stimulated reflection about notions of nation ( and loyalty to it ) in England no less than in Scotland . Those who were most determined to resist the Hapsburgs , who saw the struggle through broad , often apocalyptic lenses , and who therefore saw themselves as the most loyal to the nation , were // naturally the most committed Protestants . As in Scotland , patriots ' inclined to seek further reform , whether in religion or in political institutions . As in Scotland , the word patriot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opponents of the crown.6 Within both realms patriots ' would most likely see themselves as actors within larger , extra-national frameworks . Even if English political culture ? uniquely articulate , uniquely integrated , uniquely coherent ? ? increasingly refracted , constricted , and reshaped the southern outlook , patriotism in the early modern period typically carried reformist , dissentient , and internationalist implications largely alien to nineteenth and twentieth century traditionalisms and utterly alien to nineteenth and twentieth century nationalisms . To be sure , the dense and , to us , strange textures of early modern patriotism , even in their Scottish forms , did not necessarily lead to British conclusions . During the 1550s , that peculiarly French moment in British history , George Buchanan imagined a powerful Valois dynasty , embracing both Scotland and England , that dedicated itself to the defeat of the Hapsburgs ' universal empire . Buchanan 's Epithalamium ' on the marriage of Mary Stewart to Francis of Valois contained a patriotic passage that stirred Scottish hearts long after the French cause had evaporated . Patriotism did not inherently mean corporate autonomy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranged widely . Patriotism might often assume a British turn , it could briefly adopt a French accent or even an Hispanic inflection , it might become articulate in still other voices . But , whatever the voice and whatever the register , there was certainly no necessary reason at all for it to become either an extension of English political culture or the fulfilment of some pre-existent identity . Melville , Hume , and even Buchanan need to be approached ? and probably can only be approached cogently ? through the recentlydeveloped categories of the new British history . During the past twenty years an idea of British history has emerged that visualizes the experience of the Atlantic archipelago as an interactive process . So conceived , societies within this region continually reformulated one another in ever shifting kaleidoscopic patterns , as kin and administration , feudal law and blood traditions interpenetrated one another , and as a remarkable range of literatures , genres , and languages were employed to make all these ongoing developments intelligible . From the new British perspective anglocentric triumphalism becomes a distorting teleology and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? really no more than the other side of the same teleological coin ? become similarly untenable . If the whiggish 141 // England-as-Britain falls before the new historiography , so too do its equally nineteenth century ethnic competitors . Because of the powerful nationalist revival that has swept the West ( and perhaps the world ) since the mid-1970s , the latter enjoys greatly more credibility today than does discredited anglocentricism.8 But English whiggery , however distorting , at least has the virtue of recognizing an empirical dynamic : the expansion of the government based at London ( if also to a lesser extent at Edinburgh , Dublin , and Inveraray ) was the signal factor in the history of the region . Romantic nationalism , however , has no virtue at all . No community , no group , no kindred , no pens ' within this pre-Kantian world could ever have comprehended the notion of a collective soul ' or the unfolding common spirit ' that underwrites modern nationalist historiography . No one in that age could ever have imagined Edmund Burke 's genius of the nation philosophically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( much less accepted ) his social group as being a unique and autonomous spiritual communion . ' The peoples of that time frequently did have a sense of prophetic destiny ? as did Andrew Melville ? but that destiny was always universalist human redemption . Depending on political context and institutional development , they could speak of national covenants or of national election . But we will look in vain for the modern preoccupation with essentialist authenticity . There are no sons of destiny ' in early modern Europe . We will find martyrs aplenty in that era ? overwhelmingly Protestant9 ? but these martyrdoms bore witness to larger , non-ethnic causes . We will find often conflicting languages of peoplehood . But we will never lose a European horizon , and we will never find a priori transcendence . Reformers and counter-reformers conducted spiritual and political crusades against each other . But they were no less concerned to conduct crusades against barbarism ' and to transform their communicants . Both sides were summoned for mission , but not for self-actualization . Before there were patriots , ' and long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was pietas ' : the classical world 's spiritual commitment to kin and country , to the citizen and the public good . Here arose the most profound avowal of this world and involvement in it , for only through such involvement could one 's humanity be fulfilled and any further salvation be achieved . The notion entered Renaissance Europe through civic humanism , and the term pietas ' long coexisted with today 's familiar neologism , patriot . As we would expect , the antique concept suffuses the writing of George Buchanan , but even so establishment a figure as the lawyer Sir Thomas Craig // would use it in the fully humanist sense . His De unione . . . ( 1605 ) celebrated James VI and I as a wise and excellent prince , inspired by wisdom and patriotism ' ( cum sapientia conjuncta pietas ) . James 's unionist policies similarly derived from the highest wisdom , patriotism , and regard for the well being of his united ( British ) people ( ' ex summo Iudicio , sic ex pietate , et summa in populum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unique success this profoundly civic commitment , along with so much else in the humanist enterprise . ' 1 If , as conservative historians have recently insisted , the Reformation produced no revolutionary ideology or theory of resistance , ' its radicalism nevertheless remains in its uncompromising commitment to public space and in its remarkably politicizing soteriology . The classical citizen and the Protestant saint tended to merge and , with thinkers like Buchanan , could become all but coterminous.1z Calvin and Cato turned out to be surprisingly complementary . Protestant pietas ' lay at the heart of early modern patriotic and civic identity . With these intellectual foundations we are recognizably on the road to the Enlightenment and to the democratic revolutions - but a vast way indeed from the romantic sensibility . SCOTLAND : BRITISH STATE , BRITISH NATION Pardon me , mother Scotland . I call upon you as witness on my behalf ? myself as the examiner of my innermost feelings . You are not dearer to anyone than to me , nor is your name sweeter to anyone . But what is my purpose ? Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not unwilling to say so . The common mother Britannia requires it as well ? in whose way it is not right that you stand . I think that the debate about union has become irksome to you , and the prospect that thereby the common body would be torn asunder . ' ? David Hume of Godscroft , 160513 Just as late twentieth century nationalist ideologies distort beyond recognition the world of earlier peoples , so too does late twentieth century cynicism . The Renaissance and then the Reformation deeply penetrated the tissues of Scottish political culture , propagating in the process an extraordinary range of powerful minds . A surprising number of these , though far from all , found themselves attracted to the idea of creating a British polity , and in most cases they did so for reasons we could only describe as idealistic . From the late medieval scholastic John Mair , to Hector Boece , John Bellenden , John Knox , Robert Pont , Patrick Adamson , Andrew Melville , Thomas Craig , David 143 // Hume of Godscroft , and many lesser figures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even though the reform these individuals sought , political , social , religious , varied greatly and conflicted frequently . Mair 's History of Greater Britain ( 1521 ) , with its unionist agenda of anti-magnate political reform , is well-known today , and its readership and impact in the sixteenth century is doubtless greater than now recognized . But it was altogether superseded for contemporaries by Hector Boece 's hugely influential The History and Chronicles of Scotland ( 1527 ) . Deriving from humanist models , more visibly civic , resolutely aristocratic , offering a different vision of reform and , above all , manifestly patriotic both in its posture and mythologies , Boece 's history is in all these respects a riposte to Mair 's . Regarded as a Scottish Livy , Boece became a touchstone for sixteenth century Scots , whatever their politics or religious commitments . His would be the only Scottish history to see print in translation during that century , eventually in both Scots and English . It initiated a new genre of Scottish historiography . Perhaps surprisingly it became a kind of court ideology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Scotland ( 1582 ) , authoritative for nearly two centuries , would fully eclipse it . But if Boece appealed powerfully to Scottish patriotic sensibilities , that circumstance still did not preclude union with England . John Bellenden 's translation was prefaced with a poem that spoke of the Scots as Ay = always fechtand for thair liberteis and richtis , / With Romanis , Danis , Inglismen , and Pichtis . ' Despite such stirring sentiments , the creation of a new state remained manifestly desirable . Heirfore I dar boldlie affirme , gif the Albianis had sic grace that they micht leif with concord amang thaimself , or gif thair realmes , be ony honest way , micht cum under the empire and senyourie of ane king ; thay micht nocht allanerlie haif all necessaries within thaimself , uncoft ; bot , with small difficultie , micht daunt all nichtbouris and cuntreis liand tham about ... 14 Boece 's patriotism caused him to prefer Alba ' to Britain , ' Albanians ' to Britons ' ( against classical historians and geographers ) : AngloWelsh mythologies associated Britain with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Writing at a moment of exceptional cultural self-confidence , when the court of the young James V appeared filled with promise , Alba ' ( or Albion ' ) seemed plausible . After 1550 it seemed poetic , ' as deepening classicism , domestic repression , and a double foreign invasion refocused Scottish thinking . Britain ' became indifferent ' ? as England 's Lord Protector , Edward Seymour , Duke // of Somerset , had claimed it to be in 1548 ? largely because it eliminated the question of precedence implied by saying England and Scotland . ' Further , by late century , both Scottish and English mythologies , if not the claims they supported , increasingly failed to carry conviction among the learned elites . It was only natural for Somerset to appeal to both Mair and Boece when he urged the union of the realms through the marriage of the Princess Mary to the young Edward VI . His famous ' An Epistle or exhortation , to unitie and peace ... to . . . the Realme of Scotlande ' ( 1548 ) was issued in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it spoke of Scottish freedom from foreign servitude and , replacing servitude , of the liberty , amity , equality between the two realms . Here was something whiche your writers hath alwayes wisshed mighte once i.e. , at one time come to pass . ' 15 Whatever the Protector 's true intentions , both his Scottish and English advisors ? most notably the Edinburgh merchant James Henrisoun who surely played a central role in drafting the document ? looked to a new era of reform and justice , under the auspices of a latter-day Constantinian empire that fulfilled the promises of both sacred and secular prophecy . When people began speaking of union in terms of the providential and the prophetic , a distinctly new dimension entered British politics . Britain might now appear as integral to the sacred drama , inherent within the final stages of the historical redemption before the end of time . The language of the apocalypse had always been available , but it assumed new significance with the Reformation . When John Ireland ( c.1440 ? 1495 ) or William Dunbar ( c. 1460 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant an individual not an institution ; the term bore no political implications ; there was nothing even remotely imminent about it.16 By 1550 all that had changed : the apocalypse organized the European experience into a coherent , linear process that made contemporary events intelligible . Its meaning became immediate and urgent . We encounter one indication of the new apocalyptic , conceived institutionally rather than personally , when the earl of Glencairn in 1539 denounced the Catholic clergy as Monsters with the Beast 's marke . ' In 1550 John Knox fully outlined the apocalyptic programmatic underlying human experience in what would be his most remembered sermon.17 During the intervening years Somerset 's publicists had promoted such a providential vision of the British union with striking effectiveness . While there was nothing particularly British about the apocalypse ( it could and did shape the aspirations of such anti-British structures as the Iberian empires ) , 145 // and while it certainly was possible to seek radical reform without recourse to its organizing principles , the apocalypse by mid-century would become a driving force behind the creation of Britain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before him , continued to insist on the superiority of the southern crown . And yet , despite this , the Epistle ' emerges as one of the decisive documents in the forming of the British state . A remarkable writing by any standard , the letter subsequently acquired an international status when it appeared in Latin as part of Johannes Sleidanus 's widely-read De state religionis et reipublic ( ( e , Carlo Quinti , commentarii ( 1557 ) . No less than Knox 's famous unionist tract , the First Blast of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women ( 1558 ) , at junctures develops strikingly similar arguments to those found in the Epistle ' and it is hard not to think that Knox found inspiration from it . Subsequently the letter would feature prominently in the writings on union of such major Scottish intellects as Robert Pont , Thomas Craig , and David Hume of Godscroft.18 There was a great deal of Scottish thought about a British union during the later sixteenth century , and , unarguably , Somerset 's evocative tract was important to much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James VI 's uncontested accession to the southern crown resolved British thinking into concentrated focus . Andrew Melville 's British crusade found itself complemented by ( and in competition with ) a more court-oriented , hierarchical British vision . Based on the memory of the Roman emperor Constantine the Great , who was seen as a British figure , the court version similarly interwove a dense fabric of mythology and prophecy . Like Melville , it looked to Prince Henry ? though in deference to the king it frequently tended to be rather anti-Turkish than anti-papal . Yet it was no less apocalyptic than its Melvillian rival : as the British ' Constantine had established the faith and banished Satan 's public kingdom , so latter-day Britain might restore the faith and overthrow its enemies at the end of time . Both sprang from similar aspirations and shared hopes . Both need to be seen as expressions of a common culture . Variations of the establishment version found their poets and promoters in successful , powerful courtiers like Sir William Alexander , as well as in failed , if learned academics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a crusade led by Prince Henry into colonial enterprise in the New World ? empire in the full range of its meanings.19 To be sure , Scottish enthusiasts for Britain at the regnal union always resolutely insisted on parity with England . Thus the Edinburgh lawyer John Russell urged union evoking full-blown Constantinian imagery , // and yet also asked James to treat England as auxiliary to his prime responsibilities in Scotland . The one arose immediately in default of the other , and it is not even odd to find both postures in a single tract.20 In the event English resistance to Britain , as well as the south 's often ugly xenophobia , caused Scots to recoil into a defense of the realm against anglicization ? a transition neatly illustrated in the career of Hume of Godscroft . During those charged years on either side of the regnal union , even Hume briefly adopted the perspective of Melvillian imperialism . His dauntingly complex poem DaphnAmaryllis ' ( London , 1605 ) urged James 's succession and union ( **49;1836;TOOLONG ) . James 's succession to the marble chair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : ... haud Roma Britannos Maxima iam metuet frustra : aut terrebit inultos Tarpeius torquens fremebunda tonitrua flamen , Not at all in vain will Rome fear the British . Nor will the Tarpeian flamen ( i.e. , the pope ) twisting his lightning bolts , be unavenged Subsequently , Hume added , ... et ad quauis maxima aggredienda , propagandis quam longissime extra insulam imperii finibus ' ( with the boundaries of the empire to be extended far beyond the island ) .21 Let the pope beware , the British are coming . But things changed quickly . In little more than a year after the poem came off the London press , Hume became embattled in a long term struggle on behalf of the Scottish church and thereby Scottish identity . Hume never lost sight of Britain at least as an ideal , even if the new politics forced him to shift his priorities . The power of the idea of a British crusade and a British mission is difficult to exaggerate . It had captured the imagination of the Scottish public , enjoying a widespread currency in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Whitehall.22 There consequently exists an enormous irony in the 1638 Scottish revolution against Charles I and the provincialization of the realm brought about by his rule . Charles 's authoritarian , repressive kingship ? British ' only in the sense that it stood above the constitution of any of the realms he governed ? provoked Scotland to what eventually became a British response . Even if an alliance with English reformers and subsequently with the English parliament became necessary to preserve Scottish autonomy , it remains hard to deny that an unmistakable idealism informed Scotland 's involvement in England . The Westminster Assembly , the Committee of Both Kingdoms , the 147 // conservatores pacts , all at once addressed visionary preoccupations no less than hard-headed practical security concerns . Here were the first serious efforts to create genuinely British institutions.23 But the Britain they envisioned differed considerably from attitudes at the time of the regnal union , for England and Scotland would now be federated or confederated rather than fused . From the later years of the sixteenth century Scots had continuously developed and refined exceedingly rich vocabularies for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within Scottish political culture . Confederal Britain more convincingly spoke to the universal reform that had exercised Scottish thinking since the days of Melville and Alexander . Confederal Britain seemed plausible to Scottish court moderates who sought to preserve the monarchy . Confederal Britain spoke with singular cogency to the House of Argyll . Britain had been integral both to Campbell identity and to Campbell territorial expansion at least from the 1560s , and it can hardly surprise us that the eighth earl doggedly promoted British confederation in the mid-1640s or that he all but single-handedly forced through Scotland 's treaty with Charles II that made him king of Great Britain . ' For the elites generally at mid-century , Britain underwrote Scottish social stability , protecting heritable jurisdictions and aristocratic power against the claims of clerical radicalism ? and , still more , against the revolutionary commonwealth that eventually succeeded the covenanting regime . Scottish elites were unwilling to see their realm either as an independent quasi-republic or as integrated within a larger English polity . The English republic initially undertook the conquest of Scotland only with the greatest reluctance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberation , a voice unmistakably anticipating that of the democratic revolutions in the next century , and indeed all the political revolutions that have subsequently grown out of them . Fired by apocalyptic visions of universal freedom , the radical commonwealth ? the first Britain ? attacked and altogether overthrew the Scottish elites . Despite dreadful devastation and the horror of conquest and occupation , the republic attracted some Scottish communities and some remarkable individuals from the elites , outstandingly James Hope of Hopetoun.24 If the republican tradition eventually failed everywhere within the British Isles , the seventeenth century experiment nevertheless led directly to modern politics . Scotland 's British experience could therefore be both radical and conservative , reforming and preserving . Britain might promise a new world as it did for Scots like James Henrisoun in the 1540s and like // James Hope in the 1650s . But instead it might simply protect local power . Moreover , as James VI found in the first decade of the seventeenth century , Britain would enable him to undo earlier radicalism . Buchanan 's civic respublica might seem plausible in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could hardly carry conviction within the larger British order . Scotland 's Presbyterian church government triumphed in 1592 , but turned out to be vulnerable in the context of the regnal union . It was one thing to create a British state , quite another to create a British nation . Categories of genuine British identity emerge only slowly and indirectly on the margins and interstices of traditional politics . Britain as a cultural entity probably first emerged in the later sixteenth century with the earls of Argyll and the growth of Gaelic Protestantism . The Campbell challenge to the MacDonalds and other clans in the west Highlands inevitably confronted memory of the Lordship of the Isles , the powerful Gaelic principality that till 1493 had straddled the northern channel between what eventually became Scotland and Ireland . Possibly in part because their origins in Strathclyde were too well known , the Campbells could not lay claim to the defunct Lordship , but instead portrayed themselves in Arthurian and in specifically British terms . The Campbells thereby challenged and reimagined the traditional Highland world they inhabited , the adoption of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps emblematic of their outlook.25 What is arresting about them is not so much their proverbial expansiveness and aggression , ' but their hybridization . It is not simply their increased use of written records , or their vigorous manipulation of feudal legal procedures that were always a dimension of the Scottish Highlands , or their relatively successful efforts to improve agricultural practice , or even their sponsoring of lowland settlers as spiritual kindred ' in newly acquired territories . It is the integration of quite disparate cultural elements and the resulting reformulation of tradition that must strike us today . Their activities parallel the contemporaneous thinking of the Highlander Buchanan and of the Borderer Godscroft , thinking that sought to interweave Calvinist humanism and civic identities into the militarized kin structures of traditional Scotland . It is perhaps no accident or at least curiously appropriate that Hector Boece had links with the bardic traditions of ClanCampbell . The Campbells ' language indicates how fully conscious they were of the integrative character of their endeavors : they were among the earliest in using the terms North British ' for 149 // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough ClanCampbell adopted the language of the court and portrayed its mission as civilizing ' ? though today with greater distance and more developed social thought , we might rather characterize it as revitalizing . ' The eighth earl and first marquis of Argyll contrasts revealingly with his MacDonald counterpart and bitter antagonist , the second earl and first marquis of Antrim . Central figures in the great upheaval of the mid-seventeenth century , the two marquises inhabited both a Gaelic world and the world of the Stewart court . Each was bilingual in the non-verbal symbol systems he negotiated no less than in his speech.27 But Argyll pursued visions that went well beyond both the court and the expansion of his lands at the expense of his rival . Antrim recalled the Lordship , Argyll sought a new order . Antrim was bifurcated , Argyll was British . These developments on Scotland 's western seaboard potentially held great significance . The earls of Argyll were powerful well beyond other aristocratic families within Britain . Indeed they were emerging as almost a third force , behind London and Edinburgh . Immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earl proposed an unprecedented rapprochement with England that might well have changed the trajectory of Irish and thus British history . Even so , the Campbells , as integral to James VI 's policies of expansion , colonizing , and civilizing , ' were also integral to developing both British imperialism and a common British identity.28 Campbell power reached its apex during the early 1640s when the Covenanting Movement extended Campbell influence into all three kingdoms . At the heart of these events lies the irony that the Protestant Gael emerged as the first modern Briton . British identities developed in still other subtle and tentative ways . Scotland shared with its neighbors common attitudes toward the customs of the realm , and appeals to the authority of such ancient ' custom had been a commonplace in most of Europe for an exceedingly long time . Scots often spoke of loveable custom , ' the English spoke typically of laudable custom , ' the French of louable coutume . ' Like their neighbors Scots would resist royal policy in the name of custom , as they all had done since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the course of the sixteenth century England 's customary law had acquired cogency in English political thought unparalleled elsewhere . Custom appeared as a single , coherent , and immemorial fabric of profound wisdom , animated through the // enactments of a sovereign crown in parliament . By the end of the century this entire structure could be described as fundamental law , ' and was seen as secure as the property relations on which it was founded . Parliament had proved to be a highly important institution in sixteenth century Scotland , but neither parliament nor Scots law occupied a comparable place within the Scottish political imagination . Other assemblies , both lay and ecclesiastical , enjoyed a status unlike anything in the south , while parliament itself might be variously constituted . Scots appealed to their laws when they resisted French domination at mid-century , but custom obviously held a different significance for John Aylmer than it did for John Knox and , doubtless , most Scots . Scottish statute did not enjoy an authority comparable to its southern counterpart . The eminent Scottish jurist and minister Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part by noticing that in practice parliamentary statutes frequently never went into effect . Patriot dynasties rather than highly developed institutions underwrote the upheavals of 1559 ? 60 and 1567-73 . But the language of immemorial custom and fundamental law moved more to the center of Scottish consciousness at the very end of the century as the prospect of Anglo-Scottish union loomed . Scots not only confronted the English legal attitudes and claims , but were constrained simply by the Stewart accession itself to think increasingly in terms of formalized governing structures.29 In 1606 Andrew Melville , his nephew James Melville , and six other Scottish Presbyterian ministers found themselves detained indefinitely in London by order of the crown , and their response to this act of government terrorism is illuminating . At an important juncture they were questioned individually by the Scottish council . James Melville responded in terms of legal right claiming that he wes a frie subject of the kingdome of Scotland , quhilk had lawis and priveledges of its awin , as any in the world , to quhilk he would stand . He thoucht thair had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nobilmen there sitting , nor yit he , wes not at home in thair awin native countrey : The chairge super inquirendis wes long syne put away and abolischit , as iniquouse and injust : He wes of no law or reasoun bound to accuse himselff , be furniseing dittay againes himselff . He desyrit the Nobillmen quho were thair present to remember quhat they wer , and to deal with him ( howbeit ane poor man , yit a frie-born gentil Scotis-man ) as they would be content to be usit thaimselffis , that is , by the lawis of Scotland . 151 // Personal liberties , rights against self-incrimination , the privileges and protections of the law do not feature prominently in the politics of late sixteenth century Scotland . Liberty did not normally or primarily derive from writ , but from civic engagement , from public life , from the exercise of virtue . Andrew Melville subsequently spoke in a far more familiar way when he told the assembled aristocrats flattly that they . . . wer degenerate from the antiant nobilitie of Scotland , quho wer wont @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kingdome and the Gospel . ' 3 ? Englishmen would have found James Melville 's statement immediately recognizable ; many would have applauded it . Andrew 's would have sounded far more foreign and , we might expect , darkly troubling . The new politics enjoined new language , but it would be wrong to see James Melville as simply anglicizing . ' Melville was speaking about Scots law and Scottish autonomy . Free-born ' Englishmen and free-born ' Scots might turn out to be strikingly similar figures . Despite significantly divergent political cultures , common languages of liberty would emerge in the face of authoritarian government . Thus , that deeply un-English instrument , the National Covenant , nevertheless based part of its appeal on the largely un-Scottish notion of fundamental law ' and privileges secured in property . ENGLAND : THE LAW FUNDAMENTAL During the 1530s Thomas Cromwell , Thomas Cranmer , and Henry VIII successfully tapped into cultural energies that would not dissipate fully until the twentieth century . The legislation of that decade proclaimed English sovereignty in terms unduplicated elsewhere in Europe at the time because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but from an unparalleled assertion of institutional coherence and continuity . English institutional integration under a common law , imagined as customary , may well have been unique ; in its institutional self-consciousness England was indeed unique . The foundations of such attitudes reached far back into the English past , and Lord Chief Justice Fortescue 's well-known statement in his De laudibus legum Anglie of the late fifteenth century is illustrative of it . The kingdom of England was first inhabited by Britons , then ruled by Romans , again by Britons , then possessed by Saxons , who changed its name from Britain to England . Then for a short time the kingdom was conquered // by Danes , and again by Saxons , but finally by Normans , whose posterity hold the realm at the present time . And throughout the period of these nations and their kings , the realm has been continuously ruled by the same customs as it is now , customs which , if they had not been the best , some of those kings would have changed for the sake of justice or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially the Romans who judged almost the rest of the world by their laws . Similarly , others of these aforesaid kings , who possessed the kingdom of England only by the sword , could , by that power , have destroyed its laws . Indeed , neither the civil laws of the Romans . . . nor the laws of the Venetians . . . nor the laws of any Christian kingdom , are so rooted in antiquity . Hence there is no gainsaying nor legitimate doubt but that the customs of the English are not only good but the best . ' It will come as no surprise that Fortescue 's text first saw print in about 1537 or that Robert Mulcaster 's translation appeared in no less than three editions during Elizabeth 's reign . This frequent republication comprises an important element within the great hardening and consolidation ' of common law thought that John Pocock describes as taking place between 1550 and 1600 . Increasingly detached from continental sources and from universal concepts of law , English legal and political thinking became focused on the laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By 1604 members of the House of Commons could claim that all their privileges were integral within England 's immemorial legal structure and thus of a piece with all right and all heritages , indeed of a piece with property itself . Thus , to think of England then was to think of its longevity , its continuity , it cohesion , its autonomy , and , in so saying , its inviolable institutional integrity . If the De laudibus was , in Sir Walter Raleigh 's words , that noble bulwark of our laws , ' it had become the bulwark of much else as well . The 1530s initiated political no less than institutional consolidation and rationalization , in what was a curiously well integrated and yet still far from centralized state . Not only did parliament and statute acquire new authority , not only did public administration become more articulate , political integration also extended still further ? to the borders , to the new Irish kingdom , ' to Calais , to Scotland , and , outstandingly , to Wales . No doubt , a British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emerged under Edward VI , to be reformulated importantly , if briefly , by William Cecil at Elizabeth 's accession . Thereafter something recognizably like Melville 's British project was promoted by advanced Protestants ' with leaders who included Leicester and Philip Sidney . As with Melville , Leicester and 153 // Sidney sought a monarchy at once limited and yet also oddly imperial : reform at home , leadership for Protestant Europe , hegemony in the region , and , sotto voce , empire across the ocean . Again analogously to Melville , increasing numbers of English men and women imagined their realm as performing a central role within scripture 's great sacred drama that was now seen as entering upon its final acts . Yet precisely here arose insurmountable differences . English apocalyptic expectations had become interwoven into the dense fabric of English institutions . Like its law , England 's spiritual destiny was self-generated , immanent , autonomous . The larger British project might prove a manifestation of English mission ? or it might not ? but , either way , it was marginal if not irrelevant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the AngloBritannus was a bird rare almost to the vanishing point . Englishmen like Andrew Willet , Thomas Brightman , and Miles Mosse , who actually did welcome a new British state , saw it as an agency of reform and imagined it within a recast and deepened apocalyptic vision . Much more Judaic and biblicist , their reformulated apocalypse pointed away from English institutions rather than reinforcing them : Scotland and England , in Willet 's words , would as louing sisters and fellow tribes ... go up to Jerusalem together . ' With such writers as these emerged the beginnings of English philo-Semitism and of a radicalism that had a long history before 4.32 But their voices would not be heard in the House of Commons at the union of crowns . Nor did their themes then exercise the English elites . Even if publicists associated with the Protector Somerset had developed a powerful British vision , Britain ' had come to sound distinctly un-English half a century later . If Britain were to be in any way imagined as a supranational state , then English institutional integrity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualified and was thus radically unacceptable . The only union that could make sense within this mental world would be the incorporation of Scotland through the expansion of English law ? following the Welsh model . As the English MP Laurence Hyde argued in 1607 , I am persuaded that the commons and all the Scottish nation except some few great persons that have liberties unfitt for subjects , as power to pardon treasons , felony , murder , manslaughter , and other like , would gladly yield to the subject of our laws.33 It is in response to this situation that Thomas Craig 's discussion of English law in the Jus feudale ( 1603 , first printed 1655 ) and the De // unione ( 1605 , first printed 1909 ) needs to be read . Craig untiringly insisted that the Norman conquest marked a profound rupture in English society . So great was William 's hatred of the English , that the Conqueror spoiled them of their arms and distributed their nobles ' estates as booty among his Normans . " There is no manner of doubt that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not that which held in the days preceding the Norman Conquest . ' It was ... feudal law which the Conqueror imposed on England . ' The purpose of all this was not so much to assert Scottish dignity and its unconquered antiquity against English aspersions . Nor was it simply to show the Norman dynasty ( and its successors ) to be illegitimate , while the Scottish line ( and James VI ) emerged the true heir to Edward the Confessor . Rather , Craig 's central purpose was to subvert the English claim to a sui generis constitution and to recontextualize institutions of the southern realm : Our English neighbors are therefore far out in their reckoning in their belief that their legal system is indigenous and unlike those of other countries . ' s4 Common feudal principles ( organized about Roman law categories ) , common cultural assumptions , made a truly British partnership possible . The English laws , seen as ancient ' and yet only defined and made authoritative through the acts of a sovereign crown in parliament , undoubtedly promoted insularity and , at moments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English anti-Scottish sentiment could be , it is crucial to recognize that its motivation was institutional and not ethnic , prompted by a concern for political integrity and not by racism . As Laurence Hyde indicated , the Scots ( and presumably anyone ) could become English simply by adopting English laws and liberties ? an experience imagined as liberating rather than involving subjection . Attitudes that begin to sound like modern racism enter English discourse only occasionally at the margins and from the most resolute opponents of Anglo-Scottish union and of any British state : the English Catholics . Catholic writers like Richard Verstegan , as Christopher Highley has recently shown , went to great lengths in stressing the Saxon roots of Englishmen , thereby distinguishing them ethnically from altogether alien Scots and Britons . This unbridgeable ethnic chasm precluded a modern Britain , while simultaneously linking the people of England to the peoples of the continent . ' 35 Scotophobia at court or in the House of Commons thus differed qualitatively from the Scotophobia that motivated Guy Fawkes and his associates . The former derived from the Cromwellian Reformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arose from institutional preoccupations , the latter from 155 // racial preoccupations . Miles Mosse was undoubtedly right when he saw opposition to James 's succession ( and certainly to the union ) as coming in large part from our mutinous and seditious Papists ' who slandered his native realm of Scotland . ' 30 By the 1590s there had emerged a new English apocalyptic : reformist , British-oriented , philo-Semitic , and focused on the future rather than the institutional past . At about the same time there also emerged a Catholic counter-historiography : oriented toward the continent , emphatically ethnic and racial , resolutely anti-British and antiapocalyptic , and eventually anti-Semitic . During the earlier seventeenth century the more apocalyptic an Englishman 's outlook , the more likely he would find a British perspective to be congenial , the more likely he would have favorable attitudes toward the Scots , and the more likely he would find himself interested in contemporary Jewry , possibly to the point of seeking their readmission . Conversely , anti-apocalypticism and anglocatholicism encouraged a negative conflation of both Jews and Scots , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in England extending from this period to the era of T.S . Eliot and Evelyn Waugh.37 But most English people , and certainly the elites , found themselves drawn at this juncture neither to revolution nor race , neither to an imminent new world nor to ethnic self-discovery . The late twentieth century obsession with race no more provides insight into the intellectual life of early modern Englishmen than does contemporary nationalism or contemporary cynicism . THE PRIMITIVE AND THE CIVILIZED ... it is but even the other day since England grew civil . ' ? Edmund Spenser ( ? ) 38 We have met the enemy , and he is us . ' ? Pogos 1 If race was not the preoccupation of the early modern peoples of the Atlantic archipelago that it has since become , we will nevertheless find it variously visible on the margins of British and Irish political life . Thus the Celtic veneration of genealogy led to mythologies that proclaimed the ethnic superiority of the Gael over the lowland and foreign Gall . Precisely this identity with blood informed and heightened highland opposition to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inferior Lowlander.40 // More portentous for the future was the racism philosophically constructed by the scholastic John Mair . A virulent anti-Semite , Mair defended the 1290 expulsion of the Jews from England and urged all contemporary princes to take similar action . Although Mair enjoys a extraordinary reputation today as an innovative and critical rationalist who either debunked or ignored popular myth , his History duly recounted tales of the medieval blood libel . This reputation for enlightenment is all the more remarkable , for he in fact served on the infamous commission at the University of Paris that in 1514 condemned Johannes Reuchlin and Jewish studies for Christians . " Mair undoubtedly applauded the contemporary expulsion of the Jews from the Iberian peninsula ( 1492 ? 98 ) , and , given these attitudes , he may well have endorsed the sixteenth century laws that increasingly restricted the New Christian converts because of their impure ' and unclean ' blood . Mair supported still other Spanish projects , most notably its newly conquered empire in the Americas . The Americans , Mair insisted , were the natural slaves described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispossession was both in accordance with nature and ultimately in their own interest . Inevitably defenders of the Spanish monarchy and its policies , like the royal confessor Juan Gines de Sepulveda , found aid in the renowned Scottish theologian . But Mair did not stop there . He went on to identify the Americans with the Highlanders . For Mair , the latter inhabited a semi-nomadic , tribal , and militarized society whose pastoralism only at times could be used by royal authority to contain its banditry . Mair 's History inescapably pointed to a policy of dispossession similar to that adopted by the Spanish monarchy in the New World.42 We visibly encounter racism or proto-racism during this period in England , Scotland , and the Celtic world . Yet both traditional racism and philosophical racism held considerably more limited significance for British identities and the politics of this period than people with today 's sensibility might expect . Mair seems to have exerted vastly less influence in Britain than in Iberia , and policies of extirpatioun ' were never consistently pursued . More important , neither our own obsession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood finds anything approaching a full analogue within the British Isles . The central matrix was not race but civility , learning , and political life ? not the imposition of civilization on the racially inferior , but the creation of civilization itself within the putatively unpropitious northern latitude that all these peoples inhabited . Here was a concern 157 // well worthy of obsession : for to think of the north often enough was to move into the dark margins of the western imagination . Traditionally , from both biblical and classical sources , the north was pictured as quintessentially the place of the primitive , the bestial , the satanic . Imagining a civilization or the creation of a civilization , at once cultured , independent , and yet relevant to Europe exercised many of the best minds in Scotland , England , and Ireland from the late middle ages into the Enlightenment ? at which point the edge of civilization shifted from the long-standing latitudinal north-south horizon to a longitudinal east-west frontier.4B Figures like George Buchanan , Thomas Craig , David Hume of Godscroft , John Milton , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , found themselves reflecting on the problem of civilization with great seriousness and at moments with great urgency , if also great perplexity . At issue was no anticipation of the patronizing white man 's burden , ' nor cultural denigration cynically manipulated to legitimate conquest , but a universal transformation involving the home regions no less than the outlying ones ? a transformation seen as liberating and empowering , and , at times , also as redeeming.44 The Hapsburgs had no doubt what to do in Bohemia , never wavered in their commitment to global empire , and had precious little doubt about their undertaking in the Americas . In different circumstances they would have made quick work of Ireland ? whose Celtic societies the Counter-Reformation in no way idealized . Much greater ambivalence existed in Britain both about empire and also about Ireland . That is why Catholicism survived there , while the rich Protestant cultures of central Europe were all but entirely extirpated . True to its humanist roots , Calvinist discipline ' entailed a transformation of self that its propagators imagined as enabling and even politicizing rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be too anachronistic to see the reforming agenda as seeking to turn peasants into Scotsmen ? or perhaps simply the citizen . The sometime Edinburgh court minister Robert Bruce provides a conservative ' example of this phenomenon . His famous sermons of the 1590s sought to supplant kin-ties , the traditions of Scottish ' kindness , ' and the appeal of blood , with the more articulate ties founded on formal law . As Christ rejected the claims of blood amongst his disciples , so we too need to reject such ties within the Christian community . As we are not joined to Christ through His blood in the mass but through His spiritual presence , so we are not joined to one another through blood . Instead , we join each other in Christian fellowship through what Bruce notably called a spiritual glue . ' The new // community , more self-conscious and more self-created , possessed a civic and juridical character unimaginable within traditional Scotland . Bruce 's words spoke every bit as compellingly to the court and the city of Edinburgh as they did to the Highlands and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Buchanan . The most consistent theme throughout his long life and extensive writings was the creation of the classical citizen and civic life ? realized through severely moralist values he saw as the antithesis of clerical power . Initially he had looked to royal authority as the instrument for restraining clerical pretensions and protecting public space . James V , Henry VIII , Joao III , Henry II , and at one brief point possibly even Charles V , all seemed potential candidates to implement such politicomoral reform . Buchanan never imagined these rulers as absolute ' but as protectors who would leave the reins ' loose : law at least ideally would be self-imposed . During the 1550s his view became increasingly anti-imperial : he bitterly criticized the new global empires established by the Iberian kingdoms and strenuously supported the Valois cause against Hapsburg pretensions to universal monarchy . He portrayed empire in almost all its senses as utterly incompatible with the civic ideal and thus with human purposes . Buchanan returned to Scotland following the 1559 ? 60 revolution where his constitutional ' ideal shifted from an increasingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autonomous polis of antiquity . This new quasi-republicanism assumed its fullest articulation with Buchanan 's Genethliacon , ' a poem celebrating the birth of James VI in 1566 , and then with his famous De jure regni aped Scotos : dialogus written on behalf of the Scottish revolution of the following year.46 Unlike Bruce , for Buchanan traditional Scottish society underwrote ? or potentially underwrote ? civic capacity . Scotland would be imagined as Livy 's virtuous republic , ruled by abstemious aristocrats who , rising above private interests , were utterly committed to the pursuit of the public good ? aristocrats precisely like those who led the Scottish revolutions . The point then was not to replace kin-ties but to revalue them . Traditional social structures would become politicized , as the ancient military virtue acquired ( or rediscovered ) its civic meaning , as Latin supplanted Gaelic , as patriotism supplanted barbarism.47 Bruce 's objective was more narrowly juridical , Buchanan 's more broadly political . But both sought civility and , each in his way , salvation , while neither man had his eye exclusively or perhaps even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 159                     