@@773803

txt // the people 's lowliness , and , as the God of Abraham , Isaac and Israel , he is entreated to guide Solomon in the right ways and inspire him to complete the building of the new Jerusalem capital . The people bless God when formally invited to do so by David and prostrate themselves to him and before the king . Here , interestingly enough , sacrifice follows prayer the next day and a joyous feast is held to celebrate the proposed accession and Solomon 's annointment . Also put into the mouth of David , in 1 Chronicles 15 and 25 is an instruction to appoint men and women of levite families as singers and players to make joyous music in the sanctuary . It will now be instructive to examine some earlier sources in the light of the later passages just cited . It is clear , for instance , that Solomon 's prayer at the dedication of the Temple in 1 Kings 8:22 ? 53 has more in common with such passages than it does with the simpler personal prayers reported in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for various aspects of prayer , the length , the reference to nonIsraelites and the punishment of exile , the formulaic repetition of various kinds of request and the author 's views on theodicy clearly indicate that scholars are justified in seeing here a mixture of late pre-exilic and early post-exilic elements.32 The constant references to the centrality of this house ' may conceivably be early and deuteronomic but they are at least placed in contexts that contain many later characteristics . The role of non Jews in Israelite worship of the future is also a theme touched upon in Isaiah 56:7 where it is claimed that their offerings are destined for approval when they come to the Temple Mount and , in a happy frame of mind , make use of that shrine as a universal place of prayer . Here there clearly occurs the fusion of the cult and the personal worship which was manifestly missing in earlier sources and which supports , as so much else in Trito-Isaiah ' , a post-exilic date for much of the content.33 Jeremiah 's prayer ( 32:16 ? 35 ) in response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Land , in spite of the Babylonian occupation , also raises problems of dating . Here are all the combined elements of the later passages of Ezra , Nehemiah and Chronicles , namely , technical terminology , a // theology of reward and punishment , potted history , and a justification for Israel 's punishment by conquest and yet there is also a prophetic style about parts of the text . Are we then dealing with an early manifestation from prophetic circles of what later became more widespread ? The fact that this passage appears to have Jeremiah ask the question about the need for the purchase that has already been assumed by God in the previous passage , and rehearse an event that has already taken place , has led scholars to characterise the prayer as a later interpolation . If this is correct , much of the text of the prayer fits well with what has above been cited from books that are clearly much Iater.34 As far as Ezekiel is concerned , even the temple of the future will still be exclusively for cultic purposes . In 44:15 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanctuary , replete with technical details , and guidance for the priests as teachers and judges , but there is no mention of any prayer-texts to be recited by them . For him apparently this is still a matter for the individual . Finally , brief note should be taken of Job 's concluding prayer in 42:1-6 . A simple theology of reward and punishment is rejected in favour of a view of God and his activities as beyond human ken . There is nothing for the suppliant but to pursue humility and obedience.35 It will now perhaps be useful to summarise the overall developments that took place with regard to Jewish liturgy from the time of the exile into the first half of the Second Temple period . The cult was restored and again played a dominant role while the priests operated politically , nationally and educationally , as well as in the Temple . At the same time , the personal prayer of earlier centuries expanded in content , form and function and began to take on some of the characteristics of what may be called the psalm genre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make use of more formulaic language and vocabulary . Elements of the phraseology that later became part of rabbinic prayers made their first appearance and such themes as confession , the lessons of Israelite history and the need for forgiveness and improvement tended to occur and recur . Theological content increased and contrasted God 's numerous attributes with humanity 's failings // and a simple view of reward and punishment gave way to an acceptance of the inscrutability of God 's actions . It will not have gone unnoticed by the observant reader that a number of these developments are reminiscent of the liturgical trends that were earlier identified in the wider Near Eastern context and they may consequently owe their inspiration to the exposure of the Israelite community to wider religious ideas and practice during their exile.36 The small , tightly knit group that organised the return and ran the affairs of the numerically and politically insignificant country of Judah was apparently able to make some moves towards merging the ideas and practice relating to individual prayer and institutionalised communal worship that had existed more separately in earlier times and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the diaspora . As a result , formal , communal , elements were incorporated into personal prayers and the Temple Mount gradually became the centre for more than the sacrificial cult , but these prayers bear the hallmark of literary productions or adaptations and there is no reason to presuppose , as will shortly become apparent , that improvised , personal entreaties had become any less popular than they had earlier been . Of any form of fixed liturgy outside the Temple on the part of the Judahite community there is simply no evidence at this stage . It should not , however , be forgotten that there still existed Jewish communities outside Judah and seemingly beyond the influence of this gradual move in the direction of a more united and uniform tradition . In the fifth century BCE , for example , a community of Jewish mercenaries in Elephantine , on the east bank of the Nile opposite Syene ( the modern Aswan ) , built their own temple to its own specifications , with its own priests and worship of Yahu as well as some other deities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Passover by eating unleavened bread and abstaining from all leaven . Although it is not known whether the Elephantine Jews had collections of psalms , there is a report of at least one formal gathering for mourning , fasting and praying but no indication of anything more structured in the way of formulae.37 The Aramaic documents that testify to the whole phenomenon also // indicate tensions with the establishment ' in Judah but the real challenge to the comfortable situation in the homeland and its capital was yet to come . When it did , it represented a Greek rather than an Egyptian cultural onslaught and was destined to influence Jewish religious ideas and practice for many centuries . In order to assess its significance in terms of Jewish liturgical developments in the middle of the Second Temple period , when the last books of the Hebrew Bible were being written or had made their appearance , the literature written in and around that time , in Hebrew , Aramaic and Greek , will have to be examined . The main question to be addressed will be whether there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if so , among which of the numerous Jewish groups that came to flourish in the Hellenistic and Roman periods . Since the late biblical books mentioned above are in any case at least contemporaneous with the earliest works cited in the Apocrypha and Pseudepigrapha , it is hardly surprising to find that much of the content and style in passages of relevance to liturgical history is common to them both . The literary or possibly liturgical use of certain technical phrases , some of which later occur in rabbinic literature ; the more sophisticated theodicy and theology ; the centrality of the supplicatory element and the special significance of prayer closely linked with the Temple Mount ? all these factors continue to be found throughout the apocryphal and pseudepigraphical works , to a greater or lesser extent , depending , presumably , on how closely related the author was to the circles that produced the books that were then , or later , accepted as canonical . But the most exciting aspect of these works is that as they move more into the period of Hellenistic and , later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world culture touched and even seriously affected the lives of the Jews on a daily basis , so do they come to represent a much wider and more varied body of religious opinion and expression in the Jewish communities of Palestine and the diaspora . It should not indeed be forgotten that some of the books date from the first centuries of the Christian era and may even reflect a Hellenistic Jewish syncretism of the diaspora that was less pronounced in the Holy // Land . This is not to say that all or any modifications in Jewish liturgical practice were directly inspired , either through emulation or rejection , by the Greek example . Such a judgement may ultimately be seen to have a basis but the required research has not yet been undertaken . Until then all that may safely be done is to point out those areas in which some developments took place , what general form they took and where some examples may be found.38 Simple entreaties to God for such major gifts as rescue in war ( 1 Maccabees 4:30-3 ) , deliverance from an oppressor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the prayer of a righteous person ( Judith 8:31 ) , the restoration of health or fertility ( Testament of Simeon 2:13 and Testament of Judah 19:2 ) and the welfare of the gentile authorities ( 1 Baruch 1:11 ) are fairly common and they continue to be personally expressed and circumstantially inspired . There are , however , also some texts that seek God 's blessing in more ordinary and everyday situations such as a journey ( Tobit 4:19 , if this is to be understood literally ) or a meal time ( Aristeas , 183-5 ) and others that presuppose a somewhat different cosmology by requesting an end to the power of evil spirits over mankind ( Jubilees 1o:5-6 ) . The structure of many of these requests is as much the benediction as it is the prayer and there is little to indicate a formal and communal liturgical context outside the Temple . When one reads the Psalms of Solomon , however , one is again faced with the question of the context of such poetic compositions and at least parts of the texts , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earliest rabbinic liturgies and probably date from the first century BCE , could conceivably have been recited formally and communally . Certainly when one encounters the formal praises of such later literature as 2 Enoch , 2 Baruch and 4 Ezra , which take us comfortably into the Christian era , the whole atmosphere is different and the worshipping group , emulating the presupposed activities of its heavenly counterpart , is the most conceivable context.39 Indeed , angelological , eschatological and mystical themes appear in far greater number in the books of the Apocrypha // and Pseudepigrapha than perhaps in any other period of ' Jewish history and seem to have flourished in an ever-increasing degree as political and social conditions deteriorated . While the later books mentioned in the previous paragraph are particularly rich in references to angels , they are not an uncommon phenomenon in earlier texts , in which they respond favourably to the requests of such righteous individuals as Tobit and Sarah ( Tobit 3:16 , 17 ) , Abram ( Jubilees 12:22 ? 4 ) and Judah the Maccabee ( 2 Maccabees 10:25 ? 30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 36:1-17 , a passage that makes use of a number of phrases that became part of the standard rabbinic prayers and seems more nationally and publicly orientated than many of the other prayers . The mystical trend is continued in later books such as the Testament of Job , Joseph and Asenath and the Apocalypse of Abraham , where music and poetry are also strongly represented , and David Flusser has suggested that these literary compositions may reflect the liturgy of a Jewish Hellenistic group living in Egypt in about the second century cE.4o As far as more general liturgical topics are concerned , those familiar from earlier periods recur throughout . Confession , God 's attributes ( especially his justice ) , the history of Israel 's recalcitrance , and the people 's ultimate pardon and rescue by God stand at the centre of Baruch 's prayer ( 1:13 ? 3:8 ) , much as they did in the prayers earlier cited from Ezra , Nehemiah and Daniel . But the didactic element is also not neglected , with prayers for wisdom , understanding and Torah ( Aristeas 256 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 51 and 24:23-7 ) . Whatever the developments in the form and content of Jewish prayer in general , the cultic centre in Jerusalem remained of major significance for the total liturgical picture throughout the Second Temple period . The temporary loss of the Temple during the occupation by Antiochus Epiphanes was the subject of formal acts of mourning and prayer by the supporters of the Maccabees , both male and female ( 1 Maccabees 4:38 ? 40 and 2 Maccabees 3:19 ? 20 ) , and when it was restored there was music , worship and praise by all the people ( i Maccabees 4:54 ? 5 ) and a special hymn was composed known as the Song of the // Children . Ben Sira devotes a long passage to the glories of the high priest , Simeon ben Yohanan , and his cultic activities ( 50:5-21 ) . There are also associations made between the cult and other aspects of religious expression . Sincerity and honesty are a sine qua non for acceptable sacrifice ( Ben Sira 34:20 ? 6 ) ; sacrifices are accompanied by rejoicing , feasting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; music and hymns are part of the Temple ritual ( Ben Sira 47:8-10 ) ; the restoration and rededication of the Temple are followed by processions of celebrants carrying lulavim ( 2 Maccabees 1o:7 ) ; and Aaron relieves the situation after the episode of the golden calf by offering prayer and incense ( Wisdom 18:21 ) . The location of prayers wherever they are needed , in , for instance , Hebron ( 2 Baruch 47:1 ? 2 ) , Ptolemais in Egypt ( 3 Maccabees 7:20 ) and Babylon ( i Esdras 4:58-63 ) , is not surprising , whether it is a continuation of the earlier concept of personal prayer or some kind of anti- or post-Temple reaction.41 What is highly significant is the assumption in some of the texts that prayer took place in or around the Temple . Judith 4:9 ? 15 describes how all the population of Jerusalem , including women and children , fasted , supplicated and prayed before the Temple and put sackcloth on the altar . According to 2 Maccabees 1:21-30 , the restoration of the sacred fire for the sacrifices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the priests during the sacrifices and reported in the text , and was followed by their singing of hymns . Even more striking is the claim made in 2 Maccabees 3:15 that during Heliodorus ' attack on Jerusalem the priests , in their ceremonial robes , flung themselves in front of the altar , entreating God to save the holy Temple treasure from the invader . It turns out , then , that in the circles represented by the books of the Apocrypha and Pseudepigrapha one may detect a more extensive , even everyday use of the personal prayer , hymnpsalm and benediction . There are technical aspects to both the content , themes and vocabulary that have roots in the later biblical books as well as adumbrating some of the earliest rabbinic liturgy . If any compositions are to be regarded as having been employed in a formal liturgical setting , these are // most likely to be the hymnic , psalmic or poetic praises and the mystical formulations that appear to be thrusting themselves on to the scene during this period . Prayers continued to be recited wherever there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a fixed communal liturgy , particularly not of a proto-rabbinic variety.42 Especially significant are the reports that there were times when elements of personal prayer were imported into the Temple precincts by both priests and laymen and even made their way into the inner sanctum of the altar area . It is not clear whether this is a reflection of a new liturgical reality or of a few special circumstances , nor whether it testifies to practice or to the views of the authors . Whatever its origin , it seems to be a departure from earlier biblical custom that could conceivably owe its origin to influences that began to bear upon the Jewish community with the arrival of Hellenistic and related culture . Although the evidence from Philo and Josephus will be incorporated into the overall presentation offered in the next chapter , when the history of synagogal worship receives attention , it will perhaps be useful in the present context to complete the picture by taking note of what they have to say about Jewish prayer in their day . Both writers make frequent references to individual prayers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of the High Priest , and to assemblies at which prayers were recited , Torah was studied and thanksgiving was offered . The synagogue ( or equivalent institution ) is not , however , presented as the exclusive location or exclusively used for this and although the shema ' could well have been what they sometimes had in mind , that is of course a collection of pentateuchal readings and not a fixed prayer-text as such . The apparently long-standing tradition of assembly on the sabbath was also related as much , if not more , to study than to prayer and priests still played a role in such assemblies even if the latter were unconnected with the Temple ritual . Particularly worthy of note is the interest taken by Philo and Josephus in the traditional prayers communally recited by the Essenes and the Therapeutae , as if they had some special significance for being different from other religious practices.43 // Some comparison should now be made between the findings reported above and the evidence available about Jewish prayer from the Qumran scrolls . It should first be acknowledged that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the texts to be found in late biblical , apocryphal and pseudepigraphical and early rabbinic literature . The Hodayoth are psalms or hymns of thanksgiving and praise often introduced by the Hebrew ' wdk . There are Benedictions , using the Hebrew term brwk , to be recited by the Instructor ( Maskil ) and addressed to the community , the priests and the Prince ' ( Masi ' ) , probably the future Davidic Messiah . Similarly , there are prayers said in times of distress that refer to rescues in the past and promise repentance that will , it is hoped , lead to forgiveness ; and Psalms scrolls of unusual order and content , possibly of liturgical significance . Eschatological themes , cosmological speculation and angelology are also present , as in earlier apocalyptic and later merkaoah materials.44 The presence of such and similar liturgical types and texts in the Qumran corpus indicates a close concern on the part of the sect with this form of religious expression . It is not easy to establish , on the basis of such evidence alone , in which context @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They may have been private devotions or public recitations and the intention may have been didactic or liturgical . The distance , both geographical and theological , that the members of the sect had put between themselves and the Jerusalem cult , may have inspired a greater concern with the creation of their own formal system of worship that put angelic praise , rather than Temple ritual , at its centre . A number of other Qumran texts , that go beyond those summarised above , and , consequently , beyond the other canonical and deutero-canonical ' literature earlier cited , appear to indicate that this was the case . Perhaps the most interesting formulations in this respect are those that are related to a specific occasion in the calendar . The Angelic Liturgy ' , for instance , contains songs for recitation with every sabbath offering of the Essene calendrical year . As is clear from later rabbinic texts , these need not have had any other than a sentimental connection with the actual Jerusalem // Temple . Various angels in a number of heavens are involved in the liturgy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later mystical liturgies of the merkavah type including the qedushah ( trisagion ) , that humans are following the angelic example . The composition of such texts in fact constitutes evidence that angels are being credited with the kind of ideal liturgical behaviour that would presuppose their original recitation of such formulae . There are also manuscripts found in Cave Four that explicitly associate the recorded prayers with Tom Kippur and Tom Ha-Bikkurim , others that list evening and morning benedictions for each day of the month , and some , in a work entitled by the scribe Divrey Ha-Me'oroth ( ' The Words of the Luminaries ' ) , that contain texts for communal worship on such specific days as Wednesday and the sabbath . References to rituals of purification and of marriage have also been identified by some scholars.45 As far as content is concerned , here too close examination of the texts by Qumran scholars has produced considerable discussion about possible parallels with parts of the later rabbinic amidah , tahanun and widduy . Such subjects as the choice of Israel and its special role , the centrality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evil from the world , and the survival of the saints , certainly all figure prominently in the earliest synagogal liturgy for the festivals . The masterful music of David in praise of God has even been identified as the inspiration for one of the psalms in the Psalms Scroll and described by Flusser as a counterpart to the talent of the Greek musician Orpheus as known in Jewish and early Christian art.46 It is no new theory to associate advances in Jewish attitudes to prayer and later rabbinic developments with such sects . Kaufmann Kohler already made the connection with the Essenes almost a century ago.47 Certainly the Qumran scrolls provide the earliest testimony to liturgical formulations of a communal nature designated for particular occasions and conducted in a centre totally independent of Jerusalem and the Temple , making use of terminology and theological concepts that were later to become dominant in Jewish and , in some // cases , Christian prayer . Such prayer texts as those recorded in Luke 1:68 ? 79 and 2:25 and the Lord 's Prayer ' ( Matthew 6:14 ? 15 ) are continuations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and may also owe some of their apparent centrality to attitudes cultivated by such groups as the Qumran sect . But sufficient evidence has already been cited from other sources to make it clear that such influences , while clearly significant , were by no means the only ones , and that the background for later developments has to be sought in a much wider context . It remains only to summarise the findings of this chapter before proceeding to the topic of the synagogue liturgy itself . The need for a comparative approach that took the early period of the Hebrew Bible as its starting point was first argued . It was then clearly seen that parallels for much of Israel 's centralised cultic activity exist among the preserved records of its major neighbours , expecially with regard to the sanctuary ; the sacrifice of animals ; the implements , utensils and vessels ; and the calendar . On the other hand , not only is the theology regarding the nature of the deity being worshipped considerably different , but there also appears to have been a less central role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even more significantly , singing , dancing and the recitation of formulae do not appear to have accompanied most of the rituals enacted in the Jerusalem Temple , as prescribed in the pentateuchal legislation . What formulae there were may be characterised as benedictory , didactic or historical rather than institutionally cultic . While prayers were part of formal , communal worship among various cultures of the ancient Near East , they would seem to have been quite separate from such an institution in Israel 's central shrine , constituting a freer and more personal expression of religiosity . Closely associated with oaths , curses , blessings and prophesy , such prayers in the early parts of the Hebrew Bible followed common speech patterns rather than formulaic structures and often amounted to spirited challenges or exchanges rather than formal obeisance . The relationship between prayer and worship may therefore have been one of tension rather than of integration . // By the time that they had returned from exile the Jews had clearly made adjustments in their liturgical arrangements , whether or not as a result of their more international contacts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greater integration known in other cultures can be detected in the early Second Temple period . Formal techniques were introduced into the preparation for and the recitation of personal prayer and more rigid patterns of vocabulary and specific themes began to emerge . The vast theological gap between man and God was acknowledged and the lessons of history were regularly rehearsed . The cultic centre was used more widely for communal activity , apparently by men and women , and the priests operated politically and educationally as well as ritually but , unless some credence is given to speculative theories about the use of the psalms in that period , the sacrificial cult itself remained an area of virtual silence and there was no fixed and standard form of communal liturgy outside the Temple . The wider circles represented by the books of the Apocrypha and Pseudepigrapha both continued the biblical practices and adumbrated some elements of the later rabbinic traditions . There was still no fixed liturgy among most groups but there were more benedictions , hymns and praises , mystical formulations of considerable variety , a concern for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Temple precincts on special liturgical occasions . According to Philo and Josephus , individual and assembled Jews prayed and studied in various contexts , at times with priestly guidance or involvement , especially on the sabbath , and there were particular groups for whom the formal , communal aspects of such activities took on a central significance . The shema was also in individual use , as will be noted in the next chapter . The evidence from Qumran is even more interesting . The members of that sect looked upon their liturgies as reflections of the angelological variety and designated particular prayers for specific sabbaths and festivals . They used concepts and formulations that do occur in later rabbinic liturgy but it has not yet been convincingly demonstrated that the link was a direct one . // What is fairly clear is that the sect had its own formal worship outside the Temple and used ritual ablutions as an integral part of its ceremonials . Within the Judaean establishment and outside it there were obviously differences of opinion and tensions about what constituted the most efficacious form of Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own liturgical practices , and the expansion and development of the communal aspects of education and personal prayer , it now seems reasonable to enquire about the nature of the synagogue and its function in the period before the destruction of the Temple . // The early liturgy of the synagogue INTRODUCTION The precise nature of Jewish liturgical expression in the period immediately preceding the destruction of the Second Temple and the loss of any semblance of Jewish political independence in 70 CE is clearly of interest to a wide body of scholarship . Historians of Jewish religious practice , analysts of Christian origins , and students of the cultic forms in existence in the Hellenistic and Roman worlds all have sound reasons for seeking to reconstruct for themselves what may for the moment , pending the more accurate assessment and definition that will shortly be offered , be referred to as the early liturgy of the synagogue ' . In pursuit of this reconstruction , liturgists have sometimes turned for guidance to the authoritative Jewish prayer-books of almost a thousand years later , or even of the more modern period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defy the vast chasms of history , geography and ideology that separate one millennium from another . Those who have adopted such a position have transplanted some or all of the rabbinic rites and customs of tenth-century Babylon or early mediaeval Europe to first-century Judaea and the surrounding Jewish diaspora and have declined to distinguish the continuity of some liturgical traditions from the patent novelty of others . While this kind of analysis is particularly misguided in connection with the text of the liturgy , it also has its dangers in the scholarly search for the central theological concepts of Jewish liturgy , tending , as it does , to presuppose that ideas and 53 // terminology that are similar may be defined as conveying the identical religious message . However methodologically untenable the theory underlying such an approach , the picture painted by its proponents of proto-rabbinism and its liturgical practice was generally a clear one , unobfuscated by doubts and complications . ' Recent , more reliable research in the field tends , on the other hand , to stress the lack of concrete evidence , the inadmissibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destruction of the Temple , and the complex nature of Judaism in the time of Jesus and Hillel , thus shying away from a commitment to simple description and taking refuge in a welter of doubt and hesitancy . For his part , Ezra Fleischer , in an important article published after much of this chapter had been the subject of public lectures and most of this book was already in typed draft , has gone even further and argued for a totally new version of Jewish prayer after the destruction of the Temple . Such a view seems unnecessarily iconoclastic and attempts will later be made to refute aspects of its more extreme elements . At the same time it should be stressed that much of what Fleischer has to say about the Second Temple period is not at all at odds with what is here being suggested . As a consequence of such variety and complexity of opinion , the less specialised scholar is left unenlightened about the general situation that obtained with regard to Jewish liturgy in the first century , and with many unanswered questions about its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complement recent scholarly studies in the areas of Temple , synagogue , theology and piety . A number of well-documented contributions to the subject have touched upon the theme of liturgy in diverse ways but , with the possible exception of the article by Fleischer just cited , it has not been their task to stand back and survey the whole scene or to identify all the various trends and tensions.3 The intention here is to build on such detailed research and bibliography and , by offering some further comments of a methodological , historical , ideological and linguistic kind , to // clarify for the reader the topic that stands at the head of this chapter . METHODOLOGY The scholar in search of first-century Jewish ideology and practice in the field of liturgy faces the same problems as his colleagues concentrating on the alternative areas of law , biblical interpretation , or the history of personalities and events . The major difficulty is constituted by the absence of any primary sources that may categorically be classified as contemporary . The origins of the whole vast network of talmudicmidrashic literature remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the method of dating traditions , particularly not their earliest pre-literary forms , or the way of testing the reliability of ascriptions . Although most ( but not all ) specialists would today eschew the talmudic tradition 's own version of its early history , they would , at the same time , remain reluctant to declare the whole of that tradition an invalid witness to earlier customs and ideas , recognising that traditions in Jewish religious law , for instance , may well be much older and of wider historical relevance than the tannaitic formulations in which they ultimately survived . The preliminary observations of Yaakov Sussmann on 4QMMT have recently demonstrated with clarity the central role of a strict and harsh form of halakhah , possibly of Sadducean origin , in the life of the Qumran sect.4 However much it complicates the task of the researcher , today 's scholarly preference must surely be for the ad hoc analysis of each tradition , or at least each group of traditions , particularly by way of the historical study of the manuscripts that have transmitted them.5 This complication is further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a number of other factors that have special application to that area of study and generally concern the matter of definition . Certain attitudes to prayer , its form and its centrality , became almost axiomatic in the talmudic ? midrashic literature and indeed , to a certain extent , // in the wider Judaeo-Christian system of religious values . By the same token , the rabbinic Hebrew terminology for such concepts as synagogue , prayer , benediction and scriptural reading that became such a familiar part of daily Jewish life was assumed to convey that particular meaning and those special characteristics that they appear to have acquired during the talmudic era . A further assumption , unwarranted from a purely scientific viewpoint , was and is that , when a named prayer is cited in an early rabbinic source , its overall content and detailed text are identical with what they came to be in one or other of the rites known to us from the mediaeval period . The fact is that only rarely is any more than the introductory and concluding phraseology recorded in the tannaitic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later talmudic meanings back into earlier rabbinic texts , the scholar must be equally cautious about taking for granted that those alternative Jewish sources that predate the talmudic ? midrashic literature necessarily guide him in his search for the liturgical practice of first-century Judaism . ' Earlier as much of their literary form may be , the Dead Sea Scrolls , the Apocrypha and Pseudepigrapha , the Jewish ? Hellenistic corpus ( particularly represented by Philo and Josephus ) and the New Testament , while of major importance for the general history of Jewish liturgy , as previously demonstrated , give no guarantee that any or all of the attitudes that underlie their approaches to worship in its widest sense provide us with the missing link between the late Old Testament books and tannaitic traditions . It must constantly be borne in mind that at least some rabbinic ideas and traditions may well have their origins in some form of oral transmission or , indeed , a lost textual form and that no one alternative Jewish ideology is necessarily to be defined as having once been the dominant or central one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the various sources for a better understanding of Jewish liturgical history , while following basic principles of historical research and avoiding the unjustified presuppositions already mentioned , can not be done on a blanket basis but must be , to a certain extent , ad hoc in nature . // This accounts for the variety of approaches adopted in scholarly books and articles on the subject and explains why no definitive analysis has yet proved possible . HISTORICAL CONTEXTS It is of primary importance to recall that there was no one exclusive medium for the expression of the Jewish need to communicate with God in the period under discussion . A dispassionate survey of all the available sources that may be regarded as relevant reveals a remarkably variegated set of contexts in which some form of liturgy was conducted . The Second Temple certainly seems to have stood at the centre of such contexts , ' in a daily and pervasive manner as far as Jerusalem and the immediate environs were concerned , and on special occasions for Jews living at less commutable distances . Sacrifices were offered and rituals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people of Israel as a whole in order to demonstrate its allegiance to the requirements of pentateuchal legislation and to cement its relationship with God . Individuals could play a role in these formal acts by donating sacrifices and defraying Temple costs but it was only the hereditary priesthood , at its various levels , that was responsible for what might be termed the actual acts of worship . Only a small minority of the rituals included the recitation , at some stage and in some part of the Temple precincts , of certain formulae but on special occasions the milling crowds declaimed responses to an act of worship and there were times when spontaneous , penitential or laudatory prayers were offered there . ' Tannaitic sources ( e.g. Mishnah , Tamid 5.1 ) speak of the daily recitation of an introductory benediction , the Ten Commandments , the shema , the priestly blessing , and , if any of the later rabbinic liturgy had already entered part of the Temple service by this period , these elements , as well as sections of the Psalms , by virtue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely candidates for inclusion , as will later be argued . R. Hammer has made a good case for regarding the Tamid passage as evidence of the kernel of // later synagogal liturgy , constituting a call to bless God , blessings of the people , and Torah readings . Though speculative in his reconstruction of the nature of these blessings of the people , he is right to point to the ambiguity of the evidence and to the danger of accepting talmudic definitions of each part of the ceremony described . The historical authenticity of other talmudic claims about the content of the Temple liturgy ( perhaps with the exception of some references to festival prayers ) also remains a moot point because of the remark earlier made about the uncritical projection of later customs on to earlier generations and institutions.8 By the same token , the talmudic reference to the existence of a synagogue as part of the Temple complex has long been the subject of scholarly scepticism but , in view of what was earlier noted about the gradual encroachment of personal prayer customs on to the territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institution could conceivably have existed by the first Christian century . If it did , it represents another example of the phenomenon whereby popular custom gradually encroached upon the more elitist rituals of the Temple Mount . There are certainly tannaitic sources that testify to tensions between Pharisees on the one hand and Sadducees/Essenes on the other about the permissibility of bringing Israelites further into the Temple precincts and removing Temple utensils outside of them during the pilgrim festivals.9 A further link was forged between the Temple and the common people by the existence of an institution known as the maamad according to which those who did not make the journey to Jerusalem when a particular group of priests and levites ( mishmar ) took its turn at officiating in the Temple would gather in their home towns to fast , to recite scriptural passages and , apparently , to pray , albeit not in the formal fashion of later times.10 The remnants of information available to us in the talmudic sources about such an institution are not paralleled in other literature but smack of the authentic , particularly since there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence after the Temple had been destroyed . Perhaps , indeed , it continued to exist even after that cataThe // strophic event . Equally authentic and also demonstrating a practical interaction between the cultic centre and the wider populace are the descriptions of the involvement of the people in the Passover ceremony in which the statutory lamb is offered at the Temple to the accompaniment of a hallel recited by the levites and is then consumed at home in an atmosphere of feasting and thanksgiving and with references to the relevant biblical texts.11 It has already been noted that the association of fasting with the recitation of special prayers was an established practice from at least as early as the immediate post-exilic period 12 and this clearly provides us with another liturgical context in the late Second Temple period . On such distressing occasions as droughts , the people would congregate to perform acts normally associated with mourning , and to make special appeal through supplicatory prayers , readings and fasting , for relief from their adversity.13 These acts of popular piety , which presumably had their equivalents on joyful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not necessarily in a synagogue or similar institution , a fact to which further reference will be made later in this chapter . Where there were leaders of the group 's devotions , they were either communal dignitaries or men of special piety whose reputation encouraged the public to believe that their appeals to God would be more likely to succeed and about whose miraculous powers in matters of supplicatory prayer many old folk-tales came to be recorded.14 Just as some of the prophets of old appear to have alternated spells of communal activity with periods of intense asceticism experienced within a group of peers or even in isolation , 15 so these men of devotion ( hasidim ) appear to have had both a public and a private side to their religious endeavours . Perhaps it is not unfair to say too that the common people saw the special value of such pietists in terms of magic , with the stress on wonders and miracles , while they themselves were attempting to give expression to that strong element of mysticism ' that scholarship has recently traced through the whole history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Judaism ultimately owes the composition of those liturgical formulae 6o Judaism and Hebrew prayer that stress apocalyptic , angelological and cosmological themes and that are already recorded in some of the apocryphal and pseudepigraphical books . Although the rabbinic versions of these incorporated into the standard prayer-book are of later vintage and should only with great caution be used for the earlier history of Jewish mystical liturgy , they would appear to have their generic origins in the Second Temple period.16 The praising or blessing of God , either for his powers in general or for their particular manifestation , counts as another form of Jewish worship that continued from earlier times into the axial age . Before the tannaitic teachers of the late first and early second centuries began the process of legislation and standardisation that was eventually to lead to their authorised ' form , these benedictions were a popular form of religious expression , possibly with more than a tinge of superstition attached to them . They were employed as a means of thanking God for his bounty by those who felt that it was an act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoy the benefits of the creation without acknowledging the role of its creator.17 It was particularly apt to introduce them at communal meals , where the gratitude could be publicly acknowledged , or at noteworthy events of an especially happy or social kind , and the basic format was no more than a praise of the Supreme Being followed by a brief reference to the attribute for which praise was deserving . ' No doubt , individuals or groups expressed preference for their own formulation and the context in which the whole custom operated was a wide and popular one . It is from this context that the nineteen benedictions of the ' amidah subsequently emerged and there are interesting parallels in apocryphal and Qumranic sources to the concepts expressed in that central prayer of tannaitic and later Judaism . ' 9 There is , however , no convincing evidence that even the earliest known text of the ' amidah itself predates the destruction of the Temple and only on the basis of intelligent and informed speculation can it be argued that some of the introductory and concluding benedictions were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the type just discussed were at times pronounced in a public or communal setting , they surely // belong in essence and in origin to the area of private rather than public prayer . As pointed out in the previous chapter , ample evidence attests to an extensive practice of private prayer from the time of the earliest books of the Hebrew Bible and to a complicated interplay between the spontaneous devotions of the individual , on a regular basis or on occasions of special need , and the formal liturgy of the cult throughout the early history of Judaism.20 It may well be that , as will shortly be noted , the resultant compromises reached in the homeland were not those that appealed to the communities of the diaspora . In this context , as in all the other contexts mentioned above , one should not think ( as so many scholars seem mistakenly to do ) of watertight , discrete groups occupying separate contexts . One should rather presuppose the existence of dominant religious trends that might express themselves internally in different ways and even at times coalesce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that commended themselves to particular people at specific times but that were never mutually exclusive or beyond reciprocal influence.2 ' The exclusive identification of recognisable sets of people with particular characteristics is often the predeliction of later historians rather than the tendency of contemporary witnesses to events . In order better to understand the place that these forms of expression occupied in the Jewish life of the period under discussion it will be necessary to comment on some of the theological concepts that lay behind the liturgical practices at that time . Before this is undertaken , however , some attention will have to be given to a topic that has been mentioned a number of times in passing , namely , biblical readings and interpretations . HEBREW BIBLE It is not surprising that the Jews , who saw history as God 's plan for his people and particular events as his response to the degree of loyalty currently being displayed by them to him , should lay emphasis on the acquisition of a sound knowledge of the texts that described that history . The Hebrew Bible itself constantly // makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son and the need for it to be understood and conscientiously absorbed , and to the importance of learning theological lessons from what were seen as the sacred records of a special relationship . Only a limited number of texts make reference to the public reading of scrolls or of specific sections of the written tradition but , taken together with the enthusiasm for religious education already noted and the evidence that some later biblical traditions reveal a reworking of their earlier counterparts , they provide a fairly clear picture of the general situation , if not its detailed constituents , in the period of the Second Temple.22 The transmission of the Jewish people 's authoritative sources was accomplished by the copying of scrolls , the recitation of their contents in family and larger social groups , and the exegesis of the tradition in a language that would be understood by the public rather than exclusively by an elite and in a manner that would make their message relevant to the spiritual dilemmas of the day . The hakham and safer , perhaps predominantly in circles that later became closely identified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribution to this process , the ideas common to the wisdom movement ' of the ancient Near East and the scribal customs leaving their mark on its development.23 For various groups of Jews the concept of wisdom was not one that was expressed merely in intellectual stimulation or exercise . It was religious knowledge in toto , in other words , the Torah , and Israel 's preoccupation with it was an act of piety as well as a reflection of the people 's love of the word . The study of the biblical traditions was , as the work of Michael Fishbane has convincingly demonstrated , more than an act of education or a commitment to historical continuity ; it was the reflection of a dynamic religious philosophy.24 The clash between the Jewish way of life and the Hellenistic civilisation must also have prodded the traditionalists into strengthening the preservation of their inherited texts and traditions by seeking opportunities to recite and interpret them , as it inspired their more symbiotically inclined coThe // religionists to clothe their religious inheritance in the garb of Greek language and philosophy.25 The evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is all-pervasive , occurring as it does in almost all the literature emanating from Jewish circles in the later pre-Christian and early Christian eras . The Greek and Aramaic translations of the Hebrew Bible that were the basis of what later became the familiar targumim and the Septuagint ; the pesher system of exegesis that the Qumran sect used for underpinning their philosophy of life and their prognostications ; the allegories that the Jewish scholars of Alexandria employed to lend a new relevance to an old message ; the use made of scripture by Jesus and his followers to expound and justify their religious claims ; and the earliest midrashim of the rabbis all point to a preoccupation with sacred writ . In addition , there is ample testimony to the use of scriptural verses in such religious accoutrements as tefillin and mezuzoth , whether ( if the distinction is meaningful ) of a prophylactic or of a devotional nature , and whichever collections of passages they actually contained.26 It hardly seems possible to imagine a situation in which such significant and extended use was made of scriptural texts without seeing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish communal activity . Whether such regularity can be traced back as far as Ezra , as the talmudic tradition would have it , is a matter of some doubt ; what seems indubitable is that scriptural readings were familiar to many Jews of the Greek and Roman periods . Various minor contexts in which such readings were undertaken have already been noted and have included the maamad , Passover Haggadah , and occasions of special liturgical import . To these should also be added the sabbath which appears to be the most likely occasion on which Jews first gathered to read the Hebrew Bible.27 If the exegesis of scripture was as popular as has just been argued , and there were occasions when readings were part of a ceremony , it seems reasonable to assume that , on the one hand , a regular lectionary would evolve and that , on the other , the expounding of the biblical text would attach itself to such // liturgical expressions . Attempts at locating the most original form of such a lectionary and identifying its primary characteristics have been made for almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a number of unknown systems in the manuscripts and fragments located in the Cairo Genizah.28 Such systems , though recorded no earlier than the early mediaeval period , were quickly seen by many scholars as the remnants of reading cycles that had been in existence in tannaitic times . The fact is , however , that none of the suggested reconstructions is convincing and that these texts are now seen to bear witness to the existence of a variety of systems for pentateuchal and prophetic readings , some very short , others much longer , that existed , side by side , in Palestine and Babylon until a century or two after the end of the geonic period and that failed to agree even on the time to be taken to complete a cycle , let alone what precisely to include in it . The question about which there remain diametrically opposed views is whether the annual and triennial cycles have an equally hoary talmudic pedigree or whether one of them represents the authentic original , subsequently challenged by the other.29 What may be identified at the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into various liturgical contexts of a preoccupation with scriptural reading and study that may originally have belonged elsewhere . If there ever was an original , independent and major context from which such borrowing could have been made , it must surely have been the religio-educational one to which reference has already been made . It will now be necessary for us to make further reference to those wider liturgical traditions already shown to have been in existence in the century before the destruction of the Temple . Such a reference will , in general terms , shed light on the context in which it was possible for new and different liturgical priorities to emerge and develop and , more particularly , will clarify why a merger between the liturgical and the scriptural came to be effected . The early liturgy 65 LITURGY AND THEOLOGICAL PRIORITIES Our way of establishing the place occupied by liturgy in the theological hierarchy of first-century Judaism will be to remind ourselves of the situations presupposed in the Hebrew Bible , in the numerous Jewish works of the inter-testamental period ' , at Qumran , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these findings with what has already been said about the intervening period , to reconstruct the ideological developments that appear to have taken place in the period being discussed . With regard to biblical prayer , it will be recalled that Moshe Greenberg has argued convincingly against two opposing views : one that sees the spontaneous , personal prayer as the impetus for the development of communal worship and the other that takes the formal liturgy of the community as the paradigm on which the individual based his own devotions . He prefers to postulate the contemporaneity of private prayer and communal worship and assumes their parallel existence throughout biblical history . That parallel existence was not , however , without its tensions . Popular religion always preferred the direct and simple method of individual communication and was uneasy with a form of worship that had to be mediated by a priesthood on behalf of a whole community and that savoured of the magical . This preference laid the foundations of a democratisation of worship that came to fruition in post-biblical Judaism.3 ? While this assessment is important and helpful it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed to exercise influences on each other , especially in the post-exilic period . The restoration of the Second Temple not only provided the tiny country and small population of Judah with a focal point for their religious identity but also permitted the extension of sacerdotal authority into the political sphere and , paradoxically , encouraged parallel cultic developments elsewhere . Personal prayer attracted to itself the more formal elements of technical content , characteristic terminology and // sophisticated theology while at the same time looking ever more strongly towards the Temple precincts as a specially favoured area for communication between man and God . As is the way with such tensions , there were as many positions of compromise as there were trends towards further polarisation . Such a state of affairs became even more complicated and variegated towards the end of the pre-Christian period when additional interchanges took place between the two areas and new trends also made their appearance . The sincerity and religiosity of the cultic ceremonies became a greater issue and spontaneous acts of prayer and intercession came to be performed on the Temple Mount . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater part in Temple ceremonials ; certainly their wider use is clearly attested . Although the structure of many prayers resembled the benediction and the request rather than a formulaic liturgy , elements of fixed form were creeping in , albeit without yet becoming dominant . Liturgy , whether in the form of biblical readings or of individual prayer , was becoming a feature of communal ritual , although it is clear that neither the location , the recitation nor the timing were yet restricted by the expression of a standard authoritative opinion . The situation at Qumran , at least physically separated from the wider community , was different and there formal worship , prayer , praise and benediction were in the process of merging . " l The question that has yet to be asked , let alone answered , is whether that process is to be understood as a unique feature of the way of life represented at Qumran , which was later adopted and adapted by the rabbinic inheritors of Jewish religious practice , or as an example of popular liturgical piety that was common to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tannaitic traditions . It should not be forgotten that other groups also came to prefer what might be called a form of religious escapism or otherworldliness , giving a central function to mystical themes in their prayers , placing the stress on man 's total unworthiness or looking to Torah and the intellectual dimension as the means of reaching out heavenwards . In the next chapter it will be pointed out that the rabbis of // the post-destruction era were also forced to reach some urgent conclusions about the religious way forward . There was considerable controversy among them about the relative merits of Torah-study , worship and good deeds , and arguments were put forward in favour of each of these as the essential element of Judaism . This is not to say that there was any serious attempt to abandon one or other of these forms of religious expression ; rather that they felt the need to establish their order of theological priority . Ultimately , Torah-study appears to have been the victor and this had an effect on all subsequent interpretation , particularly since the reason for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to practice . What is more important for our present purpose is that it emerges from that analysis that there were considerable doubts among the rabbis about the nature of Jewish liturgy . For some it was identified as rabbinically formulated prayer and to be seen as the natural successor to the Temple cult in as many respects as possible , while for others it was to be sought in Torah-study . Just as the sacrificial system had once cemented the special relationship between God and Israel in a manner that bore an element of the mysterious , so would the study of the Torah or , for others , the practice of good deeds now fulfil the same function . In that case , the true liturgy , or service of God , was no longer to be found in formal , public worship . This latter exercise was , in the absence of the Temple , now limited to prayer , which was simply one of a number of precepts , possibly but not necessarily one of those central requirements later defined as Torah-based rather than rabbinically ordained , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to be performed in a prescribed manner , but there was no unanimity about the precise injunctions to be followed . Public or private , synagogal or domestic , towards Jerusalem or heavenwards , lengthy or brief , daily or occasional ? it took a number of centuries for these issues to be finally settled . Even Fleischer , who argues strongly that Rabban Gamliel fixed the standard text of the ' amidah after the destruction of the Temple , is forced to admit that there were those who chose to maintain or develop some variations from it . Similarly , the nature of prayer // was the subject of controversy , some arguing for its magical effect and therefore its transmission to God by a man of special piety , while others settled for a daily recitation by ordinary individuals as a requirement of the faith.32 It should , of course , be stressed that as liturgy developed into the geonic and later periods these controversies remained part of the argument about prayer , but often had to give way to a tendency towards formalisation , authorisation and prescription @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is clear from what have already been listed as the liturgical contexts relevant to that age , that the dissatisfaction felt by those who were geographically distant from Jerusalem which led them to express themselves in less centralised ways was a sentiment shared by their later counterparts . There were certainly those who bitterly criticised the Second Temple and its priesthood as corrupt and evil and would have nothing to do with it and others who perhaps looked to men of special piety and mystical flair as an alternative medium of contact with heaven . There even appears to be some evidence of attempts to retain or reactivate elements of religious status in a number of the older cultic centres.34 But even among those larger numbers who might still send their annual half-shekel for Temple maintenance or manage to undertake a journey to Jerusalem on one of the three annual pilgrimage festivals , there was enough interest in some form of independent expression to encourage , as has already been pointed out , the development of the maamad , the prayer gathering , the individual devotion , and what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some , then , the Temple cult , even if modified , remained central during the Second Temple period , and for others there was at least an ambivalence about its position among Israel 's theological priorities , there were groups who sought their major liturgical expression in a different context . It does not require a very thorough reading of the contemporary Jewish literature in order to encounter some of the reasons for the disenchantment with the Temple . The divide between the aristocracy and the common people that often seemed to be perpetuated there ; the political machinations of the HasThe // moneans and their successors that were bound up with the abuse of the high priesthood ; and the growing distances between Jerusalem and the diaspora , in more senses that the geographical all contributed to the drift towards alternative liturgical centres . It should be stressed that certain pentateuchal obligations could be met only by making use of the Temple 's facilities and that there was consequently an enforced attachment between the established cult and the majority of the populace who , it would seem , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dead Sea sect in denying the validity of the service as then carried out on Mount Zion . Nevertheless , the doubts that had existed from biblical times grew and the more that certain priestly factions assimilated to Hellenistic ways , the more would the worship conducted by them be open to suspicion . With the introduction of Greek and Roman elements into the architecture of an expanding building there were surely those who feared the growing similarity with at least the outward appearance of pagan cults and , possibly , some who were growing progressively more impatient with rituals that were not without their mystery and magic.35 The characteristic features of individual devotion that had sometimes been relegated to a secondary role were bidding once again to become dominant among the various reactions to the Temple 's assumed centrality in the liturgical status quo . That it was a multifarious rather than a single response that was made in the wake of such gnawing doubts is clear from the contemporary sources that have already been listed . One obvious solution was to stress the role of the family and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication with one 's creator . If the theory recently championed by Baruch Bokser is correct , and the origins of the Seder service and Passover Haggadah are to be sought in the transformance of a biblical ritual tied to the Temple sacrifice into a domestic celebration with liturgical and pedagogic elements , there is no reason to assume that this transformation commenced only after the destruction of the Temple . Indeed , in the earliest textual witnesses to a ritual being conducted at home the existence of that institution is certainly presupposed.3s 7o Judaism and Hebrew prayer Whether such a domestic liturgy was being conducted in scribal circles , pietistic groups , or among a more proletarian or rustic segment of the population , is difficult to judge and any conclusion would inevitably be dependent on the degree to which credence is lent to the simple division of the Jews of the period into Pharisees , Sadducees and Essenes , or into Hellenists and nationalists , or into plebeians and patricians ? the list of possible divisions has grown as historians of the period have multiplied and new historical theories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak of composite trends rather than clearly definable groups will allow the discussion to proceed without committing itself to a definitive assessment . It will also once again point out the danger of presupposing the existence of a systematic , religious philosophy on the part of any section of society in a period of social , political and spiritual flux . Wherever it originated , the development of a domestic alternative to the Temple is paralleled by other such tendencies . The emphasis laid by Jesus and/or his followers on good deeds rather than assisting the operation of the cult by providing a system of money-changing may be defined as a pietistic or proletarian response37 while the swift substitution of intellectual discussions for sacrificial rituals made by the generation of the early tannaim may betoken an earlier and fundamental preoccupation with Torah-study that welcomed the revolution as an evolution.3 " The events of the Jewish Revolt and the later defeat by the Romans also lent support to those patterns of thought that had already questioned the simplistic systems of theodicy that associated physical comfort with devoutness and suffering with evil and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and actual human experience , between petitions and the response to them . Perhaps scholastic circles were in this way opting for a novel view of man 's communication with the Divine . Expressed in different terms , what is here being suggested is a religious ferment among the majority of the people which provided the opportunity for liturgical innovation that took diverse forms in a variety of contexts . However motivated , all these developments give testimony to a changing system of // priorities and the reconsideration of the nature of liturgy , worship and prayer . DEFINITION OF LITURGY The quest for the origins of Jewish rabbinic , Christian and Muslim prayer customs in the immediate pre-Christian period has , paradoxically , been blighted by scholarly acquaintance with such customs and the presuppositions that underlie them . For the scholar in Christianity , liturgy calls to mind the eucharist , or its equivalent , an act that confirms the believer 's status as an adherent of the faith in good standing and , through a mysterious process , unites him with its founder . A colleague concentrating on Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shema and the amidah each day with accompanying lectionaries on many occasions , while a student of Islam will be reminded of the central requirement to acknowledge the unity of God and the uniqueness of Muhammad 's prophecy five times daily . It will be supposed that synagogues , churches and mosques are the ideal centres for such liturgy ; that the act of worship is best performed communally ; that there are officials to act as mediators or leaders ; and that authoritative formulations are a sine qua non of the ceremonial . The very use of the Greek term that refers to the performance of the public service of the gods by the priests ( leitourgia ) is in itself an indication of a somewhat preconceived notion . It takes for granted that the Hebrew word employed by the tannaim , and presumably their predecessors , to describe the Temple service , namely avodah , which is the equivalent of the Greek leitourgia , adequately describes Jewish worship in its totality during the Second Temple period . As has been pointed out , there was no unanimity during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of performing a public service of God , this being determined by the theological propensities of a particular gathering , group or occasion , whether spontaneous or prearranged . Acts of mystical piety , Temple offering , study , benediction or praise might each lay claims to such a distinction // and could equally be referred to as a liturgy of Second Temple Judaism . The term liturgy ' must therefore either be abandoned in the present context as a deceptive misnomer or given a much wider definition that avoids anticipating the existence of what later became the standard , authoritative theory and practice and rather refers to all aspects of Jewish worship and prayer , whatever their origin , milieu and ideological basis . Since the term is widely used in connection with the history of pre-rabbinic Judaism , it has been retained in the title of this chapter on the understanding that it soon becomes apparent to readers that only the latter of the two senses just offered tallies with the views here being expressed . What must now be tackled is the definition of the word synagogue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students of its early history . DEFINITION OF SYNAGOGUE It is widely recognised that the origins of the synagogue are shrouded in mystery and that there is little concrete evidence available to enable scholars to plot its history with any great confidence before the beginning of the Christian era . This shortcoming has not , however , prevented historians of the institution from commonly making a number of questionable assumptions about the impetus for its creation and about its physical state , its functions and its relationship with the Temple . Its earliest form is traced to pre-exilic Israel as a means of providing a place of worship for those who were deprived of their cultic shrines after the centralisation of the liturgy in the Jerusalem Temple , 39 or had become disenchanted with that centre , or to the Babylon Jewish communities established after the destruction of the first Temple which had no prospect of making the pilgrimage to Jerusalem.40 It is seen as a smaller copy of the Temple ( migdash meat ) , incorporating various elements of the original institution and providing a centre for regular communal worship.41 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalents of the Hebrew beth // tefillah or beth ha-keneseth , often without reference to any geographical , historical or functional distinction . Where public prayers by Jews are recorded , it is sometimes taken for granted that these are being conducted in at least an earlier equivalent of the synagogue . The architectural designs that are known from archaeological discoveries to have existed in the early centuries of the Christian era are cited in the presentation of the synagogue 's pre-Christian history and encourage the view that it is a specific type of building that should be imagined when consideration is given to its earliest form . The truth is , however , that before the late first century BCE there is no definitive source that indicates the existence of such a specific building in the Holy Land or in Babylon , no archaeological site in those countries that can be identified as a synagogue , and no evidence of a centre for public service in Hellenistic Judah that somehow matched that of the Temple . What historians can refer to are Greek inscriptions from third-century BcE Egyptian sites that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reign of Ptolemy II1.42 It may well then be the case that the earliest precursor of the synagogue was the creation of the Hellenistic diaspora , not exclusively as a place of public worship ( the Jews actually had temples at Araq el-Amir , Elephantine and Leontopolis ) but as an assembly point for the local community where they could express themselves as Jews in a variety of social and religious ways , including scriptural readings , study , prayer and the performance of other traditional Jewish customs . Interestingly enough , the earliest Palestinian inscription to refer to such an institution , recording the construction of a synagogue by Theodotos , mentions reading of the Torah , observance of the religious precepts and hospitality for visitors but says nothing of communal prayer . 43 While such an institution in the diaspora might wish to imitate the Temple practices of Jerusalem and would faute de mieux be applauded for doing so , its equivalent in the homeland would be less likely to do so . For those for whom the Jerusalem Temple alone stood paramount this would be offensive and those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt prefer to develop institutions and practices // that provided more distinctly alternative means of expression . The reason why no synagogue has been found that may even tentatively be dated earlier than the late first pre-Christian century in Palestine is that there was no such specific building . Jews came together for benedictions , prayers , Bible reading and interpretation , or for the maamad , if the mishnaic account is historically accurate , and what they thereby constituted might well be referred to in Greek as a synagogue , but , just as the context differed , depending on the group and the situation , so the site was not necessarily a fixed one nor subject to the same physical requirements on each occasion . If the word keneseth that occurs in the Mishnah in the context of Temple liturgy ( Yoma 7.1 and Sotah 7.7-8 ) has to be seen as the equivalent of bet ha-keneseth and therefore a reference to a synagogue , it may well be an anachronistic gloss . More likely , both historically and linguistically , is that the sense borne by this use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a formal assembly or congregation of Israelites and conveys precisely the same as its Greek equivalent . In the first century CE , possibly as more external influences on the whole of Judaean society made themseves felt , and when , as we have seen , a variety of forms of Jewish liturgical expression flourished side by side in the homeland , the diaspora synagogue also took root in that milieu and actual buildings gave form to the previously less tangible concept . This understanding of the situation would explain why there are so many varieties of physical structure used for synagogues in the early Christian centuries and why it took so long for a standard format to emerge.44 It was only when the tensions between the Temple and the various alternative expressions of Jewish worship disappeared after the destruction of the former that the synagogue in Palestine was able to consider absorbing within its own infrastructure not only all these various expressions but also major elements of Temple ritual . That this was not done without objection and controversy is a matter for discussion when the later history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need only be stressed that while for the Jews of the Hellenistic diaspora the synagogue may well have // constituted a characteristic building , the equivalent concept for their brethren in the Judaean homeland probably conveyed no more than the sense of a gathering . If that is indeed the case then the early liturgy of the synagogue ' must be redefined to refer to the various means used by the Jews during the Second Temple period for expressing the closeness that they felt to God and his revealed word . OPPOSING TRENDS So much has been said about the unacceptability of uncritically assuming the existence of second-century cE tannaitic prayers and prayer customs in the latter part of the Second Temple period that a few remarks should also be made about those elements of controversy that characterise the tannaitic and , indeed , to a large extent , the amoraic attitudes to liturgy in its widest sense and owe their origin to dissenting opinions and varying priorities that already existed before the Jewish Revolt . These will serve as a corrective to any impression that might have been given of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a long process of liturgical development during the whole of which variety and uniformity were vying with each other and exercising a mutual influence . However revolutionary a particular adjustment to an aspect of Jewish liturgy , it is rare indeed to find no precedent at all for it in at least the ideology , if not in the practical arrangements of the past . Indeed , it could strongly be argued that the essence of Jewish liturgy is that it carries within it all these competing tendencies and successfully absorbs them all.45 Clearly , the relative roles of the individual and the community , and of spontaneity and formality , stand at the centre of such controversies . While the Temple service , with all its cultic paraphernalia , was performed on behalf of the entire community , present and absent , it was conducted by a relatively small number of priests of the required heredity and needed to find the popular dimension through such contrastingly simple and unadorned devices as the ma'amad . On the other hand , petitions , supplications and benedictions that were originally expressed // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prayers that became progressively more formal and ceremonial . As was pointed out in the previous chapter , such a system began in the latter part of the Second Temple period , to include specific days and times and to develop a complete liturgical calendar , a move that was bound to disturb those concerned with the importance of the spontaneous element . As far as poetic praises and psalms are concerned , it is not definitively established that they are consistently to be related to formal Temple services but it is clear that they represent one end of the linguistic and literary spectrum at the other end of which stand prosaic prayers and entreaties of a less structured kind . In spite of the existence of both Temple and synagogue in the first century CE , important liturgical activity took place , as has been noted , among individuals , in public places , at home , or in centres deliberately chosen for their inaccessibility . Remnants of alternative loci are still to be found long after rabbinic Judaism has established the synagogue as the major centre of worship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action must have made the occasional prayer , or even regular benediction , appear , especially to pietists , a somewhat parsimonious act of religiosity and was no doubt one of the factors that led to the growth of three daily sessions of communal worship and the argument between its expansion and abbreviation . It was inevitable that the diaspora synagogue would have a large number of members that preferred Greek to Hebrew and that , even in Judaea , Aramaic would be regarded as the more popular tongue in certain areas . The status of the language of the Hebrew Bible as against the practical advantage of a widely understood vernacular was destined to become a recurrent theme in the halakhic discussions of the rabbis concerning the precise form in which various prayers were to be recited . Distinctions between the homeland and the diaspora extended from language to ritual . It only becomes clear from sources dating from the talmudic period that such variations exist but it is not unreasonable , in view of what has been suggested above about the synagogue and the Greek language , to assume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in late Temple // times .17 It should be noted that these distinctions between the Holy Land and the diaspora ranged well beyond the matter of language and ultimately extended into matters of synagogal architecture , decoration and administration.48 In his various publications J. Heinemann seriously questioned the notion that research in Jewish liturgy must be devoted to the discovery of the original text of each of the prayers and convincingly demonstrated that in many cases it is a number of original texts that are to be sought . Such reasoning would support the assumption that as soon as there were communal prayers in more than one centre there had to be a variety of oral versions . However widespread a religious idea in that period of religious ferment before the rise of tannaitic Judaism , conditions were such that it would be unlikely to find identical expression among different groups of Jews . One is therefore tempted with regard to that stage of pre-rabbinic history to refer to oral versions rather than written ones . Indeed , as far as the attitude that continued into the early rabbinic tradition is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not directly borrowed from the Hebrew Bible . For the rabbis they had to be either biblical and written or rabbinic and oral and Fleischer 's recent attempt to play down the significance of orality in the development of early rabbinic liturgy is unconvincing . This is not to say that there was no structure to Jewish prayer as far as the talmudic rabbis were concerned and that expression was totally free . The sources indicate at least a basic , and even hardy framework , and differences of opinion about precisely how to complete the picture . Those who argued for a fixed format attempted to lay down the details ; those who preferred spontaneity argued the need for the constant introduction of novel elements.49 But , given the efficiency of the oral transmission of the time , such a framework by no means required to be committed to writing to ensure its adoption and survival . The sect from the Dead Sea thought differently and preserved written versions of their prayers that imitated the biblical style and idiom but clearly adopted their own linguistic characteristics , so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oral transmitters ' basic // objection lay in giving a written form and authority to something other than the Hebrew Bible , and only after the consigning of the talmudic traditions to writing did it become inevitable that the siddur would follow suit.51 But it was almost a thousand years before the first rabbinic prayer-books made their appearance and during that time the successors of the Dead Sea sect , the Karaites , and , presumably , any sects that existed in the generations between them but have yet to be discovered and identified , staunchly maintained what was apparently a minority view.52 Here too , then , there is a millennium of divergent predisposition in a major matter of liturgical policy . The controversy about ritual ablutions before prayer may be described in similar terms . One trend was towards the maintenance of such a symbol of purification long after the loss of the Temple , to which it was originally most relevant , and the other gradually restricted its use to a few specific areas . Here , rabbinic Judaism through the centuries remained ambivalent and there appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line with the Qumran community and the Islamic tradition , while for the most part the ritual ablution is left to the devotees of the mystical element in Judaism , which in itself ' has from earliest times made various forays into Jewish liturgy , with no small degree of ' success in its effects on the formulation of the prayers and the practice of various rituals.53 A preoccupation with cosmology , angels and the eschaton can be identified in some texts from as early as the late Hebrew Bible period , at about the same time as there appeared the powerful intellectual and didactic trend that scholars have so often identified , but not necessarily with complete justification , as its antithesis . Even the current debate about the role of women in acts of worship has a precedent in the varying Jewish responses to this question in the late Second Temple period . While there were Essenes who are reported to have admitted no women to their company and while the Qumran sect are seen to have accorded them no status in the purity of the many ' , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there were occasions when // men and women participated there in the same ceremony , albeit in segregated arrangement.54 Again , the diaspora synagogues appear to take what today might be called a more egalitarian line in connection with the involvement of women , not necessarily segregated , in synagogue attendance and in the bestowal of honorific synagogal titles . If , as has been suggested by Bernadette Brooten , these titles betray a functional as well as an honorific role , and if the relevant inscriptions from the first few Christian centuries also reflect an earlier situation , this would necessitate a reconsideration of the place of women in the early synagogue .51 Similarly , later rabbinic views about the possibility of women playing a part in Torah reading and study and in their own communal grace but not in leading the prayers for men might be a continuation of the different attitudes originally taken in the educational and devotional contexts , but the evidence is lacking and any conclusion must remain in the realm of speculation.56 At any rate , enough is known to indicate that there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liturgical acts , and that when new circumstances led different varieties of the Jewish religious experience to take up contrasting positions on the subject , they were each able to claim some support from historical precedent . LITURGICAL LANGUAGE Since the language of the Hebrew prayer-book is sometimes cited as an important link between the earlier classical and the later rabbinic form of the language , a brief treatment of that subject will not be out of place here . It will also enable us to see how each of the particular liturgical contexts that have been touched upon makes use of its own type of language and how elements of these were eventually absorbed into what became the basic structure of the rabbinic prayer-book . There is of course the danger of circular argument . One can not at the same time declare a form to be early because of its language and a language to be early because of its form . What will rather be done here is to make some general points about liturgical language in the latter part of the Second Temple period , 8o Judaism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the larger historical situation , without using the conclusions reached as a foundation on which to build such assumptions . It needs to be stated at the outset that any theory that postulates a line of direct development from biblical Hebrew through liturgical Hebrew to mishnaic Hebrew is based on a misunderstanding of the history of language in general and of the Hebrew language in particular . All manner of environmental factors affect language in diverse ways at different times and written sources that have come down to us do not tell the whole story . It is now well recognised that the language of the Hebrew Bible can represent no more than a frozen section ' of a dialect or a dialectical tendency in the period of classical Hebrew and that mishnaic Hebrew may have originated in a different linguistic context and preserved all manner of characteristics that had once existed side-by-side with that form that subsequently became associated specifically with the Hebrew Bible . One is therefore obliged to view the differences between the two forms of the language in a synchronic as well as a diachronic fashion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single line of development . In that case , liturgical Hebrew too , in its widest definition , must be seen to contain a variety of linguistic elements originating in the period under discussion , each of them representative of the context in which it was being used.57 Before turning to Hebrew one should immediately acknowledge that it was not the only liturgical language being employed . Ubiquitous as it is in one form or another in the contemporary literature , and predominant as it was becoming among the Jewish communities of the diaspora , Greek inevitably found its way into the synagogues of Jews for whom Hebrew was a foreign language , as would appear to be demonstrated by Jewish Hellenistic literature , the evidence of the early tannaitic sources about its liturgical use , and the ultimate preferences of the early Christian Church.58 Aramaic , too , was employed in similar contexts . The private prayers of common people , particularly those living in Galilee or other less central areas , were couched in Aramaic , not only because it The early liturgy 8 i was the vernacular and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among them a feeling that it was in the reading and transmission of sacred scripture that the holy tongue ' was most suitably employed . The same logic , drawing as it did a distinction between scripture and the vernacular , was used by those who instituted , for recitation in the study centre or beth ha-midrash , special prayers that still carry the mark of this original , educational context.59 It was not entirely or universally clear , however , that the language that we now refer to as mishnaic Hebrew was to be regarded as identical with the medium used for scripture and therefore capable of being confused with it and the later rabbis certainly made a distinction between the two.60 In that case , any objection to the wider use of the language of scripture did not necessarily apply to mishnaic Hebrew . What is more , the use of Aramaic may essentially have been geographical rather than ideological , so that only in the north would it have been the norm for popular liturgical expression . It is therefore not surprising to find that some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Temple responses , where they were not actually catenae of biblical Hebrew passages and verses , appear to have been recited in mishnaic Hebrew and this precedent seems to have been followed in such public contexts as the ma'amad , Haggadah , fast-day and grace after meals , if the earliest versions available to us of what they contained are to be trusted.61 It is of course possible that there was an exchange of secondary Aramaic for original Hebrew in certain areas but since Aramaic passages were later incorporated into the liturgy without obvious embarrassment one would have to wonder why the change was made in some cases and not in others . Perhaps the process of standardisation towards mishnaic Hebrew , just as the later tendency to correct ' that language to what had come to be regarded as more accurate biblical Hebrew , 62 ( both of which trends were inspired by a desire to establish an independent religious identity ) was never comprehensively achieved . Some of the oldest Temple prayers have indeed been classified as piyyutim , that is , liturgical Hebrew poetry , a view // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old , if not older , than the more prosaic Hebrew texts that are characteristic of the rabbinic prayer-book . Heinemann details the simple and repetitive hosha'anoth and the selihoth among such prayers and argues that their form and content retain some of the earliest patterns of Jewish liturgical expression used in the Temple . It should , however , be noted that such a definition could be regarded as anachronistic and that a more cautious view would prefer to classify these forms as the predecessors of piyyut rather than their earliest example.63 The simple benediction directly addressed to God and describing him as blessed was based on biblical Hebrew precedent , particularly the language of the later books of the Hebrew Bible , and , therefore , in its earliest form did not deviate from its original pattern , although it may originally have had an Aramaic equivalent in certain circles . The more complicated it became , and the more innovative its style and content , the more it veered towards mishnaic Hebrew.64 Perhaps it is here that we can detect the growing schism between such groups as that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The former also based their original prayers on the precedent of biblical Hebrew , especially that of the Psalms , deliberately eschewing what they recognised as the more vernacular form of the language and adjusting the content rather than the linguistic style , while the latter made a more radical alteration , choosing to couch their prayers , even when they became more formal and communal , in terms that were more familiar to the common people and more closely identified with them as a discrete religious group.65 CONCLUSIONS In spite of the complex and indefinite nature of the situation just described , it would be churlish to conclude this chapter without attempting , by way of summary of the arguments and evidence presented above , to catalogue those elements of the later synagogal liturgy that are to be found in the period before the destruction of the Temple and to suggest the form that they // took at that stage . Since it has already been explained that there was no one context in which they all coexisted and that there was an interplay between the various ideas and practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setting of each of the tendencies as far as the evidence permits , no further definition of who contributed what is necessary and these remarks may justifiably be limited to a brief description of the prototypes for what became standard elements in the rabbinic prayers . It should not be forgotten that there was no unanimous conviction that public prayer , other than that which might have existed in the Temple , deserved a central place in the religious commitments of the ordinary Jew and that it was probably only in the diaspora that an actual synagogue building provided a central setting for such and related activities . This lack of formal structure applied to the frequency , order and composition of Jewish devotions as much as to their location . The substantial archaeological and literary evidence for the use of the shema , together with the equally theologically significant Ten Commandments , as a form of amulet , and as a daily prayer in the Temple and outside it , clearly establishes Deuteronomy 6:4 as one of the earliest forerunners of synagogal liturgy.66 Indeed , the traditional recitation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever and ever ' , which is a Temple response in origin , immediately after that verse , may be seen as confirming the authenticity of the claim about the shema " s use in the Temple.67 Whether the whole passage ( 6:4 ? 9 ) and the second paragraph ( Deuteronomy 1 1:13 ? 2 i ) were also recited is a more controversial point . The earliest tannaitic discussions support the contention that the first paragraph was an early adoption and that the third paragraph ( Numbers 15:37-41 ) had not yet achieved an equal status in the second century CE.68 It has been suggested that benedictions preceding and following the shema may have predated the destruction69 but the lack of conclusive evidence about the content of the shema ' itself makes it unlikely that its liturgical setting had been so far defined , and , even when benedictions did begin to attach themselves to its recitation in , // say , the latter part of the first Christian century , their oral nature and lack of standardisation meant that they could be no more than brief and simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the contents of the daily ' amidah , there was still controversy about the precise number and contents of the benedictions in the early tannaitic period and if a skeletal form did exist at an earlier period it probably constituted no more than prototypes of some or all of the first three and last three benedictions that later became integral to all forms of the ' amidah . Covering as they do the importance of the ancestral traditions , the afterlife , divine holiness , worship , thanksgiving and peace , these benedictions are sufficiently neutral ' in content to reflect a pre-rabbinic stage but there is no doubt that they were later modified to meet standard criteria laid down by the tannaim.70 Since daily public prayers appear to be later than those attached to special occasions of sadness and joy , it is not surprising to find what appear to be early prayers attached to fast-days , sabbaths and festivals in the earliest rabbinic literature.71 Another factor militating against any tendency to see the joint daily recitation of the shema ' and the ' amidah as predating the tannaim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter scholars to insist on their linkage by stressing the supreme importance of joining the latter benedictions to the paragraphs of the shema ' and their doxological conclusion to the beginning of the ' amidah , efforts that would otherwise have been unnecessary.72 Furthermore , the tannaitic requirements in the case of the shema ' are not identical with those of the ' amidah and demonstrate that the former was a common custom attached to the beginning and end of the day while the latter was a more concentrated act of pious devotion.73 It is of course possible that these two central pillars of the later rabbinic liturgy originated in different contexts . There are certainly enough of these , be they cultic , devotional , ascetic , intellectual , mystical or personal , to provide the relevant sources but , as yet , insufficient information to permit any more than undocumented speculation . Zahavy 's linkage of the shema ' to scribal circles and the ' amidah to the priesthood is certainly forced and strong // arguments could be raised for precisely the opposite attribution.74 Another common custom was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and these were simply constituted as praises directed to God . Only in the tannaitic period did they begin to acquire a more lengthy and complicated structure , as the essence of the form moved from a personal act of thanksgiving or blessing to a structured prayer . It is possible that the invitation to the community to praise God ( barekhu ) , used to introduce prayer sessions , was an important stage in that development . The earliest benediction with formal overtones is the grace after meals , as is clear from the difficulties later encountered by the rabbis in accommodating it to the pattern that they were constructing for less established doxologies.75 The priestly blessing is of course of a different order altogether and it would make sense to assume that it entered the protorabbinic liturgy from Temple use where it must surely have had a very respectable pedigree.76 The recent discovery of a seventh-century BCE silver amulet with a form of the benediction , however , indicates an even wider use from an early date.77 Among other elements of the liturgy that appear to have moved from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selections of them known as hallel ( Psalms 113-18 ) , the Ten Commandments ( about the inclusion of which there continued to be controversy for many centuries ) , 78 perhaps versions of the poetic selihoth and hosha'noth and certain rituals of the High Priest on the Day of Atonement.79 It is not unlikely that they and their like were introduced into the Temple in the first place under the pressure of the populace for recitations to be attached to the cultic service . Be that as it may , they may be counted among those items that may justifiably be regarded as part of the Second Temple 's institutions in the latter part of its existence . In view of their obvious suitability to the synagogal context , there was no matter of principle involved in their transfer , the issue of the Ten Commandments being related to polemics against heretics rather than matters of liturgical principle , but the same can not be said for other Temple institutions . It is reasonable to suggest that such // ceremonies as the blowing of the shofar and the waving of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable controversy , some believing that they could only ever be part of an authentic Temple service and others preferring to preserve their practice in the only context available after 70 CE.80 These suggestions will have to be pursued elsewhere at greater length but they are relevant here to the extent that they may provide further evidence that the early synagogue was as much the Temple 's contender as its imitator . Ultimately , and paradoxically , the less realistic and desirable the restoration of such a Temple service became , the more successful were the efforts to emulate its example in the synagogue . Although Jews certainly came together for the reading and study of scripture in the early first century CE , there is no possibility , on the basis of the evidence currently available to us , of establishing precisely which passages were read on which occasions . One may only speculate that the readings were linked with the manner of the occasion being marked , so that festivals and fasts must early have attracted their own readings , both on the dates themselves and on sabbaths preceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for instance , that the four readings on sabbaths around the time of Purim and Passover were early versions of a cycle of readings and not additions to one . The more formal the synagogal liturgy became , the more control was exercised over what was read and how it was translated and interpreted , but remnants always persisted of earlier attempts to match the biblical readings with the events of the Jewish calendar.81 While the mystical element in the rabbinic liturgy was once thought to be among its later accretions , the current tendency to trace that element through the whole of Jewish religious history encourages the view that there were among those who pressed for the development of Jewish public prayer pietists who had felt their spiritual sensitivity heightened by mystical experiences . They not only adopted aspects of emerging talmudic prayer in their own devotions but also saw a place for the introduction of mystical formulations into the rabbinic liturgy. // Such pietists will have included those who composed the earliest forerunners of the later hekhaloth hymns.82 The rabbis remained ambivalent on the subject for many generations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prayers , but there is no reason to assume that the controversy about the place of mysticism in public Jewish prayer was not already present when its nature was first being debated . Whatever the attractions of the developing synagogue , the home always remained an important centre of Jewish ritual and liturgy , the dietary laws , sabbath and festival customs such as the qiddush and havdalah in their earliest forms , 83 and the traditional education of children necessitating the performance of various precepts in the domestic context . The best example is of course the Seder service on the first evening of Passover and the development of the Passover Haggadah , the earliest aspects of which certainly belong to the century before the destruction of the Temple . And no matter what transpired in the realm of public worship , and regardless of the pressure on the Jew to transfer the private to the communal , individual prayers and supplications were always an ingredient of Jewish religious practice . Daniel 's example of fervently praying three times a day ( Daniel 6:1 1 ) , as many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public worship in Judaism , but its motivation was a personal need for support and inspiration that would never be displaced by the formalised service , whatever its degree of expansion and acceptance . The tension between personal prayer and public worship is one of a number of such competing trends in Jewish liturgical history , some of which will receive attention in the next chapter . // Some liturgical issues in the talmudic sources INTRODUCTION The situation with regard to Jewish liturgical history after the destruction of the Temple is in some respects in stark contrast to that which obtained in the periods of the Hebrew Bible and the Second Temple . In these earlier periods the researcher has to utilise a variety of sources that clearly emanate from different contexts and that have been brought together in the literature not because of their original significance and function but because of the way in which later generations chose to interpret and employ them . It is difficult , indeed unwise , to try to present the relevant texts as reflections of one systematic and consistent approach to matters of religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open to debate . All that can be done ( and it is hoped that this has been achieved in earlier chapters ) is to identify certain characteristics , relate them speculatively to particular circles , and offer a broad description of the various types of liturgical expression that existed before rabbinic Judaism and Christianity carried the tradition forward in their separate ways . As with theology , so with liturgy , today 's scholar prefers plurals to singulars in the description of past religious phenomena . It is safer to speak of biblical liturgies than of Jewish liturgy in the biblical period ; similarly with regard to the era of the Second Temple . When we pursue the history of Jewish liturgy into and through the tannaitic and amoraic periods , the image presented to us in the talmudic ? midrashic literature is of quite a different 88 Some liturgical issues 8g order . Although the basic content of such central items as the shema recitation and the amidah is becoming established , there is decidedly no fixed prayer-book for the rabbinic community at large and no uniform approach to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one can be confident that one is dealing with a specific form of Judaism with variant tendencies within it , rather than a variety of interconnected Judaisms with insufficient evidence to draw clear-cut lines of demarcation between them . Rabbinic Judaism 's identity at that time was still in the early stages of its development and was by no means monolithic but the richness of the literary heritage that it bequeathed from as early as the second and as late as the sixth century permits much more precise conclusions about the nature of much of its Weltanschauung . All the evidence to date points to the fact that the talmudic interpretation of the meaning of Jewish religious existence was on its way to becoming the dominant one and the familiarity of its ideology and practice makes it a simple matter , perhaps sometimes too simple and consequently a little misleading a matter , to trace a direct line of continuity into the geonic and mediaeval eras ) What is to be attempted in this chapter , then , is an overview of the attitudes to prayer revealed by the talmudic ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early rabbis dealt with the subject in the formation of their overall theology and help to explain what tended to be taken as axiomatic by scholars in post-talmudic generations . One must , of course , bear in mind that , given the nature of Judaism , the accurate treatment of any topic in the realm of Jewish studies is unlikely to smack of the theologically systematic . Israel Abrahams put it most succinctly when declaring that Rabbinic theology is a syncretism , not a system ' 2 and thereby raising the question whether such religious ideas , failing as they do to constitute a system , may in the strictest sense be defined as theology . Whatever one 's view of what is or is not theology , there can be little doubt that an examination of the attitudes to liturgical issues in a particular religious tradition provides an important key to the understanding of that tradition and will , in this // specific case , help us to establish the precise contribution made by the tannaim and amoraim to the general development of Jewish liturgy . Fortunately , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period , at least as a whole , if not in the layers of its history , has already been completed . As well as dealing with the wider history of individual services , prayers , poems and customs within the various post-talmudic rites , and the communal and synagogal contexts in which they developed , Ismar Elbogen also gave some attention to the characteristic elements of the tannaitic and amoraic periods . He sketched the historical background to the adjustments then made and identified which parts of the prayer-book might be dated from these early centuries of rabbinic Judaism . ' The more recent work of Joseph Heinemann complemented Elbogen 's historical survey with a form-critical treatment of the sources.4 He characterised the different genres of prayer and located their origins in Temple , synagogue , academy , law court and personal life , while at the same time offering important guidance on matters of linguistic style and literary pattern . Elbogen 's original German and Heinemann 's original Hebrew have been translated into Hebrew and English respectively5 and have influenced the popular books on the subject that have recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think of an elastic and pliable form rather than of a more solid structure has sometimes been ignored and has recently been subjected to considerable criticism by Fleischer.6 There is still work to be done on the linguistic , literary and historical background to liturgical developments in the period but the contribution to be made here will be more on the ideological side . It seems to the writer that , even after Heinemann , insufficient attention has been paid , either by negligence or by design , to the lack of theological or ideological consistency in the talmudic sources ' discussions of liturgical issues , with the attendant danger that much of the organisation and centralisation that are the product of a later age may be wrongly attributed to this earlier period . If a detailed , diachronic treatment of the whole period and an attendant dating // of the numerous layers of its tradition history are left for later scholarship , one may in the mean time concentrate on pointing out the intensive dialectic that engaged the early rabbis on matters of liturgical principle . The hope is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will complement earlier scholarship and exercise some influence on future directions in the field . METHOD It should be stated at the outset that consistency and completeness demand that this chapter will at times cover what may be regarded by some specialists as well-trodden ground . By way of compensation , the presentation may induce even such specialists to look afresh at certain problems and thus contribute to their general understanding of what is a vast subject . After some brief remarks about the general background to rabbinic prayer , the central part of this chapter will be devoted to an examination of almost a hundred selected sources , nearly all of them talmudic , dealing with the complicated spiritual phenomenon of prayer . The use of such talmudic sources always requires caution . In the words of a doyen of rabbinic studies in an earlier generation , the late Louis Ginzberg , the devil , according to Shakespeare , quotes Scripture . But if he is really as clever as he is reputed to be , he ought to quote the Talmud , as there is hardly any view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devised ingenious means of harmonising different views and bringing them into line with the codified halakhah , while their Christian antagonists demonstrated a penchant for the most bizarre ideas they could find and utilised them to discredit Judaism . Although such standpoints have not entirely disappeared in our own times , modern scholarly opinion seems to range from a position which postulates the existence of a normative rabbinism from which certain groups and individuals deviated from the late Second Temple period to the post-talmudic era , through a gamut of more moderate // opinion to the other extreme , which prefers to post-date the emergence of any authoritative interpretation as much as possible and to upgrade any recorded view at variance with this interpretation . Clearly , to arrive at an accurate assessment of the views of the tannaim and amoraim and of their development during the talmudic period , generalisations , religious preconceptions and what have been called fanciful conjectures and unfounded explanations ' 8 must be abandoned in favour of a comprehensive survey of the sources which combines the best of traditional interpretation , form- and text-criticism , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talmudic reports , particularly as they relate to events in the pre-Christian period , and the attribution of all statements and policy changes to particular personalities9 is as misguided as the approach that claims that all previous studies are antiquated and distinguished talmudists now obsolete and refuses to credit the rabbis with any reliable information about the origin of their own religious traditions.10 Ultimately , then , no historically sound study of rabbinic attitudes to prayer will be possible until the talmudic literature has been critically and comprehensively studied with all available research tools . This does not , however , mean that the kind of overview being attempted in this book is beyond the researcher 's scope as far as the talmudic period is concerned . On the contrary , the identification of the basic themes of each major period of Jewish liturgical history is precisely the aim here . Indeed , the more general treatment of a sufficiently broad sample of talmudic sources is , in its totality , as likely to serve that aim as the detailed textual , historical and linguistic analysis of each of its constituents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desideratum and one that is not ruled out as a later supplement to the present study . If properly undertaken , however , it would take us well beyond the range of this volume and surely requires a complete monograph in its own right . In a brief article Tzvee Zahavy has recently attempted to begin such a process of analysis by relating liturgical issues to Jewish political , economic and social history in the first two centuries and has identified three periods of // development . Until the literary and linguistic study of the relevant texts is further advanced and/or more external evidence becomes available , such an exercise must remain a speculative one but , meanwhile , some of the points he makes are important and others will encourage debate . " With regard to the general historical and methodological problems of studying Jewish liturgical history in the talmudic period , the necessary discussions are included in the chapters that precede and follow this one , thus permitting a concentration here on the overall impression conveyed by the sources themselves . In the mean time , therefore , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible to make initial progress by identifying various themes that occur throughout the talmudic literature , while leaving their precise , historical development within the period of that literature and the uncovering of the literary layers in which they are preserved for later analysis . Where dates and personalities are cited they will be those that are presupposed in the talmudic text and not necessarily those that will ultimately be accepted as scientifically authenticated , but it should be remembered that even a view that argues for a later formulation of all such texts would be hard-pressed to prove that the nuclei of traditions did not originate in earlier centuries . By a temporarily synchronic explanation of a selection of talmudic sources , then , an impression will be conveyed of some of the tensions , controversies , stresses and strains that accompanied early rabbinic Judaism 's attempt to define the place of prayer in the framework of its religious ideology , to reveal that the matter is not as uncomplicated as it is sometimes portrayed , and to provide some guidelines for future work . BACKGROUND It appears that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talmudic rabbis inherited a welter of concepts and forms that they attempted to remould in accordance with their own emergent ideology . It will be recalled that from at least as early as the time of Jesus , and probably earlier , there existed numerous prayer contexts already overlapping to a considerable // degree and exerting a strong influence on the contemporary Jew . The Temple rituals in their wider ramifications had attracted to themselves some formulaic recitations ( e.g. Ten Commandments and priestly benediction ) while the people had learned to express themselves liturgically outside the Temple ( as in the case of the maamad ) while the offerings were made in it ; a formal liturgy for special festive and solemn occasions , quite independent of the sacrificial cult , had developed in certain circles ; a liturgical dimension was being added to the social and pedagogical aspects of the synagogue , and the first attempts were being made to regulate this spontaneous expression of popular religiosity ; the individual devotions of pious folk-heroes were held in high esteem , and they were credited with the ability to intercede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , coming together for Torahstudy and communal meals , were evolving sets of formulae suitable for introducing and concluding such sessions and for expressing their gratitude to God for his bounty . All these were of course in addition to the outpourings of the individual at times of intense emotion such as are recorded in the Bible.12 A statement by R. Joshua ben Hananiah may be interpreted either in a literal fashion as an eye-witness report of this pluralistic state of affairs obtaining during the first Christian century or , more minimally , as evidence of an awareness of its existence on the part of later transmitters of such a tradition . Either way , and with due account being taken of the textual variants , the statement notes the parallel existence of what may loosely be described as festival rituals in Temple , synagogue , academy and home so that there was barely any respite from religious activity on the part of those participating in the water-drawing ceremony on the festival of Sukkoth.13 In the reassessment of their spiritual values and commitments that was forced on the tannaim by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kokhba revolt , they were called upon to pronounce on which elements among the inherited traditions were likely to contribute most to Jewish spiritual survival and how best to preserve them . The central position accorded by them to a system of halakhah is well // known . In order to give prayer a place in the system , its general importance had to be evaluated and its function defined , decisions had to be made on such matters as the relative merits of public and private , as well as spontaneous and fixed prayer , and opinions had to be offered on such practical aspects as the best time and place for one 's devotions . The lively response elicited by this challenge should become apparent from the sources about to be examined . These are treated here under three main headings : The theological status of prayer , The essential nature of prayer , and The mechanics of prayer . THE THEOLOGICAL STATUS OF PRAYER Whether or not its attribution to Simeon the Just is authentic , the statement at the beginning of the first chapter of ' Avoth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuous Jewish commitment to the triad of Torah , Avodah ( Temple-service ) and Good Deeds , is a clear testimony to the theological priorities of the early tannaim . With the destruction of the Temple , one third of this spiritual structure lay in ruins and the search for an alternative got underway . One obvious solution was to claim that the loss could be made good by a corresponding elevation of one or other of the two remaining elements . Evidence of such a claim is available to us in an interesting commentary on Simeon 's statement that records , on the one hand , an anonymous view that God is more enamoured of Torah-study than of burnt-offerings and , on the other , an alleged assurance given by Rabban Yobanan ben Zakkai to R. Joshua that the means of atonement for sins had not , as the latter imagined , disappeared with the destruction of the Temple , but had been transferred to the practice of Good Deeds.14 Although the expression of such views may partly reflect what Julius Guttmann described as the growth of theoretical reflection on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a homiletical tendency to stress aspects of the faith that required bolstering in difficult situations , the establishment of religious priorities had an important practical application in times of persecution . The locus classicus for the age-old rabbinic discussion // on whether , in the final analysis , Torah-study or Good Deeds takes precedence , describes the deliberations of a high-level conference possibly summoned during the Hadrianic persecutions to offer guidance at a time of national emergency.16 The same location , in the Nitza home in Lod , is given elsewhere for an equally fraught discussion about the Jewish religious principles for which one is obliged to suffer martyrdom.17 In the instance here being cited , the view of R. Akiva in favour of Torah-study over Good Deeds won the day because , in his words , study leads to deeds ' and not vice versa , but no final settlement was reached . E. E. Urbach 's summary of the situation deserves to be quoted : Just as the problem of the livelihood of the Sages in the framework of the question of studying Torah and practising a craft did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sages , so , too , no unambiguous solution was found to the question of the relationship between learning Torah , on the one hand , and performing good works and occupying oneself with communal needs , " both religious and mundane " , on the other . ' 16 Even the recitation of the shema was pressed into the service of those anxious to miss no opportunity of listing the major principles of Judaism . For the second- to third-century Palestinian teacher , R. Levi , the first two paragraphs were recited each morning and evening not so much to mark the beginning and end of the day as to remind the Jew of each of the Ten Commandments , to which he found allusions in the shema ' ' s various phrases . ' 9 Those scholars of subsequent generations who did follow the view of R. Akiva felt no compunction about stressing the superiority of Torah-study over prayer . In their case , of course , they were able , and indeed anxious , to fulfil their obligations in both respects , but by their statements and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preoccupation was to take precedence . Although his own private prayers are reputed to have brought rain when it was needed , the early third-century amora from Lydda , R. Joshua ben Levi ruled that a synagogue could be converted into a beth ha-midrash ( loosely rendered academy ' ) , apparently because the latter possessed a higher degree of sanctity , thereby implying that a // conversion in the opposite direction was not permissible.20 More specifically , the same teacher has God interpreting the verse in Psalms 84:1 1 to mean that one day of David 's Torahstudies pleases him more than a thousand burnt-offerings to be made by Solomon , his son . A contemporary , R. Eleazar ben Pedat , went so far as to claim that the attainment of education was tantamount to the rebuilding of the Temple.2 ' One particular folio , 8a , of the tractate Berakhoth in the Babylonian Talmud is a rich source of similar attitudes . It records that although there were thirteen synagogues in Tiberias , the leading scholars of the town , R. Ammi and R. Assi , would recite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studying . Another report there reveals that such tendencies were not restricted to the rabbis of the Holy Land . The fourthcentury Babylonian amora , R. Shesheth , who was blind , grew so impatient with the public Torah reading that he literally turned away , and proceeded with his studies . In a third passage a delightful remark is attributed to Rafram ben Papa , whose teacher , R. Hisda , was a contemporary of the R. Shesheth already mentioned . On being requested to repeat some of the fine things that his teacher had said on synagogal matters , he cited a view of his that interpreted a Psalm verse to mean that God prefers centres of halakhah-study to synagogues . Rava , to whose views and those of his colleague Abbaye , so much of the Babylonian Talmud is devoted , was so powerful an advocate of the supremacy of Torah-study that the prolonged prayers of R. Hamnuna inspired him to declare : Such people are abandoning eternal life in order to engage in mundane matters ! ' A comment immediately following Rava 's declaration in this talmudic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , demonstrates an awareness of the opposing viewpoint . It explains that R. Hamnuna was of the opinion that Torah and Prayer each had its separate time . Similarly , an aggadic interpretation of Isaiah 55:6 recorded in the name of the third generation amora R. Abbahu has it that God is particularly to be found in the houses of both prayer and study . That even sabbath prayers were conducted on an ad hoc basis among scholars rather than in a formally designated synagogue // is obvious from the report of R. Dimi about the Palestinian group , probably in the third century , that forgot to arrange the removal of a Torah scroll on a Friday in preparation for the statutory reading the next day.22 As a final example of the view that gave Torah-study precedence over Prayer , it will be helpful to cite from the same source the riposte of R. Zera , a Babylonian rabbi who had emigrated to the land of Israel , to the action of his pupil , R. Jeremiah , who was anxious to adjourn his lesson for prayer . He applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turneth his ear away from learning Torah , even his prayer shall be an abomination . ' The authentic successor to the Temple liturgy and , thus , the ideal form of worship is being portrayed as Torah-study , and Prayer is accorded no more than a junior place in comparison . If , as has been indicated , the intensified acclamation of Torah-study and Good Deeds represented one response to the disappearance of the Avodah or Temple-service , it was accompanied from the outset by what must surely have seemed a more revolutionary assertion , namely that the distinguished place of Avodah was now to be taken by Tefillah , Prayer . A tannaitic interpretation of the injunction in Deuteronomy 11:13 to serve ' God clearly sets forth the two alternatives of how this Avodah or service is now to be understood . The passage characteristically challenges its own opening statement that Avodah means Torah-study by arguing for a literal meaning of Avodah , i.e. work ' , on the basis of the verse in Genesis 2:16 which describes how God placed Adam in the Garden of Eden le ovdah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The literal interpretation is rejected on the grounds that Adam was required to undertake such labour only later as a punishment for his disobedience , and Avodah is therefore explained as Torah-study and shemirah ( looking after ' ) as observance of the precepts . The alternative is then offered that Avodah refers to Prayer , and the literal interpretation is here rejected on the grounds that the service of God demanded by the verse is to be with all one 's heart and soul and that such service can only be Prayer , a view later repeated in the Babylonian Talmud in Ta'anith f. 2a . The argument concludes with the unequivocal // statement that as the altar-service was called Avodah so Prayer is called Avodah . It is not without significance that the passage then includes a statement by R. Eliezer ben Jacob which presupposes that Avodah still refers to the Temple-service . With his close association and acquaintance with the Temple , this tanna was perhaps unwilling to cede the distinction of being designated as Avodah katexochen to any usurper.23 Of similar interest is the statement by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented by the eating of the sacrificial meat is now , after the destruction of the Temple , achieved by the drinking of wine and not , apparently , by the eating of non-sacrificial meat.24 It was the view that Tefillah was the natural successor of the Temple Avodah that made it possible for so many of the latter 's rituals to be given a new attachment to Prayer and incorporated into the synagogue service . It is at the same time clear from the talmudic sources that the process was not altogether a smooth one , and that attempts were made to limit the new roles of the rituals so that they could not quite match their former cultic splendour . With regard to the priestly benediction , for instance , its incorporation into the synagogal liturgy brought with it changes in the form of the ritual . For the tanna R. Simeon ( of whatever patronym ) it was not priesthood but a good reputation that had maintained an attractive religious function and the mishnah in Berakhoth 54 seems to regard the priestly benediction as separate from the standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ categorical differentiation . The discussion concerning the details of the benediction recorded in BT , Sotah ff . 37b ? 39b provides clear evidence of changes in the use of the Divine Name , the ritual of raising the hands in blessing , the nature of the accompanying rituals and the Israelite constituency to whom the formula is addressed . It may here be added that the role of the priest himself , once so central to the liturgy , always had to struggle to maintain a significant place in the worship of rabbinic Judaism in the face of the growing participation of the learned or the ordinary Jew.25 Similar adjustments in the form or use of Temple formulae may be detected in connection with the                     