@@773819

txt 140 CHAPTER 10 worry is that this might cause a rise in the average global temperature of the earth ; no one knows the effect of such a global temperature rise on the world 's climate patterns . If the American midwest became prone to drought or the antarctic ice melted significantly , the results might be disastrous . There is no controversy over the fact that CO , levels in the atmosphere are rising ; data for this increase is very clear . The controversy is over what effect , if any , these CO2 levels will have on the global climate . The related political controversy is whether to legislate limits on the amount of C0 emissions allowed . The scientific basis for the greenhouse effect is clear enough , but there are two good reasons for the continuing scientific controversy . One reason is that the atmosphere is a very complicated system , which makes it difficult for us to understand all of the processes well and to make accurate predictions . The other reason is that we have poor data on the mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to judge whether global warming has already occurred or not . In addition , the political , economic , and ideological dimensions of the issue all contribute further to the controversy in important ways . Let 's first look at the complexity of the atmospheric processes in order to find out why it 's not obvious whether we 'll have global warming . If we try to model the effects of increasing CO2 on temperature , we must include several important feedback processes in our model ( see chapters 6 and 21 ) . For example , increasing the air temperature will increase the humidity , and water vapor is also a greenhouse gas . In this case we have a positive feedback loop , which will make the problem worse . However , increasing the water vapor in the air will also tend to increase the cloud cover , and clouds reflect back the incoming sunlight . This reflected sunlight never reaches the ground to warm it . So in this case we have a negative feedback loop , which tends to restrain global warming . A number of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ocean temperatures , and even the world ecosystem ) , although the clouds are probably the biggest feedback effect that we do n't understand well . In order to make an accurate prediction of the temperature change wrought by an increase in CO , , our model must include these feedback mechanisms properly . Climate researchers use extremely sophisticated models of atmospheric dynamics . These general circulation models , as they are called , include the effects of changing latitude and longitude , changes with altitude , convection of heat due to wind circulation patterns , and a variety of feedback mechanisms . The variables calculated in these models include temperature , barometric pressure , and humidity . As you can see , the complexity of climate models is astounding . They need to be " run " for long periods of time on supercomputers , especially if we want projections for decades into the future . This very complexity is what makes it difficult to assess // the accuracy of the projections produced by these models . How can we know whether we 've left some important piece of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result ? General circulation models have been employed to find out how including an increased concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere affects the mean global temperature over a time period of about fifty years . Different models , using various approximations and assumptions for the dynamics of the atmosphere , naturally yield somewhat different results for global warming . Climate researchers , under the auspices of the world 's governments , have convened meetings to consider all of the available results and arrive at a consensus on the most reliable overall projection . The consensus is that a doubling of the CO2 level will result in a global temperature rise of several centigrade degrees , but the uncertainty ( see chapter 8 ) of this projection is almost as large as the rise itself . Attempts have been made to check the accuracy of the climate models by using them to calculate the greenhouse gas warming for the last fifty years and compare the calculation to measured temperatures . Unfortunately , this process is not as easy as it sounds . We need the average temperature over the entire world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas and the oceans ; in other words , we have little data for most of the world ! Where we do have measurements , local changes ( warming due to urbanization , for example ) tend to dominate . On the global level , short-term changes ( such as worldwide cooling caused by volcanic eruption of particulates blocking the sunlight ) further complicate the situation , thwarting our attempts to make meaningful comparisons . In the end , we have no way of knowing whether global warming has already occurred or not , based on the recent temperature history we have available . Since the historical temperature record does n't give us an unambiguous answer , and the results of climate models ca n't tell us with absolute certainty what will happen , what can we conclude ? Although this question is a scientific problem , it also has much broader implications . What public policy options should be adopted concerning fossil fuel burning ? Economic , political , and ideological considerations enter here . If we try to stay as close to scientific considerations as possible in making our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( see chapter 7 ) . The uncertainties of the climate models prevent us from knowing exactly what the effect of increased greenhouse gases will be ; the consensus which emerges from looking at all of the modelling work , however , suggests that nonnegligible warming is reasonably probable . This conclusion is the best that science can do for the present , and society needs to make decisions based on this probability ( which is meaningful ) rather than on certainties that we ca n't have . 142 CHAPTER 10 Power Lines and Public Health In the late 1970s , reports began to surface linking various health problems to low-frequency electromagnetic fields . The AC electrical power we use all the time ( from the wall socket ) has a frequency of 60 cycles per second , which is low . In other words , we are exposed almost continuously to this kind of weak low-frequency field . If the fields due to electrical power lines have an adverse effect on our health , then this is a major issue . Since the utility industry ( and by extension the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and since we depend so greatly on our electrical technology , the issue is certain to generate controversy . The basis for the idea that power line fields are dangerous comes from epidemiological studies . Epidemiology tries to trace the cause of a disease by finding correlations between the incidence of the disease and some other factor ( which is taken to be the cause ) . For example , if all the people who got food poisoning during an epidemic had eaten the crab cakes at a certain restaurant , we can probably conclude that these crab cakes were responsible . But epidemiological work is rarely this easy or unambiguous in real life . The correlations are often quite weak , and detailed statistical analysis is needed to find out whether such weak correlations are telling us something real or are just small chance happenings . To use the standard jargon , we want to know whether the correlations are statistically significant . The early studies , looking for correlations between childhood leukemia and proximity to electrical transformers , were suggestive but not conclusive . These results stimulated further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of the studies showed correlations and some did not , resulting in a confused picture for a while . During this unsettled period in the epidemiological research , the media unfortunately presented a somewhat distorted picture of the situation ( including an inflammatory series of articles by P. Brodeur ) . Meanwhile , the epidemiology work continued , including a number of studies looking at workers with high occupational exposures to low-frequency fields . One major problem with all of these studies became apparent as work progressed . Very few good measures of the " dose " were possible in any of this work , especially compared to a control group reflecting the general population . No one really knew what the field strengths or the durations of exposure were for either the studied groups or the controls . Assumptions made about exposure based on occupation or on proximity to a high-voltage power line often turned out to be questionable . Another problem was the lack of a plausible model for how these fields might cause cancer or other diseases . As we 've seen ( chapter 7 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we would like to know what the mechanism is ( or could be ) in a case like this . The relationship between power line fields and health effects is particularly puzzling because these fields are very weak inside the body . The naturally occurring fields produced by our own physiological functions are much bigger ( typical values for the field across a cell membrane , for example , are over a million times larger than the fields induced across such a membrane by external sources like high voltage lines ) . Even the weak random changes in fields to which our cells are constantly exposed ( due to thermal noise , for example ) turn out to be larger ( by about a thousand times ) than the comparable fields due to power lines . Some laboratory studies of the effects of low-frequency electromagnetic fields have been done , mostly using in vitro cell cultures . The dose can be varied easily in these experiments , and comparisons made to a field-free control sample . Some interesting effects have been observed , but usually at very high field strengths . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussing , only a few studies have resulted in any observable effects . Those effects tend to be only marginally above threshold and difficult to reproduce . In any event , none of the claimed effects are able to account for any adverse health consequences ( such as cancer ) due to power lines . We now have over a hundred epidemiological studies on this issue . Taken collectively , these studies show virtually no adverse health impact of exposure to low-frequency electromagnetic fields . A few individual studies have indicated weak effects , which has kept the issue alive as a public controversy . But these effects are rarely replicated in later studies ; apparently , they are just random shifts away from the average . We actually expect that random variations of this sort will happen ( like getting five heads and one tail when flipping a coin six times ) . Our reliable source of information is the entire set of studies taken as a whole , which does n't demonstrate any problem . What can we conclude from all this ? Once again , we need to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an absolute certainty that the low-frequency fields cause no harm at all to our health . I also ca n't be absolutely certain that I wo n't be struck down by a falling meteorite when I leave my house tomorrow . But neither of these propositions is very probable . Given the feeble epidemiological evidence , negative laboratory studies , and lack of any plausible mechanism , the scientific consensus is that power line fields are not dangerous to our health . Not every single scientist agrees with this consensus view , and the public controversy is surely far from settled . But for the vast majority of scientists , the scientific controversy is in fact virtually settled . The proposition that low-frequency fields pose a public health threat is so improbable that we call consider the issue moot . Chapter 11 DIFFICULT AND IMPORTANT QUESTIONS : SCIENCE , VALUES , AND ETHICS Our zealous endeavor to create a " value-free " science ? which seems so essential a requirement of objective scientific method ? has meant simply that the values dominating our thinking have retired to the arena of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appraisal by being so completely taken for granted that no one 's questioning attention is focused upon them . ( E. A. Burtt ) We scientists produce the tools . We stop there . It is for you , the rest of the world , the politicians , to say how the tools are used . The tools may be used for purposes which most of us would regard as bad . If so , we are sorry . But as scientists , that is no concern of ours . This is the doctrine of the ethical neutrality of science . I ca n't accept it for an instant . ( C. P. Snow ) QUESTIONS concerning the relationship of values and ethics to science are extremely important because science affects humans so powerfully . Science affects people in several ways , both directly and indirectly . Some examples of the influence of science are these : the profound changes in worldview that have accompanied major scientific revolutions ; the effect of movements like behaviorism and sociobiology on humanity 's self-image ; and the indirect effects of science resulting from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of science and its indirect effects have implications in the realm of values and ethics . The relationship between science and values is not simple , despite the many simple statements that are made . One such statement ( often heard ) is that science and values are unrelated because science is objective and value-free . In contrast , we sometimes hear that the study of science is evil because science is soulless and mechanistic ( and/or it produces destructive and powerful technologies ) . At the opposite pole , other writers maintain that the study of science is an unmitigated good because science leads to the truth and produces material prosperity . We 'll subject all of these simple claims to critical scrutiny in this chapter . 146 CHAPTER 11 ? 1 . THE INHERENT VALUES OF SCIENCE The community of scientists shares , as a group , certain values . I am not talking about subtle unexamined biases here , just simple virtues like honesty and curiosity . Now honesty is usually considered a virtue by almost everyone , not just in the sciences . Curiosity , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our culture . Both of these values ( as ! ' well as the others we 'll discuss ) are particularly highly regarded in the sciences . Let 's consider some of these scientific values and their implications in more detail . Free Flow of Information The scientific community is in general opposed to secrecy and isolation . Scientific progress depends on the free and unimpeded flow of information from one scientist to another . If a scientist does n't publish her results , that is , share these results with the wider community , then the results can not contribute to a progressively more refined understanding of nature . A commitment to open communication of results is one of the bedrock values of science . Yet , scientists working in the military and in industry often need to keep scientific information secret . Their values as scientists are in conflict with their values as members of another societal institution . Each individual scientist must come to terms with this conflict , and the larger community must resolve issues as they arise . A famous example of this conflict occurred during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bomb ) , when General Groves ( the military project director ) tried to compartmentalize the knowledge of different groups of scientists . The scientists themselves were determined to share their knowledge with each other . Strife over this issue also flared up in the early 1980s , when the executive branch of the government tried ( unsuccessfully ) to widen the scope of scientific work which should be classified secret and remain unpublished . Honesty Obviously , truthfulness is held to be a virtue quite generally , not just in the sciences . But honesty does have a special place as a core value in the sciences , which is not always typical of other human affairs . We are not always shocked when politicians , lawyers , and businesspeople tell lies . Dishonesty in science , however , is still greeted by some outrage , and rightly so . The reason is not that scientists are considered more virtuous than other professionals , but because honesty as a virtue is more imDIFFICULT // portant in doing science . You can engage in a real estate transaction or make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truth ; you ca n't do science , however , without assuming that the other people engaged in the same work are giving you honest information . There is certainly some fraud occurring in science , as evidenced by a number of well-publicized cases . There is also a disturbing trend for some scientists in a few disciplines to be considered " experts " and thereby qualify for large payments in legal proceedings ( which can be a corrupting influence ) . Fortunately , these things are still a very small part of the entire scientific enterprise . Even so , they are a matter of grave concern in the scientific community . Why ? Precisely because honesty is considered such an important scientific value . Curiosity Curiosity , in this context , is the desire to know more and to better understand nature . In other words , scientists always consider learning more about nature to be a positive good . Such curiosity is not only a part of the personality structure of most scientists , but it 's also taken to be one of the values of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not always considered a virtue by all members of our society . Novel ways of thinking sometimes contradict traditional understandings . Certain religious groups find curiosity a threat to their dogmatic beliefs . One of the staples of science fiction is the scientist who seeks knowledge that humans are n't meant to know . And , of course , there is the adage , curiosity killed the cat . Although curiosity is one of the core values of science , individual scientists might have a conflict between this value and the other values they hold . As a clear and simple example , consider the conflict between my curiosity about how much pain a human can withstand and my ethical revulsion over an experiment to find out . A more subtle and difficult example is the following : Suppose a line of investigation driven by curiosity ( and therefore good to perform ) gives us knowledge that leads to a new technology we know is very dangerous and/or harmful . Should we undertake this investigation ? Open-mindedness A scientific result or idea must ultimately be based on evidence , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of our beliefs , no matter how strongly held , then we must give up the belief . This willingness to change your mind based on evidence is also one of the basic values of science . Of course , there are stubborn scientists who are hard to convince ; scientists are humans . It 's fair to say , however , that 148 CHAPTER I 1 anyone who does n't share this value of open-minded willingness to alter a belief in response to evidence is not a scientist . Once again , not everyone in our culture shares this value . Generally speaking , the people who do n't like curiosity are also not thrilled by open-mindedness . Also , politicians who change their positions based on evidence are sometimes accused of being weak and vacillating ( waffling ) . Values Employed in Theory Choice In determining whether one theory is better than another , scientists employ criteria that , from a philosophical point of view , can be considered as values . For example , we generally prefer theories that have greater accuracy , better consistency with other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of simplicity , and are more likely to lead to progress . While these things are values ( strictly speaking ) , they are not really in the same category as the rest of the subject matter in this chapter . Criteria for theory selection are discussed more extensively in chapter 14 . Value-free Science ? You often hear or read the statement that science is objective and/or valuefree , but the meaning of this statement is n't always clear . If the statement refers to the actual content of science ( e.g. , experimental and theoretical results ) , then the statement is problematic . Arguments over this issue are sophisticated and difficult ; fortunately , we do n't need to deal with these arguments here because they are unrelated to the present issues of interest ( see chapter 15 ) . If the statement " science is value-free " refers to the overall context within which science is done , however , then this statement is utter nonsense . To the extent that science is the activity engaged in by scientists , then clearly science is tied to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the scientific community ( which have been the main subject matter of this section ) . ? 2 . THE IMPACT OF SCIENCE ON VALUES We have focused our attention so far on the shared values of scientists , but this is only a small part of the story . Scientific results often lead to new technologies , profoundly affecting human society in ways that can be either useful or destructive . In this way , science becomes entangled in questions of values and ethics that lie far outside the original scope of scientific values . // For example , questions about the behavior of atomic nuclei , which were posed and answered by physicists many years ago , simply involved curiosity about the workings of nature . An unexpected result of the knowledge gained about nuclei was the development of the atomic bomb , a weapon of mass destruction . Similarly , studies of how organisms transmit inherited characteristics , motivated by scientific curiosity , have resulted in the technology of genetic engineering with its accompanying ethical dilemmas . These examples clearly illustrate how seemingly valuefree scientific issues quickly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the absence of new technologies , new science can sometimes have unforeseen effects on cultural issues well beyond the scope of the science itself . Increasing knowledge alone can affect the way we think about our values . Let 's explore some of these issues ( concerning both technology and science ) in more depth . New Technologies Many of the important issues can be illustrated by looking at a specific case : molecular biology and genetics . Rather than looking at future scenarios of human clones , let 's consider the implications of some procedures that are present-day realities . A number of diseases are inheritable , such as Huntington 's disease , phenylketonuria , and sickle cell anemia . People with family histories of such genetic diseases are obviously at higher risk for having them . Until recently , however , there was no way to know whether an at-risk individual actually had the condition until the onset of symptoms ( which may occur late in life , as in Huntington 's disease for example ) . Scientific advances in our knowledge of genetics now allow us to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being responsible for some of these diseases , so we now have the technological ability to tell someone whether or not a condition exists long before any symptoms become evident . Is this a good thing ? The ability to determine whether an individual has a genetic disease opens up a range of ethical dilemmas . Unless we have a treatment for the condition , the person might well prefer not knowing . If a doctor knows , is it ethical to withhold the information from the person ( or , for that matter , to not withhold it ) ? If an insurance company finds out , it might refuse to issue health or life insurance ; how should society handle that problem ? If the person is a minor , who should determine whether a test is performed , the person or the parents ? If the test can be performed prenatally ( which is often the case ) , the issues become even more complex due to the possibility of abortion if the genetic condition is detected . Many examples of this sort can be found in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow us to prolong life far longer than ever before . Few people would argue that this is not 150 CHAPTER 11 good , but even this generally positive outcome of scientific progress opens up some difficult questions . At what point is it proper to allow a suffering and terminally ill person to die ? How much of society 's scarce resources should be used for the expensive process of keeping very old and very ill people alive , as opposed to improving health care for babies and young children ? The issues involved in such questions go far beyond the science and technology that provide the new techniques . Biomedical applications are not the only technologies that raise issues of values and ethics . In chemistry , for example , the technological goal is often to produce some useful new substance . These substances can be powerful agents to benefit society , but they can also do unintended harm . Chemists have created new pesticides and fertilizers , allowing highly improved agricultural yields . Feeding more people is certainly good . The gains have been accompanied by serious side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects on humans and wildlife . Weighing the positive and negative effects on humanity in a case like this depends at least in part on our values as well as our scientific knowledge . The application of science to military technology is also an area rife with ethical questions . Although there are many examples of military applications , perhaps the most famous is the development of the atomic bomb ( largely by physicists ) . The invention of nuclear weapons , with their unprecedented destructive capability , led many scientists in the postwar era to consider the ethical dimensions of scientific work more seriously than previous generations had done . The fundamental scientific work done earlier in the century to understand the nature of radioactivity and nuclear forces gave no hint of these devastating technological applications ; many scientists completely dismissed the possibility of using the nucleus as a source of great energy . By the time they realized that such applications were practical , many scientists in the Allied countries perceived themselves to be in a deadly race with Nazi Germany to produce a bomb . On that basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Subsequent events , including the use of atomic bombs on civilian targets and the arms race with the Soviet Union , caused some scientists to regret the decision to build the bomb ( some withdrew from military work ) . Others considered their actions well justified by the Communist threat , and they continued to devise ever-more-destructive weapons . As a final example , let 's take a look at computer science and cybernetics . We again have a case of powerful technologies that can greatly influence people 's lives . Realization came early that automated control systems could displace human workers for many tasks , and this trend has continued . Many commentators have noted the massive restructuring of our economy brought on by the information age , and with it the potential // for social dislocations and further marginalization of some segments of society . In addition , important issues of individual privacy , censorship , and intellectual property rights have been created by the advance of computer technology and networking ( for example , private information about yourself , which you give voluntarily to one organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your knowledge or consent ) . Once again , we are forced to confront new challenges to our old values by the advance of technology . My main point here is that all of the issues we 've been discussing exist because new scientific understanding gave us new abilities . I am certainly not arguing that scientific advances are bad because they may create new ethical issues . The gist of all these examples can be summarized by a statement that has been said so many times as to become trite : Science and technology give us power but not wisdom . Any tool can be used for good or for ill , and only we ( as individuals and as a society ) can choose . New Science Science and technology are very different . The previous examples have all involved technology , and concerned science only indirectly insofar as the technological advances were enabled by scientific understanding ( see chapter 10 ) . Does science per se have any direct impact on our values ? Historically , the answer is certainly yes , as the following examples will illustrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophical question that is difficult to answer ( and not really our main concern here ) . An early example of the effects of science on values is the impact stemming from the rise of the heliocentric theory . Looked at from a purely practical point of view , it really does n't make much difference whether we believe the earth or the sun is at the center of the universe . But in the cultural milieu of late medieval Europe , the central location of the earth in astronomy was inextricably associated with the central importance of humankind itself in the grand scheme of things . The central position of the earth could not be dislodged without having people 's understanding of their own nature severely shocked . A people 's self-image is surely intimately connected with their values . As the debate over heliocentrism unfolded , academic questions of astronomy became increasingly bound up with the more general struggle between the forces of progress and reaction in Europe . A similar process occurred with even greater intensity in the debate over Darwin 's ideas on evolution by natural selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the human self-image because humans them152 // selves are part of the subject matter of the theory . Evolution by natural selection effectively removes a barrier between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom ; the potential impact of evolutionary thought on values was profound . In the hands of careless thinkers , evolutionary theory led to the perfidious doctrine of social Darwinism ( this was an attempt to use scientific advances improperly to justify existing social class inequities ) . The same strain of thought also contributed to the infamous eugenics movements of the early twentieth century ( eugenics is the attempt to " breed " better humans by not allowing the " unfit " to reproduce ) . These unfortunate consequences were in no way implied by Darwinian thought , but they do illustrate how much potential impact science can have on values , and for that reason how careful we must be when making such interpretations . Physics has also had an effect on humanity 's view of itself and thereby on our values . The equations of Newton 's classical mechanics are deterministic . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a particle , and if we know its present motion , then we can exactly predict all of its subsequent motions . Actually , such a program was never really possible in practice ( see chapter 17 ) , but this practical difficulty did n't affect the conclusions drawn by various eminent thinkers . The idea of a clockwork universe , in which the future is predetermined and free will does n't exist , became deeply embedded in our culture . The revolutionary new theories of twentieth-century physics ( relativity and quantum mechanics ) introduced a variety of radical ideas . One of these new ideas was an element of nondeterminism in microscopic events . In other words , we can not always predict exactly what will happen to a particle even if we know everything that we can know about that particle . Once again , a number of eminent thinkers seized upon this result of physical theory to claim a place for free will in the world , and this idea has also passed into our popular culture . Our final example deals with issues in which the impact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of human beings by modern biology and psychology . A generation ago , the reigning paradigm in psychology was behaviorism and operant conditioning . Some extreme behaviorists claimed that all human behaviors were predictable based on past and present sensory stimuli ; they furthermore claimed that mental processing , not expressed in behaviors , was an epiphenomenon of no importance . These ideas imply that free will and reflective self-consciousness are merely illusions , a claim that very strongly influences our values . The behaviorist fad has now passed , only to be replaced by its polar opposite : the claim that who we are as humans is primarily the result of evolution and genetic predisposition . The extreme viewpoint here is that only the genes are of any importance , and that we humans are merely convenient methods for the genes to propagate themselves ( another claim that obviDIFFICULT // ously influences our values profoundly ) . Remarkably , all of these claims have been passed off as purely scientific statements without any valueladen components , a point that we will reconsider near the end of the next section . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values held by a culture or an individual affect the way science is done , or even the results of science ? Whether the actual results ( theories and facts ) of science are much affected by the values ( and other presuppositions ) of a culture or individual is hotly debated in academia . We 'll examine this issue only briefly here ( a more detailed treatment is found in chapter 15 ) . But the more limited question of whether our values affect science in any way at all seems to me to have a clear answer : yes . For example , our cultural values regarding material prosperity influence the amount of effort we spend studying scientific questions that we think will contribute to our prosperity . The values of an individual concerning patriotism and/or pacifism might influence that person 's decision whether to work on a scientific project with clear military implications . The Limits of Scientific Inquiry Let 's look at another example in somewhat more detail : the issue of whether there should be any limits to our choices of which scientific questions to study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One dimension of this question concerns ethical issues surrounding the implementation of a research study , rather than the scientific knowledge resulting from the research . In this case , the ethical issues may extend far outside the boundaries of science , and there are clear limits to the extent of the inquiry allowed . An infamous example is the Tuskegee study of the long-term effects of syphilis in a group of black men from 1932 to 1972 ( the men were purposely not treated , in order to observe the effects of the disease ) ; a stark reminder that freedom of scientific inquiry has sharp limits when overriding ethical principles are involved . Other examples in this category ( but where the issues are more complex , controversial , and difficult to resolve ) include the use of animal subjects in research and the use of fetal tissue in research . A much different category involves the question of whether there should he limits on scientific research if that research will lead ( or might lead ) to dangerous technologies . Restricting the early nuclear physics research that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the molecular biology research that enabled genetic engineering . We 154 CHAPTER 1 1 can make philosophical arguments both against and in favor of such limitations , but I think it 's a waste of effort to weigh such arguments because in practice the issue is moot : we ca n't possibly predict all the technological consequences at the time the research is being done . The real issues concern how to control the technologies after they become apparent . These issues are important , but they are not issues about the limits of scientific inquiry . An interesting exception to this point might be research that is undertaken primarily in the hope and expectation that it will lead to a certain technology ( for example , plasma physics/fusion power or geriatrics/increased longevity ) ; in those cases , the desirability of the research might well be debated in terms of the desirability of the anticipated technological outcome . Finally , we can ask the question of whether there should be limits to scientific inquiry because the knowledge produced is something we do n't want to know ( or should n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cherished traditional belief , for example , or might exacerbate tensions between ethnic groups in society . We see here a clash between the inherent values of science ( curiosity , open-mindedness ) and other values esteemed by our society ( or at least by some members of it ) . A discussion of such deep and complicated issues is beyond our ambitions here , but I will offer an opinion and a comment . My opinion is that freedom of inquiry is not something to be given up lightly , but rather should be considered one of the core values of our culture in general , not just in science , Ignorance is far more likely to harm us than to help us . My comment is that good , solid scientific knowledge rarely causes any problems . The problems usually arise when highly value-laden implications are drawn from scientific results , a procedure that we should always scrutinize as critically as possible . Risk Assessment Values also have an impact on science in the assessment of potential risks to society from toxic pollutants , disasters , and so on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this field is controversial , and the question is obviously a significant one . Let 's look at the issues more closely . We 'll first dismiss from further consideration the extreme cases of ideological zealotry and commercial greed . People who will say virtually anything with no regard for evidence ( tobacco industry employees claiming that heavy smoking does no harm , for example ) may sometimes be labeled as scientists , but using the word does n't make it so . These extreme cases have little to do with real science and are not of interest here . The interesting question is whether legitimate scientific risk assessments can he kept free of presuppositions based on values . A number of people , // including many scientists and engineers , believe that this is possible . " Facts are facts , and the results of properly made measurements do n't depend on our values . " According to this view , we employ our values when we make policy decisions based on the risk assessments ; objective science tells us what the risks are , and our values tell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved . This point of view certainly has some merit , but it has been criticized as an overly idealized picture of the way the process actually works . The flaw in that picture , according to its critics , is that we rarely have a complete and definitive set of data . In fact , the typical situation is just the opposite : only a small amount of very sketchy information is available . Moreover , the information that does exist is often not directly applicable . For example , toxicity studies involving animals and high doses must be interpreted for the case of humans and low doses . No one knows how the dose extrapolations should be done , or what the differences are between the toxic substance 's effects on humans and on animals . In trying to formulate a risk assessment based on such inadequate information and high degrees of uncertainty , we are forced to make scientific judgments of various sorts . Our scientific judgments , say the critics , can easily be influenced by our value judgments in general , especially given the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For example , a person who generally thinks that industry is overly regulated might well emphasize the following point : large uncertainties allow the possibility that a substance is not very dangerous . A person who generally thinks that exposure to environmental toxins is a major public health problem , on the other hand , might instead emphasize the opposite point : these large uncertainties allow the possibility that the toxic substance is far more dangerous than we can presently document . Neither of these examples is bad science . In both cases , the people did as well as they could with the information at hand ; the point is that the large uncertainties in the information allowed their values to influence their interpretation . This influence may or may not be inevitable . But to the extent that it happens , we 'll improve the quality and worth of our risk assessments by critically scrutinizing the risk assessment process in terms of both science and values . Studying Humans , Revisited We 've already looked briefly at the impact of science on values in the scientific study of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presupposed values might also affect the science being done in this case . In hindsight , for example , it 's quite obvious that much of the work on human heredity ( closely related to the eugenics movement ) in the early I 900s was tainted by class and ethnic prejudice . There have been at least // three major attempts to draw conclusions about humans based on studies of animals : behaviorism , ethology , and sociobiology . In each of these three cases , the claims concerning human nature have gone well beyond the legitimate scientific knowledge . If such claims about human nature are not justified by the purely scientific information available , they must surely contain significant value-laden elements . ( I will admit that my judgment here might be controversial , though I do n't see how to avoid it . ) More-over , the very claim that such animal studies even can tell us something of importance about human nature is a presupposition ( which is not to say that it 's wrong ) rather than an empirical fact . I do n't think it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the values of these investigators . So far , we 've only been talking about the influence of values on the overblown claims made in the name of science in these three cases . We still have n't addressed the question of whether values influenced the scientific methodologies themselves , or the response of the scientific community to these studies . This question is more difficult , and I do n't think any defini-tive answers are possible . It does seem interesting that behaviorism be-came popular in the United States during the middle of the twentieth cen-tury , a time when the general thinking in the culture was receptive to the idea that people are primarily molded by their social conditions . In con-trast , ethology grew out of a central European intellectual tradition that existed in cultural and political conditions of instability and authoritari-anism ; these conditions may have been more hospitable to an emphasis on inborn traits and instincts . Reading too much into such observations is dangerous , however , and any thoughts about the influence of cultural values on these sciences must remain speculative in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SCIENCE AND VALUES MEET What is the proper relationship between science and values ? As we 've seen , one possible answer is this : " There is no relationship , because sci-ence tells us what is , and values tell us what ought to be . " But the many examples we 've discussed make it clear that this answer does n't hold up very well under close scrutiny . The sentiment expressed is not completely wrong , just inadequate to cover all of the many situations possible . At the opposite extreme , we see claims that science and values are not only related but that the relationship is hierarchical ( i.e. , one thing totally con-trols the other ) . " Values are created by the brain , which can he studied scientifically ; values are just a branch of biology . " So say the extreme reductionists . Of course , the extreme postmodernists say something difDIFFICULT // ferent : " Sciences are always based on unstated presuppositions , which are really value preferences ; scientific results are merely expressions of our social values . " Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complexities involved in these questions . So values and science are related to each other , but the relationship is not hierarchical . Each has an important role to play in examining issues , and these roles are complementary . Science can provide empirical infor-mation and a depth of understanding to inform our debates over values and our ethical decisions . But the resolution of these debates and decisions must ultimately depend on a sagacity that comes from outside the realm of science . Because science ( through its associated technologies ) also provides us with a great deal of power , the issues require careful thought . Both scientists as individuals and also society in general have responsibili-ties in the consideration of these issues . Some responsibilities of scientists are to exhibit extreme honesty concerning the uncertainties in our knowl-edge and to carefully scrutinize the broader ramifications of their work . Society as a whole must be involved in making decisions about those is-sues that cut across the boundaries of science , values , and ethics ; the obli-gation of the scientist ( as someone with special expertise ) is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 QUESTIONS OF AUTHENTICITY : SCIENCE , PSEUDOSCIENCE , AND HOW TO TELL THE DIFFERENCE The first criterion that a contribution to science must fulfill in order to be accepted is a sufficient degree of plausibility . Scientific publications are continuously beset by cranks , frauds and bunglers whose contributions must be rejected if journals are not to be swamped by them . ( Michael Polanyi ) If you go into that realm without the sword of reason , you will lose your mind . ( Robert Anton Wilson ) T a HE PREFIX " pseudo " comes from a Greek word meaning false , so pseudoscience literally means false science . " Pseudo " also carries n implication of counterfeit or deceptive , making pseudoscience not only false science but also false science that pretends to be real . These simple definitions , however , do n't really tell us much . We may know that pseudoscience is false science , but how do we know whether some particular body of knowledge or set of claims is pseudoscience or genuine science ? What criteria do we have to make this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universally agreed upon to distinguish pseudoscience from genuine science , but there is broad overall agreement among scientists and philosophers on the general principles involved . A number of authors have attempted , with varying degrees of success , to specify a set of criteria . The attitude of many working scientists , however , is that no definition of pseudoscience is needed , because they know it when they see it . Unfortunately , this attitude does n't help the average person make such a judgment . Also , this attitude reinforces the tendency to label anything you do n't like as " pseudoscience , " causing the word to lose any precise meaning at all . In ? 1 , we 'll look at a set of characteristics that can he used to identify pseudoscience and distinguish it from genuine science . As I said , these // criteria may not be universally accepted , but they are clear , sensible , and useful ; I doubt whether many working scientists ( or philosophers of science ) will have any very serious objections to them . Following the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examine several specific examples of pseudoscience in detail . In each of the examples , we 'll discuss exactly how the criteria apply to that particular case and show why it qualifies as pseudoscience ( i.e. , why it does not qualify as genuine science ) . The three examples we will look at are the work of Immanuel Velikovsky , perpetual motion machines , and creation science . 51 . DEFINING CHARACTERISTICS Static or Randomly Changing Ideas One of the hallmarks of real science is growth and progress in our understanding . Ideas change over time as new discoveries are made ; novel research fields open up as new techniques become available and new questions are asked ; and fragmentary facts become integrated into coherent theoretical overviews as the knowledge base increases and creative minds work to comprehend this knowledge . Old ideas and knowledge are not discarded in this process ; instead , they are reinterpreted in light of the new understanding that has been achieved . Many examples of this progressive growth in scientific understanding are chronicled in Part I. In contrast , the ideas in a pseudoscience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there 's no discernible progress . There is a good reason that we see no progress : the pseudoscience has neither an anchor in a wellestablished foundational body of knowledge , nor any systematic comparison with observation . If there is some dogmatic idea behind the pseudoscience , this idea remains static , since there is nothing to change it . If not , then ideas come and go at random because there is no particular reason to accept some and reject others . Vague Mechanisms to Acquire Understanding This brings us to our second criterion . In genuine science , the goal of the activity is to achieve some coherent understanding of our observations . We must reject our understanding if it is incoherent or if it conflicts with observations and experiments ( I 'm leaving out a few subtle points here ; see chapter 14 ) . In other words , there are certain general procedures that virtually all scientists would agree are valid , even if the details of how these procedures are applied may not be identical in every particular case . Most of this hook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHAPTER 12 are applied in a number of interesting examples , so I wo n't elaborate here . The present chapter is concerned instead with pseudoscience , in which the procedures are only caricatures of those found in genuine science . Understanding in pseudoscience might be based on many different premises , which may be neither coherent nor consistent with observation . For example , understanding might be based on a great idea that seems to explain everything but that is so vague ( and so vaguely connected to anything else ) that the idea has no actual content . Or understanding might be based on connections between things that are not logical deductions or empirical findings , but rather just imagined connections in the mind of the pseudoscientist ( between colors and musical scales , for example , or between sunspots and business cycles ) . Sometimes , two or three observations are used to prop up a vast array of speculative thought , none of which is related to or supported by any other observations . Or , to give one last example , the premises of a pseudoscience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proving some other premise wrong ( e.g. , this must be a sparrow because I 've shown you it 's not a pigeon ) . This example starts to overlap with our next criterion . Loosely Connected Thoughts Rigorous logic , a strict chain of deductive reasoning with no gaps or weak spots , is highly prized in the sciences . This ideal is sometimes not possible : there are gray areas and matters of interpretation in real science ; creative new work may depend on intuitions and metaphors ; and , of course , scientists occasionally make mistakes . Nevertheless , the ideal of rigorous logic is still maintained as something to strive for . If a scientist makes an error of logic , the legitimate task of other scientists is to find this mistake and point it out . In pseudoscience , on the other hand , we often find wide , gaping holes in the logic ; indeed , we often find that there is no logic at all , just some loosely connected thoughts . For example , a man named Ignatius Donnelly published a book in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He based his claims on the similarities between the ancient cultures of Egypt and South America ( pyramid building , flood myths , embalming , etc . ) . His argument was that these similarities could only be explained by the existence of an earlier Atlantean culture , situated geographically between these two areas , which colonized them both . In this fairly simple case , the low quality of the logic is apparent . Unfortunately , promoters of pseudoscience often use technical-sounding words and scientific jargon , making it more difficult ( though not impossible ) for people without scientific backgrounds to spot the lack of meaning in the way words are used . We 'll see several examples of both obvious and not-so-obvious logical flaws in the case studies . A point to emphasize // is that when logical errors do occur in science , there is a way to correct them built into the normal process of doing science ; in pseudoscience , such correction processes do n't exist . Lack of Organized Skepticism This last point brings us to our fourth criterion : organized skepticism . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until it is shown to be right . The typical way to present results to the scientific community is to publish the results in a professional journal . But before it can be published , new work must undergo peer review , which means that it 's sent to other scientists for criticism and judgment ; only work judged as worthwhile will be published ( see chapter 10 ) . The norm in science is to subject ideas , experiments , and interpretations to criticism in order to weed out bogus results . The results that survive this process become a well-established consensus , and new results that contradict this consensus are greeted by particularly severe skepticism . On the other hand , even the consensus remains subject to criticism , and that criticism becomes severe if new and contradictory results ( having survived their own skeptical scrutiny ) start to accumulate . Oddly enough , skepticism keeps open the possibility of change even as it tends at the same time to foster conservatism in science . No such tradition of organized skepticism is found in pseudosciences . For those pseudosciences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact forbidden . For some promoters of pseudoscience , selective skepticism of other bodies of knowledge ( including mainstream science ) is practiced , but not of their own . For many of the believers of various pseudosciences , though , skepticism is merely an irrelevant concept . They simply do n't engage routinely in any practice of critical thinking . Needless to say , the skepticism with which scientists greet pseudoscience is generally unwelcome . This skepticism is interpreted as the close-minded response of someone invested in protecting an orthodox status quo . People who make this interpretation do n't realize the important role of skepticism in scientific thought . Disregard of Established Results Our last criterion is not only misunderstood by promoters of pseudoscience , its importance is also underestimated by many people who evaluate the competing claims of a science and a pseudoscience . Scientific advance virtually always builds on previous work ( as Newton phrased it , he " stood on the shoulders of giants " ) . We see this time after time in the stories of discovery related in Part I. Even revolutionary changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and such changes always account for the tenets of the outmoded viewpoint . Well-established results have become so through a long hard process of critical scrutiny , and these results remain established because they continue to explain a wide variety of observations and experiments in a coherent and satisfying manner . For all of these reasons , scientists work from a sturdy foundation of accepted ideas even as they try to extend our knowledge into new and unfamiliar areas . In pseudoscience , on the other hand , we find a rather cavalier disregard for established results . Indeed , contradicting known results is often taken to be a great virtue because it shows how new and exciting the ideas are . Rejecting the ideas of a pseudoscience because they conflict with everything else we know is considered ( by the believers in the pseudoscience ) to be close-minded and authoritarian . While I agree that any idea , no matter how unorthodox , initially deserves an open-minded hearing , this does not imply that the unorthodox idea and the established idea should be considered on an equal footing . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be subjected to a much greater burden of proof . Those who engage in pseudoscience do n't accept the obligation to provide such proof , or even to take into consideration the foundational knowledge that has been developed by the sciences over hundreds of years . Perhaps one reason that people who work in a pseudoscience feel free to ignore established results is that such people mostly work in isolation from any broader intellectual community . Whereas a scientist works to integrate results into a larger framework ( which ultimately includes all of the sciences ) , the pseudoscientist works alone ( or in a self-contained group that maintains no intellectual contact with anyone outside the pseudoscience ) . This isolation is actually yet another criterion by which to identify pseudoscience . Some Afterthoughts Not every activity that meets some or all of these criteria is necessarily a pseudoscience . Only those activities that meet the criteria and also claim to be sciences are pseudosciences . For example , loosely connected thoughts not ordered by logic are perfectly appropriate ( and may be quite profound ) in poetry . Ideas that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , again very appropriately , in religions based on scriptures . Only a fool would call poetry and religion pseudosciences . A more subtle and interesting example is provided by alchemy , which is very often labeled as pseudoscience . As cultural historians such as Mircea Eliade and Titus Burckhardt have shown , however , traditional alchemy was a method of spiritual initiation rather than a misguided attempt to do science as we know it ; in that sense , alchemy is not actually a pseudoQUESTIONS // science . To reiterate , a pseudoscience is an activity that claims to be a science but is not a genuine science based on the criteria listed above . Our criteria are somewhat formal , and do n't include personal characteristics that are sometimes associated with practitioners of either pseudoscience or science . For example , pseudoscientists may have a tendency to feel persecuted when their ideas are rejected , harbor a seemingly personal antipathy toward mainstream science , or have a hidden agenda ( such as making money or promoting a religious doctrine ) . I 'm mentioning these personal traits because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pseudoscience , they do n't always occur , and we have only a slight interest in them here . In describing the differences between science and pseudoscience , I have also been considering science in a normative sense , a kind of idealized science . In other words , I have been describing how scientists ought to behave , not necessarily how they always do behave . Real scientists , being human , sometimes fall short of this ideal ( for example , scientists have been known to cling stubbornly to an idea in the face of contradictory evidence , or uncritically jump on a bandwagon ) . But this truism is irrelevant . The point here is that pseudoscience does n't even share the normative ideals of genuine science . Lastly , note that each of the five criteria listed above has significant overlap with all of the other criteria . Although I have separated them into categories for conceptual simplicity , the criteria are really all interrelated . For example : lack of skepticism allows the presence of loosely connected thoughts to go uncriticised ; the lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and so on . While isolated aspects of one or two criteria may occasionally creep into real science , activities or ideas that meet most or all of these criteria ( operating together and reinforcing each other ) are certainly pseudoscientific. 52 . VELIKOVSKY In 1950 , Immanuel Velikovsky published a book called Worlds in Collision . This book was the result of a decade 's research into the myths of many ancient cultures , and the major thesis of the book was extraordinary to say the least : cataclysmic events , found in the myths of almost every culture in the world , had their common origin in real disasters caused by collisions between the earth and other members of the solar system . The hook was furiously attacked by several members of the mainstream scientific community , but those events are a story of their own , which I 'll relate at the end of the section . Our primary interest is whether this work should he considered science or pseudoscience . The first question to ask is whether Velikovsky claims that his work is science . Based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also well understood ) can not fix the situation either . In his book , Velikovsky claims that his ideas are merely an unorthodox alternative to unproved assumptions about the stability of the solar system , a claim that many readers accepted . But his work actually contradicts a great deal of science that we are very confident is correct . Velikovsky 's bland refusal to worry about these contradictions is a sign of pseudoscience . Now , contradicting established results does n't by itself make his work wrong , but this does increase the burden of proof to show that the work is right . How does his work measure up to this increased burden of proof ? This is an interesting question , because the book certainly offers a large amount of evidence . Page after page of quotations from culture after culture are given on each topic ( example : east becoming west and west becoming east ) . From all this , Velikovsky concludes that some physi-cal event happened ( example : the direction of Earth 's rotation changed ) . The cumulative effect of all these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not critically examined . The reliability and authenticity of the sources is n't assessed . We do n't know what date each of the sources refers to ( they would all have to refer to the same date if they described a real event ) . We do n't know the contexts of the quotes . And no alternative explanations are considered by Velikovsky . There is , in short , a lack of skeptical scrutiny in the work , making the evidence appear better than it really is . This lack of skepticism is another one of our criteria for pseudoscience . The book is also based almost entirely on loosely connected ideas as opposed to logical deductions . For example , a mythical description of a battle between Ares and Pallas Athena becomes a physical collision be-tween Mars and Venus . The thunderbolts of Zeus become electrical dis-charges between planets . The hypothetical hydrocarbons in a comet 's tail can become either oil or food , depending on the legend being discussed . In mythology , Athena sprang from the head of Zeus ; so the planet Venus was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to refer to a real event ; the event is then assumed to be a global catastrophe ; the global catastrophe is then assumed to have a cosmic origin ; the cosmic origin is then assumed to be a particular planet passing by ; the planet is then as-sumed to have some particular complicated history . Despite the length of the book and its wealth of detail , there are never any carefully constructed logical connections made between any of the assumptions in this long chain . Instead , the same assumptions are simply repeated over and over . The evidence upon which Velikovsky bases his conclusions consists al-most entirely of myths , legends , and ancient writings , not observations of nature . ( A few pages are devoted to geophysical evidence that could n't be interpreted at the time , contributing little to his work . ) Yet , we are asked 164 CHAPTER 12 in the preface of the book , on explicit comparisons between his ideas and standard scientific ideas , and on numerous statements made later by Velikovsky and his supporters , there is no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does the work compare to our criteria for pseudo-science ? Before answering this question , let 's take a more detailed look at the content of Worlds in Collision . It 's a massive book , 400 pages long with about half a dozen citation footnotes on each page . Velikovsky quotes from legends of flood , fire , earthquake , battles between deities , and so on from many , many cultures ( Hebrew , Greek , Hindu , Chinese , Egyptian , Assyrian , Mayan , Choctaw , Japanese , Babylonian , Samoan , Persian , Finnish , Eskimo , Ovaherero , etc . ) . Most of the book is taken up by quotations from his sources , detail-ing these legends and myths . The Hebrew accounts in the Old Testament of the Bible are particularly prominent . To account for the similarities in the myths of so many cultures , Velikovsky believes that some real global catastrophes must have occurred . Based on the details he has found in his historical studies , Velikovsky concludes that the following events happened : A large planet-sized object was ejected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close to Earth , causing the plagues of Egypt during Exodus , along with other disasters recorded in other places . Earth passed through the tail of the comet . This tail was composed of hydrocarbons , which rained down in the form of petroleum ( rains of fire ) and carbohydrates ( manna from heaven ) . The comet left Earth , went around the sun , and came back in 52 years to temporarily stop the rota-tion of Earth as related in the Book of Joshua . The comet later passed near Mars , causing Mars to leave its orbit and pass near Earth a few times , causing ( among other things ) the destruction of Sennacherib 's As-syrian army . The collision of the comet and Mars also inspired a number of passages in the Iliad . The eventual result of this collision was that Mars entered its present orbit , and the comet became the planet Venus ( in its present orbit ) . This highly abridged account leaves out a lot , but we have enough mate-rial now to begin a scrutiny based on our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this scenario is the total disregard for classical mechanics , which was exceedingly well established and had been for some time ( see chapter 4 ) . For example , the amount of energy needed to eject Venus from Jupiter is impossibly high ; it 's virtually impossible for Mars to have turned the elliptical orbit of Venus/comet into the almost circular orbit of Venus ; conservation of momentum is violated by some of these actions ; and so on . Velikovsky claims that his work only contradicts the assumption that gravity is the sole force involved , and that electric and magnetic forces between planets can fix the situation . But he offers no theory or calculations to justify this assertion , and in fact calculations 166 CHAPTER 12 to base our understanding of nature ( the solar system ) on this evidence . This is another sign of pseudoscience ( namely , our criterion of vague methods to acquire understanding ) . Velikovsky 's supporters may think this criticism is unfair because he did make several observational predictions ( some of them correct ) . These predictions have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right . Here are some of his predictions : Venus and Mars should be hot , due to collisions , electrical discharges , going near the sun , and so on ; Venus should have hydrocarbons in its atmosphere ; and Mars should have argon and neon as major components of its atmosphere . Do these predictions blunt the charge that Velikovsky 's work is pseudoscience ? Venus was eventually discovered to be much hotter than expected by mainstream science in 1950 . This discovery has been promoted as a striking confirmation of Velikovsky 's work , which is in turn a reason to take his ideas seriously . But this prediction is not part of a coherent picture based on Velikovsky 's ideas , because heat generated by events thousands of years ago ( which his model requires ) would have long since radiated away , leaving cold planets . In contrast , the scientific research that discovered the high temperature of Venus also discovered that Venus has a lot of carbon dioxide in its atmosphere , leading to a large amount of greenhouse warming ( see chapter 10 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculatively by one scientist even before 1950 ) accounts ( quantitatively ) extremely well for the temperature of Venus . But even if we did n't have a good explanation for a hot Venus , we can not conclude that Velikovsky is right , because his prediction was based on erroneous logic . Also , his predictions about the temperature and atmosphere of Mars are wrong ( a fact usually left unmentioned by his supporters ) . His prediction of hydrocarbon clouds on Venus was thought to be correct for a while , and highly touted as another striking confirmation . Later work has shown that the clouds are actually made of sulfuric acid . Again , the interesting point is not so much that this prediction is wrong . Even if the prediction were right , the proper conclusion ( given the fact that there was no valid logic supporting the prediction ) would not be that Velikovsky 's ideas are correct . We would merely have a remarkable coincidence . We 've seen so far that Velikovsky 's work should be classified as pseudoscience based on several of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lack of skeptical scrutiny , and vague methods to acquire understanding . Our other criterion was lack of progress and growth . His work qualifies as pseudoscience based on this criterion also , since his ideas can not be modified based on testing , or suggest new research directions . Instead , we are given a storyline , which we can either accept or reject . Velikovsky was an interesting and imaginative thinker , and he was a patient , thorough collector of ancient // myths and legends . But his work , whatever other virtues it may possess , is not science . The controversy between Velikovsky and mainstream science is an interesting story itself . A number of scientists , particularly astronomers , were livid with rage that Worlds in Collision had been published . They attacked the work in public ( reviews , letters to the editor , etc. ) , and they threatened the publisher with a boycott of its textbooks unless it stopped publishing the book . This censorship , combined with the abusive and disdainful treatment of Velikovsky and his work , has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or flaws of the book . The behavior of the scientists was not well received in many quarters , being interpreted as an illegitimate attempt to suppress new and rival ideas . By making Velikovsky into a martyr , the scientists probably increased his support in the general public ( presumably the opposite of what they wanted to do ) and hardened the position of his followers . The inappropriate behavior of Velikovsky 's detractors , however , does n't improve the argument of his book . We do n't need to censor pseudoscience ; we just need to learn how to recognize it . S3 . PERPETUAL MOTION A perpetual motion machine is just what it sounds like : a machine that runs forever . More particularly , it 's a machine that runs forever without any fuel or source of energy to keep it going . A perpetual motion machine can continue to do useful work for us without needing any supply of gasoline , coal , electricity , and so forth . We get something for nothing . It sounds too good to be true . In fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion machines do not and can not exist . The impossibility of perpetual motion was already a current idea among the ancient Greek philosophers . Practical folks had also figured out long ago that there are no perpetual motion machines , probably based on the innumerable failed attempts to build one . Simon Stevin , back in 1586 , used the nonexistence of perpetual motion as the starting point of his derivation for vector resolution of forces ( in other words , Stevin felt he could take it for granted that perpetual motion was absurd ) . Scientific understanding of the reason why perpetual motion is impossible came later , when the conservation of energy principle was formulated in the nineteenth century . Conservation of energy is now one of the bedrock foundational principles of the sciences ( see chapter 17 ) . Attempts to invent a perpetual motion machine have a long and fascinating history . A typical design might he , for example , a water wheel that runs a pump ; the pump delivers the water to a higher elevation ; the water 168 CHAPTER 12 runs down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , forever . Another popular idea uses flywheels with hinged weights on them that are supposed to use gravity to keep the flywheel turning . Many such clever mechanical contraptions and ideas have been proposed , but none of them have ever been known to work . Of course , we would n't expect any of them to work based on our present scientific understanding . The U. S. Patent Office does not accept applications for perpetual motion machines anymore ; the Paris Academy of Sciences refused to consider claims of perpetual motion back in 1775 . But people are still claiming , even now , to have invented perpetual motion machines . Moreover , their claims are taken seriously by journalists , politicians , and investors . How can this be ? Are all these people unaware of the history of failure in such attempts , and unaware of fundamental scientific results ? They are in fact aware of these things , but are not concerned by them . The inventors believe they have discovered important new scientific principles that can make perpetual motion a reality for the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been discovered ( so they claim ) by the perpetual motion machine inventors ? Basically , they are saying that their machine can tap into a vast reservoir of energy that is always present but unnoticed . No violation of the energy conservation principle is involved because a source exists for the energy produced by their machines . Now , one of the modern theories of physics ( quantum field theory ) does in fact have such a large energy reservoir as one of its concepts ( called zero point energy or vacuum fluctuation energy ) . Invoking such a concept makes their claims sound fairly plausible . Is the idea that we can tap into the vacuum energy to make a perpetual motion machine science or pseudoscience ? The issue has now become subtle for the following reason : One of our criteria for pseudoscience is the disregard of established results . At first , we might say this criterion is obviously met , since perpetual motion is utterly forbidden by conservation of energy . But by using the concept of the vacuum energy , the promoters of perpetual motion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are not creating energy out of nothing , we are simply using some existing energy . Since the vacuum energy qualifies as an established result , our conclusion seems less obvious now . However , we are ignoring a key point : the same theory that tells us the vacuum energy exists also tells us that we ca n't use it . Taking this point into account , we see that the reasoning of the perpetual motion promoters does indeed disregard established results . Surely it 's illogical to use a concept in a way that is clearly prohibited by the very structure of the theory in which the concept arose . Another criterion is the lack of logical connections . To be science , their explanation would need to specify unambiguously the mechanism by // which their machine extracts energy from the vacuum . Instead , we get strings of technical-sounding words that do n't actually have any meaning ( example : " The flow of load current does not create any anti-torque and therefore , the output power is greater than the input power used to rotate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fit together in any meaningful way , are used . The perpetual motion machines are real ( they believe ) , and so require an explanation . But the explanation is not sought by doing controlled experiments and trying to interpret the results within some constructive framework tied to the rest of science . Instead , a pseudo-explanation is created out of whole cloth , to somehow account for the very existence of the machine . Vague pictorial analogies are employed in place of logical connections between empirical observations ( " I use the analogy of a tornado . A tornado concentrates a force in a small volume , a force that was always present , it 's just changed form . " ) . There is no attempt to predict quantitatively the output of the machine in response to varying conditions . All that we have are some scientific-sounding bits and pieces ( a technological device , some fancy terminology , a quantum field theory concept ) , but none of it hangs together . The pieces do n't fit together into a picture . And this is why it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of growth and progress in the field . Perpetual motion promoters actually use this argument against mainstream science ; they claim that conventional scientists are dogmatically attached to outmoded ideas , while they themselves are enlightened prophets of progress . We 've already discussed the validity of this argument . The real issue is whether there has been any progress in understanding the behavior of the alleged perpetual motion machines ( or the science underlying this behavior ) . As we 've already seen , there has n't been any such progress because the inventors are not even really trying to achieve any new understanding . Instead , the same pseudo-explanations are simply repeated over and over . I have not yet addressed one question , which you have undoubtedly been asking yourself . Have n't these machines been tested ? Determining whether they work , once and for all , should be fairly easy . I 've saved this question to discuss in conjunction with another criterion of pseudoscience , organized skepticism . The inventors of these machines have apparently convinced themselves that their measurements prove they are getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists and engineers point out the potential flaws in the measurements that might incorrectly lead to that conclusion , they are ignored . When independent professionals have tested the machines with the best possible equipment , the machines have behaved as conventional science predicts they should ( i.e. , no perpetual motion ) . The inventors remain unconvinced . Appal. - 170 CHAPTER 12 ently , lack of organized skepticism also qualifies perpetual motion as a pseudoscience . Of course , the simplest test would also be the most convincing : plug the machine into itself and let it run without an external source of energy . The inventors have not done this , but they are sure they could if they wanted to . %4 . CREATION SCIENCE The evolution of life on earth is one of the central organizing principles of modern biology . Evolution , however , has always been a controversial idea among some groups , including certain fundamentalist sects in the United States . The members of these sects believe that everything written in the Bible is literally true , and their dislike of evolutionary thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bible . Several decades ago , a number of fundamentalists with some scientific background joined together to invent something called creation science . The basic thesis of creation science is that the universe was created , in its present form including all known species of plants and animals , about five thousand years ago ; and that this conclusion is defensible on purely scientific grounds . Because of these claims for scientific validity , we may subject creation science to the kind of critical analysis outlined in ? 1 . Based on our criteria , is it creation science or creation pseudoscience ? Let 's first clear up any misunderstandings caused by the close relationship between creation science and creationism in general . Creationism need not make any claims for scientific validity . We can legitimately postulate a divine being who created the universe in a way that makes it appear as though the universe had a long and involved history before this act of creation . This argument was in fact made in great detail in a book called Omphalos , written by Philip Gosse in 1857 , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The claim is based purely on religious faith ; can not be affected in any way ( supported or denied ) by observations or evidence ; and has nothing whatever to do with science ( see chapter 9 ) . Whether we accept or reject creationism on other grounds is irrelevant to our present discussion of science and pseudoscience . Creation science , on the other hand , very explicitly claims that observations and evidence lend scientific credibility to the idea of special creation . We can ( and I do ) legitimately reject this absurd claim . Our very first criterion for pseudoscience was lack of progress or growth in our understanding . In the case of creation science , the understanding of its practitioners must remain static by definition because they assume up front that special creation occurred . Looking for evidence is an afterthought , engaged in only for the purpose of supporting their preQUESTIONS // conceived conclusion . This conclusion will not change , regardless of any possible observation or argument put forth ; the creation science promoters are quite candid about the static nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a stance that is totally antithetical to real science but quite characteristic of pseudoscience . Another criterion , closely related to the first one in this case , is the lack of organized skepticism . These two criteria are related here because an unchangeable preconceived idea can not , by its very nature , be subjected to skeptical scrutiny . Skepticism implies asking yourself whether an idea is correct or not . Concluding that special creation is incorrect , however , has been forbidden under any circumstances by the believers in special creation . Of course , they have plenty of skepticism for the conclusions of mainstream biology , geology , and physics . But that 's not scientific skepticism , in the sense of doubting all premises in order to arrive at a correct picture ; instead , selected pseudoskepticism is directed toward any ideas that disagree with their preconceived conclusions . Now , since scientists are genuinely skeptical , they criticize each others ' ideas . Creation science writers routinely quote scientists ' critical comments in an attempt to cast doubt on the validity of evolutionary ideas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reasons I 've outlined . Ironically , these characteristics of real science ( being open to skeptical criticism , and changing ideas ) are exploited by creation science writers to attack evolutionary thought , misleading people who do n't understand what science actually is or how it works . As we 've seen , however , these tactics are based on aspects of creation science that in fact identify it as a pseudoscience . Looking at the mechanisms used to acquire understanding in creation science , we see that yet another criterion of pseudoscience is met . In a way , no mechanisms are used at all to acquire understanding in creation science ; there 's no need for them because the answers are already known ahead of time . Creation science has never even attempted to construct a positive research program by which our understanding might be increased . Instead , most of their writings are merely attacks on evolutionary thought , employing the dubious logic I mentioned in S1 ( i.e. , " If something is wrong with evolution , then special creation must be right . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something positive to offer , it 's an attempt to reconcile our observations with the Biblical accounts ( assumed to be true ) . If we rather broadly interpret " acquiring understanding " to include this sort of activity ( " How do we understand what we see in a way that does n't conflict with our beliefs ? " ) , then the mechanisms we find are vague , illogical , and ad hoc . Instead of fitting all the evidence together into a coherent picture , each piece of evidence is considered in isolation from all of the others . For each of these isolated pieces , the practitioners of creation science devise sonic kind of separate explana172 // tion . To assess the quality of these isolated explanations , we must move on to another of our criteria : loosely connected thoughts . Due to the underlying goals of creation science , its arguments do n't need to have any real validity . The arguments merely need to sound plausible when not subjected to any critical scrutiny . We are therefore not surprised to find vague statements and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's illustrate this point with an example : the creation science explanation for the fossil record found in layers of rock . The fossils ( mostly of extinct creatures ) certainly exist , and so creation science is obligated to give a scientific explanation of them . The creation science explanation is that the fossils are the preserved bodies of creatures who died in the Great Flood ( the one written about in the Bible , in which all life perished except for that on Noah 's Ark ) . As a scientific explanation of the fossil record , this story has a major problem : it does n't account for the different types of creatures found in different layers of rock ( geological strata ) . As we go into deeper and deeper layers , the bodies of the creatures become more primitive ; only water-dwelling creatures appear below a certain level ; and so on . An evolutionary picture accounts for these facts quite naturally , fitting together nicely with the geological picture of the layers as sedimentary rocks deposited over a long period of time . In other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason contain earlier creatures that are more primitive . The creation science picture ( simultaneous death by flood ) implies that all creatures should be mixed together in all the rocks . To account for the layering , various separate and unconvincing ad hoc explanations need to be devised . The basic idea simply does n't explain what is observed . Other questions that this idea does n't answer include the following : Why were water-dwelling creatures killed by a flood ? Why are n't there huge numbers of human remains in the fossil record ? How did creatures repopulate islands ( like Australia ) after the flood ? And so on . The point here is n't that the creation science explanation of the fossil record is wrong ; the point is that this explanation does n't really explain anything . We can never prove that this account is wrong ( after all , the bodies might have miraculously sorted themselves ) . Nor can we prove that the evolutionary account is right . As we 've emphasized , the role of science is not to provide certainty ( which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather to provide coherence ( which it sometimes does stunningly well ) . The promoters of creation science argue that , because neither evolution nor creation science can be proved , both are equally valid . This argument , which is central to their program , is based on a profound ignorance of what science is . Our last criterion of pseudoscience is disregard of established results . The advocates of creation science claim that their work is consistent with sciences other than evolutionary biology . Creation science was devised mainly as a tool with which to debunk evolutionary thought . For this // reason , promoters of creation science often use isolated fragments of mainstream sciences ( e.g. , thermodynamics ) , which they take out of con-text and apply incorrectly , as part of their efforts to attack evolution . In this way , they try to convey the impression that their ideas ( as opposed to evolution ) are really consistent with many established results . The im-pression they convey , however , is false . The assertion that the earth is only a few thousand years old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physics ( radioactive decay dating ) , cosmology ( micro-wave background ) , astronomy ( redshift measurements ) , geology ( plate tectonics , erosion ) , and so on . In its disregard for the well-established results of the mainstream sciences , creation science easily qualifies as a pseudoscience . To summarize , creation science is an endeavor that starts with a precon-ceived idea and distorts evidence to fit this idea . We achieve no increased understanding of our observations of the world because creation science is n't based on those observations . The statements found in creation sci-ence are vague , isolated fragments , having no coherence and no logical connections to each other or to observational evidence . Creation science forbids its practitioners to engage in critical scrutiny of its assertions ( also forbidding disagreement with the assertions ) . Creation science is inconsis-tent with important results in a variety of real sciences . In short , creation science amply satisfies every one of our criteria for a pseudoscience . Chapter 13 CONTENTIOUS QUESTIONS : THE SHADOWY BORDERLANDS OF SCIENCE " Then the one called Raltariki is really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and no , " said Yama . " If by demon ' you mean a malefic , supernatural creature , possessed of great powers , life span , and the ability to temporarily assume virtually any shape ? then the answer is no . This is the generally accepted definition , but it is untrue in one respect . " " Oh ? And what may that be ? " " It is not a supernatural creature . " " But it is all those other things ? " " Yes . " " Then I fail to see what difference it makes whether it be supernatural or not ? so long as it is malefic , possesses great powers and life span and has the ability to change its shape at will . " " Ah , but it makes a great deal of difference , you see . It is the difference between the unknown and the unknowable , between science and fantasy ? it is a matter of essence . " ( from Lord of Light by Roger Zelazny ) SOMETIMES , results are reported that lie far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by most , but not all , scientists . Although cases like this are occasionally labeled as pseudoscience in order to attack their validity , I believe this label is wrong . As we have seen ( chapter 12 ) , the defining characteristics of pseudoscience concern the methods of thinking , not the unlikelihood of the content . Pseudoscience seems an inappropriate description of cases where all parties agree on the validity of basic scientific methodology , even if there is heated disagreement over whether it 's being applied properly . Another label that has been applied to the subject matter of this chapter is " pathological science . " Once again , some less emotional term might be a better choice . But rather than quibbling over terminology , let 's look at some cases in detail . Of the many subjects that might he discussed in this chapter , 1 have chosen two : cold fusion and parapsychology. // 51 . COLD FUSION Nuclear Fusion The word " fusion " in this context refers to a process in which lighter atomic nuclei combine together ( fuse ) to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass of the nuclei is converted into energy during the fusion process . Fusion is the process that drives energy production in the sun and other stars , so fusion is ultimately responsible for almost all of our energy on earth . Fusion is also the energy source in the hydrogen bomb , a terrifying weapon of mass destruction . The name " hydrogen bomb " refers to the fact that hydrogen nuclei fuse together into helium nuclei . ( To be more precise , nuclei of the isotope of hydrogen known as deuterium are the nuclei that fuse . A hydrogen nucleus is a single proton , while a deuterium nucleus has both a proton and a neutron . ) For many years , scientists and policymakers have been hoping that fusion can someday be used as a new source of energy for our society . The required fuel is abundant ( deuterium replaces hydrogen in a certain fraction of the water naturally occurring on earth ; such water is called heavy water ) , and the radioactive waste products are few , making fusion a highly desirable energy source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly recent , let 's look at the efforts to harness fusion energy by standard techniques ; these efforts , which have been going on for over forty years , provide the context for our story . Fusion occurs naturally in the sun because the sun is very hot . At the fantastically high temperatures found in the sun , the nuclei and electrons of atoms are separated , forming what is known as a plasma . The nuclei are positive and the electrons are negative , so the plasma is a kind of charged particle gas . The charged particles making up the plasma in the sun have extremely high energies and speeds because of the high temperatures . These high energies and speeds enable the colliding nuclei to get close enough to each other to fuse , overcoming the mutual repulsions caused by their charges ( which ordinarily keep them apart , preventing fusion ) . Along with the extreme temperatures needed , the density of the plasma must also be high enough to yield significant numbers of collisions . If the density can be kept high enough after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-sustaining because the energy released by the fusion process will keep the temperature high . The sun 's own gravity keeps the density high enough in the sun . In a hydrogen bomb , the density does n't need to remain high very long , because the explosion lasts only a short time ( the needed high temperature is provided by an atomic bomb explosion as a trigger ) . The challenge to the plasma physicists has been to create a plasma with a steady high temperature and sufficient 176 CHAPTER 13 density so that a controlled self-sustaining fusion reaction can be maintained on earth . If this can be done , we might be able to use nuclear fusion to satisfy the world 's need for energy . The problem with creating these conditions may already be apparent to you . At temperatures like those in the sun , any container in which we tried to keep the plasma would be immediately vaporized . The solution to this problem has been to use the fact that the plasma particles are charged ; because they are charged , they can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words , the plasma can be confined within a magnetic bottle . This method gave rise to a multitude of difficult technical problems , many of which have now been solved . We 've made steady progress toward attaining the combination of temperature , density and duration that will yield a self-sustaining energy-producing reaction . But many years and many billions of dollars have been invested to reach the present state of progress . Although we have learned a lot about the physics of plasmas and have achieved many milestones toward practical fusion energy production , we are at best several decades and many more billions of dollars away from this elusive goal . But the effort continues because the fuel for this energy is cheap , relatively nonpolluting , and virtually limitless . Claims of Fusion at Room Temperature Such was the background for the dramatic announcement ( in 1989 ) that two electrochemists ( M. Fleischmann and B. S. Pons ) had achieved nuclear fusion at room temperature , using equipment no more complicated than a standard electrochemical cell ( which is little more than two pieces of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called electrolyte , and connected to a battery ) . Fusion occurring at room temperature in an electrochemical cell was quickly dubbed " cold fusion . " One of the electrodes was made of the metal palladium and the electrolyte contained some heavy water , that is , the hydrogen isotope deuterium was present . Palladium metal is well known to be capable of absorbing large amounts of hydrogen ( or in this case , deuterium ) , the way a sponge absorbs water . The idea of cold fusion is that , under the conditions of the electrochemical reaction taking place in the cell , the amount of deuterium in the palladium electrode becomes so great that the nuclei become close enough to undergo fusion . It 's difficult to understand how or why this should happen . But , according to proponents , experimental evidence indicated that cold fusion was in fact happening . In particular , large amounts of heat were measured , which the chemical reactions in the cell could n't account for . The results were announced at a press conference before being published in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great deal // of coverage . Cold fusion was presented as a solution to all of our energy problems ( which a cheap and simple way to achieve fusion would indeed be ) . The experiments were also presented as a revolutionary scientific breakthrough , since the new results seemed to contradict a great deal of well-established science . There was also a human-interest side to the story : the triumph of lonely innovators working on a shoestring budget , where teams of experts with vast resources had failed . What the media did not emphasize was how little documented evidence for cold fusion really existed . Following the original announcement , several research groups quickly started working to test the cold fusion claims . The situation was initially very chaotic and confused . Different groups made conflicting claims of positive and negative results , sometimes followed by retractions . This confusion was probably the result of too much haste and carelessness , brought on by the excitement of the extraordinary claims and their societal implications . As time went on and the results of more careful and well-controlled experiments became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fusion in the end . The few experiments that did find such evidence were inconsistent and not reproducible . Let 's examine this scientific evidence in more detail . Experimental Evidence What sort of measurements would indicate that nuclear fusion was taking place ? One measurement , which was widely emphasized , is excess heat in the electrochemical cell , indicating that energy is being produced . In addition , the fusion process results in a number of measurable radiations ( gamma rays and neutrons ) and substances ( helium isotopes and tritium ) . Measurement of these fusion products would indicate that fusion is taking place . The amounts of these fusion products , relative to each other and to the amount of heat produced , can be predicted . This is a crucial point , because the experiments should not only find the fusion products but should find them in the correct amounts . Let 's take a closer look at this issue , because much of the argument over the validity of cold fusion turns on this point . Figure 7 is a schematic illustration of the three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated by plus signs ( + ) because they have a positive charge , and neutrons by empty circles because they have no charge . Deuterium is represented by a proton and neutron together , the helium nucleus by two protons and two neutrons , the lighter isotope of helium by two protons and one neutron , and tritium ( another isotope of hydrogen ) by one proton and two neutrons . In all of these reactions , fusion of deuterium occurs in a way that conserves charge . From many years of experiment and from well-understood theory , we know that the first two reactions arc about equally probable , while the 178 CHAPTER 13 Figure third reaction is about a million times less probable than the other two . We also know how fast these reactions must proceed in order to produce a given amount of energy ( the alleged source of heat in cold fusion ) . How do the results of cold fusion experiments compare to these reactions ? Results were mixed . Some experiments detected no fusion products ( neutrons , helium , etc. ) at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product or another . Critics have questioned whether those small quantities were really fusion products , as opposed to detector artifacts or naturally occurring contaminants ( in other words , phony data ) . Leaving such questions aside , however , the amounts of the fusion products were far too small to account for the heat that was measured . Also , the amounts were not consistent with the probabilities of the various fusion reactions shown in Figure 7 . To make a crude analogy , it 's as if someone told you about going on a 2000-mile trip , showed you gasoline receipts consistent with driving 2000 miles , but had an odometer reading // increase of only 5 miles on the car . In the case of cold fusion , the inconsistency is dramatic . Some of the people doing the experiments would have received massive lethal doses of radiation to account for the heat , instead of the barely detectable amounts of radiation they reported . Experiments are always difficult to do . Sophisticated equipment can easily produce readings that are wrongly interpreted ; this is why scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In this case , detecting neutrons is difficult for two reasons : There are always some neutrons around anyway ( called background ) , and detectors sometimes say that the number of neutrons has increased when it has n't ( called drift ) . Even measuring excess heat is n't as easy as it sounds . Temperature differences across the cell , if they are not measured properly , can make the amount of produced heat look bigger than it really is . Experiments that account for such possible spurious results are better experiments . We say that such experiments are well-controlled experiments , or that they have better controls . The experiments in cold fusion that had the best controls detected no fusion products and little or no excess heat . Evaluation Claims for the observation of cold fusion were based on a considerable amount of excess heat and a minute amount of fusion products . Two mysteries therefore needed to be explained . The first mystery is how fusion can occur at all under the conditions of the electrochemical cell ( i.e. , how do the nuclei get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why there are not enough fusion products to account for the heat produced . Several theorists attempted to explain these two mysteries , but the proposed explanations all suffered from the same problem : they were all ad hoc explanations . An ad hoc explanation is an explanation that is not based on anything , an explanation where you just make it up as you go along and use any assumptions needed to achieve the result you want . No coherent theory that really explains the results has ever been proposed to account for cold fusion . A highly developed and interconnected set of theories and experiments , on the other hand , has evolved over fifty years to give us a coherent picture in which cold fusion is not possible . But , you may object , experiment should be the ultimate authority here ; theories must change if experiments contradict them . This is true . But consider the quality of the experimental evidence . None of the experiments claiming evidence for cold fusion have been reproducible . The most carefully done experiments have seen no indications of fusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fusion have results that conflict with each other in their details . In addition , the experiments are known to he difficult to perform properly , and known to produce phony results 180 CHAPTER 13 sometimes looking much like those obtained by the cold fusion proponents . Is this kind of evidence sufficient to spark a major scientific revolution ? The answer to this question is , in the end , a judgment ( see chapter 14 ) . The judgment of the mainstream scientific community has been clear : cold fusion does not exist . Few scientists are even paying attention to the question anymore , regarding it as a closed issue . A very small number of scientists consider cold fusion to be real , and they are still working in the area . If these scientists could ever make a convincing case , the mainstream judgment would change . Alternatively , the number of cold fusion proponents may dwindle over the years until it reaches zero some day , and the issue will then die . S2 . PARAPSYCHOLOGY Parapsychology is the study of various extraordinary abilities ascribed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are these : acquiring information without using the senses ( extrasensory perception , or ESP ) ; causing something to move without any physical mechanism ( psychokinesis ) ; and knowing in advance that some unpredictable event will happen ( precognition ) . Many people ( scientists and nonscientists alike ) vehemently deny the very existence of all these things and believe that parapsychology is bogus and pseudoscientific . The proponents of parapsychology , on the other hand , believe there is good evidence for the existence of such paranormal abilities . We 'll take a look at some of this evidence and discuss how it might be interpreted . We 'll also reconsider the question of how to judge whether a field is scientific or not : Should our criteria be based on the methods used or on the subject matter studied ? Historical Context Folk beliefs about paranormal human abilities are found in almost all cultures and are usually rooted in an irrational worldview . These common folk beliefs are a kind of " prehistory " for parapsychology , but they have little to do with our present discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England , near the end of the nineteenth century . A quasi-religious movement known as Spiritualism had become prominent ( in both the United States and England ) at that time . The main activity of Spiritualists was ( allegedly ) communicating with the spirits of the dead , but this activity was usually accompanied by strange sounds and lights , furniture moving on its own , and other weird things . Much of that display , not surprisingly , turned out to he trickery and fraud . But // a number of scientists became interested in these seemingly paranormal phenomena , and they began to engage in a scientific study of Spiritualism . The Society for Psychical Research was founded to provide an organized forum for such studies ( a similar American Society was founded shortly afterward ) . Several prominent scientists and scholars participated in this work . A good deal of their effort was devoted to unmasking fraud , but a number of cases were judged by the scientists to involve genuine effects . These cases were investigated , but in the end it was too difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study gradually faded over a number of years . Parapsychology in its modern form began in the 1930s at Duke University , under the direction of J. B. Rhine and L. E. Rhine ( even the word " parapsychology " comes from this source ) . A new research method was developed . Instead of looking at the spectacular claims of prominent Spiritualists , the Rhines looked for evidence of weak paranormal abilities in average people . In a typical experiment , a subject might look at a random series of images on cards , while a second subject ( who ca n't see the cards ) tries to identify which card is being viewed . If this second person can identify the correct card image more often than expected based on random chance guessing , the result is interpreted as evidence for paranormal abilities . A major innovation of this method was the central role given to statistical arguments . Considerable work has been done using such methods , initially at the Duke laboratory and later at several other institutions . Early work was criticized for having insufficient controls ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the backs or torn corners ) . In response to this criticism , experimental designs were improved . Statistical methods were also criticized and , as a result , improved . A professional association was founded , and several journals were established to publish the results of these studies . These same research methods ( i.e. , looking for small paranormal effects using statistical techniques ) are still prominent in present-day parapsychology . Several innovations have been added during the last several decades , such as the increasing use of automated data collection ( which is intended to avoid bias and fraud ) . So far , I have only been relating the history of the practitioners of parapsychology research . Part of the history of parapsychology , however , is the criticism its practitioners receive from people outside the field . During every phase of the historical sketch I 've outlined , critics have said : " These alleged paranormal abilities simply do n't exist . Parapsychology does n't have any subject matter that is real . The results that have been published can all be accounted for by either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made against the work of each generation of parapsychologists throughout the history of the field . 182 CHAPTER 13 Reasons for the Controversy I think the major reason that parapsychology is so severely criticized can be stated very simply : The existence of the paranormal abilities that parapsychologists study is contradicted by the many well-established results of the natural sciences . In other words , the mainstream sciences ( physics , chemistry , and biology ) look for and find lawful regularities and identifiable causal mechanisms in the workings of the world . In the understanding that these sciences have achieved , there is no way for human minds to affect the world ( or other minds ) directly , without the use of muscles ; or for human minds to gain information from the world ( or other minds ) directly , without the use of the senses . In the words of one critic , science is a " seamless web , " and we ca n't simply graft the paranormal onto it without disrupting the entire structure . Since this seamless web of interrelated ideas and results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by many thousands of scientists over hundreds of years ) , then we may dismiss the results of parapsychology without further consideration . Why is this reasoning not compelling to the advocates of parapsychology ? There are at least three replies that advocates make to such reasoning . First : Science grows and develops by learning new things and incorporating these new things into a broader understanding ; this might eventually happen with paranormal phenomena , even if we ca n't see how it could happen at the moment . After all , revolutionary changes have occurred before in the history of science . Second : The empirical evidence that paranormal phenomena exist is overwhelming . In the face of empirical observations supporting the phenomena , we ca n't simply deny the existence of the paranormal because it does n't fit our current understanding . Third : The results of parapsychology may not actually contradict our current scientific understanding , because certain aspects of quantum physics appear to be consistent with it , for example , nonmaterial information transfer . Needless to say , critics of parapsychology are not convinced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physics and psi ( " psi " is a general term coined to describe paranormal phenomena and the causes thereof ) is highly speculative at best . Any role for quantum physics in explaining psi would be even more controversial than the existence of psi ( the very thing it 's supposed to justify ) . Regarding a revolution in scientific thinking to accommodate psi , critics point out that such revolutions only happen when there is a pressing need . In other words , revolutions occur when so many anomalies have accumulated that we can no longer use current scientific ideas productively . If the empirical evidence // for psi were indeed overwhelming , then we would be forced to undergo a revolutionary change in our thinking . But the evidence for psi is only meager and weak . Evidence You can see that the key question now has become this : How strong , really , is the empirical evidence for the existence of psi ? The advocates and critics of parapsychology answer this question in exactly opposite ways . We ca n't even attempt a complete and detailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies is very large , and each study would require a critical evaluation . For many studies , a secondary literature of criticism and rebuttal already exists , and we 'd also have to look at that . Instead , I 'll just describe a few of the studies that parapsychologists consider exemplary . My main interest is n't in settling the issue ( even if that were possible ) ; my main interest is in showing how to think about scientific evidence . The early work with guessing-card images provides several illustrative examples . In Rhine 's laboratory during the 1930s , a series of tests were run with J.G. Pratt and H. Pearce . There is little question of subtle sensory clues in this case because the two people were in different buildings ( using synchronized watches to time the guesses with the card choices ) . The cards had five different images ( a standard technique in such work ) , so guessing at random would presumably result in correct guesses for about 20% of the attempts . A lot of data was collected ( 1850 attempts ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempts . A later card-guessing series from Rhine 's laboratory involved a subject named W. Delmore . Using ordinary playing cards ( i.e. , 52 images instead of 5 ) , the experimenter placed each card in an opaque envelope and showed the envelope to Delmore , who tried to guess which card was in it . Once again the number of attempts was large ( 2392 ) . In this case , we would expect correct guesses at random in about 2% of the attempts . Delmore guessed correctly about 6% of the time . The probability of the results observed in these two experiments is vanishingly small . However , it 's almost impossible to rule out trickery completely in experiments of this type . Because of the problems with card guessing ( e.g. , the danger of sleight-of-hand being used ) , more recent work has often employed an electronic randomevent generator . This device is often based on the radioactive disintegration of atoms as its source of random events . In practice , the device might have four possible states that it can choose among randomly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on lights . The subject tries to predict which state the device will choose ( precognition ) or to influence 184 CHAPTER 13 this choice ( psychokinesis ) . The subject registers the prediction by pressing a button ; the device records the prediction of the subject automatically , and keeps a running total . Random-event generators are able to acquire large amounts of data quickly and easily , and make cheating difficult . In general , the effects that have been observed using these devices have been small ; but because the number of trials has been so large , the results have been statistically significant . For example , one subject predicted correctly 27% of the time ( instead of the 25% expected by random guessing ) . This is n't much , but based on the 15,000 attempts that were made , we would expect such a result only once every 100,000 experiments . Critics of work with random-event generators have questioned whether the device really does produce genuinely random choices , since proof of this randomness is not always included in the published work . Also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better , which is confusing . Some results with random-event generators , however , have now been replicated by independent investigators . Our final example illustrates a different kind of research method . Subjects are first asked to relax , and note the imagery that enters their minds . Meanwhile , an experimenter in another room is concentrating on some particular image ( which might be anything , e.g. , an art print ) . The test is whether the subject 's mental imagery is related to the image the experimenter concentrates on , and whether the subject can identify this image when presented with a number of choices . A typical procedure in these experiments is to promote a relaxed state in the subject with diffuse light and white noise . After about 50 such experiments had been performed , results were pooled for the 39 of them in which the same research methodology was used : Four pictures were presented to the subject , and only a correct choice was counted . ( In some other studies , choosing a wrong but similar picture was given partial credit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25% of the time by chance . The results of these 39 studies , reporting data from 1,193 subjects , were combined . The subjects chose correctly more than 30 percent of the time , which once again is extremely improbable . Some of the criticisms of this work include problems with randomizing the pictures , and problems with subjects receiving sensory information ( e.g. , if the same picture that the experimenter handled is used as one of the subject 's choices ) . Also , only about half of the individual studies obtained positive results , making replicability an issue . Evaluation There are two questions to consider , and I think the two questions should be considered separately . Is parapsychology a science ? Are the paranormal effects studied by parapsychology real effects ? I first need to justify // my opinion that these are really separate questions , because even this opinion is itself controversial . My reason for this belief is that science is a way of investigating and understanding a phenomenon , not a specific body of knowledge concerning that phenomenon . This subtle point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like optics or botany ) our level of understanding has become so high that the methods and subject matter of the science merge together ; the fact that light has different wavelengths and the act of making a rainbow with a prism become inseparable in our minds . The early stages of a science are quite different . In the early history of chemistry , for example , we once thought that a burning material was losing a substance called " phlogiston . " We now know that burning materials are combining with oxygen , and that phlogiston does not exist . Many chemists ( e.g. , the highly respected Joseph Priestley ) did experiments to study the properties of phlogiston . No one has suggested that these experiments were not science because phlogiston does not exist . So , it is possible for a science to study effects ( at least for a while ) that are not real . Parapsychology might still be a science , regardless of whether paranormal effects exist or not . Of course , I have n't answered our question yet , I 've only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Is parapsychology a science ? Although several eminent authorities would disagree with my assessment , I believe the answer is yes . My reason for this answer is that the parapsychologists , in the published works which I 've read , accept the ground rules of science : Assertions need to be tested by experiment ; flaws in experimental design must be corrected ; the generally accepted rules of logical inference should be followed ; experimental results should be replicable by independent investigators ; and , the ultimate goal of the endeavor is a coherent understanding of the observations . Individual parapsychologists have sometimes made unwarranted statements that violate one or more of these ground rules , and those statements can legitimately be used to argue against my position . But isolated examples are not convincing . The proper question is whether the field as a whole ( as an institution ) condones such unwarranted statements . There is another argument against parapsychology as a science , and this argument merits serious consideration . The understanding achieved within any science must be consistent with all other sciences . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We ca n't have a valid science with an inbred worldview , isolated from the scientific community as a whole . To give parapsychologists more time in which to integrate their results into a broader framework may not he entirely unreasonable , however . Critics will answer that parapsychology has had many years to pursue this goal ; uul has come up empty-handed . But perhaps this is an argument that 186 CHAPTER 13 the field is an unsuccessful science , not an argument that the field is not a science . We now come to the second question : Are the effects real ? We face here a situation similar to that found for cold fusion . A small number of committed workers in the area are convinced that the evidence demonstrates real effects , while a large number of mainstream scientists think this conclusion is nonsense . We 've looked briefly at some of the evidence marshalled by the parapsychologists . How should we evaluate this evidence ? The key issue here is the burden of proof required . The more radically an idea diverges from well-established knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea is right . Since the existence of psi would be a revolutionary change of unprecedented proportions , the evidence for psi must be subjected to unprecedented critical scrutiny . This evidence has n't yet stood up to the stringent tests required , despite the fact that more modern experiments have eliminated many of the initial objections to their work ( such as the easy availability of ways to cheat ) . The unusually high demand for proof ( which is justified by the extravagance of the claims ) accounts for the continued skepticism of the scientific community , even when parapsychologists believe that their evidence should suffice . S3 . COMPARISONS An important similarity between cold fusion and parapsychology is the problem with replicability , which both fields have . If two scientists ca n't do the same experiment and achieve the same result , we are bound to have confusion and controversy . After a body of well-documented and well-replicated work starts to emerge , controversies tend to die out . In the case of cold fusion , advocates claimed that the problem with reproducing their results was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But this claim could n't withstand scrutiny for very long , because cold fusion advocates were obligated to specify the right procedures in detail . In the case of parapsychology , the replication problems are in a different category ; these problems may be due to the individual differences among the human subjects . If an alleged psi ability is found in experiments with a particular subject , how can another experimenter test this claim without having the same subject ? Although this problem might be unavoidable for individual experiments , aggregate results of collections of experiments should be reproducible . A major difference between cold fusion and parapsychology has been in their historical developments . Cold fusion burst dramatically upon the // scene , caused a frenzy of activity , and then almost died out . Parapsychol-ogy , in contrast , has had a small but relatively stable number of investiga-tors for over a hundred years . The reason for the initial burst of cold fusion activity is undoubtedly the shock of the initial announcement com-bined with the social and economic implications of plentiful energy . The reasons this activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endured . The reasons for continued activity in parapsychology are un-clear . Proponents argue that the successes of the field continue to attract new investigators each generation , while critics maintain that the wide-spread and irrational urge to believe in psi accounts for the continued activity of the field . A rather superficial similarity is that both fields have been labeled pathological science . This label is a term coined by the famous chemist Irving Langmuir to describe the activities of scientists who study nonexis-tent phenomena by deluding themselves into observing things that are n't there . A classic case cited by Langmuir is the study of N-rays . Around the beginning of the century , many scientists studied N-rays intensively for several years . N-rays do n't exist , except ( apparently ) in the imaginations of those scientists . Cold fusion and parapsychology do share one charac-teristic that Langmuir attributed to pathological science , namely , they both study effects that are small and difficult to observe . But neither field meets all of Langmuir 's criteria , and it 's not clear that using this term accomplishes anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both fields call for revolutionary changes in our scientific thinking . We have already discussed the basis , in each field , for demanding drastic changes in our understanding . Likewise , we have discussed the case against drastic changes , both in general terms and also for each field in particular . But there is also an interesting difference between these two fields , namely , in the kind of changes demanded . Cold fusion demands specific changes in specific , highly studied physical systems . Parapsychol-ogy , on the other hand , calls for changes that are far-reaching but only vaguely defined . Chapter 14 VERY ABSTRACT QUESTIONS : THE PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE " And you , " I said with childish impertinence , " never commit errors ? " " Often , " he answered . " But instead of conceiving only one , I imagine many , so I become the slave of none . " ( from The Name of the Rose by Umberto Eco ) SCIENTISTS go about their work , gathering and interpreting data in order to better understand nature . Rarely does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do we mean by " better understanding " ? How do we know our methods are valid and our interpretations correct ? Why should we even assume that nature can be understood at all ? These are questions of a type that scientists rarely ask . Asking this kind of question is the task of the philosopher of science . Philosophers of science have taken a variety of approaches . For some , the goal has been to ascertain the true nature of things , which the methods of science can only hint at . This metaphysical outlook has come under strong attack by other philosophers , who claim that only direct observations have meaning and that the job of science is to find regularities in these observations . In this view , the role of the philosopher is a sort of gatekeeper , to bar metaphysical entities from science . One school of thought assigns to philosophy the work of determining normative methodological rules for the sciences . In other words , philosophers need to tell scientists how they ought to judge between competing theories ; select valid evidence ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logic ; determine the truth or falsehood of a claim ; and so on . This view was predominant during the first half of the twentieth century , but has since been challenged ( primarily by thinkers influenced by the history of science ) . Historical studies indicate that scientists rarely behave according to the rules prescribed by the philosophers , so what meaning do such rules really have ? In this chapter , we 'll take a brief look at these controversies , along with a variety of other interesting issues , acquiring a broad overview of the philosophical landscape as we go . 190 CHAPTER 14 1 . EMPIRICISM AND RATIONALISM The word " empirical " means founded upon experience and observation . Empirical observations are certainly a necessary ingredient of science , and one might even say that empirical results are the foundation upon which scientific thinking is built . But can science be built on empirical results alone ? Although some people might answer yes to this question , such people are in the minority these days . A brief historical sketch reveals rising and falling fortunes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more inclined toward metaphysical speculation than empirical observation ; but there was also a strain of empiricism in Greek thought , as in the biological observations of Aristotle and in the attention paid to astronomical observations . Empiricism waned during the Middle Ages , as thinkers relied more on the authority of the ancients , but it became prominent in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries as part of the new learning advocated by natural philosophers . Galileo , for example , effectively used new observational discoveries ( Jupiter 's moons and the phases of Venus ) to argue for the Copernican system ( see chapter 5 ) . In England , Francis Bacon enshrined empirical observation as the basis for all progress . Bacon is a sort of patron saint of empiricism ; he envisioned the workings of science as primarily a systematic gathering of empirical facts . These facts would then be sifted and organized so as to arrive at general conclusions . Bacon 's ideas remained very influential for many years , but the actual practice of science developed a more theoretical strain in parallel with such empiricism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and theoretical constructions must mutually reinforce each other in order for science to progress . There is an important problem with basing scientific conclusions solely on empirical facts , namely , the so-called problem of induction . Induction , or inductive logic , basically means that we can conclude that something will always happen because it has always happened before . ( " I know the sun will rise tomorrow , because it has risen every day before until now . " ) This logic is at the core of any attempt to prove a conclusion by empirical observation , because any such set of observations must be finite in number and yet the conclusion is meant to be general . To put it more grandiosely , we wish to make a universal statement based on an isolated set of observations ( see chapter 7 for a more practical discussion of induction ) . The problem with this reasoning is that there is no way we can guarantee that it is true . The fact that something has always happened before does not insure that it will always happen . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposite pole of thought is the doctrine of rationalism . The champion of rationalism was Rene Descartes , who distrusted empirical // information as a secure foundation for knowledge because the senses can be fooled . We all know that we can be seriously misled by optical illusions and so on . If the evidence of our senses ca n't be trusted , what can ? Descartes believed that deductive logic , exemplified by mathematics , was the surest foundation for knowledge . Ultimately , then , science should be based on our minds , not our senses . Rationalism , taken to an extreme , proclaims that truth can be apprehended directly by our minds . We only need to use the proper thought processes , identifying manifestly true first principles , and deducing their consequences ; no empirical input is needed in this view . Few people still accept this extreme view . Historically , neither empiricism nor rationalism has proven adequate by itself as a philosophical foundation for science . Perhaps the most important result of Descartes ' program was to highlight the value of mathematics in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logic was completed in Vienna around 1930 by a group of philosophers who had developed a viewpoint called logical positivism . A major tenet of positivism is that only directly observable objects and events should be considered valid scientific subject matter , making it a highly empiricist philosophy . Anything that ca n't be observed is , for the positivist , unwanted metaphysical baggage . The task of science , in this view , is to ascertain the logical relationships between all of these observables . The network of logical connections built up in this way is a scientific theory , and such a theory is the only " positive " knowledge that we can possibly have . The clarity and precision of positivism were attractive to many philosophers . Nothing is more clear and unambiguous than mathematical logic ; and empirical facts are certainly a firm foundation upon which to build science . But there is a problem : many things in the sciences are not directly observable . What do we do about these things ? ( The grandfather of positivism , Ernst Mach , had stoutly denied the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) To address this problem , the logical positivists demanded " rules of correspondence " between theoretical entities and empirical observations . As long as a concept could be connected to observations by a set of rigid rules , the concept was legitimate . If such rules ca n't be found , get rid of the concept . A similar kind of thinking is found in the movement known as operationalism . The key idea here is the " operational definition " of a scientific concept , which is a definition purely in terms of operations resulting in a measurement . For example , Newton had defined time with a verbal statement that he regarded as self-evident , but that was operationally meaningless . Einstein 's redefinition of time in terms of the operations with 192 CHAPTER 14 clocks that are needed to measure time turned out to be an important advance . Using examples like this , P. W. Bridgman ( an experimental physicist with philosophical interests ) formulated the idea of an operational definition . Bridgman claimed that any concepts that could n't be defined operationally should be considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with logical positivism , and both were heavily influenced by Mach . In terms of the positivist program , operational definitions are a particular kind of correspondence rule . Logical positivism dominated the philosophy of science for decades , and still exerts some influence . But it came under attack around the middle of the century , and has waned in authority since then . We 'll see some of the problems with positivism as we go on with the chapter . A different philosophical vision of science , however , had been articulated even before positivism was invented . The brilliant French physicist and philosopher , Henri Poincare , proposed that science needs to employ " conventions " that are creations of the human mind , not directly tied to empirical facts . These conventions are not merely free creations , however , because they are constrained by our observations of the world in a variety of indirect ways , and sometimes must change with the course of scientific progress . Poincare , writing near the turn of the century , devised a philosophy of science that in many respects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Determinism The idea of causality is very important in the sciences but has been notoriously difficult to make philosophically precise . The root word of causality is " cause . " If one event or action is the cause of another , they are connected by a causality relation . This sounds simple enough , but what do we mean when we say that one thing causes another ( see chapter 7 ) ? For example , what caused my coffee cup to break ? I pushed my coffee cup off the shelf . So , my pushing it caused the cup to break . But we could just as well say that gravity pulling it down caused the cup to break ; or , we could say that the brittleness of the clay caused the cup to break . This example illustrates two problems : the problem of multiple partial causes , and the problem of logical necessity ( i.e. , if the cause occurs , the effect must follow ) . In the physical sciences , discussions of causality are restricted to cases where a single cause can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the life sciences and the social sciences , where such a restriction is seldom possible , the concept of causality is still often employed ( e.g. , a virus causes the common cold , but exposure to the virus does n't always necessarily result in a cold ) . Although descripVERY // tions based on causality are quite widespread and important in these fields , philosophical analysis of such usage has not been thoroughly worked out . The restriction to cases of single causes and necessary effects is very limiting , of course , but does permit a high degree of logical rigor in the discussion . Empiricist philosophers , however , have used this criterion of universal conjunction to deny the meaningfulness of causality . As David Hume pointed out , the most that we can ever really know is that one event has always followed another ; to then claim that the first event causes the second is merely a bad verbal habit . Night always follows day , for example , but we do n't claim that the day causes the night . This is n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only game in town ; other philosophers have elevated causality to the status of a metaphysical principle . Philosophers who were heavily influenced by physics adopted a different line of thought . Since you can write down equations and solve them in order to predict the second event based on the occurrence of the first event , then predictability becomes the key issue ( see , however , chapter 17 ) . Another word for such predictability is determinism ; the first event determines the occurrence of the second . Put differently , the important property of the world is that it 's deterministic , not that it 's causal . Causality , in this view , is just anthropomorphic language assigning motives to a deterministic sequence . Chance and Probability But if the world is deterministic , there should be no random events ; and yet , we know that dice rolls and lightning strikes are unpredictable . Even without using the new insights gained in the last few decades ( chapter 17 ) , this paradox can be resolved . The prediction of an event requires a complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event . In practice , meeting this requirement is rarely possible . From this standpoint , the need to use probability in the sciences stems from what we do n't ( and perhaps ca n't ) know . How can we figure out what the probability of an event is ? There are well-defined mathematical rules for combining probabilities . For example , I can calculate the odds in a coin toss of getting five heads in row , if I know the odds of getting a head on each toss . But how do I know the odds of each individual toss coming up heads ? How do we figure out the single-event probabilities that we need in order to make combinations ? There are two main schools of thought on this question : one subscribes to the principle of indifference , while the other adopts the frequency interpretation . The principle of indifference is simply stated : if there is no reason to believe that one event is inure or less likely than another , then the events 194 CHAPTER 14 have equal probabilities . The odds of getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probability of any particular face coming up on a tossed die is 1/6 ; there is a 1 out of 52 chance of drawing any particular card from a deck ; and the odds of finding a particular air molecule in one volume of a room are the same as finding it in any equal-sized volume . The adherents of the frequency interpretation , being empiricists , find this idea too metaphysical . They instead define the probability of an event as the ratio of the number of times this event occurs to the number of possible times it could occur . In other words , we toss many coins , and count the number of heads that turn up . The disadvantage of this technique is that it 's often impractical to carry out , but the obvious advantage is that you find out if your presuppositions are wrong ( for example , you may be using loaded dice ) . The arguments between these schools of thought tend to be highly technical . The questions are important , however , because many sciences are based on chance and probability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theory of experimental errors , quantum physics , and much of the social sciences . In addition , some strains of modern philosophy consider scientific theory validation to be primarily a matter of increasing the probability of correctness , since we have no method of assuring certainty . Finally , questions of determinism and chance in the sciences influence the broader philosophical discussions of free will and destiny in human affairs . Space and Time We experience our lives in space and time . Long before the dawn of a scientific worldview , philosophers ( not to mention poets and mystics ) were deeply engaged by questions about the nature of space and time . Since all natural processes occur in space and time , these concepts are fundamental to science . ( Examples might include the formation and erosion of mountain ranges , or the geographic distribution of plants and animals during a period of climate change . ) But the use we make of space and time in many sciences is pretty straightforward , with little need for philosophical analysis . An exception to this statement is physics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study . Newton 's descriptions of space and time as absolute properties of reality , unaffected by either matter or consciousness , were in fact metaphysical presuppositions . The writings of Kant put this metaphysical view of space and time on a more rigorous philosophical foundation . Put simply , the properties of space are given by the geometry of Euclid , and time is a separate property that exists independently of space . Einstein discovered that these metaphysical properties of space and time are incompatible with the logic of modern // physical theory ( electrodynamics and mechanics do n't fit together properly ) , as well as certain experimental observations . In response , Einstein reformulated our conceptions of space and time . In Einstein 's relativistic worldview , space and time are welded together into a single four-dimensional spacetime , whose non-Euclidean properties depend on the matter that resides there . One challenge of twentieth-century philosophy of science has been to find a good metaphysical foundation for this revolutionary conception ( Ernst Cassirer 's work here is noteworthy ) . A second major question concerns the directionality of time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and future have always been a mystery worthy of consideration by philosophers . In science , part of the mystery stems from the role that time plays in the equations of physics . In the physics of both Newton and Einstein , these equations do n't depend on the plus or minus sign of the time ; the same motions are predicted either way , only the direction of the sequence of events will be reversed . In other words , the universe could just as well be running either forward or backward , as far as the equations are concerned . Of course , we always experience the universe as running forward , from past to future . Why should this be ? Some insight into the question comes from statistical physics ( see chapter 17 ) , but philosophers are still pondering these deep issues . Reductionism and Emergence To illustrate what reductionism means , let 's consider an example . Kepler 's laws tell us descriptively how the planets move around the sun ( see chapter 5 ) . Newtonian dynamics tells us , in theory , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dynamics to the case of the planets and the sun , we find that Kepler 's laws result from the analysis ; we are able to explain , in broader terms , why they work . In other words , we have reduced Kepler 's laws to a special case of dynamics . Different degrees and levels of reduction can be found in the sciences . In our example , there are two levels of reduction ; first , Kepler reduced reams of observational data to a small number of empirical rules , and then Newton reduced these empirical rules to a special case of a general theory . This sort of reduction occurs all the time in the sciences ; in a sense , we 're really just carrying out a principle aim of science , subsuming the particular to the general . But under what conditions can such a reduction be accomplished ? Can any scientific result be reduced in this fashion ? If so , is n't all of science then ultimately reducible to some final irreducible theory ? These are some of the philosophical questions concerning reductionism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( more fundamental ) science is a hotlydebated question . 196 CHAPTER 14 Let 's first consider a classic example of one science being reduced to another . The science of thermodynamics is entirely based on three general laws , which were originally distilled purely from observations and experiments on heat and bulk materials . In other words , thermodynamics says nothing about the microscopic properties of materials ( or heat ) . The science of statistical mechanics , on the other hand , assumes that materials are made of atoms obeying the laws of dynamics . Since we can not in practice predict the individual motions of the vast numbers of atoms , we use probability theory along with dynamics to make predictions for averaged values . Remarkably , theorists discovered that these averaged values correspond to the variables of thermodynamics . We can now understand thermodynamic results based on a microscopic picture , and so we can say that thermodynamics has been reduced to statistical mechanics . This accomplishment is one of the great victories of reductionism . But the atoms themselves are made of subatomic particles , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thermodynamics can be reduced to high-energy physics ? Let 's expand this line of thought : Chemistry studies reactions between atoms and molecules , forming and breaking chemical bonds . These bonds are formed by electrons , subject to the equations of quantum physics . So chemistry is reducible to physics . Biology , however , studies organisms that are made of chemicals . Psychology studies human thinking , which occurs in the brain , a biological organ . Sociology studies societies , which are made of humans . We can then make the claim that sociology is reducible to physics through a kind of hierarchical chain of reductions . There are , however , a number of problems with this absurd claim . An important technical problem is that successful reductions must involve clear and precise correspondences between all terms in the two theories or sciences . If this condition is not satisfied ( it rarely is ) , then each science is an independent thought system with its own terms and structure , not necessarily reducible to anything else . On a practical note , the " reducing " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " reduced " science in most cases ( not even chemistry and physics , where reductionism seems fairly viable ) . Favorable synthetic reaction pathways are more often found by working in the lab , not by solving quantum physics equations . Another argument against extreme reductionism has been advanced by the philosophical movement known as holism . The basic idea here is that a whole may be more than the sum of its parts . A complex system may exhibit emergent properties that ca n't be predicted by analysis of the component parts of the system . But a reductionist program requires that the complex systems of one science can be understood in terms of the component parts in its " reducing " science . For example , a biological cell must be understandable based solely on the chemical reactions occurring in the // cell . If the cell has emergent properties not predicted by these chemical reactions , biology ca n't be reduced to chemistry . Emergence , as a philosophical doctrine , attracted both interest and controversy ( reductionists criticized it as disguised vitalism ) . Recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a boost from within science itself , as the study of complex systems has progressed ( see chapter 17 ) . In any event , few philosophers ( or thoughtful scientists ) still subscribe to the radical form of reductionism ( although it 's still often found in introductory textbooks ) . The sense in which reductionist programs are still valid ( and to what extent ) is an active question in the philosophy of science . 53 . EPISTEMOLOGICAL ROOTS How Do We Know ? The branch of philosophy concerned with problems of knowledge is called epistemology . How do we acquire knowledge of the world ? What does it mean to know something ? How do we know that our knowledge is true ? How is our knowledge of something related to the thing itself ? These are the kinds of questions explored by the philosophy of knowledge , epistemology . Epistemological questions are broader than the questions found in the philosophy of science , but are in a sense foundational . The roots of the philosophy of science are deeply embedded in epistemology . Here , we 'll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are most relevant to the philosophy of science . Percepts and Constructs We often think of perceptual observations as simple facts , not reducible to anything simpler . " I see a tree . " We call this an observation , not a conceptual statement . But what I actually perceive , before my mind imposes order on it , is some spatial distribution of colors and intensities . And even these result from various reflected light rays striking the cells of my retina , sending neuronal signals to the brain . The actual perception results , in some way we do n't understand , from the complex pattern of interconnected neuronal activity in the brain . It 's not simply a matter of " a tree is there " and " I see it . " So even in the simplest cases , our perception of the world entails our mind imposing some order on a mass of information produced by signals originating in the world . Put differently : we create constructs based on our percepts . The point is that this is necessary , not optional . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empirical observations . This does n't mean that our perceptions are arbitrary , hecause there arc connections between the percepts and constructs , rules 198 CHAPTER 14 which govern how the constructs are created from the percepts . If these rules are well defined , then empirical observation is still meaningful . In scientific discourse , the terms under discussion ( i.e. , constructs ) become more complex and abstract . Instead of a tree ( which I can see ) , we might be studying photosynthesis ( which I ca n't see ) . But the process of photosynthesis can be related to the absorption of light and the production of glucose , which I can measure and analyze chemically . My actual empirical observation might only be the pointer reading of the instrumentation I use to measure the absorption or analyze the glucose . But there are well-defined rules ( rules of correspondence , in positivist language ) that relate the pointer readings to the quantities , and there are clear relationships between the measured quantities and the photosynthesis process . Our facts and our empirical observations are embedded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have now introduced a new element into the discussion . We are now talking about relationships between concepts only ( e.g. , " glucose is produced by photosynthesis " ) . The rules of correspondence relate the concepts to observations , but there are also purely logical relationships between the concepts themselves , none of which are directly observable . Constructs can be related to each other by logical relationships , and related to percepts by rules of correspondence . Are we free in science to create any constructs we please ? The answer is no . Higher-level constructs may not be unique , but neither are they arbitrary . In order to be useful in science , constructs must have certain properties . We 've already seen that constructs must be connected to other constructs by logical relationships ; an isolated construct can not be valid in science , no matter how interesting it may otherwise be . Likewise , we 've seen that scientific constructs must ultimately have some connection to perceptions , at least an indirect connection . ( Hierarchies of angels and demons with many intricate relationships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perception , are not objects of scientific study . ) Constructs should also have some degree of stability ; we ca n't just keep making it up as we go along . They should also be extensible , that is , capable of being generalized . Finally , scientists have a preference for constructs that are simple rather than being unnecessarily cluttered with complications . Theory-laden Facts The foregoing considerations bring us face-to-face with one of the problems of logical positivism ( and empiricism in general ) . Empirical facts are already constructs , not " raw " percepts . The terms used in the language of a scientific theory are also constructs ( more abstract than the fact-constructs ) . Now , the rules by which fact-constructs are created // from percepts may be ( and almost surely are ) influenced by the theoryconstructs to which they are related . Our empirical facts are not then totally independent of the theories we use to interpret them . As a trivial example to demonstrate the point , suppose I say that empirical observation proves that the sun rises in the east @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are both complicated collections of concepts , involving geographical knowledge , astronomical knowledge , and so on . Surely that statement must mean something very different to us than it meant to the ancient Celtic Druids . How can we then consider it a simple empirical fact ? This intertwining of theory and observation is one of the problems with the view that scientific results can be proved by purely empirical means . If empirical observations already have a conceptual component inherently built into them , it is circular reasoning to say that our observations have proved our concepts correct . This situation has been noted by philosophers , who use the term " theory-laden " ( coined by N. R. Hansen ) to describe the interpretive matrix that accompanies seemingly simple facts . If empirical facts are theory-laden , then the positivist program is clearly derailed . What 's not so clear is the extent to which the theory-laden quality of facts impairs our ability to validate a scientific theory by empirical tests . Some thinkers have concluded that objective science is n't even possible under the circumstances , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This issue , along with other issues of theory validation , is considered next . S4 . VALIDATION OF THEORIES Failure of Induction Logical positivism has a problem , even if you accept the pristine theoryindependence of facts : the problem of induction . On the one hand , there is a purely logical problem with inductivism . Any logical proof of the inductivist premise must be itself a proof by induction ( " induction has always worked , therefore it is valid " ) . This obviously is no proof at all , since it assumes the truth of the premise it sets out to prove . On the other hand , there is a more practical problem : the conclusions based on induction do , in fact , sometimes turn out to be wrong . For example , Lavoisier had shown ( by the late eighteenth century ) that a number of substances are elements , that is , substances that can not be further broken down or changed to another substance . By the beginning of the twentieth century , this property of elements ( unchangeability ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That elements are immutable was taken to be a well-known fact ; note that the conclusion is clearly based on induction . Around 1900 , radioactivity was discovered , and Rutherford demon-                     