@@773441

txt // and Change expertise and skills . They are likely to become a major orienting element in the goals and objectives of the agent , as well as the goals and objectives of the project with which they are associated . They will certainly he instrumental in the initial activities of the agent who , because of that expertise , is involved in the change project or program . Discipline symbols will always be a significant part of the agent 's approach to the change project . They may also lie behind the individual motivations of change agents in the sense that they want to be successful in their field . In any case , such discipline symbols of competence , sought by the specialists , are inextricably tied to the people with whom they work . Competence and individual gratification are in the hands of the focal group , to provide or not to provide . Thus , agents are tied to the focal group , but in a personally threatening way , and their behavior is likely to be affected . Change agents are also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them from others . They are members of religious , educational , political , special interest , and economic culture groups . Southern Baptists differ substantially from Methodists or Episcopalians , and these from Roman Catholics , Jews , or Muslims . Republicans believe differently than Democrats , the Klu Klux Klan , John Birch Society , or Libertarians . Conservatives and liberals , socialists , capitalists , and Communists all believe and behave differently , as do members of the upper and lower economic classes . Despite all characterizations and pronouncements to the contrary , male and female cultures are quite different , as are those of the young and the old . Change agents are also members of the cultures of innovating organizations for whom they work . All of these agent cultures will help in defining their role(s) and performance . Agents are also individual entities with individual psychological traits and needs that will be expressed in behavior , and these will have a great deal to do with their effectiveness as change agents . Identifying which of the cultures ( nation-state , constituent , scene ) will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their beliefs and practices more than others , is not always possible because people tend to move in and out of their various culture groupings in response to motivation , direction , and goals . Some individuals are always guided by one cultural set ( e.g. , those subscribing to the learned ways of their specialty , discipline , sex , or religious culture ) . Such individuals may continue to steadfastly hold to this set of beliefs and practices even when they conflict with national , constituent , or other scene cultures . Others may move in and out of their cultures , depending on the circumstances or context . They may turn to their nation-state culture for questions of social order , to their social class culture on questions of economic well-being , and to their religious culture on matters of right and wrong . In the complex and pluralistic societies of the modern world , conflicts continually rage in each individual as to which of their many culture affiliations is more important . Role Characteristics Another set of characteristics that agents bring into the change context and // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; some of them are assigned and some of them are assumed ( Foster 1969 , 1973 ; Arenshcrg &; Niehoff 1971 ) . Here again , there is not really one set , but potentially a number of differing sets that accompany the role of change agent , in terms of both real and ideal beliefs or practices . It has been established that agents represent their national cultures , but they also represent particular versions , as indicated by their constituent group affiliations . They are specialists or technical culture bearers , recognized members of specific professional or career cultural scenes . They may also be recognized members of other significant cultural scenes , such as female , Christian Baptist , Republican , upper socioeconomic class , highly educated , and environmentalist . On quite another level , as people assume the role of change agent , there are characteristics derived from that role . Curiously , this may not have as great an impact on the process , for all of these cultures provide the agent with role characteristics in the change context ( see Figure 4.7 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and professionally equipped to work in their own society . As specialists , agents obviously subscribe to different ideas relative to the importance of their specialties . This is followed by different motivations . Like all societies , the American society can be , and usually is , characterized through reference to its problems , and in this sense , American problems are a function of American culture . Put another way , professional specialists in the American culture are prepared and trained in response to American definitions and problems . The American system of education is highly compartmentalized . It is a system that emphasizes specialization and one in which training is accomplished by way of programs . Specialists trained in a discipline-oriented educational system are thus discipline- , and program-oriented as opposed to problem-oriented . For every problem there is a " book " or " program " solution . Such training rarely prepares specialists to live and work in or with cultures other than their own , nor does it provide the problem orientation essential to culture change activity outside of American contexts . Even within the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function in concert with constituent cultures or scenes other than those with which they are familiar . The ethnocentrism that accompanies all culture acquisition leads specialists to assume that their own discipline-style program can be transplanted anywhere , can be equally fitted to other cultures , societies , and nation-states . Discipline specialists assume that their own field can either solve the problem better than any other discipline or at least can contribute the most to the solution of the problem . The " best " solution is the program proposed by the discipline . Because of this preparation , American specialists normally can not distinguish between technical expertise and cultural values . Their philosophy and conceptualization of what must be done may not fit the circumstances in which they must work . Even with this complex topic of culture change , most Americans , whether they be scholars , business leaders , or educational leaders , look for the right program , the " recipe " or " canned " solution . The role characteristics most impacted by field or discipline symbols , success markers , and all the beliefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and behavior . As a result of their culturally specific // training , the agents will believe that they knew what must be dune and how to go about doing it . As change agents they will immediately begin doing what their discipline has provided than . Having learned how to go about it in their culturally familiar context , they believe they can simply do it in that same way , in virtually any context or regardless of where they find themselves . That it may he totally inappropriate in other contexts is generally not considered . Believing that what they do is the " right " and " correct " thing , they naturally assume that the people of the focal group with whom they are to work share that belief . This may or may not he the case . Whether one is addressing a change project in a totally alien environment , or in one involving constituent groups or cultural scenes , assuming that the focal group and change agents share the goals , objectives , or approaches to the project is faulty . The agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guided by the tenets of their professional associations , whereas the members of focal groups perceive that they are the key to the project because it is specifically aimed at them . They may perceive the problem , how to go about it , and even the goal or objectives in significantly different terms . Behaviorally , such a situation can produce reactions on the part of agents that can have serious consequences for the project . When members of a focal group fail to respond as expected or a change agent 's activities do not produce the predicted results , " culture shock " can surface . The agent 's competence , effectiveness and potential for " success " become threatened . Although measures of success and competence are set within specialty areas , such things are entirely in the hands of the focal group to give or to withhold . Faced with " failure " in this sense , the agent responds to what is seen as focal group obstruction or rejection . He or she may become more forceful in approach or may respond negatively to the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either of these circumstances , the behavior of the agent is likely to compound the existing problem(s) . Any accomplishments in the project become personal achievements for the agent or evidence of the competence markers the agent seeks . Failures are attributed to some flaw in/among members of the focal group for whom the project is intended . Culture shock is a common condition for change agents living or working in a cultural environment different from their own . When faced with the circumstances described above , wherein their normal experiences no longer apply or their expectations are not met within the change context , the agents react . When others fail to share their belief in the value of change or in the value of their discipline , or to subscribe to their particular methods or practices , they become very unsure of themselves . They begin to question their reasons for being there , their own sanity or that of the people with whom they are trying to work . When learned beliefs and behaviors do not elicit the expected response , people have no experiences upon which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can vary from total rejection of the people or project , to withdrawal from the project or area , or even a stronger commitment to traditional beliefs and practices . Behaviors while in " culture shock " may actually be counter to desired goals and objectives . But beliefs and allied behaviors associated with the agent role are only half of the role // ccharacteristics . Practices represent the other half of this category of characteristics . Practices Although an agent may assume or be assigned a particular role , his or her affiliations established within the local culture , participation in that culture , living habits , communication practices , and strategy will also become part of the role . All of these things can introduce contradictions into the agent role and the agent may be completely unaware of them . Agents do not simply go somewhere , do their specialty , and that is all . Their sponsorship establishes affiliations that can directly impact practices . On-site , agents establish affiliations with people based on what they are asked to do , many times with specific instructions as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not be the people who are being asked to change some aspect of their lives . The agent 's own personal living habits while engaged in the change project may be in direct contradiction to the goals of the project . Personal practices along these lines can be quite different from those espoused in the project . The settings in which people work have a great deal to do with affiliation roles assumed by the agents and focal groups . If the agent is sponsored by a particular agency or government , that will be the basis for affiliations that will impact the agent 's particular role in the context of the change program . For example , an agent sponsored by local government will be viewed as part of that structure . The particular relations of the focal group and government will then determine a great deal of what transpires between agent and focal group . The perceptions of the agent by the focal group will be a function of their perception of government representatives . An agent sponsored by management will be perceived by members of the focal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a school administration will be viewed as part of that unit , and so on . Of course , the question of motive and loyalty is also related to such affiliations . What the agent attempts to do may very well be interpreted by the focal group as furthering the aims of the government or particular agency , as opposed to changing something for the betterment of the group . In their eyes , government involvement in local areas usually means more regulation or , perhaps , taxes . Missionaries are trying to get people to convert . Management personnel do things for personal motives and gain . Change agents on local community levels ( e.g. , local development or planning offices ) usually mean somebody must lose . This kind of affiliational role characteristic is meaningful in all change contexts . Agent affiliation as part of role characteristics also extends to relationships established by the agents as they work with specific members of focal groups . For example , in development programs undertaken in traditional culture areas , change goes against learned and established ways of believing and behaving . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the group . The change agent must deal with members of the group willing or required to participate in the program or project . Relationships established will be either direct or indirect . Historically , in these kinds of circumstances , agents have been relegated to working with marginal // people , those standing on the edge of their own culture . ' theft willingness to participate and become affiliated with the outsider is a function of their desire to improve their own lot . This can further alienate them from the focal group to which the agents are directing their attention . The consequence of such affiliations for the agents is twofold . First , the agents may not , in fact , be working with those directly concerned with any proposed change . Second , by the agents affiliating with marginal individuals , the majority of the focal group identifies the change with the marginal and may choose to ignore the proposal because of that . As most change circumstances fragment or produce divisiveness within the focal group , so they also produce aggressive and forceful resistance to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the status and roles of those willing to work with change agents will impact the agents ' affiliational role characteristics in that change context . Affiliational roles are also a function of the kind of relationship established by the agent in a change program . The real point to be made is that change agents can work only through some form of contact with those they are asking to change . These contacts can be direct or indirect . Agents can elect , if allowed , to interact with the focal group face to face . Or they may be relegated to indirect contacts ( e.g. , the professional , through another individual or some other channel ) . In such cases , the agents may never directly interact with those for whom some change is intended . This is the kind of relationship that characterizes engineers , architects , city planners , community development specialists , and planning specialists of industry , local governments , and the many special interest groups involved with change . In either direct or indirect interactions , the relationship established will have role characteristics and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the personal contacts , those asked to change may simply view it as one more example of management from above , government interference by those not really familiar with the local circumstances , or unnecessary interference in their lives by people who know nothing about their lives . Without direct contacts , the very minimum that can be expected is a situation where the members of the focal group will not have much of a commitment to the program or project . The level of participation of the agent is another area of role characteristics that can impact change programs both favorably and unfavorably . For example , in situations where the culture difference is extreme , the agent who fails to participate at any level in the local culture of the focal group will be perceived in a negative way . Failure to utilize local language can be perceived as evidence of the agent 's lack of concern for the focal group . The agent who comes around only to convince members of the focal group to change some belief or behavior is automatically suspect , an individual whose motives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked to change establishes role characteristics that ultimately impact the result of the change effort . Living habits of agents are significant to the outcome of change programs . Highpaid government development planners , change agents from middle and upper management in business , and others who may not be particularly affected by a change they propose have some difficulty convincing members of the focal group who have much less . For example , in the American community of the1990s , development has become the buzzword . For the average community individual , the cost of development has become exceedingly high . Although all developmental projects are touted as being beneficial for everyone , those actually impacted by development know better . Every time someone speaks of community development , the community residents know they will face increased taxes , and decreased ability to meet their own goals and objectives because of that . Their perception of those seeking such development is that they will not be the ones to suffer ? in fact , they will be the only ones to benefit from it . The impact of increased taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ someone making $17,000 per year . Faced with increases across the board , from every level of government , the ordinary citizen has become quite resistant to any suggestion of development . The agent working in underdeveloped areas , but living in " Little America " or " Little England , " or any special compound area that exhibits a much higher standard of living than that of a focal group living under very different conditions , will have difficulty working with members of that focal group . The standard comment in such circumstances is : " Sure , easy for you to say . " Another component of the living habits role characteristic is that associated with cultural discontinuity . American specialists living and working in other cultures may exhibit living habits that are quite objectionable in the culture context . An American female attempting to work in another culture may find that certain of the activities and behaviors quite acceptable in her culture are not acceptable in the focal group culture . This represents a direct contradiction of acceptable norms within the culture context , and thus the agent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in areas traditionally seen as female-specific , will not be able to do their work . Because every culture has its own set of beliefs and practices , continuing to do these in contexts where they are inappropriate will negatively impact the efforts of the agent . Missionaries have found that living habits frequently contradict their work objective . Everybody being equal in the eyes of God can be totally undermined by habits that show that everyone is not actually equal . Communication practices and strategy are additional areas where role characteristics are created . The particular strategy selected by the agent or dictated by the circumstances produces role characteristics for the practicing agent . Some strategies , by their very nature , can minimize interactions between agents and those for whom the change is designed or to whom it is directed , and they can impact the perceptions members of the focal group will have regarding the agents . A paternalistic change strategy will cause the agent to operate with paternalistic attitudes and role characteristics . This can have a direct bearing on the kind and quality of communication flow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and above any agent 's use of local language while on the change site . A physical infrastructural approach limits communication to the essentials surrounding the construction effort and generally ignores communication in other than limited and formal educational settings . Even in a more traditional community development approach , the communication flow is determined . Through such things as communication and strategy , affiliations , participation , and living habits , all of // which have accompanying role characteristics , focal groups conic to " know " change agents . FOCAL GROUPS Focal groups consist of people being asked to change some aspect of their life . Like change agents , they are characterized by sets of beliefs , practices , and products associated with membership in their culture or cultures . The focal group beliefs and practices may or may not be compatible with those of the change agent or agency . All cultures have core systems that are essential to their continued survival . This is true whether one is addressing a specific culture , an artificially created nation-state culture , a constituent culture , or any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in nearly every change project , program , or context , the goal or objective is to change something in one or another of these areas . Given the integrated nature of culture itself , change in one aspect means some alteration in its other parts . A change never impacts just one aspect or part of culture . No matter how limited or focused a change may initially appear to be , it can potentially impact all of the culture 's social structure and organization , and will nearly always involve economic , political , social , and worldview systems . In their culture sets , the members of focal groups will always differ from change agents . They will respond to the proposed change and the agent based on their cultural learned behaviors and practices , and they will respond to those characteristics they perceived in the culture change agent . Cultural Characteristics Although it seems obvious that individual members of a focal group subscribe to and follow their " culture , " there are some additional things to be considered . It was earlier suggested that culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Year after year , perhaps generation after generation , people are taught and learn the " right " and " most correct " way to think and do . Following that acquired way , they have survived , met their goals , succeeded in their lives or their careers . Any proposed change in that learned way represents a threat to their continued success , the accomplishment of their goals , or the continuance of their survival as individuals and groups . A proposed change in the beliefs and practices of a culture group also suggests to focal group members that they have been wrong for however long they have practiced such beliefs and behaviors . Their " truth " is being assaulted , and this involves more than the area of belief or practice being directly addressed by change agents or projects . In any case , these things are perceived as threats to what they have always known and become important cultural considerations in the culture change context for both agents and members of focal groups . When a change is directed at some aspect of a specific nation-state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will always represent a threat to those being asked to change . Change represents a shift away from the acquired learned way . It represents a shift away from the traditional or how it has always been done . // Whether members of a focal group recognize that there is a better way of doing something , more efficient way of accomplishing a particular task that may he important in their daily lives , or simply an alternative , actually changing established beliefs or practices does not necessarily follow . All people learn the right way to do things according to the practices of their culture group ; the way things are to be done , as they have always been done . The specialist associated with a cultural scene has learned the ways members of that specialty are to do things . Representatives of American constituent groups have learned their ways , just as university administrators and faculty , people associated with the various levels of organization and business cultures , Christians , and Germans have learned their ways . Conflicts are inevitable as representatives of any or all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cultures represent sets of problem-solving ' solutions . All cultures have provisions for change within their set of beliefs and practices . There may even be established ways of responding to proposed changes in their cultural beliefs or behaviors . This must be so because cultures are always changing . With survival at the heart of what cultures do , as long as the particular problems are being successfully resolved with traditional beliefs and practices of the cultural sets , members of cultural groups remain fairly comfortable and confident that they will survive or succeed . Why change what appears to work , or has worked over long periods of time , perhaps generations ? Proposed change upsets that confidence for the members are being asked to gamble with their survival . The more closely any proposed change is related to core areas of culture , the greater the reluctance to entertain it . The situation is made more difficult when it is perceived that the agent asking the change is not recognized as a member of the focal group and therefore does not know the right way to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faculty , production is not sales , development specialists are not local residents , Americans are not Germans , and so on . The agent may not share in either scene or constituent cultures of the focal group . In the case of widely differing cultures ( e.g. , a developing society being changed by members of a complex industrialized society ) , the agent may not share either the constituent or the nation-state culture of the focal group . The agent , perceived as a member of another constituent , scene , or nation-state culture , is suggesting no less than that the culture of the focal group is faulty , lacking in some way , or incorrect , and thus needs changing . Whether a change represents a significant shift away from traditional ways or merely a difference in degree , it stills presupposes that the traditional way was wrong , the truth learned and lived by members of the focal group was not the real truth . The agent of the change is the individual suggesting the inadequacies of the culture , and that person is an outsider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sets , the context is not one of culture contact ; rather , it represents cultures in conflict . One brand of truth comes headlong into conflict with another brand of truth . There are certain areas of traditional cultures especially germane to culture change circumstances . For example , both formal and informal leadership patterns can have tremendous impacts on the culture change context . This has long been recognized as a very important area of local culture when culture change is // contemplated or anticipated . Leaders have vestal interests and positions to maintain . " These are threatened when an outsider arrives to introduce change . Recognizing whether the leader is appointed , elected , or chosen by using some traditional process is important in the kind of response that can he expected . In business culture and developing-world culture , Leaders are frequently appointed . They may not even be recognized by the members of the group as the " real " leaders of their culture . Depending on the role of religion in the focal group , religious leadership may be of considerable importance . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group society . In complex society , it is not uncommon to have civic groups , numerous social club groupings , and special interest groups . Leadership comes from these areas of the culture , just as it comes from formally appointed or elected officials . Of course , there are leaders and there are leaders . Noninstitutional leadership is a part of all cultures . Perhaps because of family , ability , skill , knowledge , wealth , status , or other culturally significant role or position , individuals may assume leadership roles within their cultural groupings . Leadership assumes an important role in the cultural characteristics of any focal group . All societies divide into smaller groupings . Each of these smaller groups within a culture involves rights and obligations , responsibilities to the society at large and interests of their own . In the small-scale society or developing world , the basis of the social structure frequently is family or other kinship groupings . In the complex world , such groupings come with special interests or purposes . Because social structure represents one of the core areas of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project is second only to leadership . Within constituent or scene cultures , structure is no less important although it is less obvious . When these smaller groupings also represent significant class , ethnic , political , or religious groupings , also tied to core areas , the impacts can be even greater . How these relate to central authority is another important consideration , for together they shape the positive and negative attitudes of the members of the group toward the world and proposed changes in it . Another aspect of the cultural characteristics of focal groups is tied to the integrated nature of all these things that together add up to culture . It is never the case that a proposed change is simply something new , perhaps a shift , alteration , or modification in some part or aspect of culture . The parts of culture are integrated , the parts are related and integrated one with another . Members of focal groups are aware of this , although it is an unconscious awareness , and change agents should know this . History has demonstrated over and over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by change in other parts . Sometimes the change to other parts is slight , and sometimes it is massive . For example , case study after case study has shown that economic change , like the shift to a money-dominated market-exchange system , cash crops , and so on , has produced significant changes in the social structure of small-scale or peasant societies . Whereas such societies have traditionally based their activities on an extended family structure , in the market system an immediate disintegration of that structure begins . In the world of business or corporate culture , a change in production will lead to corresponding changes in // sales and all other aspects of the operation , lust as a shift in a university system will ultimately Impact students , faculty , and administration alike . In more recent times , the experience of Eastern Europe , as many former Communist countries have changed their political structures , has shown that shifts in social and economic structures soon follow . The magnitude of additional changes to the societies and nitures is painfully obvious to those who brought the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with changing some part of their culture are not always conscious of its relationship to other parts of their culture except in a limited way . As it begins to unfold , however , its relationship to that part of culture with which the individual may be concerned or involved becomes more apparent . Sometimes it does not begin to appear until the project or program is completed . In elf Ire ' case , the members of the culture respond to the " unplanned consequences of he planned change , " and again this comes from the traditional culture base . In nearly all change contexts , the cultural characteristics are important , for they will cone out in the responses or role characteristics of the focal group . Role Characteristics Whereas change agents are mainly concerned with technical abilities and expertise , the role characteristics for focal groups will center on communication and motivations . Just as agents assume roles in change contexts centering on actions or doing something , so members of focal groups assume roles with regard to the outsiders because of what they are asked to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted is motivation . The second area focuses on communication . The role characteristics of both these areas are consequences of focal group members being primarily " responders " as opposed to doers . Focal group responses to the proposed change and the person or agency proposing it will come in both traditional and contextual terms . Group members , individually and in groups , will first respond as they have been taught to respond . Eskimos operate on a cultural norm that requires group members to respond to outsiders based on their perception of what the outsider wants to hear . Employees of a company normally will respond as they think their supervisor or the boss wants . Constituent groups of the nation-state systems respond as they have learned the government expects them to , or as they have learned is effective in dealing with that government . Such responses can take many forms . For example , the Eskimo requirement is at best a perfunctory one , giving outsiders every indication that they have been accepted , that what they propose is acceptable , and that the people are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way indicate any of these things . It is simply required , given the circumstances in which the members of this particular group find themselves . In other cases , when agents are older than individuals to whom he or she speaks , the reactions of the latter may be a function of the necessity of politeness with people older then themselves . Although this can appear to the outsiders as motivation or acceptance of the change , quite the reverse may be true . The group members may appear to be motivated , for to do otherwise might violate behavioral norms of the group . The major point is that cultural groups have established ways of dealing with outsiders , and they have standards of etiquette that are firmly entrenched in traditional culture . Another aspect of these characteristics focuses on the way the group views those who associate with outsiders . Proposed change tends to fractionalize every group . Associating too closely with the outsider , appearing to be cooperative or willing to participate in the change , may be taken as disloyalty by the group or it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group . As pointed out earlier , people who are willing to deal with change agents , perhaps even eager to do so , are those who are disenchanted with their lives . They are in fact already marginal to their group . Such active participation simply isolates them further from the majority and further fragments the solidarity of the group . A good example of this circumstance has been repeatedly seen among American Indians , who select such marginal people to represent them with outsiders . The selection is not made because such individuals can really represent the group . Rather , it serves two purposes . It can serve to get rid of the individual , further isolating that person from the group . Because dealing with government and outsiders is always difficult , it also provides the group with someone to take all the unpleasantness associated with that while they continue doing what they have always done . This further supports the idea that there are leaders and there are leaders . Many of the role characteristics that arise from the culture change context for focal groups revolve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct and indirect benefit . People change because there is a recognized need for it or they perceive some benefit in doing so . Within the focal group there may already be a felt need to change something in response to some problem requiring resolution . This will determine group response to the proposal . When the group members themselves seek assistance , this can indicate a willingness to change . Some care is essential with such solicitations , for they also may indicate ulterior motives . Motivation can be tied to practical benefits , as may be demonstrated in economic areas , education , or simple convenience . It can also encompass indirect benefits tied to social acceptability , enhanced status , increased competitive edge , or rewards derived . Practices The last group of focal group characteristics to be considered is those loosely identified as practices . These characteristics are tied to traditional culture but are not easily handled in that context . As already demonstrated , most traditional behaviors are tied to core areas of culture . They stem from the existing economic , religious , social structural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emanate from other things , even seem to defy logic . Patterns of consumption may actually go against economic maximization . Recreational choices may also be in direct contradiction to avowed economic goals of groups and individuals . It is also important to note that many practices in focal groups do not fit the traditional Change Agents and Fox ? nl Groups 1 I I categories of the agent In some culture groups , a great many more things come into play in the economic system than are provided for in the traditional boundaries for this part of culture . What would normally he seen as a religious concern or a social consideration , not generally included in economic contexts , might be the real core of the economic system of the focal group . For both of the major participants in culture change , the agents and the members 01 ' focal groups , learned beliefs and practices represent the culture characteristics which they bring into the change context and that become part of the process aimed at bringing about change . How they become involved in that process points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this " cultural baggage " brought into culture change is accompanied by role characteristics that will also become part of the process . How these become part of that process will become understood within the dynamics of interaction . In addition , both participants in change will assume or he assigned roles because change is being proposed , implemented , or attempted . Such role characteristics become part of the change , again to be understood as part of the dynamics of the change process . Chapter 6 CULTURE CHANGE STRATEGIES In addition to the cultural characteristics of participants in culture change , other aspects of the process must be considered before moving to address its dynamics or the interactional setting where all of these come together to determine outcomes . In the model of directed change proposed in Chapter 4 , strategies were identified as important aspects of both planning and interaction . It was pointed out that change agencies select particular strategies to accomplish their goals , although actual participants in the change process devise their own plans and strategies for coping with each other in the interactional setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing is more significant than the many strategies that become a part of the actual change process and context . Unfortunately , important distinctions between plan/approach , implementation , and responsive strategies have not always been made clear . In the first instance , there are the strategies of the change agencies , and in the second , the strategies of the change agents . In the last instance , there are the strategies of focal groups , generated in response to the plan strategies , implementation strategies , and the change context in which they find themselves . The plan , implementation , and responsive strategies that are generated as part of the total process are all related , and together they will impact every aspect of the effort . The three types of strategy are obviously not the same and must be kept separate . Change agencies will select a general strategy as part of their planning to propose or introduce a culture change . In the development of a plan and the selection of the strategy to accomplish a change , agencies may provide for some involvement and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or they may simply be dictated/determined by circumstances or forces quite apart from the parties involved in the change . In the selection of plan strategy as part of designing some change , the interactional strategies of agents and members of focal group will be impacted . Change agents will develop their own working strategies as part of their efforts to move members of a focal group in the direction of the goals or objectives that have been established by the change agency . Their strategies which will focus on implementing the intended change or bringing it about as designed by the change agency , must be developed within the constraints imposed by plan strategies . Elements of change agent strategy have been discussed in the literature under the category- of role characteristics . As active participants in the change process , focal groups develop their own responses to proposed change , their own strategies to respond to what they are being asked to do or accept . The strategies generated by the face-to-face participants in the interactional context will play a large role in the outcomes , but only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change and designed a plan for accomplishing it . The plan strategy will ultimately condition both the implementation strategies of change agents and the responsive strategies of focal groups . From the first planning of change to the interactions that produce a result , strategies will loom as a large part of the process , as will the cultural characteristics the various participants bring to the change setting . Change strategies and cultural characteristics will be closely interrelated , and this will surface in the plans for culture change and in the interactional strategies of the participants in the process . PLANNING FOR CULTURE CHANGE T'he idea to change some belief or practice of a specified group has to come from somewhere . Coming up with an idea is not however the same thing as bringing it about . Few if any changes have ever occurred simply because someone had an idea for it that was good or desirable . An idea for change can originate from many quarters , including the group to be impacted by it , change agencies , change agents , or some combination of these ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual participants in the process . In the context of directed culture change generated by agencies staffed and funded for the purpose , an idea to change something in a culture originates outside the group for which it is intended , with some group motivated by its own assigned , avowed , or elected objective/goal/mission . Because of this fact , ideas for change frequently are generated quite apart from specialists who are expected to implement or bring them about , or those for whom the change is intended . In the modern context , an idea to change something can originate at any one of the many government levels of the complex nation-state ( community , city , county , state , province , or national level ) , or with any of the many agencies that exist as part of the bureaucracy of the modem state . It can be generated within the international community ( United Nations , World Health Organizations , World Bank , etc. ) , as the community of nations assumes more and more responsibility for the conditions and well-being of people throughout the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or concerns of any number of religious , political , social , or economic organizational groups . In modern nation-states , ideas for change can originate from any of the specific , constituent , or scene culture groups that make them up . In the culture of the United States , for example , ideas for change can originate with any one of the many organizational , ethnic , business , academic , religious , gender , age , professional , or special interest groups represented within its immense diversity . Once an idea for change has been originated , plans must he formulated to bring it about . Strategy is a major component of this planning process . The primary characteristics of the plan strategy center on goals , implementation needs , costs , and timetables for completion . Although strategy on this level can take into account questions of timing , this usually means that someone has determined that its time has come , as in the case of bringing marginal groups into the mainstream of the nation-state culture . The question of fit usually means that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of business or industry making a change to ensure that a corporate culture remains competitive in the marketplace . Neither change agents or members of focal groups are necessarily involved in generating the idea for change or in the design , or in planning for it . This means that neither will necessarily have any input into the selection of the strategy used to bring it about . Change is being introduced simply because someone , somewhere , said it will be introduced . People responsible for working to implement change as it has been decided upon by some change agency are usually not involved in the actual design or planning of the change ; they are only hired to implement it . These people , who become the change agents , are the experts or professionals acquired by the agency to implement the change plan by influencing members of the focal group in the direction desired by the agency . They work at the pleasure of that agency . In many cases , the change agent is a late add-on , secured after the idea , design , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specialists or experts to whom the agency turns in keeping with its established goals or program . As late additions , hired as employees or perhaps contracted experts , they will have no hand in the decision to change something or in the choice of general strategy to bring it about . They will simply be expected to implement the program or the specific change within the time frame and fiscal constraints already established by the agency that hires them . Questions of timing and fit , always identified as important aspects of change , are as important in the planning stage as they are for change agents . In nearly all discussions of change agents , timing and fit have been identified as significant matters requiring attention . Anyone working in the context of change knows that if a proposed change is timed properly , and if it fits into the context or patterns of those for whom it is intended , there is a greater likelihood of success . But there are important considerations and differences between these aspects as they come into play in the change equation during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the implementation stage of the effort . For example , fit may not be given serious consideration by a nation-state government or one of its agencies that has assumed the goal of generating a change for all members of the state culture or any one of its constituent culture groups ( e.g. , bringing a " subcultural " group into the mainstream of national life ) . A change may be proposed to solve a social problem of the state that has been identified by someone . Whether the change fits into the cultural context of the group may have little or no bearing on the decision to implement it . It is something that is going to be done or must be done . Few decisions to change American Indian cultures were based on the fit of such change to their cultures . Change in the culture of business can he seen in much the same wary . For example , instituting information technology in a corporate culture may he seen simply as a change necessary to ensure competitiveness in the business world . Any question of whether a proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really not part of the decision to do what somebody has decided must be done . Experience has repeatedly shown that if the question of fit is not considered , the work of the agent is made considerably more difficult . The same thing can be said for the timing of a change . The question of the timing of a proposed change has nearly always centered on change agents addressing whether a proposed change is appropriate in terms of the state of development of the culture group for whom it is intended . But timing has also meant something else when change agencies have been involved in the planning and design of a change . For change agencies developing plans or designs for change , timing has also meant timetables for accomplishing the change . In this , timing means something quite different from timing as a consideration for change agents . From the perspective of agencies of a government , it has meant that the time for a change has arrived , and it will he done within a specified time frame . Timing a change to fit local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of governments and certain other types of change agencies in power positions over groups to be changed , timing generally has meant that the idea or change will be pursued and implemented regardless of the timing or fit of it to local culture . Goals have been set and timetables for accomplishing them have been established . The change agent has been no more than the hired representative of the originating agency who has been given the task of accomplishing the change as determined by the agency , within the limits of funding and according to the schedule already established . Change agents never have much influence on a plan or design for change that originates within change agencies . Unless an idea for change is developed in concert with members of the group for which it is intended , members of focal groups will fare no better than agents , in that they too , have no input or influence over plan strategy , timing , or fit . This may account for the tendency to see focal groups as merely recipients of change designed for them and implemented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government plan known as Operasi Koteka , aimed at the rapid and massive development of Irian Jaya in the early 1970s ( Operasi Koteka 1973 ) . Irian Jaya ( translates in English as Glorious Irian ) was formerly known as Dutch New Guinea , West New Guinea , and Iran Barat ( translates in English to West Irian ) ( Naylor 1973b , 1974 ) . Operasi Koteka was initially formulated to elevate , with due urgency , the social , economic , and political conditions of inland peoples of the Indonesian province of Irian Jaya , so that locals could become an integral part of the Indonesian society . " Stone Age " people ( e.g. , the Dani of the Balim Valley ) were to be brought into the mainstream of Indonesian society and the modern world . The Dani were first contacted in the 1930s , but permanent contacts were not established until the midI 950s . Operasi Koteka ( a free translation would be Operation Clothing ) was a comprehensive development plan formulated in Jakarta at the highest levels of government . Its goal was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . In that comprehensiveness , the plan exhibited a decided lack of understanding of local conditions . The plan included the building of roads and fishponds , the introduction and wearing of clothes and the introduction of new agricultural practices , crops , animals , and fish . It also provided for activities aimed at improving literacy among adults and children . The field personnel expected to carry out the many provisions of the plan ( the actual change agents ) were recruited from the military , the civilian administration , and local universities . Operasi Koteka personnel were divided into teams that were strategically located throughout the highlands and the Balim valley . Each team was assigned specific tasks that were to be accomplished within specified timetables . The plan revolved around education , practical training , and speed . It also required significant amounts of community inputs for reaching its objectives . The entire project was scheduled to be completed over a two-year period . Because every objective of the plan represented changes of kind , away from traditional practices to those of the wider Indonesian society , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many of the proposed changes to local cultures was given serious consideration . People such as the Dani of the Balim Valley , exposed to the outside world for less than twenty years , could hardly be expected to change so much of their culture , so dramatically , in so short a period . In terms of the existing Dani culture patterns and the sequencing of the changes , most of the specific objectives considered neither timing or fit . Many changes outlined in the plan were contingent on the completion of other changes that were not made part of the overall effort . As designed , they were inappropriate and out of sequence . The time allocated for reaching all of the plan 's objectives was clearly unrealistic , as were goals that depended upon things not considered . Many aspects of the plan involved these considerations of time and fit ( Naylor 1973b , 1974 ) . For example , Operasi Koteka provided for the introduction of new agricultural practices , cash crops , and the wearing of clothing . Without the development of a market-exchange system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes had little chance of being implemented . The requirement that the local people wear new styles of clothing was clearly out of step with economic reality . It simply did not fit with local conditions , let alone traditional culture . Clothing had to be purchased and cared for , both things requiring money . Although the concept of money had been brought by the Dutch , Indonesian money was a recent introduction into the lives of the Dani . As their traditional culture had neither markets nor money , the Dani had little understanding of money , and , just as important , they had little of it and even fewer opportunities to acquire it . The need for money to purchase clothing and provide for its upkeep was not lost on the Dani . Without the necessary money or the means to acquire it , they could not adopt the practice of wearing clothes . Also working against the idea was the fact that the Dani lacked motivation for it . Traditional clothing did not have to be purchased , and little effort was necessary to obtain it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ideas to introduce new foods and cash crops into the agricultural practices of the Dani. // ' art Operas ' Koteka provided for the introduction of new foods , animals , fish , and cash crops into the agricultural practices of the local people . Although such changes , at least theoretically , could provide the people with a means of acquiring money , they were clearly alien to local cultures and out of sequence with economic reality . The plan provided for the redesign of gardens , the building of fishponds , the introduction of new animal husbandry practices , and the idea of cash crops well before local conditions might have ensured their acceptance . The new crops and foods to he introduced , were mostly for the benefit of immigrant Indonesian nationals and other outsiders , not the local population . There were no provisions for the acceptance or integration of the new foods into the diet of the local people . The idea of a cash crop was inappropriate because there were no local markets for the cash crops , nor were there efficient means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would depend upon the local people and the immigrant inhabitants who came with contact , a small number of missionaries , government administrators , and immigrants from other areas of Irian Jaya and the nation . This group was hardly sufficient to sustain a cash crop . The most serious flaw in the plan was the lack of roads to outside markets . Although the plan provided for road building within the Balim Valley , there were no provisions for roads to the coastal areas . This meant that the only means by which a cash crop could be gotten to the outside markets was by air . Because of the high costs involved , crops grown in the interior and transported to the coast could not be competitive with similar crops grown closer to such markets . This same kind of scenario played out with objective after objective of Operasi Koteka . Questions of timing and fit obviously had played a major role in these changes beyond the simple timing and fit of the changes to the local culture . Both ended up as major factors in the failure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Operasi Koteka demonstrates a number of significant points with regard to change agencies and their plans and strategies for change . It was a classic example of an outside agency imposing change on a group of which it had little understanding . The decision to introduce changes was made at the highest levels of government , among national leaders with little or no understanding of local conditions . It was based more on the national agenda than on the needs of the local group expected to adopt them . Local people had no input or influence on the decision or its design , nor did the change agents expected to carry out the provisions of the plan . The change agents were secured after the program was planned and designed . This case demonstrates the limitations imposed on change agents by agency plans . It also highlights the importance of both fit and timing . Such concerns are significant to change agents , but they go beyond simply fitting or timing a change for traditional culture . As demonstrated in Operasi Koteka , time and fit are significant in planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of fit must also incorporate the question of whether the proposed change fits into the overall scheme and goals of the planners . If a change is out of sequence with other changes that have to be made , or have to be accomplished first , the change is neither a good fit nor well timed . The example also points out the dual nature of the time I III Culture and Change consideration . Timing is more than a question of appropriateness given the stage of development of local culture . Tinting also refers to the timetable and schedule imposed by change agencies and planners for accomplishing the change . It looks at the appropriateness of a proposed change within the larger program or agency goal , at its placement in the total sequence of changes to he introduced . The final disposition of Operasi Koteka was , in a great many ways , largely determined in the initial planning , which did not recognize many of these things . GENERAL PLAN STRATEGIES In the design or planning for change , in the decision of how a proposed change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan strategy surfaces as one of three strategies to impact culture change contexts . Plan strategy represents the entire change project , program , or effort from the point of view of the change agency . It is more than a statement of proposed change ; it reflects the goals and objectives of the change agency , outline the agency 's position as to what will be done and when , by whom , and under what conditions . It details the contributions and involvement of the agency , particularly in terms of the resources ( fiscal , material , personnel ) it will provide . It outlines the expectations the agency may have for members of focal groups , and it may detail how outcomes will be evaluated . In the final analysis , the plan will determine a great deal of what will occur in the actual process . It will condition the interactions of participants in the process by influencing the strategies of change agents hired to implement the project or program , and the response strategy of the targeted group . Warren Bennis ( 1966 ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to culture change , which they identified as strategies for induced change : the paternalistic strategy , the engineering strategy , the community development strategy , and the facilitative assistance strategy ( Lang 1973:45 ) . These types of strategies ( see Figure 6.1 ) , are roughly comparable to strategies in business and government circles that are labeled authoritative , assertive , and participatory leadership styles ( Hersey et al . 1987 ) , and in other circles as re-educative , persuasive , and power strategies ( Zaltman &; Dugan 1977 ) . The approaches can be distinguished on the basis of agency imputs and the locus of authority ( who makes the decisions ) ( Niehoff 1966 ; Batten 1969 ; Bennis 1966 ) . The first distinction relates to agency investments in the project , the level of material and/or financial resources and expert personnel to be provided by the sponsoring agency ( see Figure 6.1 ) . The second distinction relates to whether an approach is directive or nondirective . In the directive approach , all decision-making authority resides with the change agency and by extension , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making is shared among agencies , agents , and members of focal groups who become partners in the effort . Using these basic distinguishing characteristics , the types of plan strategy can easily be distinguished . The paternalistic strategy requires a low level of agency investment and is essentially directive . Community development requires a low level of agency investment and is nondirective . In the engineering approach high amounts of material investments are required and all authority is monopolized by the change agency . In the facilitative assistance approach , high level of material investment are required and he strategy is nondirective . In the community development and facilitative . i .. istance approaches authority is shared with members of the groups involved . Paternalistic Approach In the paternalistic approach , all decision-making authority resides with the change agency . This particular approach to change is perhaps the most familiar and widely used throughout the world . Its use has been documented in all types of cultural contexts . It is a mainstay strategy of nation-states and , those in a dominant position over other culture groups , and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based on shared and strongly held beliefs ( e.g. , religious and political groups ) . Paternalism is a directive change approach in which all decision-making authority rests in the hands of the change agency , which decides what is best or necessary for the focal group and assumes a condescending attitude 120 Culture and Change toward those it seeks to change . It can he likened to a " do as I tell you , I know better than you what you need " model . Members of the focal group are perceived as " childlike " or " backward . " The approach is particularly appealing in situations where capital is limited and the people may not he aware of the opportunities open to them ( e.g. , in developing nations with limited resources ) . Without serious drain on limited national resources , change can be brought about by legislation , decree , or fiat . The paternalistic approach was very popular with early missionaries and colonial administrators , and it remains popular with nation-state governments attempting to bring about change without any substantial commitment of resources . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and academic ) and in culture groups where power is monopolized by a few . As a strategy for change , paternalism depends primarily on the power of the agency to force the acceptance of a proposed or designed change . This can be accomplished through coercive power based on fear ; connective power based on the utilization of influential people ; expert power based on expertise , skill , and knowledge ; information power based on the possession of valuable information ; legitimate power that accompanies status and position ; referent power based on personal traits ; and/or reward and punishment power based on the ability to provide either of these . The paternalistic approach does not necessarily require huge amounts of financial or material resources on the part of the change agency . It is an approach that assumes the superior knowledge , or simply the power , of the agency will accomplish the proposed change . In determining what might be required or is in the best interests of the focal group , paternalism equates with what Zaltman and Dugan ( 1977 ) have termed a re-educative strategy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 1987 ) . The change agency or innovating group decides what change is necessary and informs the focal group through a representative or intermediary that it will be done , because it represents what is best for them . In some cases , it can amount to little more than a decree by the agency ? change by fiat . It is assumed that the expertise , superior knowledge , or legitimate power position of the agency will be sufficient to convince members of the focal group to accept a change . It assumes that expertise of the change agency will be readily accepted because members of the focal group are seen as either backward or considerably less knowledgeable as to what is in their best interests . The paternalistic strategy has been widely used by governments and other change agencies in dominant positions over those they wish to change . Being directive , it is basically uncritical and a one-way approach , from agency to focal group . Governments frequently utilize this approach when attempting to change constituent and scene cultures . For example , this particular approach has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its dealings with Native Americans and other constituent groups making up its multicultural national culture . Agency paternalism has been the dominant and constant theme of Indian/white relations ( Spicer 1961:255 ) . The government , through one of its agencies or representatives , decides on change for the Indians or their cultures , and then imposed its will on those people through the Bureau of Indian Affairs , the army or local agents . This same paternalistic strategy dominated the business or corporate world , including academia , for a great many years . In some instances , it still does . Paternalism in these organizational cultures can he equated with management from the top down . Responsibility for change brought about using this approach rests squarely with the change agencies but it is rare that other than successes are credited to them . Negative results or consequences are not generally assumed to be the responsibility of the change agencies ; rather , they are nearly always attributed to some other cause . Failures may he considered the result of a faulty perception or definition of n problem , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the focal group . More often than not , failures are laid at the feet of the focal group rather than of the agency or the change agent provided by the agency . Proposed changes using the paternalistic strategy are frequently unsuccessful because the approach does not provide for local input , the utilization of local leadership , and the attitudes that members of the focal group develop toward the Innovating organization ( Spicer 1961:257 ) . Change programs attempted using this strategy are frequently seen as agency programs , for the agency 's benefit and not that of the people . This results in a lack of commitment on the part of the people expected to adopt the change . Despite its obvious limitations , there are occasions when the choice of a paternalistic approach is justified . It is a particularly good strategy in change programs requiring significant levels of formal education ( e.g. , any project involving scientific or technical procedures ) . In fact , any kind of education or instruction is paternalistic by definition . Thus , any change project that Involves some level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For this reason , elements of paternalism are , and should be , incorporated into any plan for culture change . Education ensures , at least in part , that an introduced change will continue long after a project has ended and the change agents have left the area . In the true paternalistic approach , however , the entire effort , from beginning to end , will exhibit its main characteristics of being directive , authoritarian , and relying on coercive power centered on reward or punishment . Engineering Approach The second of the directive approaches concentrates on changing belief and practice by providing some infrastructures for change , essentially physical structures that require large amounts of capital and expertise beyond the capability of the local people to provide for themselves . Unfortunately , this approach usually begins and ends with providing such expertise and structures . For this reason , it can he characterized as a " here is the structure , you figure out how to use it " approach . Change agencies opting for this strategy tend to see their prime responsibility , frequently their only responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the completion of the construction effort . The approach is characterized by huge investments of money , material , and expertise by the agency . But it is also characterized by limited direct contact between project personnel and the people expected to benefit from the project . It centers on providing complex structures in response to identified needs , and little else . There is a widespread belief that economic and social opportunities will simply follow as the people begin to utilize the facilities or structure . The people for whom such structures are designed are left to figure out how to utilize them . Few provisions are made to teach the people how to utilize the structures , for the agency nearly always has become focused on the complexity of the construction effort and providing sufficient resources to bring it to completion . In this approach , local decisions are minimal , if not precluded altogether . This particular strategy can be found in many national or international change programs where particular facilities are required but are outside the abilities and resources of the local groups to provide , ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It does not always involve large structural or engineering feats such as the Aswan Dam . It also has been used to provide such things as community centers , health centers , and other physical structures considered essential to local communities ( e.g. , for Native-Americans in the state of Alaska ) . Its selection is determined by the inability of local groups to respond to their own needs and the need for significant amounts of capital and material investments . Because of the high costs , many restrictions and controls nearly always accompany this approach . This usually results in the project being viewed as for the government , the change agency , or some special group . It is not viewed as a project for the people . At the heart of the approach is the assumption that over time , the people for whom it is intended will learn how to use it . Unfortunately , this is not always true or as automatic as assumed . In essence , the approach centers on providing the engineering expertise and the materials for the physical infrastructure necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually not considered in other than the most general terms , nor are any accompanying cultural consequences . Contextual considerations and preparations for the use of the construction are addressed minimally , if at all . There are obvious circumstances where the engineering approach is useful , if not necessary . It is appropriate when the needs of some group far exceed the ability to respond to those needs . In such cases , this approach may be the only viable alternative . The limitations and difficulties of the strategy come with the minimal involvement of the people for whom such projects are intended and with the lack of attention to educating the people on the use of the resulting structures . It is a very directive strategy wherein the agency decides that a major undertaking is necessary , based on the agency 's belief that it meets a local need . In this sense , it is paternalistic as well . The agency decides to provide it with no input from the focal group , although the idea may have been generated within the latter . The focal group may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of their pressing problems . In either case , agency responsibility usually stops after the structure is completed . Because the approach assumes a top-down stance , little attention is paid to the cultural context of the people for whom it is intended . For example , most engineering projects require changes in the lives and cultures of the people beyond those associated with their use . They can require changes in both belief and practice . New cooperative behaviors may be required , or perhaps new customs for regulating access to resources must be instituted . Or the people may not be able to use the project 's result because of local cultural constraints or its lack of fit to local Culture Change Strategics I23 custom and tradition . Agencies electing the engineering strategy rarely take such considerations into account , focusing , as they must , on the massive resource requirements . Their major concern is to provide the physical structures or expertise that is required . History has demonstrated that many projects done under this particular strategy have impacted or benefited only limited groups within the focal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up providing preferential treatment to an already privileged group which has a direct relationship to or stake in what the construction made possible . It other cases , projects done with this strategy have benefited only a relatively few people within the focal group who have sufficient resources to take advantage of it . Potential outcomes such as these have rarely been included in the thinking of the change agency . Finally , there is always the question of the ability of the focal group to maintain such projects after they are completed . These potential outcomes or considerations have not normally been seen as being within , the parameters of the change agency 's charge . As far as the agency is concerned , its consideration of a human element begins and ends with the belief that the people need the project , and they will learn to use it and capitalize on its perceived advantages . This general strategy is a power one resting on the possession of expertise and resources . Addressing some of the shortcomings of the approach may have the net effect of maximizing the value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viable alternative . Community Development Strategy Perhaps the approach to culture change most widely used in the industrialized and developing world is the traditional community development approach . This is certainly true in the American culture , where it has been utilized at all levels of the society with apparent success . In developing nation-states , the strategy has been extensively used where money for development is in limited supply . In this context , the strategy has had mixed reviews . As a strategy for change in a complex society , with a relatively high standard of living , it has a good chance for success . In the developing societies where resources are limited at all levels , it does not . The approach is basically a nondirective one in that decision making is shared between the agency/agent and the focal group . Change agencies , agents , and members of the focal group all participate in the planning and implementation of the change . The approach centers on developing within the local community the ability to identify and resolve local problems or needs with locally available resources . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " self-help " approach , which indicates the " catch " in the strategy . Material and fiscal inputs on the part of the change agency are minimal in this approach , whereas focal group investments are usually considerable . It relies heavily on the voluntary contributions of resources , both money and labor , from the focal group to meet project goals , foster community development attitudes and self-reliance . The community development approach to culture change has been widely used , // for in the short run , projects done under it have looked like successes and , even better , it has not required much from the change agency ( Niehoff 1966 ) . The development of local leaders and self-reliance is an important aspect of the approach . Given the involvement of members of the focal group in the actual decisions to undertake some change project , to contribute their time , resources , and effort to it , they are usually more committed to accomplishing its goals and objectives than they are with directive approaches . Outside experts and/or a locally educated elite are heavily relied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although it may appear otherwise , local communities are not always in a position to provide the resources necessary to undertake and complete projects . When they do make the necessary commitments , focal groups have found that ultimately they have to pay a cost , either in terms of traditional activities and pursuits , or in the continuing outlay of funds . In the case of developing nations , local communities more often than not exist at a subsistence level and can ill afford to devote time and energy to a project rather then to traditional labors . They may have the resources to initiate a projects but not to sustain it over any length of time , or not without severe hardships in other aspects of their lives . Change agents hired to work with members of the focal group frequently find themselves involved only with selected or willing members of the group , those who are part of the emerging elite or are dissatisfied marginals . Either way , agents will be working only with limited segments of the entire group . Thus , the result is usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This creates a cynicism that will impact and subvert the trust required to implement additional programs or projects . When utilized in situations where strong factions already exist , it can foster additional dissatisfactions and disillusionment among important members of the focal group . Many examples of this kind of situation can be found in communities where bipartisan stands are assumed on development issues and projects . Under certain circumstances , the community development approach to culture change is a viable one ( Singh 1952 ) . Where local interest can be identified and sufficient resources are available , it frequently can produce desired results . It is probably best utilized in complex societies as opposed to developing ones . In the latter , because the people live so close to the survival line , all their energies must be devoted to that surviving . This means that the necessary contributions of material and labor are not available for the project . Devoting time and energy to the project will threaten their survival . From this perspective , the costs represent too high a price to pay . Yet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for developing areas where the government may not have the resources to undertake many change programs . For example , Indonesia was simply not able to provide significant funds for the development of Irian Jaya up through the 1970s . Within restricted nation-state budgets , the approach may represent the only way the agency can become involved in a change or development program . This approach requires significantly more time to reach project goals than do some of the others discussed , but with realistic expectations it can produce continued change over the long run where it is required . Culture Change Strategics 12S Facilitative Assistance Strategy The last type of approach strategy available for culture change is the facilitative assistance approach , sometimes simply referred to as the facilitative approach . Although viewed as very promising , this particular strategy has not been widely used ( Dalton 1971 ; Niehoff 1966 ; Choldin 1968 ; Lang et al . 1969 ) . Facilitative assistance is concerned with local groups solving their own problems with the help of the change agency ( Gearing et al.1960 ; Holmberg 1955 , 1958 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is on local decision making , but it also calls for relatively large material and nonmaterial inputs by the change agency . Although such inputs can he necessary , providing information to the focal group is of greater importance to the agency . Helping to develop new skills among members of the focal group and mediating between them and the change agency are the central tasks of the change agent . Whereas decision making lies primarily with the focal group , providing in formation , capital , and expertise is the task of the agency and its agent(s) . The contextual fit , timing of the change , and obtaining a significant level of focal group participation are absolutely critical in this strategy , so that the people learn the use and accompanying behavior changes that go along with the acceptance of a change . The primary task for the change agency is to facilitate the efforts of the focal group and provide the personnel and resources necessary for successfully completing the change task . The facilitative assistance approach is most appropriate where members of a f ( ical group either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need that is greater than they or an employed agent can respond to within their limitations or abilities . It is also appropriate where sustained growth is desired or required . It is based on the assumption that change which promises an immediate and highly visible reward will he more readily accepted and integrated into the patterns of the focal group , once it is broken down into its component parts and addressed accordingly . A fundamental belief underlying this strategy is that a complex change has a better chance of being adopted if done in stages . The approach recognizes and assumes the inevitably of stress , conflicts , and perhaps disappointments . Because of such things , the emphasis is directed toward the teaching/learning continuum and providing the structure within which this can be done . Members of the focal group develop a commitment to the effort , become accustomed to handling responsibility , and acquire new skills . IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES Change agents are specialists , professionals who influence innovation in a direction already determined by a change agency ( Zaltman &; Dugan 1977 ) . As such they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focal group . The agents stimulate and guide the actual implementation of change . Although they function at the pleasure of the agency that employs them , and are thus controlled by the agency and its approach to change , they do have some measure of control over // the actual change process by virtue of their implementation strategy . As indicated previously , it is not always the case that the change agent 's strategy and that of the agency will be the same , so it is very important to distinguish the general approaches to change of the agency and the functional or pragmatic strategies that agents adopt in their attempt to implement change . Although a great deal of what agents do may be conditioned by the general approach of the agency , the agents are still left with the task of selecting their own strategies for working with the focal group and to meet the goals of the program or project . The strategy of the change agency may influence or determine the kind of interactional relationships the agents must assume toward the focal group , create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impact their ability to fashion the program to fit local needs and context , as well as the style of approach the agents will take with regard to the project and members of the focal group . All of these things become part of the strategy of the agents , along with the cultural baggage they individually bring to the interactional context by way of membership in all the cultural groups of which they are a part , their own skills , and their personality traits . After a change agency has generated an idea for change and opted for one of the approach strategies , it is up to the agents to establish the working relationship with those being asked to change and to work toward the accomplishment of the project 's goals and objectives . Because of their role , the tendency in the past has been to refer to role characteristics as opposed to implementation strategy ( Foster 1969 ; Niehoff 1966 ; Arensberg &; Niehoff 1971 ) . The consequence of this has been the misinterpretation of the actual input of agents into the change context . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the agent will dictate the thrust of the agency and the resources available for the task , but it is through the efforts of change agents that attitudes and practices are actually changed . Such change will hinge on their personalities , personal habits , skills , and actions ( perhaps things they fail to do ) . In the working strategy of the agents , the first concern will be the kind of relationship to be established with the focal group and its members . Agents can interact directly with the members of the focal group or indirectly through intermediaries . If the change agency has opted for the engineering approach to the change project , the agents are pretty much relegated to an indirect relationship . Their efforts will probably be channeled through intermediaries ( e.g. , government officials , department heads , midlevel administrators or supervisors ) to the focal group . Their primary responsibility will be on communication and providing information . Their ability to complete the task will be tied to the others through whom they must work , and will depend on their personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be undertaken . Assertiveness or persuasion , delegating or telling , will likely characterize their interactions with those they must work through . If the agency has planned the change project around the paternalistic approach , the agents ' strategy will not be very different . The agents , in a legitimate power position , simply tell the focal group what they will do , as opposed to engaging in activities designed to persuade them . As a result of the employing agency 's opting Culture Change Strategics I27 lot either the paternalistic or the engineering approach , agents are pretty much relegated to an assertive persuasion strategy based on the coercive power of reward or punishment . Their implementation strategy will he characterized by the use of logic or reason to bring the change about . The agents forward the idea , relate what must he done and how it will he done . They will use evidence and argument , as opposed to raw power and authority , to persuade members of the focal group to accept/adopt a change . Unfortunately , as has been pointed out , people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rationality . Given multiple cultures beady in conflict , the change context is one of stress and high emotions . Sole reliance on the paternalistic strategy usually produces more resistance to the effort . Reward and punishment strategies are characterized by the use of pressures and Incentives to produce the desired change result . They can mean the exercise of naked power or the use of more subtle or veiled pressures . In this strategy , agents communicate what is expected and what ultimately will be judged for the purposes of approval or disapproval , praise or blame , and in the final analysis , rewards or punishments . In the community development and facilitative assistance approaches , agent relationships are quite different than in the directive strategies . In these cases , direct relationships are common as the agents attempt to bring a change about . These approaches require that they collaborate with the members of the focal group but retain some power to impact the circumstances by virtue of their possession of or access to information . They are the experts whose interactions will depend on their skills of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participation and trust are significant and personal traits become much more important . In the facilitative assistance approach , the agents ' ability to reach successful outcomes will rest on their developing the many connections required to ensure an ongoing program . They must share a common vision with those with whom they work , both agency and focal group . The agents ' primary role is to bridge the gap between the agency and the focal group , in essence to serve as broker between the two . For the agents , these approaches means teaching through demonstration , and creating the circumstances wherein the assistance of the agency is no longer be required and the expert becomes obsolete . In short , the task of the agents under these particular strategies is to establish the climate for mutual learning and teaching while helping to build a self-maintaining system . The challenges to agents using such these approaches are perhaps greater than with other strategies . The agents must believe in themselves and the procedure . They have to assume responsibility for what they do , and perhaps for what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effort , its successes and failures . They must he willing to become teachers whose primary goal is to make themselves obsolete . For example , as a result of having to work under either of these plan strategies , change agents are more apt to rely on the participation and the trust implementation or common vision strategies . Both rely on involving the members of the focal group throughout the change process , building trust and open relationships . In the first instance , decision making is shared , thus establishing local commitment , and direct intervention is kept to a minimum . Fostering participation and decreasing outside I2$ Culture and Change supervision is the key . In the second instance , the agents work to identify the common goal and mobilize local energies and resources  --  - in essence , to facilitate action . The major thrust of the agents is to communicate clearly . It is directed at emotions rather than logic , and at building enthusiasm for the project . Personal Styles To be sure , the plan strategy elected by the change agency will directly influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agents do , both consciously and unconsciously in the course of their activities , will also play a major role in implementation strategy . Change agents are first individual humans with personal characteristics that , directly or indirectly , become part of their particular change strategy . In many cases , these characteristics will be an extension of the cultural baggage they bring to interactions , for the vast majority of them are created and conditioned by their cultural affiliations . For example , if their affiliation is with a culture like that of the United States , where the individual and competitiveness are highly valued , agents will likely be assertive in their direct contacts with members of the focal group . On the other hand , if they are representatives of an American Indian culture group , they will likely be introverted in their relationships with focal group members . Cultural baggage will also impact other personal styles of agents that become part of their strategy of implementation , whether it be conscious or unconscious . Such personal traits as sensitivity and feeling , thinking and intuitiveness , perceptiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Beyond personal characteristics that have already been culturally impacted , what the agents do directly to bring about the change is an important part of implementation strategy . Remembering that these actions can be influenced , even determined by the general strategy approach of the agency , the agents can still pick and choose from among alternatives . In a change project with paternalistic strategy , they can choose between persuasion and reward/punishment . The expertise , skill , and knowledge of the agents are expected to " carry the day . " They do not worry about management styles because the reward/punishment accomplishes the task . The agents simply utilize a coercive power to accomplish the change goal . Those who change are rewarded ; those who do not , are punished in some way . In the engineering type of change program , the agents again rely on expertise , skill , and knowledge to accomplish the objective , which amounts to providing the necessary physical structure or facility . The assumption in this general strategy is that the use of the facility will naturally follow its completion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people for whom the structure is provided and that gradually they will attempt to use it . More often than not , the agents are the experts who provide the engineering structure and little more . In the absence of direct relationships or contacts with those for whom the project is designed/intended , the agents ' task in developing an implementation strategy is negligible , if there is one at all . // In the projects designed under the community development and facilitative Wlatance approaches , more responsibility for implementation falls on the agents . Both require local participation and direct contacts with change agents . In projects done under the community development strategy , personal traits are far more important than in the first two strategies . Expertise , skill , and knowledge are again Important to agent 's strategy , but the agents also must develop a level of particicipation and trust among the members of the focal group . The agents are in a unique position in this respect , for they have persuasive power and legitimate power by virtue of their monopoly , possession , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In projects based on facilitative assistance , the circumstances of the agents change once again . The agents ' strategy will revolve around personal traits , common vision with members of the focal group , developing trust , and their parts ! potion within that group . Their characteristics of expertise may influence their Inter actions with the focal group , but their personal traits ( e.g. , willingness to collaborate , compromise , and accommodate ) will have greater impact on their invo11vement than will any other form of approach . In this circumstance , agents ' sensitivity to concerns of the focal group will be paramount . Rather than be assertive , change agents must be cooperative . Obviously , the ability to obtain a high level of focal group participation will depend upon the communication skills of the agents . Local leadership is utilized to the maximum degree , and developing motivation for the change is critical . Although the program may be initiated on the basis of the needs the people themselves recognize , demonstration and ascertained needs initiated by the agents have to become significant elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agents must consider the fit of the change to local values , social forms , and economic realities ; timing ; and the sequential fit . Agents must demonstrate as much motivation as the focal group with which they work . The thrust of the agents ' activity centers on questions posed to the focal group . The strategy of the agents emphasizes this in attempting to stimulate people to think about their needs and what changes may be necessary to meet them . This can lead to questions of how to organize themselves for what they want to do , and when and how they want to do tt The agents also assist the members of the focal group to think through difficulties they may encounter in dealing with each stage of each problem in the course of what they intend to do . Through each of these general approaches , the agents are somewhat constrained in the development of their implementation strategy , and conflicts are inevitable . Most of these will focus on areas of responsibility , resources , reward/punishment , and the attainment of goals . Agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management style will be related to this . In opting for a competitive style , the agents ' own objectives are paramount and relationships with members of the focal group will be minimal . In this case , the agents gain while the focal group loses . In the accommodation style , the expectations of the agents are low but the chances of good relations and success are increased . Compromise management styles require the agents to give and take , and their own expectations are moderated . In the collaboration style , the agents ' expectations must be high , relations with the focal // group produce a circumstance wherein both the agents and the group come out well . In avoidance , the agents ' own objectives are low , relations are low , and neither the agents nor focal groups come out very well . Competing and collaboration are very assertive whereas avoidance and accommodation are least assertive . Compromising lies somewhere in the middle . Many scholars of change agree that in the change agents ' implementation strategy , questions of communication , the fit and timing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern , and the kind of interaction with the focal group are all important considerations . Communication can be directed at the psychological barriers that develop with regard to the proposed change , or it can focus on the establishment of communication channels between agent and focal group . Effective channels of communication can lead to essential exchange of information , play a role in the interaction contact of agent and focal group , be the essential means of learning about the change , and serve as a feedback mechanism . In this regard , agents can choose to use the local language , which helps build rapport with the members of the focal group . Agents can utilize mass media technology ( if available ) for aiding in the contact interactions or they may choose demonstration as a channel of communication , showing the pragmatic advantages of the change . Interpersonal communications are tied to the personal image that agents project . Even group communication channels , such as gossip , may be included in the implementation strategy . In the implementation strategy , adapting the change to the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general approach of the agency , agents can select changes for their adaptive value , as additions or replacements for already existing practices . They need to incorporate local leadership in changes aimed at administration , religion , education , and civic affairs . In a change aimed at social behavior , agents must keep in the mind the integrated nature of things , especially kinship , ethnicity , politics , and any central authority . Economically , the agents want to consider the usual patterns for allocating resources , behavioral questions of work groupings , proprietary rights , distribution and consumption patterns . Of course , timing and appropriateness of the change are related to these considerations . In changes aimed at belief patterns , the agents must recognize that all customs have associated beliefs tied to them . According to some authors , among all these considerations , the level of participation achieved , flexibility , timing , continuity , and maintenance are significant concerns that must also be included in the implementation strategy of the change agents . FOCAL GROUP STRATEGIES Whereas plan strategies focus upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change , and implementation strategies are oriented toward a working relationship oriented to successful completion of a change task , members of focal groups 1 develop strategies of their own that impact the process . Members of focal groups are not passive participants in the change process . They are not simply targets for aI u ' ! // change , nor are they merely recipients of change . Focal groups are active participants in the process and develop responsive strategies as part of the total process . Naturally , focal group strategies will he directly related to what change is proposed and who has proposed it . Of prime importance to them is whether the change impacts a part of their culture that is directly tied to survival , but any proposed change in their learned beliefs or practices can be perceived as threatening . Focal group strategy will evolve in response to the agents with whom they will deal most directly , and how these persons attempt to introduce and Implement change . It will be tied to their perceptions and motivations for change in general , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make or accept . The key to understanding focal group strategy centers on perception , it will be based on all the perceptions held by members of the group . Perception Within directed culture change contexts , focal group perceptions will be tied directly to motivations , attitudes , and the general change climate . Culture initially provides the basis for the perceptions held by members of the focal group , and thus the foundation for whatever strategy the focal group elects in response to any proposed change . This remains true whether the change is proposed from inside or outside the culture group . All cultures make provision for change , have established beliefs and practices with regard to it . Culture groups must be able to respond to changing conditions if they are to remain viable and survive . At the same time , most cultures are conservative with regard to change , simply because of the process whereby individuals are made members of their groups , how and what they are taught . This circumstance points up one of the most striking paradoxes or contradictions of culture and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environments are always changing necessitates that cultures constantly change to ensure their survival . On the other hand , as the members of the culture are taught the correct way to think and behave , a strong element of conservatism is introduced . As discussed earlier , it also produces the ethnocentrism of culture groups , the tendency to judge others based on the particular brand of " truth " that has been learned . Members of focal groups have already learned the correct way to think and behave . They bring this ethnocentrism to bear on any change they are asked to make . They judge the change against what they have learned and practiced . On top of this , in being asked to change cherished beliefs and practices they are being asked to admit that what they had learned in becoming a member of that focal group was not correct . This kind of paradox or contradiction can be readily seen in the case of the American culture . Both Jules Henry ( 1966 ) and Francis Hsu ( 1972 ) have noted that Americans place a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( e.g. , instructional technology and some areas of curriculum ) , changes appear so frequently as to lead one to conclude that in this arena , change is for the sake of change and little else . As consumers , Americans are conditioned to change clothing I32 Culture and Change styles , cars , and other material possessions on a regular basis , but suggest eliminating any of these ( e.g. , changing from a mid-size car to a small one , or eliminating the use of an electric can opener to save the environment ) , and great resistance is encountered . American businesses change almost on a daily basis in order to respond to changing business conditions or to stay competitive . To change American business practices to be less ethnocentric would not be easy . Most Americans readily accept almost anything delivered to them as a development . On the other hand , Americans , like most nation-state culture groups , are almost obsessed with preserving their culture and traditions . For Americans on a national level , change speaks to modernization , development , and improvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly desirable process . To change means to move ahead , improve , progress , keep up , and so on . Here again , it is important to remember that nation-states are artificial and arbitrary culture groupings . Because they are made up of other culture groups , on the more limited levels , attitudes regarding change may not adhere to the national norm . Even though change is highly valued by most Americans , some constituent and scene groupings do not share in that belief . Most American Indians and many ethnic , religious , and academic cultures place far greater value on maintaining traditional beliefs and practices than on changing them . Proposing change across American culture as a unit can be quite different from proposing change for specific , constituent , or scene cultures . Most groups as a whole will be resistant to change from the start . Whether a proposed change originates within or without the group makes no significant difference . Whether it has been decreed or has originated with some level of group participation will make no significant difference . Change of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfactions . In the multicultural environment of the nation-state , or the more limited environment of a constituent group or scene , some members will feel more threatened than others . In the nation-state , change is usually introduced for the good of the majority . This means it may not be good for all the constituent groups making up that culture . Based on this reality , even within a focal group on the level of the nation-state , there will not likely be unanimity . A benefit to one group will mean a cost to some other group . There are no benefits without costs . People 's response to change will be determined by where they perceive themselves on this cost/benefit continuum . As pointed out by Appell , " The costs and benefits of any innovation or planned change are not going to be distributed equally throughout the population ; some people will benefit and some will lose . What has to be kept in mind is whether the distribution of costs and benefits is fair or desirable " ( 1988:272 ) . The perceptions of members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposed change . For example , although most can agree that the change is necessary , and they subscribe to the goal or objective , they may still respond negatively to it . The Equal Rights Amendment can serve as a good case in point . most legislators , and presumably most Americans , agreed with the goals and objectives of the amendment , but it was not passed by the required number of state legislatures to become law . Equality , equal opportunity in employment , equal pay // lot different sexes doing the same job , fit quite well with basic American values . Most legislative representatives probably recognized that despite the equal opportunity laws already on the books , there was great disparity between the sexes . Women were not receiving pay equal to that of men doing the same jobs . Few women were rising in the male-dominated corporate business community . Women were barred from many career fields traditionally reserved for men , and so on . Nevertheless , the amendment went down to defeat . It can be suggested that the major reasons for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change to equality , but of that change as necessitating changes elsewhere in the culture and society , changes many felt were totally unacceptable . Although most elected officials could agreed with the equality goal in the amendment , they saw it as threatening another part of their life deemed more important . The trade-off of what they could characterize as symbolic equality against a more central area of their personal lives was not possible . Some voted against it because it would adversely impact their religious views and practices . Others voted against it because it would dramatically alter the economic system of the society or mean that women would have to fight in war , just like men . Still others voted against it because it would change the basic family structure , something they valued more than what they admitted was a valid hut less important part of their lives . The interrelatedness of culture came to bear on the proposed change . Based on the idea of integrated culture , members of focal groups will respond to proposed changes on the basis of their economic , political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affiliations , simply because those are related to whatever the proposed change might be . Even in situations where they may have participated in the generation of the idea or its planning and design , members of focal groups will avoid , where possible , changes that promise to negatively impact core areas of culture that are essential to group survival . When faced with a proposed change that directly or indirectly impacts such areas , some level of avoidance response is inevitable , particularly from those most closely associated with the area to be impacted . The culture also has provided members of focal groups with role characteristics that will indirectly become part of any strategy in culture change contexts . For example , in some cultures there are established traditions for dealing with people who are not members of the group . There may also be established principles of interaction between members of focal groups and nonmembers . Eskimos are well known for telling outsiders what they think the outsiders want to hear . Culture may prescribe how members of the group should reveal their motivations , if at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outsiders . In some culture groups , members are to use only their group language when dealing with nonmembers . In other cases , given the variety of language , or of levels recognized and used by particular groups of people ( e.g. , formal , consultative , casual or intimate ) , further limitations on communication , are introduced and become part of the strategy of focal groups . To propose a change for any group is to ensure some level of conflict . Beyond the conflict between those asking for a change and those asked to accept a change , competition between the traditional and the new is conflict in itself . Those lining up // on each side of the issue will come into conflict . " Turf " battles are also sources of conflict in change circumstances for example , agents working directly with people without regard to local leadership patterns can easily involve conflict . Local leaders perceive the change not as good or bad , but as a threat to their traditional power status and position . Where conflict is evident , those who perceive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be negative to that change . Motivation Directly tied to perception is motivation . No change will occur unless there is a felt need to change . If people are obtaining their satisfactions by following traditional practices , there is not likely to be a felt need to change anything . Cultures are sets of problem-solving solutions selected from among alternatives within the environments in which people have found themselves . As long as they are successful in surviving , or in obtaining their satisfactions , then they perceive no need to change : " If it ai n't broke , do n't fix it . " This extends into situations where the group may have achieved only a marginal success in attaining their satisfactions . In fact , the felt need to change may be even more remote given this marginality . People barely surviving are less apt to support a change because their existence is already tenuous . From their vantage point , a change could mean the difference between surviving and not surviving . Why take a chance ? It is essential to the successful accomplishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the change . Even if they ask for it that does not necessarily mean they are motivated for it . Second to this felt need can be any number of other motivations . Reward , punishment , novelty , even competitive advantage can serve as secondary motivations . Attitude The strategy of the focal group will also involve the question of attitude , for this is tied directly to perception . From perception come individual attitudes toward the suggestion or effort to introduce change . Cognitive attitudes are consequences of perceptions . Affective attitudes are covert responses to perceptions held , as are behavioral attitudes . The individual who knows the right way to do things , has knowledge of the correct way of thinking or behaving , will perceive any shift or change in that way in a negative manner . From the point of view of a change agency or agent , a change may have a rational basis . The plan for implementing it may be based on sound logic . But the focal group may not share the logic of it . The change may actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change , more often than not , will be emotional ones . This affective attitude is the norm . Initially , people will generally respond emotionally to a proposed change in their cherished beliefs or practices . As might be expected , such an attitude translates into a behavioral component , one the agency and agent will judge as irrational . The bias // toward rationality on which the planning and action of most change agencies and agents is based , will be in direct contradiction to this emotional response . Climate All of the perceptions , attitudes , and motivations of the focal group create the climate for change , both in a general sense and in the case of specific change . In a sense , perception , motivation , and attitude create the climate for change and influence the strategy of the focal group to the proposed change . Felt need will reflect attitudes and motivations . Motivations are based on perceptions of what focal groups are asked to do or accept . Attitudes are how perceptions surface in the individual and the group . How open members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and whether the change is perceived as a threat to either the group or the individual . This is tied to the group 's capacity for change . Perception , attitude , and motivation are products of how members of the group see themselves in the effort , how they perceive control features of it , their past experiences with the agency or agents making the proposal . Of course , all these things can also lead to group recognition of the importance of the proposed change in either positive or negative terms . How they see it in this sense translates into commitment or lack of it within the focal group . FOCAL GROUP RESPONSE STRATEGIES Irrespective of perceptions , attitudes , or motivations on the part of the members of any focal group , one can start with the assumption that any proposed change is not going to be readily accepted by everyone for whom it is intended . Where the culture of the focal group is oriented more to traditional belief and practice , the strategy of the focal group will be based on resistance or avoidance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional beliefs or practices , they will attempt to avoid doing so if they can , and minimize the impacts at the very least . In situations where the change is being forced upon them , the negative response will be greater than if they have some measure of input in the generation of the idea and in its implementation . In the first instance , the strategy will quite likely be active resistance . In the second instance , it will more likely be passive resistance . Both are means by which such groups attempt to avoid the change they are asked to make . Another strategy for focal groups is perhaps best referred to as superficial acceptance . To take the pressure for change off themselves , members of the focal group appear to accept the change , at least behaviorally . They go through the day appearing to have accepted the change , although out of sight of the agent or agency they continue to believe or practice as they always have . Side-stepping is another strategy of avoidance . In this strategy , members of focal groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can involve developing a new pattern of behavior that will off set what they have determined is an unacceptable situation . For example , among the Dani of the highlands of New Guinea , marriages of young girls // were chronologically advanced in order to avoid the loss of the girls to school when the national government made school attendance mandatory . Married women were exempt from attendance ; unmarried girls were not . Thus , marrying young girls earlier side-stepped the new requirements . Another strategy on the part of focal groups concerns additive acceptance , producing what outsiders usually refer to as a form of syncretism . In this strategy , members of the focal group appear to accept a change when in fact they simply add it to their existing patterns , pigeon holing it to circumstances involving those who asked for the change . In another version of this strategy , the focal group accepts the change in behavior but alters it to fit into their own system in such a way that substantive change is not required and impact on traditional patterns is minimized . Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea behind it . All change involves both behavioral and ideational change to be complete . A environmental change invariably necessitates a behavioral change , and so on . Another strategy selected by focal groups can probably best be termed coping behavior . In this approach to change , members of focal groups simply cope with proposed changes in traditional cultural patterns . For example , if the culture of the group is a particularly strong one , they merely fit the change to the new environment that is being created for them . The Maori of New Zealand can serve as a case in point ; they were able to adjust to a new environment yet preserve their cultural core . The Tibetans , on the other hand , well adjusted to a specific environment in which they live , were able to save cultural patterns . The thrust of this strategy is to use what you have to respond to the suggested change while reinforcing traditional beliefs and practices . How a change is being introduced also results in strategy moves on the part of focal groups . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or decreed ) , the people will choose one type of strategy , usually resignation if they have no alternative , total resistance if the power behind the proposal is insufficient to enforce it . If they themselves asked for the change or assisted in the development of the idea and generation of its planning , they will opt for another response ( e.g. , willing participation or active participation ) . In both cases , the direct response of members of the focal group will be based on their perceptions of the entire change context as well . In the first case , they will evolve a strategy out of response ; in the second , they will generate a strategy tied to their participation in both the generation of the idea and the planning for its implementation . Chapter 7 DYNAMICS OF CHANGE Throughout this volume , the process of culture change has been presented as a necessary component of all cultures , the means by which culture groups adjust or alter their beliefs , behaviors , or products in response to changing sociocultural cultural or physical environments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if a culture group is to remain viable , not all culture change is tied to survival . Some can amount to no more than pseudo change , alterations that do little to impact the basic core systems of culture or are changes in degree , a little more or less of something . To gain some increased understanding of and control over culture change as a dynamic process , it is necessary to look to the actions , forces , or powers that produce it . Most scholars of culture change point to some specific thing(s) as " the " major force(s) that produce(s) change , help(s) or hinder(s) the efforts of people to implement or impact it . Some point to various social , psychological , or generalized " cultural " factors from the cultures of the participants as the major forces influencing the process and helping to produce the outcomes . Still others suggest that the specific actions , usually presented as the role characteristics or strategy of participants , especially those of change agents , are the more significant forces in the process . The position that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things together in the interactional context , suggesting that without interaction , there would be no change . The interactional setting like culture itself , can become a force of its own in the process of change . Putting the emphasis on interaction more clearly focuses on change as a dynamic process . Change is presented as the result of a progression of action and reaction . Perhaps the end result is the intended or designed one , or perhaps it is something else . Voluntary change and directed change are the real processes of culture change , for only these refer to how an innovation can become a culture change both in the context of a single culture and across a number of them . Voluntary change refers to that which occurs without specific efforts on the part of anyone to introduce or implement it . Directed change is that which requires some form of coercion to get // Whether members of a culture group to adopt a change in their belief 's or practices . These processes can be seen to operate within cultures , as internal change , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal change , there is no outside contact or interference . In external change , the context is a multicultural one in which contact and outside interference or pressures are involved in changing beliefs or behaviors . In the combination of process and context , the dynamics of change become somewhat clearer . Having assumed a culture-centered stance throughout this volume , it should come as no surprise that culture is presented as the starting point for gaining a better understanding of the dynamic forces of the change processes in both internal and multicultural settings because change plays such an important role in the lives of people . Students of culture change have long recognized its cultural foundations . Such things as conservatism , cooperation , competition , coping behavior , opposition , conflict , motivations , fit , and timing ? all identified as major forces of change ? are directly related to culture in one way or another . Some of these are characteristics of culture itself , serving as general forces of change , whereas others are tied to specific patterns of belief and behavior . Specific cultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily as they can serve as barriers to it . Throughout the previous chapters , many of the characteristics and strategies of agencies , agents , and focal groups have been discussed , any one or all of which can positively or negatively impact the change goal . Although such characteristics have been discussed as part of the context of change , as contributions of the participants , their dynamic qualities have only been suggested and it is important to identify them . But it is equally important to understand how these characteristics interact with each other and produce outcomes in the change effort . In the interactional context , these characteristics can represent the most significant forces whereby some result is achieved . General and specific forces are related because they interact with each other , but there are other forces as well . It is important to keep in mind that change does not occur in a vacuum or isolated from other things , just as most cultures of today do not exist in isolation . Any change program or proposal can be subjected to any number of internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular results Internally , history can play a significant role in any change effort , as can the relationships among the various core systems of any culture . Political , econonin. religious , or social considerations can significantly impact any proposed change Externally , these same considerations , along with seemingly unrelated events Iat removed from the change context itself , can have tremendous influence on the change process , in some cases even determine the final outcome . Individually and collectively , all of these things can be seen as forces of culture change that surface in the interactional change settings . A force implies energy and power to influence , and these are significant forces that impact the change process . In this chapter the goal is to examine much more closely those things that can serve as dynamic forces which operate in the culture change context and produce its outcomes . Of particular importance is the consideration of the dynamic forces of the directed change process in multicultural settings , where change hinges on coercion and contact . Creating culture , and then using it to mediate between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It represents a set of problemsolving solutions to the environments , and it is something that must he taught and learned , shared by groups of humans . In the most general sense , it represents the major adaptation for the human group . Because of what it represents for humans , and what it is , some of its general characteristics are quite germane to the change process . Conservatism , competition , and cooperation are characteristics of all cultures that serve to generate responses , to guide actions and reactions in the change setting ( Foster 1973 ) . In a very real sense , conservatism , cooperation , and competition are complementary characteristics of humans and their cultures . In many cases , they will be the determining forces generating a group 's response to proposed change . They can serve to stimulate change , or they can underlie a group 's reluctance even to entertain the possibility of change . They tend to guide the specific actions and reactions of participants in both internal and multicultural settings . In change involving culture contacts , cultural characteristics become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conservatism Conservatism is a basic characteristic of all cultures and serves as a major underlying force in the change process . Individuals and groups require continuity . People need to know how to get from one day to the next . In acquiring culture , people are taught the right way to do this . Initiates taught what to believe and what to do as they become members of cultural groupings . This is how members of culture groups get to know the right way for them . Because people use culture to respond to the pressures of their environments , any suggestion of changing that adaptation represents a threat to them and the group of which they are a part . To suggest an alteration in culture or any of its parts threatens the " knowing " so essential to human activity , and the security that comes with it . Human personality , so pliable at birth , hardens as the cultural patterns are acquired . The resulting shared cultural pattern becomes engraved in people 's minds and hearts , and it emerges as the ethnocentric attitude characterizing all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic conservatism that also characterizes all individuals and culture groups . This conservatism comes with knowing the " truth , " the " true and correct ways " to think , believe , and act . This satisfies the need for continuity for individuals and groups . People have to believe their culture does this . In fact , it may or may not do it very well . This suggests that conservatism is closely linked to ideal culture , form of culture they acquire during the enculturation process . There is little argument with the fact that cultures are basically conservative , and this can not help but influence any suggestions about changing them , whether the suggestion comes from within the culture or from outside it . The intensity of culture 's role in the change process can increase in multicultural settings because of ethnocentric // ethnocentric attitudes acquired by numbers as they had to learn it . Ethnocentrism , the tendency to . judge other beliefs and practices on the basis of one 's learned culture , is tied to the basic conservatism of culture . Once a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have been learned , ethnocentrism can surface as a major force of change within a culture , just as easily as it does when another culture 's beliefs or practices are involved . Within cultures , suggested innovations , alterations , or modifications are going to be judged against what is already known and practiced . In multicultural settings , ethnocentrism becomes a major force as contacts produce conflicting truths . Change agencies and agents act according to their truths and the belief that the change they suggest is the right one . Members of a local group respond from the belief that they are already doing the correct things . ( living up one 's truth is a very difficult thing to do . Ethnocentrism can play a major role in the formulation of a change , in the plan and implementation strategies , and it will most certainly play a role in the responses of the focal group . Conservatism and ethnocentrism are significant cultural forces that can produce consequences for Change programs and projects . Competition Inspite the conservatism that seems to go along with culture learning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups . All animals are competitive within the environment . Whereas most animals rely on physical adaptations to enhance survival , humans use culture . Whether it is for satisfying basic needs within the limitations of the physical environment or satisfying derived needs generated out of their cultural adaptations for meeting basic needs , humans compete with other animals and themselves . In competing with other animals in the natural or physical environment , humans have gained the edge through their culture . In competing with other humans , culture again provides the edge . In this sense , the " superior " cultures , those with the more successful adaptations , have always dominated those with less successful adaptations . Competition characterizes the interaction of specific Constituent and scene cultures . It characterizes the world of business and organizational cultures as each group vies for position , prominence , or success . It characterizes political and economic cultures , which vie for prominence and power within cultures and on the international scene . Where religion is characterized by diversity , each form competes for dominance . In complex societies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ e.g. , political with economic , religious with political and economic , etc . ) . In the social structure of societies , competition begins with the family , and characterizes the interactions of families , minority groupings , and social classes . The struggles between minority , racial , and ethnic groups in complex societies are well known . On a worldwide level , the artificially created nation-states vie for dominance , positions of influence and status . As physical and sociocultural environments change , these specific , constituent , and scene cultures constantly change to enhance their survival , to better position themselves to compete with others , and to achieve their own goals . Competition is a characteristic of all cultures , and by extension , this becomes a major underlying force in the change process as it functions to ensure continuous change . One of the ways the competitive edge is maintained by humans is through cooperation , another dynamic force in the change process . Cooperation Cooperation is another human characteristic that is integrated into the learned culture patterns of people as they become members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others of its kind . The fact that culture itself is shared introduces the idea of cooperation into culture as one of its main characteristics . Cooperation is obviously tied to both the conservatism and the competitiveness of culture in positive and negative ways . First , a cooperative effort is required to get things done that societies must get done if they are going to survive . The more complex the system , the more cooperation is required . Recognizing this , culture groups make group cooperation a major tenet of the culture transmission and acquisition process . For example , in the educational system of the American culture , " socializing " the individual to the group is a major consideration during the first few years of school . It is critical to teach the elements of the group 's social relations , to convey the rules of social behavior and the expectations people within the group have with respect to one another . This results in conformity to a set of prescribed social beliefs and practices expected of all members of a culture group . These two things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole to do what they must . It also ensures the continued viability of their shared culture . People have devised all manner of social groupings to foster cooperation , for it enhances their competitiveness as individuals and groups . It represents one of the most significant ways that humans remain competitive . From the smallest of human groupings of kinship and association , to the larger , artificially created nation-states and the world of nations , human groups cooperate to maximize their goals in meeting all kinds of needs . Proposing any change is tied to this general characteristic of human groupings and their cultures . It is also related to the conservatism of groups as they come to believe their particular way of believing or doing is the right or only way . SPECIFIC FORCES OF CULTURE CHANGE Just as any conceptualization of human evolution must provide for both general trends and specific circumstances , any consideration of the change process must do likewise . General or underlying forces only serve to generate specific human responses in the interactional settings of change . On the more specific culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , coping behavior , and strategy can become the more significant elements or forces of the process , germane in producing outcomes . All of these things are influenced by the culture 's conservative , competitive , and // cooperative characteristics . The conservative nature of culture directly affects motivations and strategy , and these can be affected by questions of timing and lit . Competitiveness and cooperation are directly related to motivations . In directed Culture change , where conflict characterizes the interactions of participants , these things become even more powerful in influencing outcomes . Earlier discussions of Inge almost automatically focused on these kinds of specific forces of the process , and rightly so . Unfortunately , such discussions focused so much on these that other forces were almost totally ignored and became footnotes . The dynamics of change became wed in the process . The emphasis on these kinds of forces was understandable , ? fuse they readily surfaced in the interactional settings of participants in the wess , most particularly where cultures were in contact . But they may have been ly symptomatic of the underlying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the major forces of change , it is not always easy to separate them into neat I orderly categories that serve as barriers or stimulants to change . All the specific Rural forces are interrelated , and each , on its own or in combination with others , the capacity to become a dominant force in a change program or project . In the al analysis , any one of a great many specific characteristics of a particular culture n become a major power to produce change . Left unattended , they can become significant impediments to proposed change . George Foster ( 1962 , 1969 , 1973 ) provides us with a number of ideas on forces associated with specific culture that can serve to restrict or inhibit culture change . cording to Foster , these forces fall into three categories ; social , psychological , I cultural . Social barriers are identified as those things rooted in social relations . psychological barriers come primarily from the perceptions of people , and cultural tiers are those things rooted in tradition . These distinctions are significant , to be sure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomenon , each of its parts related to all the other parts . What Foster really does is point out several aspects or s of culture that can serve as barriers to change . This is fine as far as it goes . He ply does not go far enough . To separate , distinguish , or divorce social and psychological aspects from " cultural aspects " is misleading . In the distinctions e by Foster , core areas of culture are only suggested . They should be made important considerations in their own right . Core areas of culture are too significant to be ignored . The social relations of which Foster speaks are in fact part of the culture , just as are its other traditions . The psychological is part of culture , in that culture has shaped and molded the mind-sets and perceptions of its members . These are potential cultural forces that will influence the change process and outcomes , there are more . By focusing on a cultural category of change forces , such things as traditions and values , social structure and social organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and all the remaining parts of culture can be addressed . This also allows us to maintain the holism of culture and the interrelated nature of the partss making it up . All core areas of culture are related within the culture context , such impacts the other . The perceptions of people come from their cultures . Social relations are maintained within the context of culture . Beliefs and practices are // given to the individual by culture . In this sense , there are many aspects of culture which can serve as harriers to culture change , just as they can serve to stimulate it . Such forces of culture change can come from any of culture 's parts , ideationally or behaviorally , and from either its ideal , real , or construct versions . Cultural Values and Traditions There are potential cultural forces rooted in tradition , and in the learned beliefs and practices associated with them . As pointed out by Foster ( 1969 ) , barriers to change can come from the value people place on their traditions , what they were taught as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as true and behaviorally correct . Such things produce the pride in being identified with the group and with knowing the right way . In other words , the cultural forces consist of all those things that exist within the integrated culture and the logical order of things as they have been learned . It has become very clear , over many years of study , that the greater resistance to change comes where people place the greatest value , in association with core areas of culture . The social system of culture is such a core area of culture , if for no other reason than that humans group together . The enculturation system , which emphasizes cultural transmission and acquisition within a culture , is another core area on which great value is placed , for it ensures that the culture survives . Culture is reproduced through learning . Worldview provides the members of the group with some understanding or perception of the world around them . Economic and political systems assist them in adapting to the resources with which they have to work and the social order within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altering basic beliefs and/or behaviors with regard to any of these core areas of culture , directly or indirectly , come into conflict with established patterns of belief and practice . In such circumstances , any of the traditional patterns can turn into barriers or stimulants to change . This is why it is so critical to understand the cultures involved in a change setting , not just as they may be ideally portrayed but as they actually exist and as individual members live them . For example , in the American culture , the gaps between these versions of culture can be substantial . Ideally , Americans portray their culture as one in which great value is attached to the individual , freedom , equal opportunities , an educated electorate , and so on . These specific characterizations will nearly always appear in discussions of American values and dominant themes . Ideally , most Americans want to believe such things about themselves and their culture . On the other hand , as with any culture and society , the individual is always sacrificed for the good of the majority . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secondary to the group and its need for social order . Equal opportunity is always contradicted by the existence of a stratified system , where inequality can be based on economic class , occupation or specialization ; ethnic , religious , or sexual groupings . Although much is made of maintaining the educational system , actual support for it waxes and wanes consistently . The real themes of the culture stem from its economic and politcal systems . A much grcatcr value is placed on these systems of American hate than on enculturation or social systems . The value of the individual is subverted by the economic needs of various constituent or scene culture groups . le majority group can subvert the needs of the smaller constituent groups . The ? illating support for the educational system will always be determined by the Alining economic system ( as opposed to support tied to the value of the system ) . c achievement of equal opportunity will always be subject to economic and htical feasibility . The political system gets its drive from this sociopolitical ' lion , and the worldview of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideal culture values are taught and learned within a culture , the dominant values can stem from any one of its organizational patterns . ividual culture members have to function somewhere in between the ideals they t and the realities within which they must live on a day-to-day basis . Individuals accomidate the ideal and real cultures by formulating their own individual ' lions of culture , constructed lifestyles based on their personal limitations in ng up to the ideals or in coming to grips with the realities they must face . Some plc turn to any one of their cultural affiliations for their personal construct . lual culture forces that become the barriers or stimulants to change can come no any of these culture versions . At the same time , in the case of American culture , competition remains the major underlying cultural force for both the individual , and the group . In other cultures , the dominant themes may be quite Brent , and thus the underlying forces will be different . In some cultures ( e.g. , Pueblo Indians of America 's southwest ) , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reactions . In these ! lures , cooperation is the dominant underlying force impacting change . In others , dominant traditions and values can , be based on political beliefs and behavior , within the still predominantly communist nation-states . In the Communist and socialist political states , willing or forced cooperation within the group becomes the thing most highly valued . In still other cultures , religion can permeate everything e.g. , in the Islamic Republic of Iran or other predominantly Islamic nation-states ) . these cultures , scene and constituent groups , social , economic , and/or political decisions are subservient to religious teachings and dogma . Social structure and organizational systems revolve around religious teachings and practices . Religious slues are of the highest priority . Given the nature of such cultures , the primary underlying cultural force in change is conservatism . In addition to the ideal and real values of particular societies are the values of the various cultures that make up the multicultural reality of most nation-states . As p ' lilted out a number of times , the world 's nations are actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced into the state by one means or another . This Means that in addition to the orienting values espoused in the ideal cultures of the slate , or in the real values as they are practiced , there are those of the constituent end scene cultures . Because of the inequality ever present in multicultural groups , the values , beliefs , and practices of the dominant groups will take precedence over those of subservient groups . Depending upon where change is directed , and who will he most impacted by it , the relationship between the dominant group and the subservient group will produce traditions and values that will have repercussions in the change context . Most of these will he horn out of the conflicts between them . In change settings where these circumstances predominate , the most influential underlying culture force to change will be competition . Values and attitudes are identified and strongly held with regard to all those things with which any society or group must concern itself . Great value can he placed on traditional ideas about social , political , economic , religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such things come from their learned belief that their system is the most correct one . If such ideas and practices have been followed over considerable periods of time , and if the people continue to meet their needs by using them , they become traditions or the " natural " order of things . The integrated nature of culture introduces the idea that such things must be considered in a contextual framework and not as individual values or ideas . Standards of modesty , group and individual pride , dignity , motor patterns , customary body positions , customary greetings , and norms of polite behavior are other cultural traits and traditions that can become barriers or stimulants to change ( Foster 1969 ) . All of these kinds of traditions can become significant in change contexts , as can the value placed on the individual or the group , material possessions and wealth , practical and esoteric concerns , the minimum and maximum social groupings , the here and now , past and future , right and wrong . The bottom line forces us to recognize that all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture can serve as barriers or stimulants to change . In directed change , where culture contact is added , the cultural values of change agents and agencies come into conflict with focal group values , and the impact of the culture forces on change takes on even greater significance . It is at this point the traditions of the agents and the traditions of the members of the focal group can conflict dramatically . The conflicts can be so great as to bring about a less than successful result . Organizational Systems of Culture The very nature and character of culture 's organizational systems serve to stimulate or inhibit change . Studies have repeatedly shown that political systems and leadership patterns can have tremendous influence on the direction of change programs . Local political leaders frequently work against change they perceive as threatening to their status or position . This resistance can surface with regard to the proposed end result , or it can appear during implementation , as a response to that series of events . The same can be said for leaders in any of the core systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the direction or result of change to any of culture 's parts , not just in those directly related to their interests . By the same token , the nature of the organizational systems can work to stimulate or restrict change ( e.g. , with an economic system ) . In the case of an economic system based on capitalism and competition , the values associated with them ensures a certain amount of continuing change . Change on almost a daily basis // has long characterized the business and industrial sectors of the American culture . Enculturalization and religious systems can inhibit change simply because they represent two of the most conservative areas of any culture . In the American educational system , change appears to he a fact of life . On closer examination , one finds significant amounts of surface change but little change in basic goals and curriculum . When it does change , it is a slow and very painful process for all participants . Religious systems are even more reluctant to change . Changes in these systems of belief or practice are nearly always totally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their totality . The interrelated nature of ulturc , and the fact that it can include a number of constituent or scene cultures , must always be kept in mind . As should be obvious , the culture also provides the ntext for the social and psychological barriers/stimulants . Structural Systems of Culture Some especially powerful culture forces producing or inhibiting culture change some from the social structure of culture . These forces originate from the social relations or the traditional claims and obligations people have to one another as they Nempt to live together in groups . The system of social relations of any group can serve as a barrier or stimulant to suggested change . More often than not , social forces act to maintain the status quo and preserve social equilibrium . Put another way , there will always be conflicts of interest , status and class conflicts , and Mlfnicting channels of command or authority . In the corporate world , this can boil down to expected relations between management and employee , established channels of communication , or recognizing formal leaders ( managers , CEOs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set the tempo or are looked to by rlr fellow workers to show the way ) . Social inhibitors are rooted in the formal and formal social obligations and expectations of people . For example , in the acculturation studies of the past , researchers repeatedly found that a change or shift a culture group 's economic base is almost always followed by significant changes the nature of family organization . Such change strains traditional family reletionships and even the nature or role of the family within the society . tlr-xiucing cash crops takes away from subsistence crops and practices , and it tends destroy cooperative work patterns . Rapid change promotes factionalism and visive tendencies within the group . Wage labor fosters independence as opposed Family interdependence . Family structures in a state of strain will frequently lime the focal points of resistance . Psychological Aspects of Culture Psychological forces , important in the change context , are tied to perceptions held by individuals as members of culture groups . Psychological considerations are determined or constrained by culture . Managers and employees , blue-collar and white-collar workers , blacks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will all perceive things differently . There is no doubt that people from vastly different cultural backgrounds , especially those of the nation-state , will see many things quite differently . An individual of the developing world will simply not see things as someone from the developed industrialized world , or from a subsistence-based economy does . Experiences with various global problems provide evidence that perceptual disparities can minimize efforts to solve such problems . From the point of view of the industrialized world , global problems arc becoming crucial issues deserving the attention of people throughout the world . Many solutions have been proposed and attempted in an effort to respond to them . People in the developing world simply do not see such concerns in the same way . Even i f they recognize the problem(s) , they may not assign it ( them ) the same level of priority . They may be more concerned with surviving on a daily basis or meeting their own needs . The solutions offered by the industrialized world may work in that world , but in their world , they may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Revolution to combat starvation , family planning to combat overpopulation , and efforts to stop the loss of tropical rain forests have all largely failed to reach their goals because of such perceptual differences . On the more limited scale of the constituent cultures within the artificial nation-states , perceptual differences can loom very large as well . Perhaps the greatest misconception held by people nearly everywhere , is that most members of such cultures tend to think basically the same way . This may apply to smaller cultural groups as well . Perhaps this is a consequence of enculturation systems striving for national unity or consensus through standard curricula . It may also reflect the nature of the curriculum , most of which is oriented to the way things ought to be , as opposed to the way they actually are . For example , academics and nonacademics certainly view things quite differently . The academic researcher is convinced of the value of research and the need for it as part of the decision-making process . On the other hand , most others are not oriented to research and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are focused more on their everyday needs than on something in which immediate and tangible results are not necessarily possible . There are comparable differences in business . From a CEO 's vantage point , a particular change may be justified , whereas from the vantage point of the production line , a proposal for change may be nothing more than a pseudo change , one that simply asks them to do more , or the result of some manager justifying his or her continued employment by thinking up new things for everyone else to do . None of these perceptions would justify the proposed change in their minds , or the efforts that must be expended to achieve it . Just because all company employees go through the same orientation ( enculturation ) process , this does not mean that they all think and perceive things the same way . Another fact to keep in mind is that people may be employed by a particular company , but they come to that company with many other cultural patterns fully engraved in their minds , those acquired from all the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural baggage " people bring to the job . Employees of any corporation or business represent a wide range of constituent and scene cultures . The beliefs and practices // to which they subscribe in their daily lives , outside of the workplace , are not left at the company door . The corporate culture is assumed as they go to work , but not at the exclusion of all the others that make up their individual identity . Each of the culture groups represented by an employee may have different perceptions of many things that impinge on business operations . Another important aspect of perceptual difference that can lead to successful or successful change effort comes with the perceptions of a specific change . The options of a change held by an agency , its change agent , and the members of the loca1 group do not always coincide . Consider the various projects associated with global issues discussed earlier . Agencies and agents of the developed world may have sincerely believed that they were addressing overpopulation , starvation , forestation . Based on their cultures , the introduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of food shortage . By their cultural standards and logic , their drive to limit population growth , they saw reducing the number of Wren per family in order to slow population growth as a reasonable solution . In efforts to stop the destruction of tropical rain forests , people in the industrial world might have believed that reducing the number of acres cleared for agricultural kluction would help resolve this problem . From their particular cultural vantage point , all of these proposed and attempted solutions were logical and reasonable . necessary changes in lifestyles of the people that would be most impacted would minimally disruptive . The changes were necessary because the problems would mutely impact people everywhere . National ethnocentric ideas about progress , modernization and development were injected into the solutions for solving global problems . The agencies and agents came into the change circumstance believing t change meant progress or a shift toward a better or more efficient way . Changing from an old way to a new way , particularly in technology , was a desirable ng . Their jobs and livelihood were dependent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always for the betterment of everyone . Just who actually fits from so-called development projects was never quite specified , but it was bably the agencies and agents of change . Further exacerbating the problem of perceptual difference is the difference between ideal and real change : what the agencies and agents tend to believe they are mpting to accomplish and what they are really asking people to do . Many ngc agencies and agents believe they are simply introducing a social change , a hnological change , an economic change , a political change , whatever . After all , at " is what their agency was established for , or what they as individuals were d to do . Naturally , the change being proposed or introduced appears simple nigh , is singular and reasonable . That it may be biased or intricately related to -r own cultural beliefs , or that it is actually part of a larger integrated system , is arcntly lost on them . Like most specialists , change agents are prepared to deal Ih specific processes as practiced and taught in their cultures ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specializations ) . Because they were trained in and sent narrow specialties , most agents of change have never had the chance to me versed in the holism of culture or the idea that all things in culture are cutely related one to another . Few are exposed to the idea that changing // anything in a culture 's beliefs or behaviors will likely impact ether areas not directly related to what they propose , or perhaps all the rest of the culture . Agencies and agents can believe they are introducing only a very small change into someone 's beliefs and practices . For example , the introduction of cash crops into areas of Irian Jaya , Japan , Latin American , and North Africa would not seem to involve dramatic changes for people in these areas were already farmers . Introducing more sanitary cooking methods and facilities in Rhodesia would only make things better and more efficient . The introduction of powdered milk in Venezuela would only improve health conditions , particularly among the young . Introducing the steel ax to the Yir Yoront would only make their work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enhance agricultural production and benefit everyone by improving production capacity . Many businesses and corporations introduce modern technology into their operations based on the belief they are only responding to changing market conditions . In the vast majority of cases , change projects are directed at very specific things , with little regard to how they may fit into the context of the larger culture . In the introduction of cash cropping , change agents actually impacted family structures , cooperative work patterns , and diet . In the introduction of more sanitary cooking methods and facilities , agents actually changed social interactional relationships . In the introduction of powdered milk , agents actually caused severe health problems among people unaccustomed to it , and overtly challenged the role of women in the society . In replacing a stone ax with a steel one , agents were responsible for the demise of a culture . The Aswan High Dam benefited only a very privileged few . Introducing modern technology into business actually requires the alteration of nearly every aspect of doing business . All of these outcomes were the direct result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , being unfamiliar with local culture , and a failure to understand the integrated nature of culture . Members of focal groups sometimes fare no better for they are grounded only in parts of their own cultures . Although they may know more about the context within which a change is being considered , they , too , will generally not consider the holism of culture . Native peoples of Alaska wanted government help in constructing community centers in their villages , but they clearly did not perceive the other changes that accompanied them . They did not anticipate the disruption to families and family relationships that followed . Agencies , agents , and members of focal groups tend to view their activities and goals in a very narrow sense . In the analysis of the many projects undertaken in the efforts to resolve some of the global issues facing our world , perceptual differences have been painfully obvious . New crops were introduced in an attempt to combat increasing starvation , yet the very people for whom the program was designed refused to support it . In some cases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food ; in others to their perception of the program as of limited benefit to them . The winners , from their point of view , were the small numbers of already privileged people within their societies . In other cases , changes were refused because the people did not have the resources to implement them . Introducing cash crops into marginal subsistence areas would seem to be a reasonable solution to poverty . When it has been done , the 