@@774020

txt Introduction and the event becomes a reflection not of frozen cultural ideals , but of the turbulence that wracks social order during that time and place . In effect , the event then loses any claim to special ontological status . Instead , it is , or becomes , a direct extension of ongoing or emergent struggles that coopt any and all venues for their conflicts ( cf. Lincoln 1985 ; Goldstein 1984 ; Le Roy Ladurie 1980 ) . Fourth , the typology raises the issue of hypothetical relationships among the types . The types were discussed as if they , and so too the real events that they index , are truly distinct from one another . But as indicated by the examples discussed , the probability of a given , real event fitting neatly within one type is necessarily small . Then what is the relationship between the types ? Should they be understood as continuous with one another , so that a given public event , say ( X ) , could be located hypothetically as a mixture ' of types somewhere on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' X MODELLING ? RE-PRESENTATION ? PRESENTATION In this kind of classification the greatest disadvantage of the continuum is its utter linearity . The event ( X ) can be discussed only as the interplay of two types , whereas qualities of all three may feature in its design . Moreover , if the relationship between types is understood as developmental , as a temporal progression , in this example an event ( X ' ) can turn into event ( X ) only by becoming more like one of re-presentation in order then to become one less like re-presentation . This imparts a unity to the predication of human phenomena , and to their change , that skews reality even more than the types themselves . A more accurate image of my position is that of figure 4 . Here the boundaries formed by the ideal interaction between the three types create a hypothetical space that encloses the qualities of all the types , and that enables their interaction so that they can cohere in different combinations and formations . Then a given public event can be said to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contain qualities of all the types . Although beyond the purview of the book , such quality space ' also could be used to grasp the logic of different moments or phases within the same event , and the movement between moments . Such space also might be used to discuss shifts among public events in a given cycle of occasions , one whose own logic of operation influences those of the events that compose it . Or , such space could be used to map the historical development of a particular event . Note that the ideal relationship , the border , that connects events of presentation and re-presentation in figure 4 is left partially open , as a dotted 60 line . This is so for the following reasons . The event of modelling is the most clearcut ; and therefore its contrasts and relationships with the other two types are distinctive and strong ? those of the solid line . So too , it is shown as more distant from the other two types . However the relationship between events of presentation and re-presentation is less stable and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may lie even beyond this enclosed space ? therefore the dotted line . Fifth , in my preoccupation with the logics of form in this chapter , I have not addressed various concerns that are integral to many public occasions . The orchestration of experience and affect is among these . How do public events structure , coordinate , and play with the mood-states , the emotions and sentiments , of participants and onlookers ? ' ' ' Do they move people ? And , why ? Regardless of the kind of event concerned , the experience of participants will be affected , and this may well be of wider import . Thus , what to make of Iranian Ta'ziyeh drama that Beeman ( 1982 : 95 ) tells us is intended and designed to evoke weeping among spectators ? These issues are related to questions of meaning : what is it that a public occasion signifies to and for those involved ? Should one at all speak of signification ' in relation to feeling ? Are feeling ' and meaning ' separable ontologically , and if so , in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1975 : 201 ) statement that German audiences lived ' Hitler 's speeches ? And , most critically in relation to the claims I have made for modelling , should such occasions be understood as ones that mold affect , such that transformations ( for which duration ? ) are accomplished in the feelings of masses of people ( see note 15 , this chapter ) ? In other words , are such events self-regulated , predictive schemes for the teleological transformation of affect ( cf. Schieffelin 1976 ) ? 61 Introduction All these issues relate directly to the discussion of performance at the outset of this chapter , and to my insistence there that experience is tied closely to the logics of design of events . In turn , such questions insist that close analytical attention be given to the communicative capacities of various media through which a public event is enacted ? media like rhetoric , narrative , music , song , dance ( cf. Langer 1953 ; Straus 1966 ; Bloch 1974 ) . ' ' These subjects are of integral importance to public events , yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particulars of cultural traditions , and are more impenetrable to the sorts of comparisons that I have tried to outline here . Mention of meaning ' , likely the greatest bugbear of scholars who deal in symbols , leads me to close this chapter less on a note of lacunae left vacant than of a correlation unconnected . We are wont to believe that the more complicated is the organization and elaboration of a public event , the richer , deeper , and more profound are the cultural meanings ' that the event generates , conveys to , and evokes among participants . The typology I have posed is based on one order of complexity ? that of organizational logics of form . In these terms ( and clearly there are many others ) , my guess is that there is no necessary correlation between the organizational complexity of a public event ( regardless of whether we call it ritual ' , or something else ) and the complexity or resonance of meaning ' it produces . Public events vary from the explicitly ontological to the insistently pragmatic , from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressive . The positioning of an event in these terms may well implicate profundity , but profundity of meaning does not implicate complexity of organization . The latter tells us more of how something works , but not of the quality or resonance of thought that goes into its phenomenal formation . Even the profound goal of transformation ' and the more complex logic of modelling do not require any extraordinary attention to the generation and exegesis of meaning ' ( although , of course , they may be embued with this ) . Modelling requires rules , or modes , of procedure and inference that are put together in certain ways . How ( and why ) particular cultures ground , contextualize , and substantiate the above is quite another matter . Similarly , events of presentation may be signal repositories of meaning ' ( as is the case , I believe , of the state ceremonies discussed in chapter 9 ) , even though in my terms such occasions do nothing ' in relation to their own logic of operation . " 62 3 Precariousness in play Westerners commonly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artifice and frivolity , and with the impossibilities of fantasy ? and , enamoured of cognitive dualism , compare this unserious ideation with its opposite of the serious ' , whose apex is the sacrality of truth ' . Sacred truth and frivolous falsehood are among the extreme binary opposites of our modern conceptual universe . But , with this radical disjuncture , we almost have banished from serious discourse the relationships between centres of social-gravity and their dynamic absence . I have noted in passing the affinity of the idea of play ' with that of uncertainty ' , identified with the unpredictable play of forces in flux . In many traditional cultures , such uncertainty , and its concomitant indeterminacies , resonate deeply with conditions that were antecedent to the creation of the cosmos , or that were integral to this . In the beginning . . . there was turbulence/chaos , or the absence/negation of anything and everything . Stories of cosmogenesis tell of the creation of phenomenal order out of , or through , these conditions . Cosmogenesis necessarily is inherently dynamic and processual . By whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the certainties of determinate and predictable courses of action . This turbulence or absence is not symbolic of anything else . It is nonderivative . It is inherently itself , more so than any order erected by humankind . It existed prior to the creation of order , and is the unalterable baseline that demarcates human doings from their nullities . Perhaps the extreme of antithesis to human order , it is also as near as cultural thought comes to conceptualizing a total , or near total , absence of order . There are cosmologies that embed the existence and interplay of such forces in the very premises of their metaphysics . These cosmologies ( among the major belief-systems , the prime case may be that of Hinduism ) are pervaded by qualities of instability , of ongoing fragmentation and re-constitution , in their logics of operation . ' Within such cosmologies , for example , the boundaries that divide the paranatural and human realms are more matters 63 Introduction of continuous and contingent gradation , than they are of absolute demarcation . The characters that populate these cosmologies ( i.e. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth ) tend to be positional and transmutive types , rather than enduring centres of gravity . The significant status accorded to premises of uncertainty have profound effects on how these cosmologies operate . Other cosmologies give little recognition to these primal antitheses , or accord them at best minor metaphysical roles . These latter cosmologies are less self-transformative , and more centristic : their cosmic centres , or cosmic apices , are characterized by enduring stability ( Handelman 1987a ) . Cosmologies that embed forces of flux at a high level of abstraction in their ontologies seem to keep an ongoing accounting of , and relationship to , the conditions that are thought to precede , or that participate in , cosmogenesis . Within these cosmologies , stability tends not to be the natural order of things , not necessarily self-perpetuating , and not part of a grand evolutionary design that , through the discovery of knowledge , inexorably moves humankind further and more towards a total control over social orders and their environments . Whether or not cosmologies that largely deny a significant role to forces of flux also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But I might note in passing that certain of the modern exact sciences seem to understand better than the social sciences that any making of order also changes , in the process , that selfsame order . This perspective echoes the dialectical view that any social arrangement carried to its logical conclusion liquidates itself .2 In other words , stability and uncertainty are not remote from one another : each is the immanent shadow-side of the other , whether peoples recognize this or not . Few viewpoints in anthropology seriously entertain the likelihood that the existence of social order is eminently more problematic than is its absence . One seeming exception is that of Sally Moore ( 1975 : 232 ) , who put forward the view that the underlying quality of social life should be considered to be one of theoretically absolute indeterminacy . . . in this model social life is presumed to be indeterminate except insofar as culture and organized or patterned social relationships make it determinate . . . even within the social and cultural order there is a pervasive quality of partial indeterminacy ' . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a possibility as is its presence . The possible is prevented from becoming probable by the ongoing and unceasing work of reproduction that social orders perform on themselves . Thus , reproduction implicates the presence of change in its doing , even if such change is limited , repetitive , or cyclical . Another exception , one especially relevant to the study of public events , is that of the late Victor Turner 's interpretations of liminality . These probe 64 Precariousness in play where , in traditional social orders , we may look for the structured praxis of reproduction . In my understanding , the idea of liminality is a logical expansion of that of pervasive indeterminacy in social order , and requires some discussion here ( see also Handelman 1985 ) . The term , liminality ' ( from the Latin , limen ; literally , threshold ) , we owe to Van Gennep ( 196o : 11 , 21 ) . He delineated a type of occasion , one that he called rites de passage , that specialized in the doing of change among tribal peoples . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was characterized by the programmed deconstruction of routine socialstructural perceptions and arrangements ? in a sense by their negation . There , the persons to be changed came into contact with transcendental sources of power ( 196o : 114 ) that transformed their being , before they were returned , transmuted , to quotidian social order . According to Kimball ( 196o : viii-ix ) , Van Gennep understood social order in terms of its entropic degeneration and periodic regeneration through occasions that often had the format of symbolic death and rebirth . The condition of transition , the liminal , was dangerous precisely because it dealt with the taking-apart of customary order . It made indeterminacy explicit ? and necessarily questioned the arbitrariness of customary patternings in social life ; thereby raising the potential for variability in their reconstitution . In my view , Van Gennep located a focus in the ordering of traditional life that specialized in the controlled dissolution of cultural and social integration ; that recognized the necessity and danger of such a project ; and that related the malleability of the liminal condition to extraordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Turner made explicit certain implications in Van Gennep 's work . Turner recognized the affinity of liminality to the very absence of structure ? in other words , to conditions of uncertainty and indeterminacy . We are not dealing with structural contradictions when we discuss liminality ' , he wrote , but with the essentially unstructured ( which is at once destructured and prestructured ) and often the people themselves see this in terms of bringing neophytes into close connection with ... the unbounded , the infinite , the limitless ' ( Turner 1964 : 8 ) . This absence of structure , of the decentering of order , was a locus of the relatively free recombination of cultural elements : Liminality may perhaps be regarded as the Nay to all positive structural assertions , but as in some sense the source of them all , and more than that , as a realm of pure possibility ' ( Turner 1967 : 7 ) . Liminality , he maintained ( Turner 1977 : 69 ? 71 ) , provided acultural means of generating variability ' among tribal peoples . Hypothetically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change ( Turner 1977 : 76 ) . A populist concept in anthropology and cognate disciplines , liminality was applied indiscriminately to a wide variety of contexts . Too often it 65 Introduction became simply a metaphor for the unclarity of situations that struck us as betwixt and between ' in some manner.3 More recently , Turner ( 1978 : 281 ) drew back from this unbridled diffusion of the liminal condition : It is true that I have . . . stressed the potentially subversive character of liminality in tribal initiations . . . but this potentiality never did have any hope of realization outside a ritual sphere hedged in by strong taboos ' . Therefore , he added , liminality should be restricted primarily to ritual with a rites de passage structure . Beyond this , the application of this concept would be mere metaphor ( Turner 1978 : 286 ; sec also Turner and Turner 1978 : 249 ) . This recantation was overly restrictive . Turner 's recognition of liminality is a complementary , focused counterpart of Moore 's depiction of indeterminacy . Concentrated , in accordance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With Care , or defused in other ways . Uncontrolled , it is corrosive . Not only the contexts of its occurrence , that may or may not buffer it , must be addressed , but also ( at the risk of sounding idealist ) its essential condition . This is still a no-place in no-time that perhaps resists classification ( Turner and Turner 1978 : 249 ) . In chapter 10 on clowns in ritual , I argue that liminality , the fluff of indeterminacy in its focused condition , is best understood as a medium that is intensively processual : fluid , shifting , vital , and replete with energy ; yet without the capacity to stabilize itself . It may be likened to the generation of randomness in social life ( Mahoney and Sutton-Smith 1976 ) , with all of the potentiation that accrues to this . But the processuality of indeterminacy is essential to the projects of transformation of events-that-model . Within these occasions , processuality is hedged-in , is strictly controlled , and is put to cultural usage in accordance with the systemic design of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should the liminal condition shatter its cultural buffers and instead concentrate in quotidian contexts , then its impact is searing and destructive . If the condition called liminality is , as Turner referred to it , the fons et origo of structure , then structures of destruction also may be formed from this under conditions ? of alienation and anomie ? that are well-known ( cf. Goldberg 1977 ) . In events of re-presentation , the liminal condition is less systemically controlled . When such events are enacted in times of social inconsistency , or of the more extreme anomie , that resonate with the volatility of liminality , the latter may shatter its buffers and spurt forth , like an uncontrolled spread of antitheses without syntheses . This randomizes and disrupts the connectivity among elements of culture , unravelling the weave of customary integration . However , as noted before , in events-that-present there is a distinct absence of indeterminacy and uncertainty , and hence of liminality ' . The condition of controlled uncertainty that is found in certain public events , and that Turner identified with liminality , resonates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Moore considers are pervasive throughout social order , and that implicate all established structures in the sowing of their own negation . In turn , both of these conditions have affinities to the unpredictable and uncertain qualities that characterize the chaos or nullity that precedes cosmogenesis ? qualities that may be embedded at high levels of generality , as cultural premises in particular cosmologies . What has all this to do with play , as we know it ? That which we commonly gloss as play ' is infused with qualities of flux and the processual that are devalued thoroughly in a positivist age , and that are believed to be controlled utterly ? eventually . Our modern sense of play , as the randomized play of forces , is of the minute epiphenomenal : of rationalist and salvationist discourses on the unreal , the invalid , artifice , pretense , falsehood , and just play ' , that are contrasted with the ponderous gravities of serious and substantial realities ( Manning 1983 : 23 ? 25 ) . These qualities of play , that are also negations of determinate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are epiphenomenal is another matter , and not a laughing one . Our point of view undoubtedly is telling ? witness the embrace of bureaucratic and technological power it has spawned in the modern age . But it is no more universal than the mind/body duality of our hellenist heritage , with the blind spots built into that . That which we call play ' is play and little more , given the constricted role that we surrender grudgingly to uncertainty in the construction and conduct of social realities.4 This play ' , I should point out , is not the psychologistic notion , tailored to our conception of the individual , of the realization of self-fulfillment through fun , game , and group therapy . The deeper play of forces to which I refer is closer to what would be understood by cosmic physicist and cosmic metaphysician alike . Nor is the view put forward here a romanticized one . Uncertainties of play and terror are not necessarily genteel kissing cousins , but intimate , perhaps incestuous bedmates . The play of forces is never more exhilarating nor frightening than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aficionado of horror films and Sinhalese exorcisms knows . As Eugen Fink ( 1968 : 25 ) puts this , Play can contain within itself not only the clear apollonian moment of free self-determination , but also the dark dionysian moment of panic self-abandon ' . Terror and play are forceful modes of introducing uncertainty , and their affinities are undeniable . Unlike ourselves , and our purposive beliefs that order can be made , and made to progress inexorably by the suppression of forces of deep flux and uncertainty , other peoples acknowledge and actively utilize these dangerous forces to precariously undo and redo social order . This , in my view , is what lies behind the concept of liminality . That is , what lurks behind ideas of 67 Introduction play is cognate with what stares forth from ideas of liminality and cosmogenesis . Play , as Fink ( 1968 : 23 ) comments , is always a confrontation with Being ' . If we are to comprehend the seriousness of the deep ideation of play ? literally as the inter-play of elements of order that are in-play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it gains expression in the phenomenal world , should be understood as affinities of some more comprehensive notion of uncertainty . Uncertainty is the recognition that cosmos ( or whatever entity is under discussion ) exists as much through the deep flux of unpredictability , as it does through determination . Therefore , that this is another mode of thinking and talking about change , rather than rest , in the world . Uncer-tainty may be valorized as beneficial ( true , moral , sacred , etc. ) , as harmful ( evil , immoral , demonic , etc. ) , or as neutral ( amoral , uncaring ) ? but all of these continue to index the ultimately uncontrollable nature of cosmos , and yet the needs of humankind to acquire some measure of regnant control and predictability that make humanly designed orders probable . The ideations of play have their own roles in this , ones that seem related to the very processes of change , to changeability itself . In these , the fluff of the make-believe ( and cognate ideas ) is crucial . However , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its relevance to human existence is this very quality of absence of gravity , of the flux and fluff of ongoing change , of the everpresent sense of the possible . To deny the relevance of the serious unseriousness of play is , to a degree , to exile forces of uncertainty from an accounting of how phenomenal worlds hold together ; and , of equal importance , from an accounting of how these worlds operate to change and to reproduce themselves in ways that are thought controllable . In public events , change often is presaged by the presence of the playful ; and , through this intimation , foci of uncertainty are made explicit . Most frequently , the playful springs forth to shatter routinely accepted arrange-ments ( especially in events-that-model ) , or to figure possible alternatives to these ( particularly in events of re-presentation ) . The playful may control itself to a degree ( as in inversion ) , but not fully ; and its volatility depends on the kind of event in which it is given a role . I have suggested that the uncertainty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and less so in events of re-presentation . Uncertainty seems to have little or no role in events of presentation , at least in those that mirror formations of the modern state . An abbreviated survey of certain of the attributes of playful ideation will indicate how it may have the roles in public events that I attribute to it . Gregory Bateson ( 1956 , 1972 ) pointed out just how problematic was the border between serious reality and that of play . He attended especially to 68 Precariousness in play the constitution of this boundary , to the passage between realities of perception . He concluded that , in terms of a system of logic like that of Whitehead and Russell 's Theory of Logical Types , this crossing was inherently paradoxical.5 Bateson argued that the passage to play , and the creation of a reality predicated on play , was keyed cognitively to a metamessage that informed persons on how to relate to , and so how to do , this transition . He called this particular meta-message , This is play ' , and implied that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or frame , in his usage ) between serious reality and play was constituted . Among the examples he used to illustrate this paradox was that of the bite ' and the playful nip ' . The playful nip looks like a bite , but it signifies something quite different . It is a bite , and it is not a bite . It is a bite , and it is not a bite , at one and the same time . It is an imaginary bite ? a bite that does not exist , yet does , for it is consequential as a bite that was n't . Keeping this example in mind , the message , This is play ' , was spelled out as follows , by Bateson ( 1972 : 18o ) : These actions the nip , in which we now engage , do not denote what would be denoted by those actions the bite which these actions the nip denote ' . My concern here is not with the logical status of this paradox , but with a blatant aspect of its form . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration of conditions of uncertainty , as these were discussed above . A phenomenon is one thing ( a bite ) and another ( a nip ) simultaneously . Therefore , at one and the same time it is both , and so it may be neither . Uncertainty permeates this meta-message of play . And this , of course , is the lesson of true paradox : so long as one holds to its internal logic of operation , one can not solve or escape its ongoing self-contradictions and self-negations that continually resurrect their antitheses . True to itself , the paradox is in perpetual motion , in a sort of fluidity and flux that know no resolution or stability except that of movement . In Bateson 's formulation , the metamessage , This is play ' , creates the doing and the comprehension of that which follows ? in other words , play . And , as I have argued , this medium is characterized throughout by attributes that correspond to the metamessage . This is the enigmatic realm that is not nothing , and yet is nothing real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of play is conditional : within it , nothing is immutable ; its normality is transmutability ; processuality is its reality . Play stabilizes neither this nor that , neither truth nor untruth . For Hegel it was like the free , unconstrained descent of the waterfall , the water-dust ' , for which no static form is adequate ( cited in Clayre 1974 : 24 ) . It is an amoral medium , as Huizinga ( 1970 : 85 ) pointed out : Play lies outside the antithesis of wisdom and folly . . . truth and falsehood , good and evil ... it has no moral function . The valuations of vice and virtue do not apply here ' . Its qualities 69 Introduction of plasticity , lability , and levity , together with its rejection of propositional validity , give to the medium of play the potential to meddle with , to disturb , and perhaps to dissolve , centres of social gravity . Subversive , it can rock the foundations of a given phenomenal reality by making their presumptions uncertain and unpredictable . Given the logic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium within public events is its capacity to communicate , with simultaneity , multiple messages that may be ( but are not necessarily ) mutually contradictory . In its uncertainty , the medium of play routinely mixes metaphors , and , as a corollary of its subversiveness , it can comment with immediacy on anything and everything . As we know well , there may be a world of meaning in a wink or a joke . The profundity of the play medium lies with its uncertain changeability and in its capacities for commentary . This was brought forth in the analyses of the Schembart Carnival and the Kalela Dance , and will be evident as well in a number of the chapters to follow . Nonetheless , it would be in error to take the meta-message , This is play ' , as inherently or necessarily paradoxical . It has the status of paradox in our cultural traditions , in our cosmologies that tend to dichotomize pheno-mena , and to assign absolute values to these dualities , so that they are neither interchangeable nor interpenetrable . Here cosmic ( and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of instability and fragmen-tation . Still , it is doubtful whether this meta-message has the status of paradox in cosmologies that place a high value on uncertainty , and so on its corollary of more ongoing self-transformation . Our conceptions of play are dominated by a domestication of uncertainty . We enfeeble the forces of uncertainty in play by assigning to them values of the unreal , of fantasy and pretense , and of the make-believe . Given these valuations , the messages that can be transmitted through the play medium to weighty social realities are diminished in their impact , since they are received as frivolous , and as inconsequential to those realities ( see Handelman 1977b ) . Sent in play , or through just play ' , they are not to be held accountable within serious realities for their innuendos and implications . Yet , in another dimension , such messages that emerge from play media nevertheless are sent back to serious realities , albeit as unstressed , or through ambiguous genres of allegory , irony , and so forth . This ambivalent , or perhaps poly-valent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The idea of game ' is integral to chapters 4 , 6 , and 7 . For present purposes it is sufficient to understand game as rule-bound play ( Miller 1973 ; Caillois 1961 ) . Game ' may be thought of as a derivative of play ' , brought into being by the same meta-message that creates the latter ? but the regnancy of rules in the former has important implications . The game is a distinctly moral medium , one that is keyed by instructions that specify how it is to be 70 Precariousness in play played , and that distinguish between correct and incorrect behavior between right and wrong . Itself predicated on a fiction , its world of orde may be related to with the utmost seriousness . Moreover , it is a profoundly purposive medium , with well-defined goals that specify the means of thei attainment . A game makes change happen within itself , often by positing an initial condition ( for example , sets of opponents ) that is to be turned into another ( winners and losers ) . Therefore , built into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of existence , which must be resolved through its action . The game form also depends upon predictability , by limiting possible outcomes , and by specifying the causal scheme to attain these . As well , the game form is self-regulating , for it often contains rules to correct for deviant or obstructive occurrences that emerge in the course o its action . A game , in other words , is also a temporary system that may have a role in an event of modelling ( as does the horse race in the Palio of Siena ) , or in one of re-presentation ( as does the game of guessing the mummer 's identity in Newfoundland ) . In the terms of this chapter , game is a furthe domestication of the ideation of play : it is uncertainty dominated in it doing by systemicized control . Within it , the flux of play is harnessed to orders of cosmos and world , often as a metaphor for regularity , rather than the antithesis of this . If one removes its predicate of make-believe , game shares much in common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ironic commentary on the ceaseless inter-play of order and indeterminacy . The ideation of play , as make-believe , resonates vibrantly with particular ( certainly , Western ) cultural sensibilities that render it paradoxical Nonetheless , the affinities of play to conditions of uncertainty suggest tha the meta-message , This is play ' , could be rewritten to give it a broader transcultural catchment . The meta-message might be rendered as : This i uncertainty ' . This message , in my view , is of a higher order of abstraction than that of play , and so would encompass the latter . As I discussed above to address a phenomenon as uncertain is to put into question the validity o its certain status and determinate existence in the world. ? Such a meta-message brings into being phenomena that are neither this nor that , are both but perhaps are neither . It denotes processuality in the creation of pheno-mena , and within phenomena themselves . Valorized , it may be understood as part of the epistemologies of cosmogenesis , and of transcendental force and playful moments . Within forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liminality , and of play and game . At a high level of abstraction all of these ideas , and more , denote having change happen ' , making change happen ' , or being in change ' . A premise that underlies all of this must be that of uncertainty ? of the world being 71 Introduction taken apart unceasingly , both haphazardly and deliberately ; and , antithetically , of there being culturally constituted forms and means of putting it back together again , as it was or differently . The introduction of uncertainty is integral to controlled change among traditional peoples ; and public events , especially those that model , are crucial to this work of change . But , should traditional peoples lose the means to reconstitute their worlds , so that they remain primarily within conditions of uncertainty , the unsurprising result is disaster and despair , as the next section describes . Let me suggest that the presence in public events of that which we identify as play signifies uncertainty , processuality , and therefore the presence of change in its happening . Consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonic reality that has captured the patient is destroyed through humorous byplays . Chisungu : the determinate prepubescent state of the girls is broken down through teasing . The Schembart Carnival : the upside-down world of the Holle is wrecked in fun . Christmas mumming : the wild , amoral mummers are tamed in game . The Kalela Dance : the play world resurrects ethnic-tribal relations in place of those of class . In all these instances , and in chapters 4 , 5 , and 6 , as well , play is implicated in uncertainty and processuality . A final point here : a meta-message like that of , This is uncertainty ' , may avoid or make possible the kind of paradox that Bateson used to delineate play ( and that I use throughout this volume ) . Still , either instance is predicated then on particular cultural perceptions of uncertainty and of paradox. ? If , for example , the beings of Hindu cosmologies undergo continuous transformations , and if the logics of these cosmologies do not recognize this as paradoxical , then why invoke paradoxicality to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be more fruitful to think about the role of uncertainty in such cosmologies . Similarly , if Catholic theologies accord a paradoxical status to the figure of the Virgin Mary , then it is to the logic of cosmology that questions should be addressed . Predicaments in play : the laughter of the Ik What happens when a traditional world collapses , and agencies of reconstitution no longer work ? When controlled determination in the cosmos is reduced to a near minimum , and therefore so too is meaning ? When this is not due to the tangible terror of oppression , in which there is something to resist , or to succumb to ? What is left in human existence ? Perhaps a sense of absurdity , of the horrors of unravelling lives , when things hardly hold together , and then precariously . In other words , the pervasiveness of reverberating uncertainty , in modes that we might recognize as untram-72 Precariousness in play melled and amoral play ' . These are the dark aspects of play ? the indeterminate play of forces ordinarily kept at bay and introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world , or virtually suppressed in favor of its tamer significance as make-believe . Colin Turnbull 's ( 1973a ) depiction of the Ik offers an instance of such an annihilative existence among a traditional people . The Ik lived in Northern Uganda , in mountainous terrain that borders the Great African Rift . They were hunters and gatherers who dwelled in unstable social groups composed of family units . Like other African hunter ? gatherers , their social relationships likely were predicated upon sharing and reciprocity in food and other resources . The government of Uganda expropriated their hunting lands , and turned them into a nature preserve . Placed in a reservation area , the Ik were expected to practice agriculture , at which they were poor . Famine became endemic , and the Ik lived on the edge of starvation , or did starve . Their modes of making order in the cosmos , through ritual ' means , became ineffective and fell silent . As Turnbull depicts them , the Ik survived by shaving to the minimum all forms of cooperation and reciprocity . Their temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ village stockade . Spouses foraged separately for food , and ate apart , lest they be pressed to share . Until the age of three , children were raised within the household , but then were thrown out to fend for themselves . Youngsters formed two age bands ( one of children aged , roughly , three to seven ; and the second of those aged eight to twelve ) that foraged together for protection . But there was little sharing among their members . Over-age children were driven forcibly from the companionship of the bands , until as young adults they were left wholly on their own . As the young were abandoned to survive or to die , in accordance with their own capacities , so the old were left to starve or to succumb to disease and to other privations . In Turnbull 's estimation the Ik shed almost all qualities and sentiments of sociality , belief , and hope , that impeded their survival as individuals . The decimated and desolated Ik , he argued ( Turnbull 1973b : 518 ) , survived by becoming supreme egoists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as humans , has been reduced to what must surely be the absolute critical minimum . . . What has happened is the utter destruction of sociality that we have been pleased , for so long , to consider the essential element of human nature ' . The book abounds with examples of unconcern and cruelty towards the young , the aged , the infirm , diseased , and helpless . Yet the Ik sought out one another 's company to sit together in silence near their dwellings . They cooperated sporadically to provide goods and services to neighboring peoples ; and Ik men maintained a small number of instrumental , dyadic partnerships ' with neighboring pastoralists , and dya-73 Introduction dic friendships ' with other Ik . Nonetheless , the Ik world was pervaded and shattered by uncontrollable uncertainties that questioned the validity of any nexus of sociality and cooperation . And , on occasion , the Ik laughed in concert , with overtones of mockery and ridicule , and undertones of mutual helplessness . There were acidic critiques that excoriated Turnbull 's depiction ( cf. Barth 1974 : 99-102 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Ik condition , together with their laughter . Thus McCall ( 1975 : 345 ) suggested : I see the Ik as very much a cohesive group , who are trapped in their disastrous situation . They accommodate their collective misery by using laughter . Jokes , humour , and a sense of the comic serve not only as redirection of internal aggression , but also for the purpose of group definition ' . McCall may have been on the right track , but his conclusion with regard to group definition ' was erroneous . Here are two brief instances of Ik laughter . Turnbull ( 1973a : 49 ) shook hands with one of two older men . As he tried to remove his hand , the old man tightened his grip , and Turnbull almost lifted him from the ground : he fell back and collapsed and lay on the ground , all skin and bone , and he was laughing . . . he apologized for his behavior . " I have n't eaten for three days " , he said , " so it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companion dissolved into laughter again ' . Turnbull ( 1973a : 204 ) came across one man stealing food from another . The latter cried , but had not the strength to resist . As soon as I appeared Lomongin the former reversed his actions and pretended he had been feeding Lolim the latter , saying that the old man was so blind he could not see where to put the food . The old man had enough strength to retort , " At least I did n't put it in yours ! " , at which they both rocked with laughter and held onto each other as though they were the closest of friends ' . In these instances , Ik laughed together , apparently displaying sentiments of mutual appreciation . The play of the first instance seems predicated on the awareness of starvation , and that of the second on the stealing of sustenance . If there was any recognition of group definition ' in these , then it was only that of mutual predicament , and of how each Ik contributed to the catastrophes that befell the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Just that : nothing was altered by this . These instances , and others , seemed not to offer any information on how Ik could create greater cohesion in their relationships . The phenomenal predicament of the Ik was that of the uncertainties of 74 Precariousness in play fragmentation and extreme individuation . Their existential apprehension of this was expressed through humor , through a form of play . Yet play itself was an expression of conditions of uncertainty , and so it denied the stable validity of whatever it communicated to the Ik world . Therefore any sporadic and unregulated attempts to alter the Ik condition through play ' could only be indeterminate . The Ik order of things was disintegrating , and the domain of making order ' , the ritual ' domain , had fallen silent . Alone , each Ik pursued the uncertainty of his future in the predicament of his present . Ik were unable to comment on their situations in terms of morality , faith , or belief , for these modes had dissolved . McCall ( 1975 : 346 ) aptly noted : For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from discussion , except in humourous joking references ' . Time and again , through these alternative modes , Ik expressed mutual commiseration of their common tribulation that each was fated to suffer separately . In their daily lives the Ik expected to be hurt , to go hungry , to fail , and to find that the promising masked only disappointment . The seeds of indeterminacy were sown in all Ik endeavors , wild growths that flowered suddenly . To struggle to escape was absurd . Over and again , Ik laughter was triggered when together persons perceived the despair , the hopelessness and helplessness , that was their lot , trapped in the play of forces of flux . ' This existential apprehension was present in instances that appeared wholly callous and brutal : Sitting . . . men would watch a child with eager anticipation as it crawled toward the fire , then burst into gay and happy laughter as it plunged a skinny hand into the coals ... a mother would glow with pleasure to hear such joy occasioned by her offspring , and pull it tenderly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Here , in a dense moment of collapsed meaning , was the lifeline of every Ik . As the child moved alone through space and time , buoyed perhaps by measures of faith , fascination , and anticipation , it headed with determination for shock , pain , and disillusion . In concert , the men gave recognition to self-mockery in the child 's fated progression . They could appreciate the terror of their mutual dilemma through the uncertainty of play , but through this they were powerless to change it . In other instances , the old mocked the young for that which they inevitably would become , and the young teased the old with what the latter undoubtedly had become . Over all , these playful modes could communicate only the intimacy of despair . Turnbull himself acknowledged , if implicitly , that the messages of Ik playfulness were fleetingly sociable , but of little substance or sustenance : And I thought of other old people who had joined in the merriment when they had been teased , knocked over or had a precious morsel of food taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silly of them to expect to go on living , and having watched others , they knew that the spectacle really was quite funny . So they joined in the laughter . ( 1973a : 228 ) Among the Ik , suggests McCall ( 1975 : 347 ) , The priest 's incantations are replaced by the jester 's repartee as the force to bind society together ' . Yet this play was more a shadow-plaiting of elusive fragments , than it was social cohesion . Bereft of the means of making cosmic and social order , or at least of increasing the probabilities of their cohering , the Ik were tossed about in a reverberating uncertainty that denied any alternatives or antitheses . Play , I argued , may communicate contradictory messages : here , a sociality of negation and a negation of sociality . Left to spiral through its own logic , this play could not define a moral or social collectivity , nor even revive or strengthen this . Any sentiments on the making of order only through the flux of the playful remained merely impotent illusion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces beyond control . Usually out of sight , the submerged potency of these dynamic conditions lurks in the depths of surface appearances of solidarity and stability . It is against the incursions of these forces of dissolution that public events work among traditional peoples . These potentials held at bay ? but also their controlled usage , necessary to the making and renewing of order , that peoples must practice incessantly upon themselves . But , however necessary , these practices are precarious . This , as I have noted , tells us something about how ( and perhaps , why ) certain kinds of public events have the logics of design that they do . Events and societies Max Gluckman ( 1962 : 2 ) once asked : why is it that in tribal society there is on the whole greater ritualization of transitions in social status . . . than there is in modern society ? ' Gluckman 's query went in an interesting direction , but his reply was wanting . He contended that this formalization clarified the patterning and problematics of social relationships ; and thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By contrast , the implicit position of part I of this book has hewed closer to that which John Roberts ( 1964 ) called the self-management ' of cultures ( see also Leach 1966 ) . Let me clarify here my suppositions on the connections between public events and social orders . Roberts argued that , to be self-sustaining and self-reproductive , a cultural ( or social ) unit had to have the capacities to conserve and to process information about itself . My view is that public events are culturally constituted foci of information-processing . In these activities lie crucial junctures of events and the social orders that formulate 76 Precariousness in play them . The capacities for the processing of information are highest in the systemic properties of events of modelling , and lowest in the reflecting mirror-images of events of presentation . In this scheme , the magic-mirrors of refraction in events of re-presentation occupy an intermediate position . To this point I have tried to treat the types of events as heuristic devices . That is , to relate to them seriously , but not too seriously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with , but not to believe in . Here , for a bit , let me alter the optic and relate to the types as if they are indeed phenomena that exist in the world , rather than meta-designs . And so , to speculate upon their correlation with different orders of society . Any given people likely will have public occasions that approximate all types of events discussed here , since each type is a distinctive construct for the processing of information . Nonetheless , albeit hypothetically , I would suggest that the relative centrality of these types will vary with different kinds of social order . Broadly glossed : events of presentation seem associated especially with modern , bureaucratic states ; events of modelling with tribal and traditional peoples ; while events of re-presentation tend to an association with traditional , hierarchical societies . In this I am not implying any unilinear development among societies , one that spatially places the primitive ' on the temporal downslope . ( In this regard , see Fabian 's 1983 : 17 ? 8 critique of the scientific spatialization of time and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ akin to the possibilities within the space of figure 4 . The edge of contrast here is between social orders that recognize themselves to be organized systemically and as relatively autonomous of the natural cosmologies within which they are embedded , and those that have less or little awareness of this . This argument is not part of the ongoing debate over how people think : whether there are significant distinctions between modern ' and primitive ' thought , between digital and analogic cognition , and so on . My point is a simpler one , discussed elsewhere in some detail ( Handelman 1981 ) . The paradigmatic form of organization of the modern state is that of bureaucracy . The most elementary feature of bureaucracy is that it is a device for the ongoing generation of taxonomies ? of ways of classifying aspects of the world , and of relating to these categories . The ideal practice of bureaucracy is that of orthopraxy ? in ' a way , it has much in common with Levi-Strauss ' idea of parcelling-out ' in ritual ' . Moreover , the premises of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teleological , predictive , self-regulating , and making change happen within itself . Like the event of modelling , the metier of bureaucratic organization is the making of controlled change through the creation and manipulation of taxonomy . Unlike the event of modelling , bureaucracy does all of this in 77 Introduction the most mundane and routine of ways . The intersection , the coordination , and the mutual reinforcement of numerous bureaucratic organizations brings modern society nearer and nearer to the iron cage ' of bureaucracy of which Weber warned ? in other words , closer to a conception of an autonomy of total system ( even though this in turn generates basic contradictions . See van Gunsteren 1976 ) . Now , any network of information can be systemicized , whether this be termed government , economy , science , the media , the military , all of these together and many others as well . And this becomes even more so , as surveys of attitudes , tastes , and preferences become more integral to the selfregulation of public life . In modern states this is quite the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exist within a network of information , come to construct its logic of operation as systemic . If so , then it becomes systemic for them , and they become its operators , setting it to do work in ways that are expected to be self-regulating and predictive . The major implications are four-fold . Firstly , the ratio of the force used to the effects achieved alters radically ( Foucault 1979 ) : thus , although little force is applied , decisions have causal ramifications of vastly greater magnitude . Secondly , experts and managers often think that social orders can be planned comprehensively ? in their magnitude , duration , and effect ? through modelling . Therefore there is forecasting ' of numerous sorts ? predictions that in turn generate further decisions whose effects are thought to be controllable . Thirdly , social order can be treated as autonomous , as independent from what we euphemistically call the natural environment ( but that really refers to the continuousness of naturalized cosmology ' ) . The future course of social order no longer is thought to depend on its place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its plans for itself . Nature ' , in its manifold aspects , becomes perceived as an exploitable resource , for the benefit of state and citizenry . Wolin ( 1985 : 239 ) neatly summarizes these developments : the transformation of ritual into rules not only prepared the way for the unprecedented concentration of power associated with the modern state ; it destroyed the myth-ritual conception of power as repair of the world and it replaced it by a conception of power as domination over both nature and man ' . Therefore , fourthly , there is hardly any need for transformative work ' , as this term has been used here . The continuous , routine modelling of worlds of living , through various modes and in a multitude of domains , often is intended to change phenomena in ongoing ways . Change ' , the most complex kind of information-processing , becomes a function of the bureaucratic , scientific , and technological ordering of , and impact on living ? whether in the name of progress ' , advancement ' , the betterment ' of humankind , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be built into the systems that mundanely 7 H Precariousness in play regulate so many domains of living , then there is little space for the transformational work of events-that-model . Systems ' incorporate within themselves all that is needed to know about the predictive management of life ? or so their planners and managers seem to believe . And , the simple fact is that on the plane of the state , events of modelling are conspicious by their absence . On the other hand , much of the life of the modern state is put together by organizations that are quite aware of their own systemic premises , and that continually engage in predictive modelling in order to do the work of transforming the values of information they process . The magnitude of this hegemony over transformational work is astounding . Thus , a wry aside , one that also is no laughing matter : what is one to make of a newspaper headline announcing that time stood still ' in order to enable the vagaries of the earth 's rotation to fall into line with the timekeeping of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE EARTH CATCH UP WITH OFFICIAL CLOCK . If we did n't do this ' , said an official , the sun would be rising at noon or something ' .9 Events-that-present are summarizing pronouncements and indices of the known : they contain little or no sense of uncertainty . Within them , shapes rarely have shadows . These occasions are condensed magnifications of that which social order knows itself to be , and they validate this knowledge . Modern states work on the premise that the necessary information relevant to their functioning either is available and is included in the making of decisions , or , if insufficient ( as of course , it probably must be ) , such information will be attainable with progress . Since these networks of information relate to themselves as systemic , regardless of how complex is their interdependence , they postulate their own autonomy and their supposed capacities to control the development and direction of their own destinies . Therefore these structures are understood , as a matter of course , to be self-correcting : through bureaucratic promulgation , legislative action , juridical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like . The transformational , causal work that is done by events of modelling already is incorporated into the parameters of social orders that are aware of themselves as relatively autonomous systems . There such events are , in the main , epiphenomenal and irrelevant . Instead , events of presentation display social order quite as their creators understand this ? as determinate images that mirror collective or elite perceptions of what the mind-sets and the feeling states of participants ought to be . In the vocabularies of modern states , the usage of the symbolic ' denotes the merely symbolic ' , the ' just symbolic ' , the expressive ' : these commonplace phrasings accurately connote the condensed mirroring of the already known , if perhaps more dimly perceived . The Symbolics of social order become its expressive extensions . No longer are symbols or metaphors 79 Introduction causal connections that rivet relationships between domains of existence , the boundaries of which are understood to be , in large measure , beyond human ken . Social orders of tribal and traditional peoples likely are known to their members as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repetitive ways . Yet one wonders whether they are apprehended as systemic . These orders are known to exist through intimate interdependencies with other phenomena , including those of nature and paranature . But the awareness of the closure of a totality of order , of macrocosm , is located beyond mundane routines of existence , and often is shrouded in uncertainty . Peoples have access to those sources of knowledge and instruction , yet accessibility is limited , and at times hazardous ; and finally these sources are beyond human control . Social order exists within a more comprehensive and encompassing cosmos that may be influenced by peoples , but whose control , the certainty of control over an assumed totality of information , is vested elsewhere . Social order is nowhere near coterminous with macrocosm . It is especially among peoples whom we gloss as tribal that events-thatmodel have their particular significance . It is there that model , as microcosm , is constituted as a temporary system that acts on the inaccessible macrocosm . Therefore given the sorts of cosmos that often are the foundations for events-that-model , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrast , the systemic orders of modern states are perceived routinely to incorporate the macrocosm and to act on it . In these perceptions , the macrocosm is remade continually in the determinative images of social and technological orders . Among tribal peoples , social order is remade through the forces of macrocosmic uncertainty that subsume the former . Here , more inaccessible and uncontrollable aspects of the macrocosm are incorporated into the modelled microcosm , to be controlled by its predictive rules of operation . Events of modelling are explicit transformers of social order among these peoples . These are occasions during which peoples may envision , and transfigure , the holistic properties of their manners of living , and the ways in which these are related to macrocosmic order . And , such visions likely are most crucial when one kind of phenomenon is changed into another . Events of re-presentation seem to have a more interstitial position in relation to social order . These occasions might be more prevalent among traditional collectivities that have strongly hierarchical structures , but that are not fully objectivated to themselves . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done , in order to be known as done . In part , this is accomplished through events of presentation , that display order ; and in part , for example , through the temporary transpositions or inversions of No Precariousness in play hierarchy , that bring out the falsifiability of alternative orderings , and so that revert to the authoritatively acceptable . Let me restate emphatically that there is no neat or simple , functional correlation between a people and the kinds of public events they create for themselves . All social orders likely work through variants of all three types , and others that have not been broached here . Still , I would suggest that there are tendencies that differentiate the appearance of forms of events . To be sure , in the modern state , but especially among its localized collectivities , certain transitions of kin and community ( birth , marriage , death ) may be done through events of modelling ; as , more infrequently , are occasions of local community solidarity . But it is clear that many of the most pressing dilemmas ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among social strata , or of the historical validity of a society ? are not treated transformati-vely in the events of the modern state . For the solutions ' to these and other issues are assumed to be built into the routinely systemic operations of social order . This is much less the case among peoples glossed as tribal , where social order must invent special devices to bring about transformations within itself . All public events , in their creation of limited social worlds , are exercises in holism . It is in events of modelling that the organization of holism is the most sophisticated ? for these occasions fully synthesize morphology and processuality . The signal irony of all this is that the logics of designs of public events in so-called simpler ' collectivities are most complex , while those of complex ' ones often are quite simple . In the case studies that follow , my focus shifts from logics of design to the finer points of public events ? to their elaborations of significance , as snares of thought , in particular places . 8i Intersections Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aging , I passed many months in the company of the older people described in chapter 4 . So , chronologically , this book really begins here , with their invention of a game . Sentimentally too , for their antics wakened me to the powers of play , an interest that has not waned . The game continued for about one month . There was no exegesis , just as there was no name . Protean , the game happened to happen . Along the way its form took shape . During its existence I asked no questions , fearing to alter or upset its delicate balance . But too , I had difficulty believing the neatness and regularity of its patterning , even though I made little sense of this at the time . Afterward , my questions on the game met with shrugs , smiles , and summary glosses of fun ' , entertainment ' , and the like . The puzzles remain . Sometimes I return to the game , adding another cornerstone of meaning , changing an emphasis , seduced perhaps by its symmetry , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My concerns and worries were not theirs , and so I was a sometime player , probably seen as a sympathetic outsider , but likely not a very empathetic one . But writing this , in a retrospective mood with prospective intimations , I recall the wry amusement of one of the women . If I was rich ' , she chuckled , I 'd have a grave with electricity ' . Amen . 4 The donkey game The invention of the donkey game occurred in a sheltered workshop in Jerusalem that employed the indigent elderly . In my interpretation this form of make-believe created an alternative reality through which certain enduring problems of the players could be broached systematically and experienced in multifaceted ways . Therefore I will ask why this game was practiced in this place by these people . If this question seems simple , it is deceptively so . In terms of the wider society , the game seemed quite idiosyncratic . In relation to the little world of its invention it was significant . This may be a hallmark of proto-events . At one time I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ game and the predicaments of the players that I think it played to . Now I am less concerned , given two provisos . One is that ideology , the conscious formulation of principled aim and motivation , seems lacking in protoevents . The comparative absence of intervening , collective reflexivity permits emergent behavior to respond more directly to whatever impulses led to its formulation . Collective reflexion likely mediates , changes , and skews this more immediate relationship . The second , to which I alluded in earlier chapters , is that public events more generally are designs with strong instrumental components ( even when these are called expressive ' by scholars ) . Whether they operate through transformation , re-presentation , or presentation , their practice rather than their theorizing is essential . They are not hypothetical designs to be thought on in the main , but ones to be done . Therefore something of the direct relationship between social impulse and behavior is kept , the importance of ideas notwithstanding . This , even though there often are conflicting definitions of the viability and worth of special occasions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom , if anyone , they serve . As I indicated in earlier chapters , it is important to distinguish whether contradiction and conflict are integral to the design of an event , as well as the mechanisms ( or the lack thereof ) for handling such uncertainties . In a rudimentary way , this was important even for the The donkey game donkey game , since the cooperation required by the game rested , in my understanding , on quite different views of what was happening in play . This is discussed in the last section of this chapter . Before describing play in this shop , and then the emergence from this of the game , some contextualization is necessary . The workshop was one of a number run by a Jewish voluntary organization I call SAGE . The mission of SAGE was that of the redemption of the indigent elderly , of their selfesteem , through productive work for which they were paid . The administrators of SAGE were middle-aged women of the middle-class who believed in serious good works . Their attitude was that of patrons who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towards the latter was caring , authoritarian , abrupt , and indeed , patronizing . The workshop made ceramic jewelry . The shop employed sixteen people and a female supervisor , all of whom worked five mornings a week . Workers were paid according to the number of days they came to the shop . The sixteen had emigrated to Palestine , and later to Israel , from a variety of North African , Middle Eastern , and Mediterranean locales . ' The shop consisted of two rooms , back and front . The shop was entered through the small front room , that opened onto a courtyard , around which were clustered other of the SAGE workshops . Access to the back room was through the front room . Seven of the workers were women . Six were widows , living alone and responsible for their own upkeep . All the women worked in the cavernous back room , itself part of an old building of thick stone walls , narrow windows , and perpetual gloom . The women ranged in age from sixty-six to eighty-four . Of the nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a newer structure , airy and often sunlit . The men ranged in age from sixty-one to over ninety . Six were married , and four of them were breadwinners of households still with children of school age . The clustering of women and men in different rooms was important , for to a high degree it also marked differences in personal history and in attitudes to work in the shop . These differences had a direct bearing on the invention of the game . All the workers had been shunted to SAGE by the local welfare department . The men had become dependent on welfare for subsistence mainly for reasons of ill-health . Over the years the welfare department made determined efforts to erase them from its rolls . Given their age , limited skills , and declining personal resources , the men were employable only in organizations like SAGE . There they earned less than the social assistance benefits they had received . Nonetheless , this income was necessary for their well-being , and often that of their households . They did not 87 Proto-events perceive work in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to resist this placement had eroded as their dependency had increased . ' Given their cultural origins , their loss of autonomy and lessened capacity to govern their own fate were deeply painful . These patterns of dependency continued in SAGE . One man said of the situation of the workers there , We 're like broken shoes , they walk in us . ' The administrators valued serious attitudes towards work , and often recognized these through a demeanor that conveyed involvement in tasks of production . Most work was done seated in place . Workers thought to be committed to work sat at their places , eyes and posture pointing towards the work space before them , their interaction with others sedate , with little movement out of place . Work in the main was the making of clay beads . With a couple of exceptions , the men thought the work infantile . Although their levels of production were good , their demeanor said otherwise . Those of the front room spent much time in sociable but raucous conversation and horseplay , wandering about the shop , seeming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers by their superiors , and they often were reprimanded and criticized in public . The women also reached the workshop through the welfare department . But none had ever held a steady job in the past . Now , living alone in the main , their earnings were sufficient for personal upkeep . Moreover , the tasks of the shop were not unlike the kinds of handwork to which the women were accustomed . Yet more than this , employment provided the women with independent incomes , to be disposed of as each wished , and the occasion to compete for prestige on an equal footing with men . The women found these opportunities exciting . They identified with work and frequently were praised by their superiors . The shop constituted a reality that reversed traditional gender-linked hierarchies on a routine basis , with the women at the top and most of the men at the bottom . Just as administrators would burst into the front room from the courtyard , to upbraid the men there , so too the latter were continually and critically sniped at from behind by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habits and personal behavior . Short of surrendering their improper behavior and adopting the demeanor of serious workers , the men could not counter these cross-pressures . Discontented with being in the shop , the sole enjoyment of these men was their sociable behavior with one another . Through play these men could express their disaffection with the shop while subverting momentarily its dominant reality of work . Later , through the game , they would regularly substitute a reality within which they regained their rightful place in the moral order . Or so it seemed , from one angle of understanding.3 88 The donkey game Play in the workshop Recurrent modes of play in the shop were spontaneous and intermittent , with variable content and uncertain outcomes . Play characterized by minimal physical movement was more the province of the women , and of those few men who also identified with work . Play that moved about the shop , and that was more physical in substance , was the domain of the disaffected men , most of whom were located in the front room . As I will indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the invention of the game . The following is an inventory of modes of play in the shop . Quips , jokes , and humorous stories : These were largely the domain of the women , and were interjected in conversation to emphasize or to illustrate a point . Since these conversations were dyadic in the main , held between persons who were seated at work , they were not seen as disruptive of productive routines . Singing : On occasion one or two of the women broke into song at their workplaces . Again , this was not seen as disruptive . Traditional tales : Story-telling was the domain of one backroom man , whose tales were directed at everyone within earshot . Although others were attentive , interjecting excited comments , proper demeanor was maintained . All of these playful forms reinforced the views of superiors that the shop could be used properly for sociable intercourse that was subordinated to the work process . Joking activity : This was prominent in contacts among the disaffected men . Joking was predicated upon an extended message of this is play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was composed of both utterance and physical movement . Themes of mutual insult , violence , and sexuality were prominent in these interchanges . One example will suffice here . A frontroomer , Shlomo , entered the backroom and approached Zackaria who was seated at his place of work . Shlomo loudly called out , Crazy Zackaria ' , and then , Zackaria the donkey , you 're crazy ! ' Zackaria grinned and continued to work . Shlomo advanced on Zackaria who lunged at him with a pair of pliers . Shlomo dodged nimbly and chuckled . The following interchange ensued : Zackaria : Watch out , Shlomo , this the pliers is a revolver . I 'll shoot you into little pieces for the cats to eat ' . Shlomo : Crazy Zackaria , I 'll cut you into pieces and throw you down the toilet ' . Zackaria : I 'll sell you to the Arabs for steak ' . Shlomo : I 'll sell your brain to Barazani the Kurd to chew ' . u , Proto-events Zackaria : I 'll sell you piece by piece for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut off your ears to put on a donkey ' . Zackaria : I ' 11 cut off your penis for a donkey 's tail ' . Shlomo : I ' 11 cut off your balls to hang in the women 's toilet ' . The women averted their heads . Zackaria embraced Shlomo , and they pummelled one another , giggling and chuckling . In the context of the shop , this interchange expressed the mutual acceptance of absurd identities . Although its overtones were aggressive and hostile , the exchange was embedded in a relationship of friendship , and it likely commented on the place of these men in the shop . The fantastic content of their utterances reflected self-estimations of the absurdity of their work situation and their dependency . In the back room , identified with work , these men acted out themes of metaphorical violence and mutilation . If mature , responsible men were to be dismembered and equated with fodder , then what indeed was their manhood worth in this place ? To pursue this line of interpretation , when Shlomo cried , I 'll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toilet ' , he commented implicitly that Zackaria was the castrated ' victim of the women , although the testicles hanging there reaffirmed the capacity of the mature male to sexually dominate females . As is claimed more generally for commentaries communicated through play , these were contradictory yet complementary , contrasting in a sense the ideal and the real . As the men hugged and pummelled each other , their mutual equality and enjoyment were evident in activity that excluded the participation of women and , moreover , that embarrassed them . Role play : On occasion workers enacted roles that were more relevant to the wider society . The initiators often were disaffected men . Their play mocked roles of power and expertise , upon which they were dependent in their lives outside the shop . Here are a few examples . In terms of the process of production , Mashia . ha frontroom worker , had to deliver his output to the most powerful of the backroom women , who at times derided the quality of his work . Sometimes he phrased his contact with her through role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social worker to help Zohara ' , he began , handing her a penny and adding , Now Zohara , if you 're a good girl and behave yourself properly , I 'll give you another penny at the end of the month . Now be a good girl ' . Others in the back room might take up the chorus , Look at the social worker who comes to help . Give me a penny too . With only a penny I can be young again ' . In this encounter , Mashia . hmocked the criteria of allocation and the small benefits of the welfare department . He showed that clients had to ( xi The donkey game present themselves as personally and morally worthy of aid in order to qualify for benefits . Therefore Zohara had to be a good girl ' , attributes far removed from her age , marital status , and position in the shop . By playing the social worker while casting her as a young , female client , Mashia.h momentarily altered the balance of power between them . Proffering the penny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his output as a shop worker . As the first warned that she would benefit only so long as she remained a worthy recipient , so it intimated that he would supply her only so long as she behaved with propriety . Thus admonitions that he hesitated to communicate to her openly could be embedded in role play . Men who initiated these byplays commonly did so towards women who then were cast as subordinates and supplicants within the frame of play . On another occasion , Shalom , a backroom worker , adopted the role of doctor towards a backroom woman . Now I 'm the doctor ' , he chuckled , beware of the gasses . All day , boom boom , a whole night boom boom ' . He waggled his forefinger at her , You must n't eat so much . Now the gasses catch you , boom boom . ' He snorted , When you fart in the street , soon soon , look left , look right , to see if anyone 's coming , lift your leg a little , and boom boom . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these pills . One in the morning , one at noon , and one at night . I 'm a good doctor . Here , I 'll write you a prescription . ' He scribbled on a scrap of paper , No more gasses , no more boom boom . ' He handed her three more olives , And here are the pills for tomorrow . I 'm the doctor . If you do n't feel better I 'll give you an appointment here tomorrow . ' In the guise of a make-believe doctor he commented on bodily odors that he attributed to her . In this there was humiliation , but not serious confrontation ( from which the women tended to emerge triumphant ) . At other times the men played the role of host ' , entertaining their friends ' ( other workshop men ) or guests from America ' . SAGE depended on private donations , and numerous tourists and other potential benefactors passed through the shop . Therefore playing host ' to such guests contained elements of self-ascribed status . On these occasions the kiln speedily became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chicken , kebab and rice , tools became eating utensils , and settings would be laid for the feast , as imaginary cognac and arak were drunk from empty water glasses . Outside the shop , at home , these occasions were times of mutuality and conviviality among kin and friends . Within the shop these playlets stressed the solidarity of male camaraderie and the exclusion of women . Pranks : These were part of the play repertoire of the men , particularly those of the front room . Simple in conception , pranks were predicated upon elements of anticipation , tension , and surprise , followed Proto-events by an outburst of emotion when the victim discovered the hidden twist in a routine context . A favorite merely entailed slipping an object , like a smooth stone , into a jacket pocket , and awaiting its discovery and the reaction of the victim . Other pranks were more elaborate . Mashiab regularly shopped in the market before work . One morning he brought back a white hen . When he went out to the toilet , another frontroom worker put the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his return he of course missed his hen . One front roomer said that he himself had been too engrossed in work to notice anything . Another questioned the existence of the hen . The perpetrator added that the hen had escaped outside . When Mashiab went out to search , the hen was placed under a table in the back room . Mashiab returned , suspicious and empty handed . He searched both rooms , but no one betrayed the fowl 's location . The eventual discovery of the hen was accompanied by the laughter of both men and women . This intensified when Mashiab seized a length of wood and lightly beat the perpetrator , who pretended to cringe in an exaggerated manner and laughed along with the rest . In another instance a front roomer stuffed a stray cat into a drawer of Mashiab 's worktable , while the latter was out . On his return he went into the back room . There the women told him to stop wasting working time , and steered him back to his table . He sat , lit a cigarette @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the drawer and the yowling cat leaped into his lap , tightly gripping his clothing with its claws . Shocked and shouting , amidst cheers and clapping hands , Mashiab almost fell over , but joined in the laughter . The play of the women was sedate and did not disrupt the rhythms and routines of work . That of the frontroom men often was raucous , disorderly , and critical of the social order of the shop . Women 's play did not contribute to the substance of the emergent game . Men 's play did : joking activity contributed the terminology of the absurd ; role play added welldefined play roles ; and pranks , the extraordinary concealed within the mundane . But the modes of play discussed so far were spontaneous and intermittent , with uncertain outcomes . The invention of the game constituted a routinization of play and uncertainty , and so too of commentaries on the local order of things that were embedded there in the make-believe . Two further aspects of workshop play are relevant here . At times the women used the metaphor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ references were not made by the men . As one woman commented , This place is like a theatre , every day another play ' . And the women observed that one should pay admission in order to watch the antics of the men . 92 The donkey game These references were congruent with their frequent roles as spectators who watched from the sidelines as the frontroom men riotously subverted the reality of work through play . References to children ' and childhood ' were common , invoked usually by administrators to denigrate men at play . When a superior interrupted men 's play , the following sorts of comments were evident : All of you are here to work ? you are n't children ' ; Children , sit down and stay quiet ' ; or , Stop behaving like little children ' . Given the dependency of the men and the authoritarian attitudes of superiors , admonitions that only children performed such antics were themselves an absurdity for the frontroom men . When they themselves remarked that , This place is like a kid 's school ' , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' , the men seemed to comment that their position of dependence and subordination was akin to that of children ; that childish ' behavior was an appropriate response ; and that only as little children could they acquiesce to and cope with their conditions of livelihood . As well , perhaps the imagery of childhood projected a more innocent state , when play hardly was separable from the serious world , and when players enclosed themselves within a reality of make-believe that resisted the intrusion of external demands . In the context of the above the men invented the donkey game . I call it this because the motif of donkey ' was prominent in the talk of the men ; the motif had been associated jokingly with the parentage of the men ; and the cry of donkey ' became part of the game . But , as I noted , the game was never named , either by players or spectators . Nor , to my knowledge , was there ever any discussion about its purpose , ground rules , substance , or tactics . The donkey game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the front room , one of the men introduced the motif of the donkey tree ' to mock Zackaria 's paternity . You know ' , he began , in Tunis they have a tree , a donkey tree ! Every night at midnight , all is quiet . Only the animals are about . All good people are sleeping with their wives . The moonlight shines on the donkey tree . Boom ! From out of the tree comes a donkey , a baby donkey comes out . That 's how Zackaria was born , out of the donkey tree ! ' To their amusement , variations of this story were applied to others of the men . Not long after , Shlomo elaborated on Zackaria 's paternity , explaining that a donkey had sprung full-grown from the donkey tree and impregnated Zackaria 's mother . He was the offspring of this union . Again the motif was applied to others of the men . Within a few days , Shlomo constructed a device of a length of wire with a rag fastened to one end , the other bent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this device onto the collars , pockets , and belts of his friends ? those men who did not identify with the dominant reality of work in the shop . He did this with stealth and deftness , and his victims appeared unaware of what he had done to them . When each discovered the device , Shlomo would cry , donkey , donkey ' . The device came to be called a tail ' , and its victims joined in hanging this tail on one another . Here the idiom of the absurd was consistent with that used by these men in their joking activity . The only utterance required in transferring the device was the cry of donkey ' , as the victim discovered his tail . This call was not limited to the players , for the onlookers , the other workers in the shop , often joined in . However , this utterance and the tempo of transference were conditioned by situational factors . If the supervisor or an administrator were present the utterance was eliminated , while the number of transfers was scaled down or held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistent in form . These conventions may be called the ground rules ' of the emergent game . As with all else related to this activity , these were never enunciated as rules . But they specified the cues that signaled the onset of a round of play and the manner in which this was to be done . In the main these rules were followed faithfully . Otherwise the doing of the game broke down . Thus , only one tail could be in play . Two basic roles had emerged in the game , that of the transferer and that of the recipient , or more to the point , the victim ' . More than one tail would have blurred the distinction between these roles , and so would have made the order of turn-taking uncertain . Like other modes of play among these men , the game over time took the form of balanced , reciprocal interaction . Possession of the tail was evidence that its possessor had been the previous victim , and so the next transferer . With one tail in use its possessor knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereby earned the right to become the next transferer . There was no specified period of time , nor any particular context , within which the tail had to be transferred . This indeterminacy heightened the anticipation of the players . They knew who would hang the tail , but not when or how this would be done . This flexibility also meant that the game could be adapted easily to the momentary exigencies of the shop , the risks entailed scaled up or down , and so forth . There was no specified order of transfer . The last victim chose the next . This too heightened anticipation and tension , for the previous victim but one also could become the next . No player was excused from the game because he had just played a turn . Transfers were made within the shop . In other words , the game was played within the social order upon which it commented . To play elsewhere was to invite disruptions by outsiders who saw only spontaneous 94 The donkey game horseplay . This the players learned through experience . Within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thereby enabling the momentary subversion of the backroom identification with work . But the women were completely excluded from active participation . Their place in the game was always that of the spectator . Similarly excluded ( with occasional exceptions ) were those few men who also identified fully with the importance of work and with the prestige that this conferred . Playing the game took the following form . The previous victim , the donkey ' , took out the tail at a time of his choosing . His intended victim could be anywhere in the shop , in either room , seated at work , standing , interacting . With casualness or stealth the transferer approached his victim , as he would in perpetrating a prank , and hooked the tail onto his target . Part of the fun lay in the donkey ' being unaware of his acquired identity . The absurdity of the victim 's condition , essential to his donkiness , was most heightened by his self-ignorance . That dumb donkey continued to attend to his concerns even though in a state of identity transformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those others did not know whether the victim really was unaware of his acquired identity or pretended this . Nor could they know when his transformed identity would be revealed publicly . In a few instances the donkey carried his tail about for periods of up to an hour before acknowledging or discovering his new identity . During these interstitial periods the overt identity and behavior of the victim conveyed the usual , yet were intertwined with a sign of the absurd , one that called forth aspects of the true ' identity of the players in the workplace . The contradictions within this double vision ' , together with the inability of players and spectators alike to resolve these discrepancies until they received the proper cue from the victim , likely also heightened anticipation and tension . The revelation of the absurd identity concealed within the seeming normality of things signaled that others should recognize this true ' identity by calling out , donkey , donkey ' . Sometimes the label of donkey stuck to a victim beyond a particular round of play , since his donkiness became a topic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ game . These elaborations on the identity of donkey added to the enjoyment of all concerned . The following is an example of a lengthy round of play , held while the supervisor was out . Hanging tails on the angels Shlomo , the last victim , entered the back room and silently approached Zackaria whose back was turned . He deftly hung the tail on Zackaria 's coat and moved off to wash his hands at the sink . Zackaria rose and strolled about the room , seemingly unaware of the dangling tail . Two of the nearby 95 Proto-events women muffled their chuckles . Yibye , another of the frontroom players entered . Zackaria scratched his upper back and discovered the tail . Players and spectators laughed and called out , donkey , donkey ' . Note that although some of the women attended to the transfer they did not talk about it , and so cooperated in the play . Zackaria , whether purposively or not , paraded his identity ; while the others behaved as usual . This heightened the discrepancy between his identity in the shop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes of others followed him about , awaiting his discovery of the tail . As that happened , most of the others responded as they were expected to . Yibye was examining the kiln as Zackaria came from behind and hung the tail from his coat collar . In turn , Yibye hung the tail on one of the backroom men , who speedily hooked it back onto Yibye . Each transfer followed the rules of the game . Each was marked by stealth and deftness , while the others waited until the victim revealed himself before labeling him publicly . Yibye was taken unawares in the last transfer . He knew the tail hung between his shoulder blades but he had difficulty grasping it . His efforts were spurred on by the women who urged him to reach higher . After he succeeded , and under the cover of washing his hands at the sink , he crept up behind David and hooked the tail from his shirt collar . David , a backroom worker , was not a player . To the contrary , he thoroughly identified with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the praise of superiors . David must have felt the tail , for he stood immediately and denounced this game for children during work time ' . His words were blown away by the gales of laughter of the others . Given that the players systematically excluded from active play those who identified with work , it is unlikely that Yibye tried to seduce David into becoming a regular participant . Perhaps he tried to expose David as one subject to the same frailties as the players , and so as less committed to work than he insisted . If David acquiesced , he would deny momentarily but publicly his intense involvement with tasks on which he based his identity in the shop , and for which he was rewarded . But David speedily denied the validity of the game , likening it to children 's activity , and thereby echoing the sentiments of the workers ' superiors . He clung to his image as a paragon of work . Nonetheless , all around him the public definition of the workplace had shifted temporarily from one of work to one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the others . David brandished the tail and hung it on Mashiab who had just entered the back room . As Mashiab removed the tail to cries of donkey ' , Shlomo tickled him . Mashiab and Shlomo struck one another on chest and arms with much flourish but little force , while others chuckled , grinned , and qO The donkey game pointed . This round of the game had ended . Mashiab called out , Shlomo and Zackaria will be gentiles even in their graves ' . Zohara grinned and added , Right , they 'll hang tails on the angels ' . Another woman quipped , Then no one will know who is an angel and who is Satan ' . At these remarks , players and spectators broke into renewed laughter . The frontroom men returned to their places , with Mashiala in possession of the tail . Although David played a turn , he did so demonstratively and openly , in disregard of the rules , showing that he refused to enter into the spirit of play . At this point the round started to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and aborted the round , effectively locking the latter into the identity of donkey ' . In their quips the women acknowledged that the game had subverted their reality for a brief period . By hanging the tail the players gained the attention and tacit cooperation of the angels ' , of those who identified with work . Satan commonly is depicted with a tail . The angels thereby acquired an attribute of Satan . This obscured the moral distinction between right and wrong . The back room was pervaded by an ambiguous atmosphere , within which the workers there were tempted by enjoyment to shed their serious reality for that of play ? and so to blur the distinctiveness of their proclaimed morality of work by which they habitually separated themselves from the players . Momentarily , Satan and the angels were indistinguishable , and the make-believe unified the workplace . ( Of course , many rounds of the game never penetrated the back room , and so did not affect the reality of the latter . ) The sign of the tail The messages of an alternative reality embedded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other modes of men 's play . But within the more complex game these messages were simplified , honed , and reproduced . Where joking , role play , and pranks were spontaneous , haphazard , and somewhat idiosyncratic , with negotiable courses and uncertain outcomes , the game was directed consistently towards a particular outcome . Mary Douglas ( 1968 : 365 ) writes that , The joke merely affords opportunity for realizing that an accepted pattern has no necessity . Its excitement lies in the suggestion that any particular ordering of experience may be arbitrary and subjective . It is frivolous in that it produces no real alternative , only an exhilarating sense of freedom from form in general ' . This is often what we would call fun ' . Without doubt the game was fun for the players and most spectators . However , even though they did not explain the game beyond its sense of fun ' and entertainment ' , it was not just any freedom from form ' , any frivolity , that made the game fun . This is 97 Proto-events attested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ game was played . These were arbitrary yet methodical conventions that increased the degree of certainty that not just any fun was made in the practice of the game . Instead these conventions orientated the players to certain kinds of fun , to certain varieties of performance and experience that played with particular ambiguities safely hidden from view in the usual order of things , but that were acutely felt by the players . It is with this note of pointed fun that any interpretation of the game should begin . In other words , why this variety of fun in this particular place ? The game altered boundaries of relevance . The women who held centre stage in the serious reality of work were excluded from active participation and relegated to the periphery of the play world . Those men perceived as peripheral to work moved to the centre of attention . More than any other practice , the game distinguished the disaffected from other men and all women . At the same time there was an overall reduction in other modes of men 's play . It was as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steadier state of expression in the game . This rendered those other play practices more superfluous . Although this is at best a correlation between forms of practice from which I am inferring meaning , it does suggest strongly that play was significant for these men . They did not do play for the sake of folly ( although folly was integral to the identities they took on through play ) . They communicated with one another through play , especially through the game , about their predicaments . And they believed that they could not do so baldly and openly without jeopardizing their employment and livelihood . The game was invented and refined by men who were friends , whose interaction with one another was characterized by mutuality , reciprocity , and equality . Within the frame of the game the men held to these attributes , and so they sustained its practice through time . Indeed , the reciprocal redistribution of roles through the taking of turns , and the sharing of the identity of donkey ' both point to the cooperative tenor of the game . Apparently the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not practiced elsewhere . Its cachet was restricted to these men , to their relationships , to their predicaments. ? Within the game , players cooperated to accomplish anticipation and release . Transferrers often chose times and contexts that were fun for the players . By doing transfers they linked not only themselves and their victims but all the players who practiced this unity that otherwise was absent from their workshop lives . Moreover , the very manner in which transfers were made seemed to symbolize the hazards of male sociability in the front room . The exaggerated stealth and caution of stalking the victim , 1 ) 8 The donkey game the suddenness of surprise in discovering the tail , paralleled the precarious course that these men steered between superiors and backroom women in order to practice their friendship . But instead of being surprised and admonished by superiors in the routine course of shop experience , through play they were reminded of whom and what they were by sympathetic , kindred spirits . Although the practice of consensus might be accomplished more loosely through other modes of sociable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victim cooperated by behaving as if all was ordinary while the tail was hung , and for as long as he wore it . Others cooperated to sustain anticipation and tension until the tail was discovered . Once a transfer was done , control of the round passed to the victim . Although labeled donkey , others became dependent on him for release . This points again to the symmetry of the game . So long as the transferrer controlled the round , anticipation and tension were lower . His control during this phase was matched by the lesser dependence of others . While the tail actually was hung , joint coordination and finesse often were required of the transferrer , the victim , and others in order to exchange game roles and identities . Here dependency was more symmetrical . Once the target became the victim , all were dependent on him for their fun , and this balanced his labeled condition . The interdependence of the players also was highlighted by contexts of play . Doing a transfer with superiors present was riskier . They knew nothing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raucous horseplay they deplored . The choice of playing in these contexts lay with the transferrer . The fun would be greater , but so was the threat of humiliation . If he played , this obligated his victim to cooperate . In these conditions , joking could be stopped , a prank aborted . But the game obligated players to share the entailed risks . Here play likely strengthened interpersonal bonds in the sense that Huizinga ( 1970 : 31 ) intended : the feeling of being " apart together " in an exceptional situation , of sharing something important , of mutually withdrawing from the rest of the world and rejecting the usual norms , retains its magic beyond the duration of the individual game ' . Since the game was played as well in the back room , the cooperation ( or at least the disinterest ) of the women was needed so as not to destroy a round before the victim revealed himself . In fact , the women did behave as a proper audience and seemed to enjoy the game . This may have raised the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women were excluded , yet they paid attention and followed convention . Thus the game was legitimated by those persons central to the reality of work , but here relegated to the periphery and rendered more passive . Yet for all this the game probably buttressed that serious reality in which 99 Proto-events those who identified with work were valued . In other words , the experience of the women watching the game may have been quite different from that of the men who played . The revelations of male identity in the game were quite congruent with how the women perceived the character of these men through the dominant reality of work . For the women these men were indeed donkeys most of the time . By supporting the game the women saw performed before them the weaknesses of its players . But more than this , they saw these players admitting to their flaws ( as they did not do otherwise ) , thereby validating the inferior status they were accorded by superiors and by the women themselves . Here the very dominance of the players in the make-believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For its players the game evoked that which Goffman ( 1961 : 1o8 ) called role distance ' : how persons constitute and express the distance between their perception of their selves and how their formal roles would have them . Goffman ( 1961 : 113 ? 4 ) added that , Situated roles that place an individual in an occupational setting he feels is beneath him are bound to give rise to much role distance ' . Through the game the players distanced their selves from the subordination and depreciation that their roles entailed , and so reasserted their rightful place in the moral order of their lives . The sign of the tail requires further discussion here . Its connection to animal anatomy is obvious . Less forthright yet suggestive are its connotations of an obverse potency . The epithet of donkey ' was common in workshop talk . Its usage usually connoted dumbness and stubborness ? qualities of the proverbial beast of burden transposed to humans . In part , the origins of the game may have derived from jokes about the unnatural births of the men as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dumb , ill-used beasts of burden . The remaking of the human is evident also in the joking byplay between Shlomo and Zackaria , described earlier . Yet in these men there was an absence of that potency associated with the animalistic . In that earlier byplay , Zackaria likens Shlomo 's penis to a donkey 's tail . But this is an emasculated Shlomo , his penis taken to make that tail ? a penis worn on the hindquarters , pointing backward . In other words , an obverse penis , limp , ineffective , impotent . Is it surprising that Shlomo 's device , which he usually hung on the back , came to be called a tail ? Looked at this way , the sign of the tail condenses the entire talc of social and psychic emasculation that these men , from their perspective , experienced in the shop ( and prior to this ) . Potentially ( and retrospectively , in their self-imagery ) these men were powerful and potent in their male animalism . In actuality they were futile and impotent . The sign of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what these men should have been in their own estimation , and to what they were . So too , the game itself , an elaboration of the condensed sign and a metaphor for the life of these men in the workplace . Thus the tail was a powerful trope , a device of passage that turned one reality into another , yet that lost neither the triumph of futility nor the futility of triumph , and so enabled the simultaneous experiencing of both . Therefore there is a juxtaposition of messages in the game , through which the routine and the extraordinary contrast , yet acquire attributes of one another that thereby inform experience with an integration that contains its own negation . For ordinary life and play are both serious and absurd , and the condition of one informs the other . The players saw themselves as helpless and hapless persons controlled by hierarchy and authority . These experiences they found absurd . They did not want to be in the shop , needed to remain there , and had no way to conjoin these sentiments except through play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was serious commentary ; but as their play was by definition unserious , that they played as they did was a commentary on the seriousness of their life-situations.s Jo ' Intersections My doctoral work in social anthropology was done in the late 196os at the University of Manchester , under the direction of Max Gluckman . The reanalysis of the ethnographies of others was a hallmark of study at Manchester , of learning to think as an anthropologist . Gluckman 's view was that there was something of value in most work , and so the purpose of critical analysis was constructive , not destructive ? a position that I took to heart ( in principle , at least ) early on . Although Manchester insisted on specialization in an ethnographic area , the Mancunian style also encouraged the critical reading of ethnographies outside one 's own particular area of research . This style demanded a close , often excruciating attention to ethnographic detail , and an appreciation of the significance , if not the meaning , of the most mundane of social intricacies . As I learned later on , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of public occasions . Reanalysis is a peculiar genre in a discipline that gives pride of place to the firsthand collection of information through fieldwork . At least twiceremoved from that interface we so often call the field ' ( with its connotations of a distant , wild , natural habitat to be tamed through disciplined study ) , reanalysis is necessarily dependent upon the frailties and faculties of the field ethnographer . To be engaging a reanalysis requires especially an act of imagination that in my view is somewhat akin to the idea of parallel worlds in science-fiction . In other words , the world of reanalysis accepts that of the original ' in most respects , yet puts this together as a different version to bring out something latent or implicit in the original ? just as the latter likely is at best ( and frequently for the best ) a version of what actually happened ' in the field . Thus reanalysis refuses to privilege the authority of the ethnographer . Ethnographers are the authors of their own works , not of the peoples they inscribe . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its craft , in the first instance ? to the ethnography that gave it ' birth , or to the natives that enabled both to exist at all . Banana Time was one of the first reanalyses I attempted . The shortest case study of this volume , it was the most difficult to formulate . Donald 102 Intersections Roy 's ( 1959 ? 60 ) brief ethnography of the antics of three workers , often cited but little discussed , seemed to have much resonance with my observations of the donkey game . I was convinced there was more method to the doings of his protagonists than he made of these . But for a lengthy period I could not get a handle on this . One day , quite abruptly and unexpectedly , there was pattern within passion ? a moment of the comicstrip bulb lighting up inside my head . For that experience alone I am fond of banana time ' . Over a decade later , while rewriting portions for this book , I realize that this little piece owed much to my Manchester experience , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas I 've used ever since . Among these is that of the reproductive interplay between integration ' and conflict ' , which appears in somewhat different guises also in chapters 6 and 7 . More generally , banana time taught me that the ritualization ' of behavior could have a much more powerful impetus than that of mere formalization and customary repetition ? just as the donkey game showed that play should not be relegated casually to the garbage-can category of expressive behavior ' . I also am indebted to the late Donald Roy for the grace and helpfulness with which he responded to my rereading of his materials . 103 5 Banana time Roy 's ethnography recounts the commensality , fighting , and play among three middle-aged naturalized Americans in a small workplace . His primary aim was to discuss how industrial workers managed the tedium of their work roles , and their alienation from the means of production , through expressive ' activities that enabled them to gain some sense of control over their fates in such places . The activities Roy discussed emerged tacitly from interaction among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nonetheless , these activities were repeated daily , in the same serial order . Now one could argue that such an arrangement was predicated on the invention of custom , that was implemented daily in somewhat mechanistic fashion . But I will suggest that the organization of this sequence of activities contained its own power of reproduction . This dynamic , one that I will call dialectical , enabled the sequence of activities in the workplace to be reproduced on a daily basis . This logic is more complex than that of the donkey game . The donkey game played the interstices of social order , opening apertures to a momentary alternative reality that subverted work , but a reality constituted through Western assumptions of the make-believe , and so of the inauthentic . The uncertainty introduced by the make-believe was controlled by its game form , whose predication on pretense thereby negated its own substance . The activities discussed in this chapter were put together otherwise . These spanned the entire working day , the daily period that the protagonists spent together . As I will indicate , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sociability , within which they worked , argued , and fought . Still , the very complexity and interdependence of the activities that constituted this framework made it less flexible and more fragile in response to crises than that of the donkey game . First I will recapitulate the salient features of Roy 's description , and then consider how these may be treated as a synthetic framework for action that reproduced itself through time . I04 Banana time Times ' and themes ' in the workplace George , Ike , and Sammy , the three protagonists , worked in a room closed off from the rest of the plant . One door , usually shut , led to a storage room . They had few contacts with other workers or with management . Their lengthy working days were spent operating punch presses that cut out various patterns in leather and plastic , using steel dies of various shapes that were changed by hand . The following is Roy 's ( 1959 ? 60 : 16o ) description of work in the room : This was standing all day in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out through barred windows at the bare walls of a brick warehouse , leg movements largely restricted to the shifting of body weight from one foot to the other , hand and arm movements confined , for the most part , to a simple repetitive sequence ... and the intellectual activity reduced to computing the hours to quitting time . But Roy noticed that the three engaged in a series of activities that were repeated daily and enjoyed greatly . These times ' , as Roy called them , are the focus of reanalysis here . The following times ' were discernible in the interaction of the three . 1 Coffee time : George and Ike came to work before Sammy . The two shared a pot of coffee brewed on George 's hot plate . 2 Peach time : When Sammy arrived he announced peach time ' . He then produced two peaches that he divided into equal portions among the three workers . Ike complained about the quality of the fruit ; and this led to banter and joking between the two . 3 Banana time : Sammy always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , Ike stole the banana , crying banana time ' , and gulped down the fruit . Sammy protested , denouncing Ike ; while George remonstrated with Ike , yet scolded Sammy for the fuss he made . 4 Window time : Sammy continued to criticize Ike 's character in an echolalic fashion , until Ike retaliated by opening wide the window facing Sammy , letting cold air engulf the latter . During the prologue to the opening of the window , Ike would threaten and feint . In return Sammy protested , argued , and claimed he would catch cold . Finally he closed the window . George encouraged Ike , declaring that fresh air was healthy , and chided Sammy for not appreciating Ike 's consideration . 5 Lunch time : Prior to the lunch break Ike tampered with George 's alarm clock ( that kept the work schedule ) by setting it ahead by a 105 Proto-events few minutes so that they could eat earlier . George always discovered this and berated Ike . 6 Pick-up time : Every afternoon another worker came to collect the punched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the three , while they deprecated his easy job . Usually the three related their antics of the day to the visitor . George and Ike often belittled Sammy , while Ike joked at George 's expense . 7 Fish time : During the afternoon George and Ike took a break to eat pickled fish that Ike provided . 8 Coke time : In the late afternoon the three took turns making the trip to the fourth floor vending machine to buy drinks for one another . The hours ending the working day were staggered : Sammy left first , followed by Ike , and then George . Throughout the working day , interspersed between times ' , the three engaged in what Roy called themes ' : acts of kidding , joking , prank , and horseplay . Unlike times ' , themes ' had no particular order , although their form often was repeated . So , whenever Sammy went to get a drink of water , or to the toilet , his machine was switched off . Invariably , on returning , he fell into the trap of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , striking a worker over the head with a paper sack would set off exchanges of slaps , laughter , and echolalic utterances , like those of Sammy : Ike is a bad man , a very bad man ! George is a good daddy , a very fine man ! ' At other points Ike would repeat snatches of doggerel , like : Mama on the bed , papa on the floor , baby in the crib says giver some more ! ' And together the three returned to choruses like : Are you man or mouse ? I ask you , are you man or mouse ? ' Roy concluded that the organization of times ' constituted an ' interactional frame ' ( 1959 ? 60 : 163 ) ; that the activities of this frame represented a distinctive subculture ' , and that , Tensions born of long hours of relatively meaningless work were released in the mock aggression of horseplay . ' It is indeed to Roy 's credit that he recognized that these activities were patterned through time , and this no doubt bears on problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned . But the power of his material is enhanced if one looks more closely for the dynamic that enabled , indeed encouraged , the reproduction of these activities on a daily basis . However the sequence of times ' was invented ( and we are not told how ) , it was followed quite faithfully . This suggests that this sequence was at least systematic in its logic of organization , for it was constituted through both the certainty of consensus and the uncertainty of conflict . Banana time The integration of times ' and themes ' Some anthropological studies of ritual ' point out that when conflict is expressed within occasions that stand for the highest affirmation of moral order ( for example , the legitimation bestowed by the sacred ) , the very practice of dissent is itself a restatement of the value of the order that permits its expression ( see Gluckman 1954 ) . In such instances the practice of disharmony often is not an attempt to alter the basic morphology of the social order . Instead , the sacred is the strongest societal vessel within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affirmation of order thus encourages and yet controls the most elementary expressions of its dissolution ? thereby reaffirming once more the moral worth of this ordering . In this way , structure generates its antitheses that in turn reproduce and reintegrate the set-up . This constitutes a dialectic that energizes the continuity of moral order . This idea of dialectic , returned to further on , is that of what I call encapsulation ' . It differs radically from classic ideas of dialectic ? of thesis , antithesis , synthesis ? that are both processual and productive , and therefore constitutive of new social forms . The dialectics of encapsulation are those of process that is reproductive of social order . Encapsulation is itself predicated on the assumption that certain kinds of activity ( including a good deal of that which is termed ritual ' ) exists within the confines of cultural rubrics or frames that constitute , existentially , a different logical type ' of experience ( see Bateson 1972 : 189 ) . As a different logical type , the frame that encloses these activities specifies that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guide interpretations of other sorts of activity . However the major lesson of the analogy of the ritual ' frame for secular , framed occasions is the possibility of the encapsulation of opposition within the confines of integration , such that conflict is shown in a manner that tests ' successfully the strength and viability of that integration . This has a direct bearing on the organization of times ' described by Roy . These times ' were of two forms , that may be called respectively , consensual and oppositional . Their serial ordering located times of conflict within an overarching frame of integrative , consensual relations between the workers . The opening of the working day began with coffee time ' , a commensal and consensual occasion that marked the onset of interaction between George and Ike . They partook in the sharing of drink , brewed on George 's hot plate . This occasion of solidarity roughly paralleled the beginning of a day of work that was predicated on solitary activity . Although the solitariness of the work routine rendered irrelevant any sense of mutuality , coffee time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily the cohesiveness of social bonds . Thus the 107 Proto-events condition of existing as a person alone ' among other solitary beings was counter-balanced by one of existential unity within which personal identities were appreciated . On Sammy 's entry , he initiated peach time ' , providing two peaches that were shared among the three . So Sammy entered the integrative frame through the sharing of sustenance . One may speculate that the invariable division of two peaches among three persons required especial attention to the minutiae of sharing in order to attain an equitable distribution ; and that this again emphasized bonds of mutuality . Ike 's decrying the quality of the fruit led to banter among the protagonists , but this already occurred within the integrative frame , and so did not alter the initial definition of cohesiveness that guided the subsequent actions of these workers . The working day ended for the three with two other occasions of mutuality and solidarity . During fish time ' George and Ike together shared food that the latter provided . Later , during coke time ' , the three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roy 's description the relationship between George and Ike was stronger than their relationships with Sammy . So Ike reciprocated for the use of George 's hot plate during coffee time ' by providing their sustenance for fish time ' . But it is most important to note that once Sammy entered the workplace all three engaged in peach time ' , and that they ended the serial ordering of times with the reciprocity of coke time ' . Thus coffee time , peach time , fish time , and coke time constituted the frame of integrative occasions that bracketed the onset and end of the working day . All other activities during the working day , including those of production , were contained within the comradeship of this integrative frame . Within this frame of integrative times the protagonists practiced their times of opposition : banana time , window time , lunch time , and pick-up time . These times communicated disharmony and conflict in social relationships ( to wit : theft , quarrel , disparagement ) . Put differently , these times communicated dissatisfactions with the tedium of work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one important proviso . Times of opposition existed not only within a frame of integrative times ( a reality that here also subsumed that of the individuation and solitariness of work ) but also within a subframe of play that was intimately keyed to the integrative frame . Keeping in mind Bateson 's formulation of the make-believe in the message , this is play ' , discussed in chapter 3 , within this workplace the signs of play were those that signalled the onset of times of opposition . In this usage , play also communicates that its doing is not to be interpreted according to serious criteria . Thus its substance of antagonism in the workplace was discounted by the protagonists , without setting aside the io8 Banana time enjoyment experienced through participation . Play in this workplace constituted a further extension of the frame of integrative times that controlled , in serial fashion , the times of opposition that occurred between integrative times . The frame of integrative times included an inner lining ' of integration , as it were , constituted through play that leached occasions of opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their messages ( see Handelman 1977b ) . I suggest that the following formulation of occasions in this workplace is more comprehensive and dynamic than that given by Roy , for it indicates that these people reinvented their working day as a systematic ( and perhaps systemic ) form of organization that enabled the routine reproduction both of sociability and of controlled conflict . An experiential frame of integrative times established the master context of reciprocity , mutuality , and solidarity for interaction in the workplace . This integrative frame provided information as to how opposition and conflict were to be practiced . The messages of this subframe took the form of play , and so supported the integrative frame by discounting the seriousness of times of opposition while enabling the expression of conflict . That the integrative frame could be sustained in the face of conflict signified its overarching value for the protagonists , and strengthened their mutual solidarity . I would argue further that the great value placed on solidarity encouraged the expression of conflict in counterpoint to , but contained within the overarching integrity and strength of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an emergent formation in the workplace , the protagonists also fashioned a safety valve for the expression of conflict by doing it in terms of play , which constituted an ongoing articulation between integrative times and their serial guidance of times of opposition . Thus the unity of the workplace was predicated upon an encapsulated dialectic , of opposition within integration . This dynamic reproduced the daily round of activities . My interpretation of the ordering of times is supported by the pattern of reintegration that these activities took , after the disintegration of relationships that Roy called black friday ' ( 1959 ? 60 : 165-6 ) . While Sammy was on vacation , relations between George and Ike collapsed after Ike , in introducing a new joking theme , grated a sensitive aspect of George 's workplace identity . The organization of times and themes broke down completely for thirteen days . During this period all utterances and actions were interpreted strictly in terms of the individuating and alienating context of work . When reconciliation was achieved it took the following sequence . ( 1 ) George and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Later that same day Ike and Sammy began to play together , and Ike burst into song . ( 3 ) This was followed by a return to times of conflict , as other elements of J09 Proto-events integration and opposition were reintroduced during the next few days . In other words , through the sharing of sustenance the protagonists first resurrected a portion of the integrative frame of times . Then , within this context they began to recreate the subframe of play . And then they returned to times of conflict . This resurrection reproduced the hierarchy of relevance of the elements of the integrative frame , as this had existed prior to black friday ' . It shows clearly how important it was that the protagonists contain opposition within integration . Although they returned only in part to the exact kinds of times that had existed before the collapse , these did include at least one new time ' of opposition that communicated Ike 's atonement for his black friday gaffe . This rush to the window ' seemed to replace window time ' , and Roy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows : Ike broke wind , and put his head in his hand on the block as Sammy grabbed a rod and made a mock rush to open the window . He beat Ike on the head , and George threw some water on him , playfully ' . Thus the resurrected , integrative frame proved sufficiently resilient to incorporate messages that responded to changing conditions , in this instance the moral opprobrium that attached to one who had damaged the shared mutuality of the frame . One further problem should be explicated . Earlier I implied that the practice of work was constituted through a logical type of behavior different from that which permitted times and themes . Therefore work should have precluded the practice of the latter , whose implementation would subvert work activity . Given the coexistence of work and times in this workplace , how did the protagonists accomplish the passage from one context to the other , when ideally these alternatives excluded each other ? Some scholars of transition suggest searching for modes of organization that denote detachment from one sort of context to deposit protagonists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 94 ? 6 ) . So Kapferer 's ( 1983 ) analysis of shifts between phases in Sinhalese exorcisms discusses how humor can awaken audience , and then patient , to alternative sets of meaning , the acceptance of which by participants enables the event to proceed to its successful conclusion . I suggest that the themes ' Roy described did something similar within the workplace . Themes ' were brief segments of action that occurred between times ' . Although their form and substance were relatively consistent , their practice was spontaneous ? they did not occur in any particular serial order , as did times ' . So a serious discussion on the high cost of living suddenly could be turned into horseplay or prank ; or a worker might begin to utter a string of oral autisms ' . The practice of themes were thus temporary , somewhat idiosyncratic excursions into the experience of play ; and each protagonist 110 Banana time experimented in his own way , and to some extent at his own pace , with these leavetakings of the context of work . The periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ongoing alterations of reality that did not correspond exactly to the form and substance of times , but that did constitute transitions to a similar logical type . This would mean that each phased shift from work to times was not an abrupt transition ; for such passage was preceded by actions that simulated this transition , and so prepared protagonists for these experiential shifts . Themes interspersed among serious actions held the protagonists perpetually on the edge of shifts in context ? since none could predict when one of their number , unannounced , would make this transition . In this workplace , themes performed the vital function of existentially preparing the protagonists to perceive work as one kind of arbitrary context that could be penetrated with an act of will ( see Douglas 1968 : 370 ) . And so themes , as flexible , social experiences of passage , prepared the way to the more coherent alternatives of times of integration and opposition . That the reorganization of the working day into one of times ' constituted a radical change in quality of experience is evident too in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on workplace experience before times ' were invented , apart from stressing its tedious and alienating sameness . Still it is fair to assume that , before the creation of times , workplace periodicity was dominated by moments and durations ( minutes , hours , etc. ) that were reckoned in terms of work and production . This rhythm of time was largely monotemporal . Workers punched out and counted units of piecework that were equivalent in value to one another , as were the units of time through which this was done . Temporality and production had an analogous rhythm of being , one of even and similar intervals rather than peaks . Monotone and monotime ? the absence of differences in value , in both the acts of work and their temporal ordering , may well have signified the absence of value itself in this kind of existence . The invention of the sequence of times ' radically and comprehensively changed the temporal ordering of the working day . The experiential frame of times was also a temporal matrix , one of highs and lows , certainties and uncertainties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the workplace on a daily basis . Moreover , different values were associated with integrative times and with those of opposition . These workers had created a hierarchy of values keyed to the new temporal rhythm of the workplace , one that nullified the solitariness and alienation of work without subverting the act of production ( that would have endangered their jobs ) . The viability of this framework of times ' depended on its capacity to reproduce itself through time . In my interpretation this reproductive 1iI Proto-events capacity depended on a dynamic of dialectics . As I noted , classical dialectics are open-ended and generative of form . Simply put , the idea of thesis contains the seeds of its own obviation , of anti-thesis . The development of antithesis produces a synthesis that is itself different from both thesis and antithesis . The major theoretical advantage of this sort of conceptualization is that the impetus for change is located in the very centricity and stability of social form , changing this from within , as it were . The interpretation of this chapter points to an obverse process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called the dialectic of encapsulation . This momentum of conservation is especially suitable to numerous occasions that are called ritual ' , and to the ritualization ' of behavior . The particular advantage of this dynamic is that it depends necessarily on the idea of opposition to established , normative order . But it is the very uncertainty carried by such conflict that is reproductive of this order . This formulation is indebted to Max Gluckman 's ( 1954 ) concept of rituals of rebellion ' . In terms of chapter 2 , the dynamic of encapsulation is relevant to events of modelling and re-presentation . In line with the thinking of that chapter , the effectiveness of this dynamic for the reproduction of an event would depend on how well uncertainty is controlled . The dialectic of encapsulation depends on a delineation of hierarchy , such that the idea of thesis ' can be identified with higher-order values , and that of antithesis ' with lower-order ones that are in opposition to the former . Therefore the actions identified with higher-order values may be said to encapsulate or to encompass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of banana time , the encapsulation of times of opposition within the frame of integrative times . Thus lower-order values reaffirm those of higher order , and synthesis is analogous here to the revalidation of the status quo . Each practice of this kind of event is in a way a test ' of the viability of its higher-order premises . In turn , the reaffirmation of these premises once more encourages the practice of opposition to their validity . Dissension and validation are both integral to this dynamic of encapsulation and to its ongoing reproduction . In terms of the workplace of this chapter , integrative times were of a higher order than those of opposition . The practice of times of conflict did not destroy this integrative frame , but was contained by it . This control of conflict revalidated the viability of this frame , and so of the values that constituted it . In turn , the tested frame encouraged opposition to itself , thereby enabling the expression of dissension and conflict ? but this generated once more the hierarchical superiority of integration over opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the entire set-up reproduced itself day after day . 112 3 Public events Intersections Works , like this chapter and chapter io , sometimes get written through the confluence of coincidence . In I977 ? 8 my wife and I spent an enjoyable sabbatical year at the University of Pittsburgh , and visited good friends , Davydd and Pilar Greenwood at Cornell University . I love looking through books and bookstores . In Israel , academic books are scarce and expensive . Davydd took me to the university bookstore , and there reduced to half-price was La Terra in Piazza , a study of the Palio of Siena , a monograph I had not known on a public event I had n't heard of . Old friends and a new book . I was elated , and took to the Palio even before reading the monograph . The following year I was invited to a conference sponsored by the Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies at UCLA , and thought the Palio an apt subject . A reanalysis of the Palio duly emerged . In working on the Palio materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Much later it became the cornerstone of the typology of chapter 2 . In this present version of the reanalysis I treat the Palio more explicitly as an event of modelling the world . It may or may not be something like this . More importantly , it likely is an occasion that revolves around relationships between a whole and its parts , such that , simultaneously , a social entity can be taken apart yet held together . The relevance of this for events of modelling and re-presentation is clear . I am indebted to Terry Evens , a warm friend since our Manchester days , who some years ago pointed out to me the relevance for the Palio of the part/ whole relationship . At that time I had n't the wits to see its significance . I 'S 6 The Palio of Siena In chapter 2 , I suggested that major public occasions of the modern world tended strongly to be organized through a logic of presentation and sometimes of re-presentation . Altogether , a systemic logic of modelling with its capacities for transformation is rarely a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case in the contemporary ethnography of the West that may usefully be rethought in terms of its model of urban rejuvenation . This is the Palio festival of the comune of Siena in Central Italy . My phrasing above is hesitant , since there are fierce differences of opinion over the ethnography of Dundes and Falassi on which I rely , and I refer to some of these in endnotes . In existence continuously since the seventeenth century , this festival , as it is called , has been treated by popular commentators as an unusual horse race , preceded by an elaborate historical parade . Some scholars have argued that it continues cultural patterns of medieval Siena , and is a metaphor for a particular Sienese view of the world ( Dundes and Falassi 1975 ) . Others have argued that it reconstructs the past glory of Siena , and reinforces the existence of the ward , the contrada , as a viable entity in the Sienese world ( Logan 1978 ) . Sydel Silverman ( 1979 , 1981 ) is adamant that , far from being a medieval survival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Florentine conquerors of Siena elevated allegiance to the contrada at the expense of the comune and stunted the development of more broadly-based interest groups , whether those of patriotism or of social class . Through the politics of divide and rule the Palio mystifies economic and political realities . However all commentators agree on the centrality of the Palio festival in Sienese life . I will argue that regardless of their historical origins the occasions of the Palio are constituted as a model that transforms the comune by taking it apart and putting it back together ? thereby yearly regenerating the comune as a holistic urban entity . ' The logic I discern in the festival is one that can neither be traced directly to medieval remnants , nor to a peculiarly Sienese world view . In accordance with this position the festival is not simply an IIt ) The Palio of Siena event of contrade , but one in which the place of the comune should be given much more attention . Other discussions treat the role of the comune in the festival as an epiphenomenon , and stress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return to this uncritical acceptance of contrada rhetoric and ideology in the last section of this chapter . Through its festival the comune can totalise the consciousness it has of itself ' ( Pierssens 1972 : io ) . Through its modelling of the everyday the festival can act on the comune in controlled and predictive ways . Twice yearly a particular configuration of the comune is passed through the Palio model to have its viability tested , and so to be regenerated in the process . This can not be done through the everyday social order of Siena . The self-testing by social entities of their own viability and validity is often overlooked but should not be disregarded . Qualities of coherence may be well-known , yet neither self-evident nor static , and thus require the repetitive experience of being so . That which I call testing ' is then a function of social reproduction , but one whose outcome is controlled and therefore predictive . Testing depends on the introduction into social order of predicated uncertainty that puts the validity and viability of that order to the question , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contradictions and oppositions . The next section discusses the two most prominent secular components of the festival model ? the respective levels of city ' and contrada ' . Next I turn to the model 's most prominent religious figure , the Madonna in whose honor the races are run , and her spiritual and earthy ' aspects . The third section addresses how the comune is broken down through the model , through the distancing of Virgin and city from the lower , earthy level of contrada , and how nonetheless these levels remain articulated through the figure of the racing horse . The fourth section pursues these themes through the sequencing of occasions within the festival , as the framing of disorder within order . The fifth discusses the reconstruction of the urban entity through the parade and race , as aspects of the Madonna , and city and contrade , are put back together in proper relationships of scale and quality . The sixth addresses issues raised by this analysis . Comune , city , contrada The social structure of the everyday comune is composed of a multitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of different scale , complexity , and quality . Patterns of stratification , economic infrastructures , religious institutions , occupational structures , political parties , trade unionism , ties of patronage and brokerage , parishes , and contrade , cleave , compete , cooperate and overlap with each other in myriad ways . Many of I17 Public events these connections clearly do not cease at the boundaries of the comune , but pass through to link Siena inextricably to the economic and political life of region and nation-state . In this picture of social structure there are no inherent or inbuilt limitations on political and economic competition , on social inequality and mobility , or on degrees of machination and maneuvering ? except as statistical ' products of numerous additive and countervailing forces whose outcomes are shifting and comparatively indeterminate . Looked at on the ground , so to speak , Siena is divided into seventeen contrade . In the metaphoric centre of the comune is the piazza of the Campo , around which or nearby are grouped some of the major institutions of the comune : the city hall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitals , and so forth.2 In terms of the visual impact of spatial organization , the conjunction of tower and Campo is striking and suggestive . The Campo is shaped like a shell , a concave bowl sloping downhill , its focal point adjacent to the tower . In the middle of the Campo is a fountain dedicated to the Madonna , the Virgin Mother , who is the patroness of the comune ( Dundes and Falassi 1975 : 231 ) .3 Among the prominent components of everyday Sienese life is the ward , or contrada . Nonetheless it is but one among many that together constitute the substance of mundane living . However the contrada is a corporate group with membership mainly through birth , with preferred endogamy , owning property in common , and operating as a mutual-aid society and social club ( Dundes and Falassi 1975 : 2 ) . Each contrada has its own government , elected officials , symbols , patron saint , church and priest ( see Falassi and Catoni 1983 : 27 ? 8 ) . Of especial importance , each contrada has its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are occupied by adult men . Hypothetically these may be filled by women but , like those of the comune administration , this happens rarely . These offices are contrasted with those , like that of the capitano , whose task it is to win the Palio race . In comparison to all of these secular officials who are answerable to their contrada , church and priest , although integrally identified with their contrada , owe allegiance to the archbishopric of the comune ( Dundes and Falassi 1975 : 33 ? 5 ) ? Grading by age and sex is important in the contrada . The age grade of the Little Ones ' Group includes all children up to the age of twelve ; and they celebrate holidays together . The adolescents compose the Young Peoples ' Group , with its own officials and activities . At the adult level there is a Women 's Group , but no parallel organization of adult males . Thus as adolescents mature , females are relegated to their own less prominent group , as were the peripheral children and youths , while adult males @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locus of its power and authority ' 18 The Patio of Siena ( Logan 1978 : 49 ) . Like the commune , the contrada is identified primarily as a male domain . Although its members are divided by class , politics , sex and age , the contrada is a major focus of sentiments of solidarity ; while there is opposition among contrade in daily life , when this kind of contrast is made relevant ( Dundes and Falassi 1975 : 21 , 26 ) . Each contrada considers itself an ' independent republic or state ' ( Logan 1978 : 49 ) , or a city within the city ' ( Dundes and Falassi 1975 : 46 ) .4 Some contrade are formally twinned ' with other cities and towns ( Falassi and Catoni 1983 : 28 ) . There are three important points in this description . First , each contrada is theoretically equivalent in scale and quality to every other contrada ( although in practice they differ in size of territory and population , and in economic strength ) . Second , each contrada is the comune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and religious institutions of the comune on a small scale . Third , together the contrade ideally encompass the territory of the entire comune , apart from its central piazzas and institutions . These points will become relevant in discussing the palio model . In daily life the comune is a complex entity within which the contrada exists as one kind of social unit and as one basis for affiliation . But in the Palio model the contrade rise from within the complex order of the comune , like a territorial and social grid that radically simplifies , reorganizes , and circumscribes the overall urban entity ? erasing , cross-cutting , or obfuscating other distinctions , cleavages , boundaries , and forms of cooperation so important to the order of daily life.s This shift is from the comune as a product of factors of different scale , quality , and complexity ( one of organic solidarity , in Durkheim 's terms ) , to a closed model of the urban entity that , in its secular domain , is composed of the following features . A core of municipal institutions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I will call the city ' ( to distinguish it from the everyday , complex comune ) . Equivalent segments that replicate one another and that I continue to call contrade . And a high degree of replicability of institutions between the higher level of city and the lower one of contrada . Quite unlike everyday Siena , this version of social structure is organized along lines similar to those of segmentary opposition , of fission and fusion , in a relationship of parts to a whole ( that is akin to what Durkheim called mechanical solidarity ) . On the one hand this enables the spatial and social composition of the modelled comune to be taken apart along predetermined axes . On the other it suggests that within this model each contrada , each segment or part , can come to behave as if it were the urban entity ? as if its boundaries can expand momentarily to correspond to those of the city . Within this model , opposition and conflict and their outcome are predetermined and controlled , in contrast to the indeterminacy of the everyday . I19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behavior was worrisome . " Just as Dian Fossey worked all her life against African poachers , Galdikas has battled constantly with both poachers selling baby orangs in Taiwan , and with the Indonesian federal government in Jakarta , where officials overseeing her domain are perhaps being influenced by logging concerns who want commercial entry into the preserve . Indonesian forestry official Abdul Muin said that , " Her assistants , the ones who do her research , ' whatever that is , are not scientists . Sometimes we suspect she is not doing much of anything except making money from tourism . Mrs. Birute lives in a world of her own . " The crusades she 's taken on to save the orangs ' home have frequently left her own scientific research on hold , putting her at odds with both her professional colleagues and with the wildlife charities that are her major source of funding . Earthwatch , an organization that supports natural history research by sending students to study in the field , has dropped Camp Leakey , meaning a loss to Galdikas of around $75,000 a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Like Dian Fossey , Galdikas is becoming detached from reality . She thinks that everyone is against her . She has failed to give us adequate reports and accounts . We have asked her for a new proposal so that we can consider funding her again , but she has not produced one . My heart goes out to her . She began as a scientist , but she has become more and more attached to the animals and more involved in conflicts with local people and the authorities . I fear that she is shipwrecking herself . " Galdikas 's posture makes sense , however , in light of recent history . Homesteading Indonesians ( and industries ) have been burning down the Sumatran , New Guinean and Bornean forests in order to free more land for cattle and // crops . Their smoke has gotten so serious that , for months at a time , the islands ' schoolchildren have trouble seeing their blackboards . In both Borneo and Sumatra , the last remaining homes of the orangutan , droves of the animals are fleeing their forests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed as a crop pest , captured to be kept as pets , or sold into the black market . Some Indonesian women are so taken with their baby orangutan pets that they breast-feed them . Camp Leakey was very unusual in that Galdikas both studied orangs in the wild , and tried to reintroduce to the jungle those who 'd been smuggled out as pets . It was immediately clear , however , that once orangs had a taste of living with humans in a house , they were quite uninterested in foraging for themselves out in the cold , cruel rain forest . Visitors to Camp Leakey got to interact with orangs who were completely tame , as well as flee for their lives from those who were the true Wild Men of Borneo . Sweet ! As we motored to the campsite through the lands of Tanjung Puting , the trees grew larger and larger until they almost touched each other in arches over the river , and in this dense forest canopy that allowed only brief spots of sunlight to reach the ground , the branches became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spiders or capuchins of organ-grinding fame , proboscis have , by far , the most ridiculous noses in the animal kingdom , long , Jimmy Durante zucchini beaks that are so peculiar they were once the inspiration for a primitive tribe in Popeye . As the boat // passes underneath , the monkeys leap back and forth in the trees , whole families scurrying after each other in frantic bursts of feeding and fleeing , hundreds of animals chattering and complaining about our rude trespass , warning each other , grooming each other , and sometimes flinging themselves from branch to branch just for the hell of it . There I was , lying on the roof of my boat , drinking rich coffee and eating delicious cookies , watching thousands of big monkeys jump over my head . Nirvana . In the jungle , it was as hot and steamy as a Chinatown kitchen , but rolling on the river was cool , and soothing . Families paddled by , and we all waved . At the shoreline , crocodiles , hearing the boat 's engine , would scurry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ docks , tied up the boat , and the minute I got ashore an infant orangutan bounded out of the forest , wrapped itself around my calf , and looked straight up into my face with big baby eyes that said one thing : " Love me ! " Two of the researchers pulled him off my leg , worried I could give him some kind of disease ( orangs and humans are 97 percent genetically the same ? closer , in fact , than breeds of dogs ) . Apes are everywhere here , ranging in color from rust red to circus orange , males and females and babies , just crowds of them . I was hoping it would rain , so I could see in person what I 'd been entranced by in books ? visions of orangs using giant banana leaves as umbrellas ? but no such luck . We walked to the central office while staying clear of the hungry nursing female going through the garbage . She found something , tasted it , dropped it to the ground in disgust , and went into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the wall and helped herself to a drink from the water tank . After giving her baby a small sip , she poured the not-drunk water back into the tank , hung the ladle back where it belonged , and went off to sit in the shade and catch all the action . Another orang living here watched // the volunteers doing their laundry , and then she joined in , scrubbing wet clothes with soap on the pier , and rinsing them out in a big pink bucket . It was time for lunch , a feeding for both the tamed creatures and whatever wild men might show up , so I and two visiting animal behaviorists and the camp workers walked over to the feeding station , a platform high enough for the wild orangs to feel comfortable but low enough to make loading the fruit not an overwhelming chore . The garbagesniffing female turned out to be Frances , who could speak sign language and who walked with us to the site , my hand in hers , the baby holding on to the hairs on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language , " Who are you ? " Frances replied , " Sweet ! " One of the workers obviously had his eye on a future in tourism since as we walked , he gave me an incredibly detailed account of every living thing along the way , from the razor-sharp palms to the unchoppable ironwood to the erect , shoestring leeches waiting for just the right warmblooded creature to pass by . When you spend your whole life in one particular part of the forest , you get to know every single detail about every little thing on your trail . They are , after all , the neighbors . At the feeding , we held tightly on to our bags and cameras , since the apes would try to steal them . At first nothing happened , then slowly , inexorably , there was a growing rumble , which turned into an immense amount of thrashing , as the various Wild Men swang through the trees , making their way to the station . From time to time we could hear " the long call , " a series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a bellow . " The first time I heard it , " Birute said , " I thought I was in the path of a drunken elephant . " It 's no wonder they 're near extinction ; you can hear orangs coming from miles away , the subway trains of Borneo . The behaviorists tried to lure Frances away from me , to no // avail ; we 'd found each other , and it was destiny . As the infant crawled across her shoulders , idly nursing , Frances used one hand to play with a burlap bag , and the other to keep a careful hold of my own , while her feet , which were just like two additional hands , peeled and sorted her cache of bananas . Up in the trees , there was a big wet smacking noise , the orang method of trying to scare off anything they considered a threat . It was as scary as watching a baby trying to make its first kiss , but we stepped back to let this wild female feel comfortable enough to descend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many bananas as she could carry and stole off into the brush . There was a giant crash ; leaves cracked and branches snapped behind us , and all the feeding orangs took off into the trees . The camp workers suddenly grabbed everyone 's arms , and pulled us to the sidelines to make way for an astonishing beast , about 250 pounds , ambling slowly , majestically , over to the platform . While the others had been frantic , nervous as alleycats , this one , a giant , calmly inspected various items of fruit , found one that appeared acceptable , and quietly began to eat , looking here and there , standing on his two hind legs between a pair of trees and posing in splendor , his carmine erectile hairs making him look even bigger than he already was . Baltsai was the Big Kahuna , the Wild Man ruler of this particular Borneo domain , and boy did he know it , with a demeanor far more regal and commanding than any mere human could ever hope to have . After making sure that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homage , Baltsai calmly ate his fill , watching us watch him , us with admiration , him with imperial disdain . Finished with lunch , he finally lurched off , most likely to climb his favorite nesting tree and take a snooze. // Quietly Rabid I thought I could use a little snooze myself , and so went back to the boat . The jungle was unbearably hot , and being out on the shaded river cooled the air a bit . I got my lunch ( water buffalo in pepper sauce ; peanuts and sticky rice cooked in banana leaf ; clove biscuit ) and sat on the deck facing the pier , where another creature had found a shady place to eat his own meal . Kosasi was around 175 pounds , and the second largest male orang there after Baltsai . He 'd gotten a bar of soap , and was sitting on the pilings under the pier , lathering up his arm and licking the froth . His mouth , dripping with foam , made him look quietly rabid . I assumed he 'd stolen it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bars of soap to the endangered species . So caught up in his lather that he ignored me completely , Kosasi and I both went on eating , and when I finished , I laid back and started drowsing in that jungle heat , feeling the rock of the boat , and listening to a gibbon 's plaintive hoot . I opened my eyes ; Kosasi was still completely ignoring me , busily lathering up and licking . . . but he 'd come closer . I paid no mind , closed my eyes again , rested quietly , but awoke with a start to a sudden thwack ! on the deck . I looked up to see Kosasi standing directly in front of me , mere inches away . He gave me a look of do n't even think of trying anything , and strode forcefully into the cabin . There was a scream and the crashing of dishes as the poor , terrified boat boy lost his lunch . Kosasi reappeared , clutching the ship 's garbage bag . He gave me another " do n't try anything " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forest . As he ran away with his treasure , he looked back every so often to make sure no one was taking up the chase , his eyes having an unbelievably humanlike appearance of guilt , like a naughty child . // I was stunned , not from fear , but from the very deepest sense of awe . Never before in all my travels had I felt so removed from civilization , so far , far away from our society and our culture , alive and well in another world altogether . It was a world where humans and apes lived side by side , as much neighbors as anyone in the American suburbs ; a world where none of the animals seemed really fearful of people ; where everywhere you looked , there was an explosion of life . I 'd entered into a kind of Eden , and I was thrilled to imagine that I 'd finally reached the end of the line , the other side of the planet , the ultimate escape from our common , ordinary , humdrum day-to-day life . As events would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cannibals to Dance " The landscape had a gaunt expression , but I could not deny that it had readable features and that I existed in it . This was a discovery ? the look of it . I thought : Nowhere is a place . " - PAUL THEROUX The Two-Faced Eden You 'd think from looking at a map of Indonesia that get-ting from Borneo to Bali would be a snap , since they 're right next to each other , but it turns out that no one in their right mind travels from Borneo to Bali ( except me ) , and the tran-sit turned out to be an endless stream of planes and cars and boats , of spending hours waiting idly for the next vehicle , all accompanied by disturbing meals . Merpati , the local airline , serves lots of things that are wrapped up inside of something else and , like that Java tamale , I could never tell if you were supposed to eat the wrapper or not . Waiting for a boat , a young boy came over and handed me a box @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a dish that combined a rice or couscous-type grain with a pork- or chickenlike meat , but it // was n't rice , couscous , pork or chicken , and I could never find out what , exactly , it was . So I ate it . I finally arrived in Bali and unpacked to find that some-one , somewhere , had gone through my luggage . They 'd ripped the coiled and ready-to-strike cobra I 'd gotten in Java out of its padded bag , and had just left it loose in my main duffel . Now it was crushed , its sawdust stuffing scattered through everything . After spending hours cleaning up this mess ( and grieving over my beautiful , destroyed serpent ) , I then realized my camera battery casing was broken , and had to spend hours fixing it with eyeglass-repair screwdrivers . It was one of those " Why me , Lord ? " days , valuable time wasted to take care of idiotic trouble , and I flipped on the TV for company . On CNN , there was a special about an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scandinavian who looked like she just stepped out of an es-pecially angst-ridden Ingmar Bergman epic . There I was , on the other side of the world , watching a TV special on Lin-nea , the Amazon doctor I 'd met in the middle of nowhere . A tiny spot in the middle of the Java Sea , the island of Bali turned out to be exactly as physically gorgeous and as filled with magic as all our paradise island dreams . In fact , if my sole travel criteria were gasping beauty , dizzying peaks of culture and luxurious wallows of comfort , this would be my number one spot in all the world . Driving around , I soon re-alized that no Travel &; Leisure photo spread could ever re-motely capture its breathtaking views of piercing-green rice paddies , lush as any golf course , terracing down the moun-tainsides , irrigated by centuries-old systems of gurgling pools and cascading streams . Town after town went by , each with its own fields of rice , peanut , onion and cabbage , each with its own enclave of majestically feminine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and demons , sprouting thatch crowns and ceremonial silk urn- // brellas ( Bali has more temples than houses ) . Everywhere are the most beautiful people in the world , the Balinese , so handsome and so lithe they seem descended from silk and orchids . I watched all these extraordinary men and women , most wearing nothing but a sheet , while a temperate breeze lapped against my skin , and felt completely bovine and in- adequate . In the shadow of Bali 's sacred volcano , " The Belly Button of the World , " I watched a dozen women in lurid silk batiks arrive on motor scooters while balancing , on their heads , three-foot-high pyramids of green apples , black plums , white eggs , pink cookies and woven green palm fronds , topped with arching batons of fat yellow flowers . They did n't spill a drop . Behind us rose the black-thatch roofs and see-through struts of the mother temple , whose shape in- spires many to believe it was once the locus of a volcano cult . The entryway was festooned in topaz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with twenty-foot-high carmine , saffron and bleach-tinted banners , while all the temple 's idols ( grinning gods and tongue-shooting spirits carved from soft volcanic stone ) were dressed up in skirts and turbans . To one side , a gamelan orchestra hammered out its water melodies for three hours , with not one musician using sheet music , since they 'd already memorized every note by heart . In front of them raged a centuries-old reli- gious battle , the fight of the Barong ( a magical clown-lion played by two men , just like in vaudeville ) against Rangda , Lord of Chaos , the widow-witch queen of evil spirits who wears a necklace made from human intestines . The Barong 's triumph assured , 150 men appeared to chant themselves into a trance , screaming " Chaka Chaka Chaka Chaka ! " while converging on a white-faced monkey god . Come to Bali , and you are guaranteed to see all this , and to believe it one of the most beautiful spots on the face of // the earth . You 're also guaranteed to see that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with drunken and obnoxious German and Australian college kids , pounding through Kuta beach like an MTV . Spring Break ! horror , careening through quiet , pleasant hill towns on rented motor bikes that they immediately plow into banana trees . Just like in the Hindu neighborhoods of Java , the Balinese leave offerings of plaited palm leaves , fruit and flowers at the site of accidents to placate the evil spirits drawn by the spill of blood , and their drunk-and-driving tourists have turned these offerings into a big business . I saw them everywhere on the sides of the roads , like colorful , delicate headstones . I was solo , and I had spent weeks not seeing another English-speaking Anglo , and it was heaven , yet it also made me feel really lonely . Bali was popping with Huns and Ozzies , so I tried being sociable , asking them about Western news and travel tips . But it turned out that Bali does n't attract the normal kind of travelers you meet overseas ; instead , it 's the preferred spot for trailer park lowlifes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible , similar to what happens when a kind , decent Sikh moves to New York City , becomes a taxi driver , and turns into a homicidal maniac . I was consistently snubbed , rebuffed or ignored by these obnoxious descendants of British axe-murderers and Nazi oven-builders , the kind of tourists who inspire the Balinese to carve and paint thousands of identical wooden dancing frogs , to open shops offering Antiques Made to Order , and to come up and tap you on the elbows to ask , " Massage ? Where you from ? You like painting ? You have wife ? You wife like sculpture ? You want taxi ? Clean your nails ? Braid your hair ? Look my store for free ! " I drove around , amazed by all the beauty , but I also could n't help but wonder : Where did all these damn carvings come from ? Originally , the Balinese had nothing to sell ; no // timber , no oil , no gemstones , no jute , no spices . It only had a local Gauguin ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ island on the Anglo vacation circuit and taught the locals to paint and carve things that chain-smoking Sydney couch potatoes and alcoholic Frankfurtan hausfraus might buy , engineering an elaborate new bric-a-brac industry that flooded the island with dancing frogs , banjo-playing fish , praying hands and thrice-life-sized tabby cats , all carved from real , genuine monkeypod. / At a midnight legong dance performance , where divine nymphs ( all preteen ) take the movements of daily life and translate them into ritual beauty for the pleasures of the gods , one Antipodean decided that the delicate lighting was n't good enough for her camcorder , and so turned on a floodlamp , the kind the FBI uses when they hunt mass murderers in the woods . This pretty much ruined the show for everyone else , but her fellow Krauts and Kiwis seemed to think she was perfectly justified , while the Balinese performers kept singing and dancing and playing their gamelans , even though they must 've been rendered stone-cold blind . The more I saw of Bali , the more I realized that to them , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought as any whining mosquito . Look closely enough and you 'll see that , no matter how many hordes descend on this minuscule island , the Balinese , at all odds , maintain their culture , ignoring whatever horrors the foreigners can dish out . They are , after all , Hindu , and just like in India , Bali 's spiritual mother , the culture here takes in foreign invaders , absorbs what it likes , and ignores the rest . Tim Ruth , in Dreaming of Bali , rhetorically asked the question : What if some Balinese tourists came to the United States ? What if they go out to Nebraska and pay a guide // thirty dollars apiece to lead them into the cornfields so they could take pictures of a farmer stooping over in the sun ? What if busloads of noisy Indonesians kept coming into our neighborhoods and asking , " Do you know where we can find a good Methodist burial ? " .. . Would n't that change who we were , and how we saw ourselves ? This is a compelling idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World countries desperate for tourist business , but it does n't seem at all apt here . One man , for instance , said , " My son already knows Lego , but he does n't make helicopters or cars . He makes temple gates and funeral towers . " There may be lines of tourists mobbing up the flying-fox temple ( a cloth-dressed shrine built inside a cave of thousands of squirming , squeaking bats , and covered with their droppings ) , or at the water temple ( a magnificent series of pools and fountains , of towering cascades and brightly painted animals gushing water from their mouths ) , but regardless of how many Instamatics and Handycams take in those views , the Balinese still worship at them all , and can do so happily while packs of fat Rhinelanders screech in the background . Perhaps the crucial issue that Mr. Ruth forgot to take into account with his theory is that the Balinese think they are far better than us , and of course they 're absolutely right . A translation at the mother temple told me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world had been born and everything was ready for the arrival of human beings , Brahma and Batara Guru ( who were one and the same person ) decided to have a contest . They made figures out of clay , and baked them in an oven , to create humans . The first batch was underdone , and came out a pasty , unhealthy // white . The second batch was burnt , coming out black and fried . But the third batch was just right , a beautiful golden brown ? the Balinese . In Bali , we visitors are nothing more than background noise . The key tourist spots of Sanur , Kuta and Nusa Dua are , after all , strung along the island 's southern tip , which to the Balinese is the most tainted , spiritually impure location of them all . In the hill town of Ubud , I 'd look out my huge , brick , two-story marble-paved bungalow at dawn , to find my picturesque view of a burbling stream filled with stark-naked locals taking a bath . Like every other Balinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me . With tourist money , Bali can afford to have bigger gamelans , better dancing costumes , and performers making a living . How much of their culture could be maintained if the only ones paying for it were the Balinese themselves ? One primary example ( if you 're lucky enough to see it ) is the island 's all-time biggest celebration . Like the Hindu of Veranasi , Balinese believe that the dead automatically go to heaven , so even though the survivors will miss you , your funeral is a fete of great celebration , a party to end all parties . When you die , your surviving spouse will bury you , and then spend six to twelve months saving up enough money to give you a proper adios , which in Bali means a Brobdingnagian feast for the entire village . At that time , you 're dug up , wrapped in white silk , and put into a coffin , which becomes the centerpiece of a parade of yellow-fringed umbrellas , woven frond sculptures , a portable gamelan orchestra , and enough food to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alcoholics . In the parade , your eldest son rides your coffin like a bucking bronco all the way from your home to the cremation site . While your corpse goes up in flames , the family appears , // all dressed in black silk lace , with pyramids of fruit and rice and roast chickens and duckling and pigs and turtles spread out for display ( just as the ancient Egyptians hated the desert that surrounded them , so the Balinese sincerely think the ocean is Hades , and much of their religious symbolism , like those pyramids , refers back to their mountain volcanoes , the home of the gods ) . Your best male friends then arrive with elaborately woven , bell-shaped baskets carrying big , aggressive roosters with steel blades sewn onto their feet , ready for a cockfight . . . which is over in seconds . One winner explained : " If good karma , they win . If bad karma , chicken curry . " When I saw this entire ceremony in the flesh ? the gameIan orchestra , the elaborate hand-dancing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weavings of palm frond , the priests offering tea kettles of sacred water , the eldest son riding that parade coffin ... all the guidebook explanations fall by the wayside and I was left with one question : " What the hell is going on here , where did it come from , and what does it mean ? " Like the Tibetans did with Tantric Buddhism , the Balinese have taken Hinduism and made it completely their own , but there are huge gaps in our knowledge of their culture . Much of this is because archaeology is a science of stones and bones , but the ancient island cultures wrote their stories on wood , palm leaf and bark paper , all long since vanished . The Balinese themselves claim not to remember the source of most of their rituals . . . or perhaps this is where they draw the line as far as foreigners are concerned . Today , a cremation is such a big deal that it is always accompanied by hordes of tourists filming every move . . . while the Balinese ignore them all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyone has to go there , however , Bali is insanely gorgeous , and once I learned how to escape the madding crowd , I found paradise in every // inch . In the mornings , I 'd watch farmer boys leading troops of brown ducks out to the rice paddies , since after flooding , the fields are alive with insects , and the Balinese use this opportunity to fatten up their flocks . I 'd thumb through ancient books made from palm leaves , with ink drawings of monsters who live at the bottom of the seas , and a fantastical script as elegant as the people themselves . I 'd find incredible artists still creating fantastic , original work , and shopped so much that , for the first time , U.S. customs made me unpack the box I was bringing home , since it was big enough to carry your grandmother . I 'd find a performance far from the oafs and wonder at the music , since metallophones , the centerpiece of the gamelan orchestra , were discovered in prehistoric sites , their bronze bars and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday . There , in a temple entryway bordered with lotus ponds and sacred groves of nutmeg trees , I 'd listen to melodies that seemed to leisurely go nowhere , but when I gave the notes my complete attention , they took me straight into a trance . It was music to dream by ; the perfect accompaniment to this Valhalla . Where Bali takes serious revenge on their obstreperous tourists is just outside the hill town of Ubud , in a spot called the Sacred Monkey Forest . You enter by walking past any number of signs in many languages saying , Do n't Feed the Monkeys ! and Feeding the Monkeys Is Dangerous ! until you get inside the forest itself , where just as many homemade stands are selling plasticene bags of groundnuts . At the center , there is an open concrete square filled with sober college kids who 've had enough of the beach , and who are trying to fairly divvy out their snacks . . . but who instead find themselves set upon by hordes of big , ravenous , crab-eating macaques , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stingy German girls scream in fear as the bigger males jump on their arms // and shoulders , trying to make off with bags of food . Australian boys try feeding the babies , only to have their hands clawed by greedy mothers . The macaques try to steal anything that grabs their fancy , from nuts to purses to cameras , and most of the tourists spend their time in the Sacred Monkey Forest defending themselves against an onslaught of marauding simian thieves . Off in the corners , this time , the Balinese are watching . the Ends of the Known World On the other side of Indonesia from Sumatra , Java and Bali is another tribe of people that also ignores its tourists . . . as well as everyone else from the twentieth century . These are the Dani , a neolithic bunch who live in the isolated Grand Baliem Valley , completely sheltered from the rest of the known world by the towering Snow Mountains of central New Guinea . The Dani never saw another human being but each other for nine thousand years , until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the pilot excitedly radioed back that he 'd discovered a new " primitive " people . . . who happened to know all about crop rotation and terraced farming and erosion control . The Dani never used metal until steel was brought there in 1959 , and even today they still do n't seem to think it 's such a great advance over a good stone adz . In fact , the more time you spend with them , the more you realize they do n't seem to think much about the rest of the world at all . Indonesia is split in two ? between Java , Bali and Borneo on the one side , and Sulawesi and New Guinea on the other ? by what discoverer Al Wallace called a biogeographic // line , perhaps the strongest boundary on the planet . These lines separate all of life into obvious and distinct spheres of evolution , dividing North America from South , Equatorial Africa from the Sahara , and Europe from India . On one side of Indonesia 's line there are slight , thin-haired Asiatic Malays and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fuzzyhaired Austronesians and marsupial tree kangaroos . If traveling through the Indonesian archipelago means a completely different nature and culture with every island hop , the jumbo split happens the minute you jump over the line to the western half of New Guinea that Indonesia owns , called Irian Jaya ( which means " victorious hot land , " and is it ever ) . I arrived at Irian 's capital city of Jayapura at dusk , and drove the long road from the airport to town . On the right was beautiful Lake Sentani , with its velvet lumps of islands and fishing villages built on stilts , while on the left were the pens and troughs of the local ranching industry , which specializes in the skin ( for shoes , bags and belts ) and the meat ( for curing Chinese asthma ) of crocodiles . New Guinea is so exactly on the other side of the world from my home that they share time . I 'd look at a watch , switch the A.M. and the PM. , and know exactly the hour back in Manhattan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It turned out that Jayapura 's best hotel , the Matoa , was sold out , so my reservation was ignored , and I was shuffled off to the second best , a hellhole so egregious I 've completely forgotten its name . The shower in my room was a bucket of icy , fetid water , the street noise from the room 's windows was deafening , there was so much light coming through the flimsy curtain I might as well have turned on the overhead , and the lumpy , misshapen bed had bugs I 'd never seen before crawling all over it . The plane to get from coastal , swampy Jayapura ( where I was ) to the lush , montane Baliem Valley ( where I wanted to // be ) sells tickets , but actually getting on the plane itself is a first-come , first-served operation , and they are notorious overbookers . The strategy is to get there when the airport first opens at five to be in the front of the line for the plane , and then wait four hours for takeoff . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Jayapura , I was too much of a wimp to be able to sleep thinking about those bugs , so I wandered outside the hotel to see what 's what . The neighborhood turned out to be a strip mall of derelict , patchedover concrete , with a shop selling stuffed bullfrogs playing miniature ukuleles . That teeming street noise was coming from a cloud of aggressive whores and their idle , drunk , taxidriving boyfriend-pimps , all of whom immediately sized me up for a mark . At that time of night , there was nothing else to do and nowhere else to go , so I decided to hang with these Malay skanks . After politely explaining that I was too tired for a boisterous round of New Guinea sexcapades ( and was n't interested in experiencing the joys of tertiary syphilis ) , I introduced them to a fine American singalong . They were obnoxious and I was pissed off , so I taught them how to sing , in English , the quaint lyrics to that Rolling Stones classic , " Bitch . " They taught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a fine old time drinking and carrying on in that sweltering , turbid Hades . It was now four A.M. , and time to get packed and ready to drive back to the airport , so I went to the hotel 's " restaurant , " where a waiter brought me " breakfast , " which turned out to be some kind of meat soaking in some kind of grease with a roll so hard you could n't bite it , served with " coffee " unlike anything I 've ever put in my mouth before or since . I was the only person in the place ( no surprise ) , had n't slept all night , and felt like hell . The waiter was lonely , so he came over to sit at my table . // Like everyone else in Indonesia , he wanted to know where else I 'd been in his country , so I told him all about Borneo . He also wanted me to explain in detail why Jayapura was the best place of them all , but this was a riddle I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up and he asked , " Do you love Jesus very , very much ? " New Guinea has been overrun with crazed missionaries since the 1950s , busily converting as many heathens as they could get their hands on . I knew what I was supposed to say , but just could n't do it . Instead , I muttered , " I like him okay . " " Oh ! Too bad , " the reactionary fundamentalist coffee shop waiter admonished . " You wo n't go to the Happy Place when Everything ends . " " No ... I 'll be left behind with the Buddhists , the Muslims , the Jews and the orangutans , " I said , as though we 'd be having all the fun . " Oh ... yes , " he replied , overcome with regret . " The poor orangutans . " The Seed of Singing I drove back past the lake and croc ranches , still in darkness , and arrived to be fourth in line for the plane . The airport floor was more comfortable than the hotel had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I kept drifting in and out of consciousness , as the waiting room mobbed up with eager travelers . Finally , as a storm grew over the Snow Mountains , a mere dozen of us were let on a tiny plane , and we took off through black clouds . The view was obscured , but every so often there 'd be a // break , and I could look down to see that the coastal swamps had given way to ragged mountains , and here and there , a tiny , meandering valley with a river and a few huts in it . We broke through in landing to approach a wide , shining-green bowl . . . the Baliem Valley . I was met at the Wamena town airport by my translator , Yos , a short , stocky and remarkably dour man who was baptized Missouri Synod Lutheran , a peculiar sect spiritually aligned with Jerry Falwell . You meet a lot of strange people on trips like these , but I was still surprised that a tour guide would be so publicly and relentlessly depressed . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up a little , but he refused to see the humor in anything . When on the trail to town , we had to cross over a handmade suspension ( and suspense-filled ) bridge of twine . I said that this was designed for thin Dani and not fat Americans , and surely I would destroy it with my massive girth . Yos merely said , " No ! It is plenty strong ! " and sternly watched me cross . He calmed down a little hit when we got to the Pasan Nyak open-air market , where bare-breasted Dani women , in thatch-cord skirts that hung at their hips , were selling orange ginger root , red chili peppers and yellow tomatoes . Every woman 's back was draped in a series of net bags dyed in purple and green stripes ? nokens ? made from bark-fiber string , and tied to their foreheads . The women always wear a few at a time , whether empty or filled with yams , infants and pigs . One woman sat with a pig sleeping in her lap , like a kitten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying baby pigs on their shoulders , and Yos explained in grave detail how the tree kangaroo pelts for sale ( looking like gray , weasely minks ) could be made into stylish hats . He got a nice chuckle at what a fool I was passing on the remarkable opportunity to get a magnificent necklace of cockatoo claws , but erupted again when we saw two naked men , wearing // giant penis-gourds , walking hand in hand , and I mentioned how this was not something commonly seen in the U.S. " Every tourist who comes here thinks this means a very bad thing , " he muttered . " Our people are so pure ! We do not practice homosexuality ! " I checked into the Baliem Palace Hotel , Wamena 's finest , and reminiscent of a Motel 6 that 's lost its license . Everyone you meet in the Baliem first asks where you 're staying , and when you mutter , " Baliem Palace , " they ooh and ahh like it 's the Ritz . The room came with detailed instructions on how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bird chattering away in Bahasa . After unpacking , I went to the hotel 's restaurant for lunch , only to meet Hubon , the waiter/maitre d ' , a man with the personality of Carmen Miranda on speed . I 'd have to make sure to keep him and Yos separate , or who knows what might happen ? " You are a new one with us ! Welcome Welcome Welcome ! " he shrieked from across the room . " Now , what can I get for you on this your first day and a beautiful one it is in our Baliem Valley ? " He danced around the table while tapping out a rhythm on his order pad with a pencil . There was no menu . I asked Hubon what he 'd suggest , which brought him to an even higher state of rapture : " Oh Oh Oh ! For you , I will arrange for something very very special . Wait ! . . . I am thinking . . . do you . . . do you like .. . PRAWNS ? " Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I admitted that I did like prawns , and within minutes Hubon appeared with a platter of giant Baliem River crayfish , cooked in butter and garlic , and incredibly delicious . Now it was my turn to ooh and ahh , and from then on at every meal , even breakfast , Hubon would bring over some form of crayfish . I was off in the middle of nowhere , and here , in the restaurant of a ratty hotel , there was food as good as any you // could ever hope to have , food so good that , in such a place , it shocks you right out of your shoes . The restaurant was always mobbed with diners ( no surprise ) , but it never ceased to amaze me that no one seemed to notice it was run by a man in makeup and cha-cha heels . Besides dour guide Yos 's dark pronouncements , everywhere we went in the town of Wamena were signs of the four hundred missionaries running through the valley . Men went by in skintight jeans and big necklaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giant , eight-foot-high poster of the blond-haired , blue-eyed Jesus . At first , the missionaries here were successful beyond their wildest dreams , especially since they were armed with penicillin to cure a childhood epidemic of yaws , also known as frambesia , a bacterial skin infection that appears as raspberryshaped bumps . The early converts were so taken with the holy men and their penicillin that they believed if you did n't close your eyes when praying , God would strike you blind , and that going to church on Sundays would make you immune to all diseases . After an initial rush of success , however , the armies of God suffered defeat after defeat , which is just as visible the minute you leave Wamena town and hit the country road . Out there , the Dani are n't wearing crucifixes ; in fact , they are n't wearing pants . The men , who look something like Australian Aborigines , with lean , muscular bodies and faces aged beyond their years , are completely naked , except for a feather in their hair , and perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear in public without : their penis sheaths , yellow vegetable horns called horim . The men grow a small gourd and , while it develops , they train it to curl and circle with a system of string and stones ; the finished product is then tied around the testicles and the waist , with the penis tucked inside . Some horims are curved , some are // corkscrewed , some are topped with feathers or fur , while most stick straight up into the air , the tops striking somewhere between the navel and the nipples . When a group of Dani get nervous or excited , they subconsciously tap their fingernails against these horims , which , in a group , click like maracas . When they come to town , they carry their money in extra-wide penis-gourds , which makes you think twice about asking for change . The Dani were n't impressed with the missionaries ' penicillin , and they were n't impressed with Jesus , and they were n't impressed with cars or clothes or anything else that arrived from the twentieth century . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always revolved around yams , women and pigs , the pigs being to them like jewelry , a measure of a man 's wealth and achievement ; today , a full-grown , healthy Dani pig costs $350 . The yams originally came from the Americas ( and how they got to this middle of nowhere is anyone 's guess ) , while the pigs are so prized that the Dani believe the etai-eken ? the seed of singing , the soul , found just below the rib cage ? exists only in humans and swine . Herds of pigs are running around everywhere in the Baliem , and after a good rain ( which occurs daily and nightly ) , their distinctive porcine odor hits you like a sack of skunks . Even so , the Dani think white people stink , and when the missionaries would show up , they were forced to stand apart , and downwind . These people live with epidemics of respiratory infections , but they believe it 's unmanly and unsanitary to blow your nose , cough or spit . They 'd rather just drip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piece of cotton and then keeping it , like a treasure , they thought this was completely disgusting . The Jakarta federal government is very interested in having the Dani become members in good standing of their modern nation , but the Dani are very uninterested in this . // At first , Jakarta thought it was time for the Dani to wear milky-brown Baliem River , filled to bursting with those delipants , so they airdropped clothes into the Baliem villages , cious crayfish. and the Dani sold it all back to the Java immigrants . Then Yos and I walked to the village of Akima in order to meet the government decided that it was time for the Dani to Kain ( great war king ) Werapak Elosarek . The smell of fire , stop living in grass huts , so they built them villages made out pig and tobacco struck the minute we entered the sili , a of concrete . The Dani tried living in the concrete cottages fenced-in compound of round grass huts built from oak and for a few days , but they found their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second-story sleeping loft and a roof fortable . Their pigs , however , loved the concrete cottages , so of saplings tied over in heavy thatch . For a crisp , perfect one the Dani turned them all into sties . Finally , the government hundred rupiah bill ( about one cent , but it has to be a crisp , thought their diet of yams , berries , grubs , bee larvae , cater- perfect bill or the Dani will refuse it ) , the Akimans brought pillars , bats , mice and tiny bits of pork was unhealthy , so out Kain Elosarek , who was a smoked black mummy , his they taught them to grow rice , taro , corn , cabbage , spinach mouth opened in a scream , and his body seated , which is and dredge fish farms . The Dani are terrific farmers , and how all funerals are performed ; the corpse is tied to a chair they now raise all these things , but they wo n't eat any of it . and cremated . We visited with the men in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they sell it all to the immigrants . everything is burnished red from the smoke except for the The Baliem tribal people may not live well ? many die in fresh , purple yams . Any number of fetish objects , especially their mid-fifties ? but there are 250,000 of them , and they pig jaws , boar ribs , black magic stones and big fish ( imported like things just the way they are . from the coast ) hung in the rear of the hut , and everyone The first European to write extensively about this valley chain-smoked cigarettes . was Robert Mitton , who fell in love : " Baliem is as close to We then went to visit with the women in their long paradise as one can get , the only place in the world where thatched shed used for cooking and as a home for the black , man has improved on nature . " He was n't being lyrical ; it is insouciant pigs . There 'd recently been a death in the village , knock-you-out beautiful here . The land is so verdant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their bodies resces green ; the mountains are topped with a permanent in yellow mud as a sign of mourning . Dani do not live to be ring of cloud forest ; and the basin is dotted with oak-brown very old , and the tribes are in constant warfare over various thatch huts , the rising plumes of home fires , and purple- small-town dramas involving pigs and women , so lurking green fields of yam . Off in the corners are forests of au- constantly in the Baliem are these spectral mud people . Beracaria , casuarina , oak and chestnut , home to the ostrichlike sides the yellow clay , it used to be a common practice to cut cassowary bird ; red-necked , blue-faced and notoriously off a few of a young girl 's fingers when someone died moody . At the bottoms of the trees grow pitcher plants , young meaning around the age of three . The finger was first which are fertilized by insects they 've ensnared , drowned tied up to stop the blood 's flow , the arm would be hit , hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tightly to the to numb the hand , and the finger would be chopped off with bark , are plenty of New Guinea 's three thousand different a stone blade . The removed fingers were then dried in species of orchids . Through it all rushes the turbulent , smoke and buried in a holy place , while the hands were ban146 CRAIG NELSON daged in grass and leaves and the little girl would show it to everyone , a mark of honor . Though this practice has stopped , there are still plenty of middle-aged Dani women today with an entire hand of missing fingers . Dani life is harsh , and these women are as tough as a good stone adze . The only tool they use in the yam fields is a smoked and sharpened pig thigh , and if necessary it can become a lethal weapon . If a woman is unhappy with her husband , she will dress up every day and work in the fields closest to an enemy tribe , showing herself off and hoping to get stolen . If a man calls for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they 'll beat him up . It 's a custom not to have sex from the first signs of pregnancy until the child reaches four , but most wives do n't think much of this idea . While the men think it 's okay for unmarried girls to have abortions ( an unmarried girl usually being under the age of twelve ) , they think it 's bad for their wives to do it . The wives , however , do n't care to be sexually deprived for years , and so feel free to get as many abortions as they want . As far as the men are concerned , the women think , what do they know ? Long Pi All of New Guinea was once a hotbed of cannibalism , and though the government claims that this practice has been stopped , I do n't believe it for a second . Just a few years ago , the coastal Yali ate two missionaries , wrapped up their heads in fig leaves and rolled them through the fields for target practice . The Asmat , living in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ward off the evil schemes of malevolent ghosts , and that if you kill an enemy , eat his // brains , and wear his jawbone as a necklace while carrying a dagger made from a crocodile 's jaw , other people wo n't bother you so much . Who could argue ? Though no one really knows the fate of primitive art collector Michael Rockefeller , it 's thought he was eaten by the Asmat while on a sculpture-finding expedition . The story goes that two Dutchmen , searching the wilds of New Guinea for oil deposits , got into a dispute with the locals and killed two of them before running off . The Asmat believe that justice is done when you perform an eye-for-an-eye on anyone from the tribe what did you wrong , and they believe that all white people come from the same tribe . The next white person to enter their territory was Michael Rockefeller . Now I do n't know about you , but I 'm fascinated by cannibals , because they 've got a thought process I just ca n't assimilate . Think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( or whatever ) immediately reacts : What a beauty . Would your next thought be : Sauce bearnaise ? These are two ideas I just ca n't put one after the other , but every peopleeater can , and does . Each human-meat-eating nation comes up with its own peculiar form of etiquette ; Paraguayan cannibals , for example , are n't allowed to eat their immediate family ( which would be something like incest ) , are n't allowed to eat brains unless they 're an old man , are n't allowed to eat penises unless they 're a pregnant woman , and they are n't allowed to eat any vaginas , ever , no matter what . As I wandered around the Dani villages , I could n't help but annotate that Barbra Streisand classic : People People who eat people Are the luckiest people in the world ! // All this time , dour guide Yos was being a damn sourpuss , so I decided what the hell ? I made him ask all the Dani ( even though I knew he would n't like it ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Long pig " is what they call human meat , and practically every Dani replied in exactly the same , evasive way : " Oh , ah . . . ah . . . a really , really , long time ago . " The way they said this , though , made you think that by " long time " they meant " last week . " Though there were n't any human skulls lying around , the more time I spent with the Dani and saw that , except for candy , cigarettes and those one hundred rupiah notes , they were n't remotely interested in anything about twentieth-century culture , the more I was convinced that they 'd stuck with their entire traditional way of life , even if some of it now had to be done in secret . After all , they were an unbelievably proud people , so much so that the formal version of their hello is the outrageous boast , Narak-a-la-ok ? " I eat your feces ! " It was time to check out of the Baliem Palace and get to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had my last lunch there , Hubon , seeing my luggage , asked in his most perfect Diana Ross diva voice , " Will you remember me .. . here ? " and then giggled in hysterics . Yos and I piled our stuff into a jeep and took off down the highway , which turned out to be a placed line of boulders that kept us from sinking into the mud . We bounced around for two hours , finally reaching the far corner of Dani territory , and checked into the worst hotel I 've ever seen in my entire life . The Losmen La'uk ( Motel Hello Woman ) is run by a nasty Javanese-Chinese man named Toukimen . If you have to stay in this territory you have to stay at Motel Hello Woman , and his monopoly made Toukimen about as gracious and hospitable as the Microsoft Corporation . A German tour group of four was also staying here , and when we arrived , Toukimen was shouting at them about something . He // turned to us and announced that our prepaid voucher did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , so dour guide Yos had to dig up the paperwork and call back to the agency in Wamena ( which I had to pay for ) to prove we would indeed get food . Toukimen then had us seated in the alley instead of the dining room with the Germans , so he could cover up that he was feeding them better . While I took video of the toilets and the cook and the wife cleaning the vegetables , I had Yos explain to the innkeeper that I was here to make an American television special , and so would be interviewing everyone who worked at Motel Hello Woman . This got us back into the dining room and the better food . After lunch , I went for a walk in the cloud forest , which , just like its name , was moist and damp and filled with mosses and ferns . As a Dani family approached , a tiny snake crossed the path , and when the family saw it , they halted dead still and began screaming in terror . Snakes are extremely rare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viciously poisonous and terrible omens of bad luck . I tamped my foot , the little reptile sidled off into the grass , and the family , obviously grateful , kept walking . When I reached the path to the holy Waga Waga caves , it started to pour , and the path 's boulders turned wet and slippery . I was pathetically making my way downhill and slipping and sliding around when , out of nowhere , before I even realized what was happening , two big Dani men appeared and picked me up under each arm and carried me really fast down the hill and into the caves . At first I thought I was being dragged off for some nefarious purpose , but then I realized this was their moonlighting business , and it was a great ride . They showed me the sacred rocks while , overhead , flying foxes squeaked and rustled their five-foot leathery wings . I passed out smokes , and then they lugged me back into the forest . In a way , they made me feel honored // and well taken care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel like luggage . That night , I got to find out just what a pit Motel Hello Woman really was . The communal toilet turned out to be a brick tub of river water , black with silt , and a filthy towel lying on the floor . There was no soap and no toilet paper , and it smelled just like a morgue . My room had paper-thin walls and a bed of plywood covered by a thin piece of foam , one sheet , and an itchy blanket . At nine o'clock sharp , Toukimen turned off his generator and we were thrown into primal darkness ; I did n't know this was coming , and so had to crawl around on the floor looking for my flashlight . An unholy ruckus ( which would last the entire night ) started up outside : Dogs howled piteously , there was a ratcheting whistle from the cicadas , and the nightjars called out in their low tock . . . tock . . . tock . Every time I moved a muscle in bed , the plywood would creak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I realized the roof was made of tin , since the raindrops sounded like a marching band of snare drums . The minute the rain stopped , the dogs , cicadas , nightjars and whatever the hell else was out there started up again , including a dozen boisterous roosters , and I too was now ready to ooh and aah over the Baliem Palace . At breakfast , Yos and the German guide told us we had some options to consider . Both our agendas today included a two-hour hike up the slippery mountains to a brine pool , where women stick banana fronds into the water , get the fibers completely soaked , and go back to their villages and burn the plants on a rock . The gray ash result is used as salt and stored in leaf jars . Or instead , we could go see the village of Jiwika put on a battle , a festival and a pig roast , but this would cost an extra twenty bucks each . I 'd already had my slippery hike the day before ( and today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and so immediately voted for the // battle/festival/roast , but one of the Germans , a doctor , was convinced we were being taken to the cleaners , that this was a guide scheme . " Why does it cost so much ? " he whined . Yos simply answered , " You have to pay for the pig . " The Management of Ghosts Finally everyone agreed to this supplement , and we were all led to an open field , but there was nobody there . We waited , and waited . . . and suddenly there was a scream of " Whoop Whoop Whoop Whoop ! " that came from the horizon , and we looked up to see Kain Yali Mabel , the chief of Jiwika , standing about twenty feet up in a kaio , a lookout tower made from saplings bound together with vines , and pointing his loaded bow directly at us . Thirty warriors rushed onto the field , screaming the mournful call of the mountain pigeon ? " Who-week ! Who-week ! " ? and battling with spears , bows , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth like on a gridiron , offense , defense , countermoves and even a kind of instant replay . Before , every Dani we 'd seen had his penis-gourd , and her cord skirt , the men adding a feather or furred crown for the hair , and the women 's backs always draped with their stringnet bags . For this battle , however , the entire village of fifty people had dressed to the teeth . . . literally . The men 's pierced noses and ears held boar 's tusks and pig ribs , curved up or down like polished-white Fu Manchu mustaches . They 'd coated their faces and chests with pig grease mixed with ash to look as black and feral and gleaming as possible , and many had stuck broad , white ferns into their hair to stick out , like antennae , from the corners of their eyes . There // were headdresses of black , swooping bird of paradise tailfeathers and red ginger blooms ; armlets of braided ferns and dried pig testicles ; bibs and breastplates of cowrie , snail shells and stone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spears , the men thrusted and parried with white egret feather batons and black cassowary feather whisks to confuse and distract the enemy . They looked completely alien , completely primitive and completely fantastic . At the victory celebration hack in the village , we were greeted by Kain Yali with the traditional welcoming puffs of " Wah ! Wah ! Wah ! Wah ! " as now the entire tribe came out to chant , sing and dance . There were robin's-egg-blue legs and orange-ocher clay legs and ghostly white legs ; one boy had dotted his torso to look like a fawn , and an elder had so many bird of paradise feathers in his crown it looked like a fright wig . Every kind of penis-gourd you can imagine appeared , many with crowns of feathers or fur . Some of the men had a thin thread around their necks , fashioned from a spider 's web , which was guaranteed to keep malevolent ghosts from trying to choke you to death . The women had on their best skirts and bags , dyed in various patterns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were the ones , led by a crone , who sang a quiet , beautiful chant , shaking out a rhythm with the batons and whisks , a continuous background music during the rest of the ceremonies : Ah oh ay yah Sapay yo dago ay Sapay ya pano ay Ah oh ay yah Botay yo dago ay Botay ya pano ay Ah oh ay yah // Two of the men brought out a squealing piebald baby pig , carrying it by the haunches and the ears , and held it , stretched out , while Kain Yali shot an arrow into its lungs . The pig was then put down to run away from death , but he was caught , and he lay on his side , his legs still running frantically , until he died . One of the men then carefully removed his ears , tail and teeth , which would be smoke-dried and used in fetish objects to keep away evil ghosts , while the other singed off the animal 's hair over a flame . A great pit had been dug in the center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make steam . The men used long sticks as tongs to carry over white-hot rocks from the fire , and they layered this pit with yams , rocks , more green branches and finally , wrapped in leaves , the singed pig . The meal would be eaten by hand , served on banana fronds , cut by bamboo stalks sharpened into knives . This was of course all done for us tourists , but it also maintained a very serious part of Dani culture during a period when the authorities had banned tribal wars and , therefore , victory feasts . Though I 'm sure the wars are still going on secretly ( nine thousand years of tradition does n't end with a few Jakarta-exported cops ) , the Dani were obviously filled with pride at showing off to us . The proof of this attitude came when they brought out some items we could buy : bows and arrows , net bags , grass skirts , horims and digging sticks . Nowhere , however , were the magnificent headdresses and armbands and batons and whisks and the women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day watching . Some of the Germans tried bartering for the bibs off their chests and the bones out of their noses , but the Dani were n't interested in selling their real treasures . The spectacle was of course engrossing and magnificent . . . but I was unsatisfied . The Dani were the most alien aboriginal people I 'd ever met in my life . Their pigs stank , the // local hotel was a hellhole , their language was too difficult to pick up on a short stay , and they were the ultimate in distant stand-offishness when it came to outsiders . Except for cigarettes , candy and those one hundred rupiah notes , they wanted absolutely nothing to do with me , and I just could n't stand it . They 'd really knocked themselves out performing the war and the dancing , and were sweaty and tired and starting to wander off , when I came up with an idea . I 'd seen an awful lot of American Indian shows growing up in Texas , so I had Yos tell Kain Yali that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he like to see how they dance ? The chief allowed as to how he would very much like to see that , so I started a little chant , and a little hopping two-step , and suddenly the entire village converged around me , picking up the chant , clapping and whooping . I switched to another , and then another , and then another , and each time the tribe picked up the song as if they 'd known it all their lives . They spurred me on and would n't let me stop , making me dance in that torpid heat . The one-way exhibition had now become a two-way party . After a solid hour , I could n't do any more , and now I was the one who was sweaty and exhausted , but the Dani had never seen anything like this before ( no surprise ) , and they fell in love . Every single male in the village came over to trade chants and songs and steps with me , one after another after another . Soon enough , I too was covered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , wizened and on his last legs , kept looking at me , and laughing , and imitating some of my steps , and clapping with glee . This turned out to be Kain Yali 's father , who in his prime had sixty-five wives . When two of his sons were caught and killed in a raid , he tracked down the murderers and ate them . Kain Yali could n't contain himself ; he kept coming over to // me and softly chanting " wah wah wah wah wah , " and we walked around the village , our arms wrapped around each other , the Kain holding on so tightly I could barely move . He kept holding me by the shoulders and kissing me on the ears , his huge penis-gourd digging into my belly . With Yos translating , Yali introduced me to his entire tribe , including his six current wives and infinite number of children . Then , when Yos turned his back for a moment , Yali stuck something in my pocket and looked at me with his fist over his mouth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that moment of privacy had a chance to look at what Yali had stuck in my pocket , and was stunned . It was aganekhe , a fetish , one of the village 's sacred ye stones , long and black like an extruded egg , and originating from the Papua volcanoes many miles away . It was made to bring good luck , and tied to it were the dried tail , ears and teeth of the pig whose ceremonial death anchored it to the world of the ghosts . The stone was oily and resonant with odor ; it 'd just been cleaned with sacred grease and fire smoke . I 'd finally found it : the ultimate nowhere . . . the antiManhattan . . . and I could come back at any time . I was , once again , home . Unearthly Delight s " It is the land of dreams and romance , of fabulous wealth and fabulous poverty , of splendor and rags , of palaces and hovels , of famine and pestilence , of genii and giants and Aladdin lamps , of tigers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country of a hundred nations and a hundred tongues , of a thousand religions and two million gods . . . but it is a curious people . With them , all life seems to be sacred , except human life . " - MARK TWAIN About Snakes any of my friends have strange and remarkable fantasies about travel to the great beyond , and why they themselves would love to do it but , because of some nutty idea they 've made up in their heads , wo n't . When I came home from the Amazon and was babbling about it to anyone who 'd listen , one person ( let 's call him " Rick " ) asked , " Did you see any snakes ? " " Well not really , " I said . " There was a little green boa up a tree and we saw a crushed fer-de-lance , but that 's about it . " Rick is pale enough as it is , but he now visibly faded to a ghastly white : " I could never even go on a trip like that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . snakes ! " he said . " What if you 're in a boat . . . and it goes under a tree . . . and there 's // some huge python that jumps out of the branches right on top of you ? " Many of Rick 's fellow ophiophobes are convinced that the minute you step foot outside the North America ? Europe vacation axis , hordes of poisonous deadly man-eating snakes are running around everywhere just waiting to sink their fangs into your tender young flesh . For the most part , their phobia is just that . . . an irrational fantasy . . . but there is one part of the globe that no snake-hater in his right mind should visit . When Alexander the Great conquered this particular territory , after all , more of his troops died from snakebite than from battle wounds .. . I had just arrived from one of those endless transcontinental flights , and hardly got any sleep the night before , and was trudging to our first destination , the Jantar Mantar . . . a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the governor of Agra in the mid-1700s ... a fantastic assemblage of geometric constructions all painted in white , black and brick-red stripes , with various buildings for observing the stars and planets , including a gigantic sundial as big as a house , and an eight-story isosceles staircase leading straight to the heavens . It was just under one hundred degrees , and my guide was obsessed with less-than-compelling astronomical details , and my head started to spin , so I went over to watch the Mantar 's lawnmower ( a grazing Brahma bull ) and a family of raucous parrots in a broad-limbed plane tree , while a little girl , staring balefully , followed me everywhere , wanting to beg , but not knowing exactly how . I was n't really all that aware of what was going on around me because I was still in that mental twilight of international transit , and I was trying to wipe the Delhi grime off my glasses and not really paying all that much attention . I heard this whisk and my foot bumped something , and I // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tattered , at my feet . Then there was another whoosh and another thud and an identical basket appeared . A man of about twenty came running over , bent down , tossed aside the lids , and vigorously beat the insides of the baskets with a long gourd . He drew back , placed the gourd to his lips , and began making the most godawful racket , while two enraged Indian cobras , hoods fully flared and menacing , rose straight up out of the baskets to their full standing height of three feet , their heads weaving to follow the movements of the snakecharmer 's horn with that " come any closer and I 'll bite you " beady-eyed stare of the well-venomed serpent . . . and all this is taking place mere inches from my pale calves . I later found out that all of India 's snake-charmers are descended from one family and share the same name ( Nat ) and their career choice , it turns out , is an illegal but pretty decent way to make a living , since most tourists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the show , but because they want the serpents , waving in menace , removed immediately . These fears are unwarranted , however , since every charmed cobra in India has been defanged , and almost every one then either starves to death , or develops abscesses where their fangs have been cut out , usually surviving less than a month in the charmer 's care . After man , the cobra 's mortal enemy is the peacock , who knows how to strike the serpent at the exact weak spot on the base of its head and then swallow it whole , like spaghetti . Would n't it be astonishing to come across a muster of peacock , tails full-out akimbo , throwing back their necks and hungrily downing serpents like there 's no tomorrow ? Probably the Indian snake that ophiophobes like the least is the king cobra , since one bite of a full-grown , fifteen-foot king has enough venom to kill a hundred people . They 've got the fantastic veromonasal gland that all pit vipers have , a // sense organ that 's delicate enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have very beautiful iridescent-blue tongues and are great swimmers . Another lovely subcontinental reptile is the spitting cobra , with a spit range of six feet , and enough venom to temporarily blind you . If you 're a big-time ophiophobe but must visit India , perhaps the solution is to manufacture your own supply of antivenin . First , grab a mature king cobra by the back of its jaws until it fully opens its mouth , and quickly and firmly press the fangs against a cheesecloth-covered glass until you can see venom shooting out ? a procedure called " milking the snake . " Then inject a horse or two with a minute amount of the poison , wait three months , and extract the plasma . Now you 're more than ready for the jewel in the crown .. . The Stars of Boll wood Brenda and I went to India in order to take the Grand Tour , to see pieces of the Mughal ( or Moghul or Mogul , but Mughal is now preferred ) Empire , a little Raj luxury , and a soupcon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would include classical India 's greatest compound of ancient temples , Khajuraho ( something like Cambodia 's Angkor Wat ) , the country 's holiest city , Veranasi ( something like Israel 's Jerusalem ) , and the total eclipse of the sun . Because of the eclipse , the vast majority of our fellow travelers to India turned out to be astronomy zealots , each dragging along the kind of cameras and telescopes that , a decade earlier , only National Geographic employees were allowed to own . Many of these hobbyists had already spent small fortunes trying to see a solar eclipse elsewhere ? they 'd been to // the Galapagos and Hawaii and Bermuda and New Zealand ? and almost all of them had failed to see anything because the weather had turned sour . These zealots did n't care a whit that they were in India , and their conversation for the entire trip was the history of their scientific failures , and the likelihood that our eclipse would also end in cloud-cover , and a celestial extravaganza unseen by human eyes . We 'd be arriving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ festival ) in the reptile-loving village of Shirala , where hordes of locals throw rice at every snake they can find , and small boys parade through town hoisting tied crucifixes of living , thrashing , fifty-pound carrion-eating monitor lizards . We would , however , be arriving in time for Diwali , the Hindu New Year , a Festival of Lights similar to Hanukkah , but with saris and dirt floors painted to look like carpets instead of spinning dreidls and electric menorahs . Within an hour of getting on the plane , we were thrust into the heart of the subcontinent , since the in-flight movie was Delhi home-grown . Hollywood may produce the world 's most popular features and TV shows , but its charms are almost completely ignored by Brazil , Hong Kong , the Middle East and India , the latter having such a massive , Bombaycentered film industry that it 's nicknamed " Bollywood . " Bollywood productions are all epics , and they are all a mix of soap opera , musical , action/adventure , romance and suspense , now turned into a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The leads are always impossibly wealthy raja heroes with Barry Manilow haircuts , decked out in leather pants and neon-yellow California sweatshirts , consorting with heroines attired in the not quite traditional seethrough silk robes , bare midriffs , tiaras and bindi dots ( the forehead 's third eye ) , all set against a background of lavish Mughal palaces . Our movie was about a raja who 'd mistakenly married the evil , never-before-seen twin of the woman // he really loves , and the twin was now controlling him ( and the destiny of his entire family ) through the use of female genie sex demons . The hero had to win back the love of the good twin ( since she thinks he spurned her deliberately ) and simultaneously kill all the genies ( with his extensive training in the Korean martial arts ) . There were multiple Busby Berkeley ? inspired dream sequences with a cast of thousands , as well as plenty of musical interludes where everyone got to dance like wildly enthusiastic strippers . What 's really terrific about Bollywood productions is that , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movie , you just wait a few minutes and it changes into something completely different altogether . We landed and were relieved to find that our Delhi hotel was n't in the rough part of town , where professional beggars cut off their fingers to look like they 've got leprosy and then chase you around , waving their stumpy hands and shrieking ( you can always tell a fake , we 're told , by looking to see if the earlobes are intact ) . Instead , we 're in one of the pretty suburbs , a place of starkly modern buildings and grassy boulevards and houses for rich people who never go home . But even though we 're obviously in a posh neighborhood , the view out my balcony is n't of some lush , manicured polo lawns or dazzling Hindi temple , but instead of a small , sparse tree containing a very large and feral raptor ? a big brown hawk , or perhaps an eagle ? frantically looking for some mammal to swallow whole . Though the hotel is paved in marble , with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it have been abandoned , and one of those parts is the stairway next to my room , with eaves hosting a large colony of fruit-eating bats , a trio of pigeons , and a dump for ruined hotel accessories . The staff , like many Indian tourist employees , have inherited a panoply of bad habits from their onetime rulers , the British Raj , especially // that delightful combination of a stuffy sense of propriety , a gross insistence on following every rule to the letter , and a complete lack of organization . This is what 's left of the British Empire , an era on which the sun has thankfully set , but the blood has yet to dry . Coming through the airport to get on a connecting flight , like hundreds of millions of other tourists ? The Air India security forces will try to confiscate your camera batteries , since of course they could be used in terrorist bombs . Want breakfast first thing in the morning when you get up ? At five A.M. , the Delhi hotel 's coffee shop had three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coffee or tea was tremendously difficult and took forever . Everyone claims to hate Third World cities , especially New Delhi , but it 's the only way to see modern India . Just as you can walk down just about any street in Rome and there 's a Laundromat next to a Vespa dealership next to a tailor shop next to the tomb of Justinian III , so Delhi is a mishmash of time and culture , the ageless Indra Vedism cheek-by-jowl with farming techniques of three thousand years B.C.E. , on top of the Raj , on top of businesswomen wielding cell phones and fax machines . Right at the start , scurrying to baggage claim , we looked out the airport windows to see peasant girls gleaning in the loamy fields , accompanied by water buffaloes the color of wet inner tubes . This is what makes India so incredible , in every way . If much of the Third World is filled with dirt and poverty , if the vast majority can only eke out a bare subsistence , then India is the most of all these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsistent . In the middle of all this , however , are constant jolts of beauty and elegance , both in the Mughal and Raj glories left behind , and in the day-to-day passing moments of modern life . As a child , I was greatly impressed by a beer commercial that said you should " Go for the // Gusto ! " What this had to do with beer I still do n't know , but India is indisputably the place where everyone is Going for the Gusto ! in every direction at once . The subcontinent is easily the most beautiful and the most squalid place on earth , and therefore , the most human . . . with everything that implies . Out of a population of around a billion , there 're 250 million Indians who 're decidedly middle-class , with cell phones and Internet access and stock market and retirement planning and a boom in consumer goods and services ( including a local chain of McDonald 's that serves lamb-burgers ) . In Volvos and BMWs and Audis , they 're driving to their lunch appointments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out and about in human-powered rickshaws , a wonderful traveler 's conundrum . If you ride in rickshaws ( almost universally pulled by men suffering from malnutrition and tuberculosis ) , you feel like a giant squamous pig person . If you refuse , thinking it 's barbaric , then you 're keeping money from a family whose main wage-earner suffers from malnutrition and tuberculosis . Just down the street from our marble-clad hotel , we ( and the Audi-drivers ) passed by a protester carrying the sign , BRIDES ARE NOT FOR BURNING ! This referred to the not uncommon practice of men marrying rural women to collect their dowries , and then , right after the honeymoon , the new bride is found dead from a suspicious cooking fire . Just past the protester , set in a grove of flowering trees and mown lawns , is Raj Ghat , where the father of the country , Mahatma Gandhi , was cremated , the event memorialized by a granite slab of the same deep , black , lightdestroying bituminous marble that colors the Vietnam memorial in D.C. Those coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , scattered by the winds , these delicate , brilliantly colored orange-yellow flowers mark the site as poignant of loss and longing as any cemetery can // be . Our Ghat guide was Mrs. Sarya Dalton , a big woman who always shaded herself with an enormous polka-dot umbrella , and who spoke in a charming high-pitched , British-based titter . Mrs. Dalton had a gigantic schnoz that she 'd pierced , so sticking out of her left nostril was a big , thick gold ring . I was impressed by this . Instead of doing everything possible to downplay it , that ring screamed out : " Just look at my big gorgeous nose ! " In this solemn place , we met two extraordinary women , Moira and Patsy , who we assumed were sisters since they looked like Doublemint Twins in matching olive-green fatigue outfits and big white hairdos . It turned out instead that they were the best of friends for decades , who traveled once a year someplace exotic and , as shoppers , put the rest of us to deep shame . When we all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the ones who found , in minutes , the secret room selling illegal antiquities , and had shipped back to their Florida gardens matching life-sized statues of Rajput princes . When we finally got up the nerve to ask Patsy her business , she replied , " I 'm in citrus , " exactly the way a Texan might say " I 'm in oil , " so we just assumed she owned Sunkist . Together , we spent a day in New Delhi being tracked by a grime-encrusted little girl carrying what appeared to be a half-dead baby , but since no one else looked anything like this ( even the most visibly abject poor ) , we assumed it was somewhat theatrical . Later , we were chased by a family of marionette carvers running down the streets , shaking their puppets at us like voodoo dolls , and that night the assault of beggars and peddlers became so overwhelming that , when our taxi was followed by a particularly enthusiastic group of common street urchins , one Anglo had a complete mental breakdown and started throwing fistfuls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we 'd already learned this trip 's overriding theme : In the Land of Beauty and Squalor , you will be set upon by hordes . One thing you can say about India Indians is that there are an awful lot of them , and we were always surrounded by mobs of energetic beggars , demanding salesmen and wheedling children . At one point later on , a few of us were wandering around an alley , and we got lost . Our translator had been running behind us for fifteen minutes , yelling , " Please sir ! Please madam ! Hello ! Hello ! Hello , " but we had completely ignored his screams , since we 'd spent weeks hearing the exact same thing shouted at us a thousand times a day . A Dream of Technicolor Nuns The center of India is a desert , Rajasthan , where all the bigtime rajas once lived , and where we saw one extraordinary piece of historic beauty after another . In the middle of downtown Jaipur , the Pink City , the raja built for his harem the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thousand red sandstone windows , like a five-story Florida screen porch , but carved out of rock . When the bustle of Jaipur city life became too much for the raja 's family , they escaped to their country getaway , the Amber Fort , defensively perched high up a cliff . The locals made sure to get a decent share of our tourist dollars by insisting we ride elephants up the mountain to see it , but there are worse ways to get taken advantage of . The animals are kept in pristine condition , painted and watered and trussed up in silks and howdahs . Should the goliaths turn moody ( and considering their tempers and sensibilities , this is guaranteed ) , the mahouts use // fireworks attached to sticks as crowd control . Elephant riding looks a lot better than it turns out to be , since , with every step , the mighty beast sways all the way to its left , and then all the way to its right , and then all the way to its left , and then all the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in the air , in the middle of a desert , seasick . The Amber adheres to the same crucial decorating scheme that every other great sovereign home employs : How much stuff can we cram into every goddamn inch ? The windows are decorated with carved rock screens ; the walls are inlaid with mosaics of semiprecious stones , enamels and glass ; the floors are geometric marble slabs ; and the bedroom ceilings are covered with tiny bits of metal , glass and mirror . One Zensounding wall is where the ruler makes a showing to hear , once a day , the requests of his people : the Window of Appearances . At night , the lamps are extinguished and a servant will bring in a candle so that you may enjoy the show your ceiling creates : one candle , reflected , becoming the entire night sky ; a cauldron of stars . The palace was overrun with cream-furred , black-faced Hanuman vervets with curling tails as long as their bodies , and a taste for the Indian tourists ' marigold necklaces , which they 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we were watching the monkeys throw themselves across the tops of the sandstone parapets , a troupe of a dozen women stalked deliberately through the courtyard , all dressed in saffron-colored saris , their heads covered in waving silk magenta scarves , everything extensively brocaded in gold and flowing with the breeze . There is probably no entourage of human beings that looks as magnificent as a group of traditionally dressed Indian women , the harsh sun blazing out the saturated tints of their saris and robes and scarves ? butter yellow , baby blue , hot pink , carmine red , shining // glints of gold and silver ? while the air rushing against their bodies dapples the fabric like a dream of Technicolor nuns . Outside : the beggars , screaming , waving their stumpy hands . Inside : the Technicolor nuns . We survived the back of an elephant only to discover another Indian transportation adventure in store . Camels appear to think themselves our betters , since they keep their noses in the air and , of course , are perfectly happy to spit at us . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ardor as any elephant mahout , and the beasts trudge through the desert with necklaces and nose garlands , geometric haircuts and parti-colored harnesses , beautiful brocaded quilts and elaborate tattoos . One crusty old magistrate , Judge Ann , was concerned that her camel was getting unhappy since the one behind it kept sniffing its butt , but we reasoned with her that he must like it , since who would n't ? What these animals did not have , however , were well-padded saddles , and my ride ( on a big boy named Hero with two-inch-long eyelashes ) involved sliding back and forth athwart the great beast 's large and protruding vertebrae , of which the camel has far too many . It 's very common for certain tourists to lose their minds when they travel abroad , and India was no exception . When Judge Ann explained her nickname in court was " That Bitch , " we all sang the theme song that 'll have to be written when her life story is turned into a hit sitcom . Another of our fellow travelers was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bengal outfits the minute he got to Delhi , and he now wore this flimsy and revealing couture everywhere . Meanwhile , a top-heavy Chicagoan who 'd brought along a Santa hat to be photographed atop a camel for her Christmas cards had decided to wear it frequently during the entire trip . The local chilLET 'S // dren would see our **63;2144;TOOLONG bit and assume : The circus is here ! ... but at least out in the middle of nowhere , they did n't assault us with the never-ending song of India : " Hello rupee ? Hello pen ? Pen ? Pen ? Pen ? Look ! Look ! Look ! Good price for you ! " The caravan ended on a sad note , since one of the boys started wailing inconsolably because he 'd been in a fight , and his enemy had retaliated by breaking his goat 's leg . We could still hear him crying , far in the distance , as we drove off . Into the Bengal Forest Seeing the " real India " means hours of driving down townand-country roads choked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and too many animals living too close together , along with one particularly distinctive subcontinental aroma . The main source of the cooking fires here is cow patties , and they contribute a certain naive piquancy to the country 's smoky-blue polluted haze . On the village roads , we 'd be passed by barreling , claptrap Beverly Hillbilly trucks painted in detailed blue-faced Krishna murals strung with carnations and poppy garlands ; one had a particularly unique bumper sticker : WISCONSIN : YOU 'RE AMONG FRIENDS . Then , in the middle of this desert nowhere , we saw a big billboard : Frozen Semen Bank . On the village outskirts would invariably appear a shopping center of roadside stalls made from tree branches and old bedsheets , and even farther out were salespeople not yet up for buying a stall . In these districts we saw constant shots of beauty and squalor , as the road , covered in clouds of red // dust and stinking from manure , would suddenly turn to reveal the extraordinary colors of a woman in orange and saffron silks , surrounded by her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in scarlet-magenta pajamas , standing in a field of just-tied marigold necklaces , bitter gold and green , in front of a wall painted turquoise and rust . From meeting these villagers , I learned that you can run a plow with two bulls , or a camel and a bull , but if you try yoking together two camels , they 'd rather fight than plow . This information is bound to , one day , come in handy . Finally , we arrived at a gate that opened to reveal the dream of Raj India that everyone has ... Hindu temple ruins and an arched , domed and crimson lake pavilion appeared along a cliff , while just outside our jeep , a closer look showed that the algae-covered bog is n't filled with half-submerged logs but with crocs , big ones , perfectly camouflaged by the pond 's green scum , and patiently awaiting the thirsty herds of barking deer ( with their slow-moving fawns ) to amble over . Minutes away on our drive were these very deer ( a bigeared , permanently spotted version of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , flaxen meadows . A bend in the road took us through groves of rosewood , teak , axle-wood , acacia , pipal , ficus , banyan , mangrove , droopy palm , sandalwood and plane trees , and then brought us back to the lake and a marshland where a vervet sat hoping for litter and handouts , while out of the tall grass arched the white parentheses of egrets , ibises and saras ( the human-sized Indian crane , with gray feathers and spindly crimson legs ) . This is Ranthambore National Park , legacy of Indira Gandhi 's Tiger Project , a magnificent compound that really does preserve that great natural beauty of a pre-billion population India . Indira was India 's chief of state for decades , and I ca n't forget her sad eyes , her Susan Sontag hair stripe , or her tyrannical moods . In Ranthambore , we sat in the open // car , waiting , for hours ... until finally in the tall grass there was a movement , and the guides excitedly hushed their groups of mouthy tourists . We 've @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Bengal tiger . Out in the open , the black and orange pelt of a tiger is about as subtle as a highway caution lamp , but in the waterside tall grass where it waits , just like the crocs , for thirsty prey , the orange perfectly matches the wheaty color of the vegetation , while the black stripes exactly mimic the crosshatch of the grass 's light and shadow . The camouflage of our own quarry was so magnificent that half the jeep could n't even see the four-hundred-pound animal sitting thirty feet directly in front of us . " Where ? Where ! " they keep demanding , and we say , " See the big tree in the middle of the grove ? The curve in the branch closest to us ? The bird sitting next to the curve ? Look straight down from the bird , and there 's her face . " Those who had n't seen the cat walk into the grass never could see it ... until she then appeared in open range , big and muscular and fluid , beautiful beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pest control and Asian medical exports , global tiger numbers went from 100,000 in 1900 to 7,000 in 1990 , so they are n't exactly a dime a dozen , and they are n't exactly the best neighbors you could ever hope to have , either . In the eighty villages ringing the park , about ten people are killed and another ten are seriously mauled every year . The villagers fight back , shooting the cats with guns or blowing off their heads with bombs placed in dead antelope bait ... and so many dead tigers were found in one season that a district politician announced that the cats must be committing suicide . Ranthambore is filled with practically everything old India has to offer except for one thing ? Indians . Of course there are local drivers and poacher patrols and maintenance work174 CRAIG NELSON ers and guides and administrators , but the park , just like others in practically every Third World country , has no local visitors , and the resources spent to maintain it are entirely for the benefit ( as the locals see it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invariably be proud that their country has crocs and tigers and elephants , but would n't it be better , they think , for all these goat-eating and rice-stomping animals to go live someplace else ? Exactly a year before we showed up , a group of twenty-five elephants came into a small village and found the local-made liquor that had been brewed as part of the Diwali New Year celebrations . They drank it . . . all of it . . . and went on a rampage , destroying the village as well as the nearby pastures , and making everyone in the area flee for their lives . In the West , we love elephants , but after all , we do n't have to worry that they 're going to come over and flatten our house and destroy our crops . . . and if they did , we 'd have insurance . India 's biggest social problem , just like Africa 's , is overpopulation , which directly causes its biggest natural resource problem , deforestation , with ranchers overgrazing their herd animals and farmers overcutting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn , to soil erosion , scarcity , floods or drought and , ultimately , famine . This is the emerging market 's key horror today , and the very difficult changes required to fix it ( from severe cuts in the birthrate to the redistribution of agricultural resources ) have been avoided by every political leader since Mao . Meanwhile , Ranthambore , like every other reserve , is getting smaller , and smaller , and smaller , while the Sahara , the Great Indian Desert , and practically every other prominent Third World wasteland , just keeps growing , and growing , and growing .. . // A Darkening of the Skies Just outside the village of Mandewar , far from polluting urban districts ( but not cow-patty burners ) and so remote that practically nobody there spoke English , our trip organizers created their own village of thirty-five sea-green tents ( with carpeting , electric lights and gourmet chefs flown in from Bombay and Delhi ) in the middle of fallow pasture . The field 's ancient stone walls make a fine spot for hundreds of Mandewarians to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watch the celestial spectacle that is a total eclipse of the sun , they 'll be watching us . We were so out in the middle of nowhere that the hordes here did n't know to set upon us . They only formed into gauntlets , the entire region lined up , to quietly study us going by . At dawn and at dusk in Mandewar , there was always the sound of hundreds of little girls imitating cat yowls , but this would in fact turn out to be the peculiar screams of the local peacocks ( hopefully scarfing down the local cobras ) . As it was Diwali , the New Year festival of lights celebrating Laksmi ( goddess of wealth ) and Ganesh ( god of commerce ) , everyone in town was ceremoniously gambling , giving each other presents , and taking milk baths , while every night meant an endless racket of popping , screaming fireworks and the rat-tat-tat explosions of guns being fired in ecstasy . Besides the racket , however , Diwali is a remarkably beautiful holiday that takes place on the darkest day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terra-cotta oil lamps and candles placed in rows along the parapets of temples and houses , and set adrift on rivers and streams . At dusk , smack dab in the middle of nowhere , a sari-clad beauty approaches , her breasts and face and head scarf glowing in illumination from the tiny lamp she haltingly carries through // the streets . The stores paint their dirt floors in remarkable imitations of carpeting , and everyone is carrying on with such fervor that we , who would normally be the number one attraction in such an out-of-the-way place , could quietly walk through town without arousing much notice ? at first . When a Mandewarian would look up , notice us and become alarmed , we 'd try to get a pleasant idea across by holding our palms around our faces and saying " Happy ! " then making a big smile and raising our hands to the sky and saying , " Diwall ! " Within twenty minutes , the secret was out , and everyone was coming up to us , holding their palms around their faces and saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and raising their hands to the sky to say " Diwali ! " We then had to disco-dance with men in suits on the streets , shake hands with every single citizen of Mandewar , and go to visit the home of the only barely English-speaking person there . This family offered us every single thing they had in the house to eat , but we were afraid of Bombay Belly , and kept trying to figure out how to pass without being rude . Finally we posed for a round of pictures , all the while praying that the nervous , trembling grandma ( a Mother Teresa look-alike ) would n't have a full-out heart attack right then and there . The next day was it , a perfectly cloud-free morning , and to celebrate , an Indian newspaper ran a picture of a hideously deformed girl under the headline " Was It the Eclipse ? " ? a story of how the girl 's mother , while pregnant , had ventured out during the last eclipse , and here was the result . We were n't pregnant , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had thoughtfully brought along , which was a good thing since the travel company , after setting all this up , generously supplied Mylar Pop Tart wrappers for everybody else . Wearing these cardboard shiny-mirror glasses , we all looked like crackpots , like your nutty uncle who conducts " scientific " experiments in the basement . // Total solar eclipses are the result of an amazing coincidence , a coincidence that , of the entire solar system , seems to be ours alone . The sun 's diameter is four hundred times that of the moon , while the moon is four hundred times closer to the earth than the sun , and with perfect alignment , the moon can cover all but the great star 's corona from our view . About every eighteen months a solar eclipse takes place somewhere in the world , but for some reason the perfect viewing spots tend to be in some deeply inaccessible or mythically rainy , cloudy location ... to the point where the astronomy zealots would say things like , " See you in ' 99 in Mongolia ! " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eclipse was the flat roof of the three-story , seventeenth-century fort of Mandewar , which was exactly where we stood . We watched as slowly , slowly , slowly , an odd lump appeared in the sun , which became a cookie bite , which became a crescent moon , and the light is a little on the amber side , and all this is blurry behind the Mylar glasses and , to tell the truth , for an hour and a half , it 's interesting , but not that interesting ; in fact , to tell the truth , it 's pretty dull . But then , like a switch , the sunlight winks out and down , and there 's a black-blue stillness , a half dusk , half dawn ... a flattening , two-dimensional light . The common noise of the Indian animals , from birds to dogs , halts into silence ... the crescent moon becomes a bare , glowing sliver ... flocks of birds swoop here and there , erratically , frantic ... the sun becomes a dying ember , the sky dims again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time , it 's the storm to end all storms ... Do you know that moment when a woman 's having an orgasm and she 's shuddering like a great motor and rolling like a broad river and she just keeps doing this on and on and on , like it 's never going to end ? That 's just the feeling that ran through me during Totality . // As the sun rose and the moon set , a series of celestial events occurred that were both beautiful and frightening . First out of the gate was a cosmic spectacle called Bailey 's Beads or the Diamond Necklace , which really did look like an enormous necklace , since the sun was so precisely covered by the moon that the only light seen from earth was spilling through the cracks of the lunar valleys and craters , forming an astonishing ring of brilliant , twinkling lights . Next came the Ruby Rings , where the sunlight , hidden and no longer blinding to the eye , revealed the star 's great corona throwing off five-million-mile-long spikes of gasses in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vanished , and next appeared the classic view , Totality , the pale white light of the greatest fire in creation encircling the deepest black that any human eye can see . A few minutes of the classic moment passed , and then it all happened again in reverse , the Ruby Rings , the Diamond Necklace , the sliver , the crescent , the cookie , the bulge , and everyone was bathed in an ethereal , buttery , golden yellow light ... and everyone was either deathly silent , or softly crying to themselves , while roosters hesitantly fluttered and crowed . It took hours to recover from this moment , and I spent that day in silence , avoiding everyone , lost in feeling , praying I could remember the look of every instant and every detail for the rest of my life . Not of This oria The more you travel , the more you learn that every country has some spectacular complex of historic buildings or reserve of natural beauty that practically no one outside the region // knows anything about . As you 're prepping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you bump into will say " You 've just got to see this , " and then they 'll describe something that sounds remarkably tedious , and you 'll make yourself go and stumble in and think : Why is n't everyone in the world talking about this place ? This is one of the themes of great trips : the momentous stumble . In India , that place is Khajuraho , a vast Brahmin temple complex built in the tenth and eleventh centuries by the Chandellas , a dynasty of rulers who descended from Rajput warriors ( the Samurai of India ) , but who believed they came from the god of the moon . The temples are carved out of pink sandstone , peach-yellow buildings with smoky black pagodas and honeycomb crowns , and every single inch of every single surface is fronted by sculpture and friezes and bas-relief . One section of Khajuraho is basically a 3-D Kama Sutra , covered in friezes of every kind of sex you can imagine . Our local guide had some kind of classical art training that made him emphasize craft above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sculpture , how real the hair ... the eyes ... the mouth ... so like life the hips ... the breasts ... ees beautiful ! " He was right , of course , but he 'd say these things while showing , to grandmothers from Iowa , a big-haired gal with huge tits giving a blow job to a horse . Traveling in a country where you do n't know what you 're doing , and you ca n't talk the language or read the alphabet ( and you 're gainfully employed , so time is definitely not on your side ) means that taking care of day-to-day chores is ridiculously crucial , and having the right guides and translators becomes more important than lunch . Many times , if you are very lucky , you will have a guide who makes you fall in love ? a dangerous thing , since then you 'll end up being married to a guide . In India , we fell for Sanjay Chatta-Ji , a man // who was smart and charming and personable and hospitable and laughed just like Geoffrey Holder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Sri Ji fell head-over-heels , madly in love with a Nipponese girl and followed her back home . India may have a caste system and England may have a class system but the Japanese outdo everyone when it comes to purebred hysteria , since they basically believe there are two kinds of people in this world : Japanese people , and people descended from big hairy monkeys . Chatta-Ji ran up against this attitude the minute he arrived , since it was a firmly held belief of the girl 's very traditional father , a prominent Buddhist leader . The father could n't bear the thought of his delicate flower in consort with this monkey person , so he came up with an onerous scheme to sway the young man from his passion . In order to win the hand of his daughter , the father decreed , Chatta-Ji must spend two years in training to become a Japanese Buddhist monk . So in love was Chatta-Ji that he learned Japanese , converted to Buddhism , enrolled in the monastery , finished his two years of study , and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom he 'd barely seen during the two years of training in an alien land ) flew out to see the ceremony , her plane crashed , killing everyone on board . Sanjay returned to India and started a new life as a tourist guide , a traveling man perpetually on the road , busily explaining the ins and outs of Hinduism , and not looking back . If you 've been the victim of repeated Hare Krishna airport attacks , you may not hold Hinduism in high regard , but in many ways it 's the ideal spiritual philosophy . Just as Indian culture vacuumed up every good idea its invaders ever had , so has Hinduism conglomerated to itself key elements of every other religion , becoming a fantastic mix of folk spirit beliefs , the various cultures who 've run through India , and a collection of epic dramas and spiritual essays by some of the // greatest storytellers and religious thinkers of all time . Of Hinduism 's 330 million gods , Chatta-Ji informed us , there are only two who really matter : Vishnu and Siva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was quite inspired , writing in her postcards , " Vishnu were here ! " and " Shiva real soon ! " Vishnu 's greatest desire is to be your best friend and help you in times of need , but he 's also something of a goody-two-shoes , and pretty boring . Siva , on the other hand , combines every aspect of the spirit world into one big hunky Lord ( if you go for blue guys ) . He dances the universe into creation , and will dance it into nothingness at The End . He 's an ascetic , forgoing all pleasure , who demands you seduce him , as well as the ultimate force of sex as a procreative power . The Ganges flows through his hair , and king cobras are so terrifically fond of him that they wrap themselves around his body in ardor and devotion . He has a third eye that can burn unbelievers to ashes like a laser beam , wears a necklace of skulls , is n't responsible to anyone for anything , and when you pray to him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually because he started it in the first place . In India , he 's tremendously popular , easily the all-time Number One beauty-andsqualor guy , but to our Judeo-Christian minds , he 's not easy to love ( or worship ) . One of Siva 's many notorious stunts is to appear as a giant pillar of flame whose essence can lead the true believer to eternal life , and the first time he did this was in what is easily one of my top ten places in all the world , the city of Kashi , " the Luminous , " which soon enough changed its name to Veranasi , and then to Benaras , and then back again ( a good thing , since every time I see the word " Benaras " I think " bananas " ) . In a country of the world 's oldest living religion , in a country where to say hello means " I praise the holy within you , " the spiritual center of it all , the Jerusalem of India , is Veranasi . Hindus who die there achieve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wheel of reincarnation , of having to be born and die and be born and die and be born and die forever and ever . To expire in Veranasi is to be immediately transported to Siva 's home in paradise ( well actually , the Himalayas ) and live forever with the Lord of All , his consort Uma/Parvati/Durga/Kali , the kids Sonaswati ( with six heads ) and Ganesha ( with an elephant head ) , and their mouse , bull , peacock and tiger pets and means of transportation . It is the greatest thing that can ever happen to you . . . a guaranteed entry into heaven . . . and it gives funerals and death a wholly different meaning from anything we can imagine . It makes Veranasi one of the most extraordinary places on earth , as beautiful and unique as Venice .. . and just as sinister . We arrived at dusk , and Brenda , Moira , Patsy and I gulped down dinner in order to run to the ghats , the holy riverbanks with broad , ancient stairways leading straight into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , trolleys , oxcarts , goatherds , meandering sacred Brahma bulls and madly busy pedestrians . The jam brought our car to a dead halt , so we just got out and started walking with no real idea what the hell we were doing . The center of all life in Veranasi is at the river 's edge in the pucca mahal , a three-thousand-year-old neighborhood with buildings so crowded together there 's no room for any kind of vehicle ( not even a bicycle ) , and no sunlight , moonlight or streetlight ever reaches the ground . Traveling through the pucca is not for the fainthearted , since the walks are swarming with pavement shops of every stripe ? here a vegetable district , there a sari outlet ? while screeching over our heads were hordes of big-toothed , bare-faced macaques , vivid green parakeets and red-beaked mynah birds . One street was overflowing with big vats of colored powders , so if I 'd suddenly decided to run around India as a naked holy // sadhu man , here was my chance to start off with all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their lives out on the sidewalk and the homes with no curtains on the first-floor windows , the neighborhood threw itself at us , getting too close for comfort , and made us feel like trespassing voyeurs . When we finally realized we really did n't know where we were going , a young man appeared , offering instant tourist services . But as we trotted back and forth , following him through the claustrophobic maze of the pucca , it became plain he had no idea where we were going , either . At night , close by the river , the air turns clammy , and as we stumbled through the cramped , fetid alleys , our ears filled with the incomprehensible screams of the arguing Veranasites , we could n't help but think we 'd made some terrible mistake . Finally there was an elevation to climb and our sneakers scuffed against a hillock of sand , and we found the water , and knew we 'd made some terrible mistake . The guide had taken us , not to the center of the riverway , but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure had just been built . We did n't know what it was , we just wanted to get the hell out of there , and then we saw the twin chimneys looming up , and the guide pantomimed fire , and we were made to understand that this was the brandspanking-new electric crematorium . Many Hindus were coming to Veranasi and finding out , too late , that they could n't afford the traditional services . So they 'd simply half-burn the body themselves and throw the corpse into the Ganges , causing something of a major health and odor problem . To fix this thousand-year mess , the city finally built this double-barreled spitfire oven the size of a shopping mall parking lot , and charged only seventy-five cents , which almost anyone could afford . It was going day and night . Shakespeare 's repellent and ghastly moors are nothing compared to where we ended up . . . pitch dark , the only // light a construction lamp from the crematorium , the air damp and malodorous , with giant swarms of flies , like living clouds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , either spiritually devout or an out-and-out lunatic , danced a little jig out by the water , and the guide , sweeping his hand across this malevolent diorama , helpfully said , " We do n't have any dead bodies here so you can go ahead and take pictures . " He was quite wrong , for there was a do-it-yourself brigade operating just a few yards away , a batch of industrious Untouchables setting up piles of firewood and playing with matches . The next morning we made it to the ghats well before dawn , and were rowed back and forth in a boat while watching the Hindu sunrise rituals of Veranasi , India 's most extraordinary moment . The pucca waterfront is a Middle Ages , Middle Eastern spectacle of guest houses for the mourning poor ( which look like the ruins of Coney Island ) , Maharajabuilt palaces ( putting the splendor of Venice to shame ) , and temples with pagoda crowns and honeycomb turrets . The billboard of a blue-skinned , lipstick-lipped , bug-eyed cartoon Siva watches over all . One entire riverside temple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it lies to this day , a sunken golden dome , a freighter gone aground . Every kind of person that India can produce shows up here at dawn , doing every kind of thing that can be done in public ( and plenty of things that should n't ) . On the line where the ancient steps meet the holy water , there 's a group of young boys taking baths in their loincloths , next to a sect 's congregation performing their sacred baptismal devotions , next to a group of Brahmin priests with shaved heads wailing away , next to white-draped widows murmuring their singsong chants . One devout sits at a promontory , completely covered in pale yellow silk , a butter ghost . Naked and painted sadhus , smeared with ashes and carrying tridents , linga and human skulls , are inches from coiffed soLET 'S // cialites performing their morning gossip session , while an unruly mob of peasants prays in screams and whispers to the rhythmic ching of a bell outside a temple that looks like a seaside urinal . These are the devotees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the boat , the tourists giggled at the sight of laundry , joking that they hope it was n't their underwear being beaten against the ghats . The region 's silks are famous for their spice colors ? cinnamon , chili , curry , saffron , dill ? but it 's the dress of mourning Hindu widows ? ice white ? that you see everywhere . Between the orange-reds of the most popular paint on the walls , and the burnishing glow of the rising sun , the devouts are washed over in a peachy light that is exactly the color that every painter of the mystic tries to capture ? the glow of living consciousness . The guide said , " On the right , you may see a live baby , " and I said , " What ? " and he said , " On the right , you may see the library . " Hundreds and hundreds of candles floated across the Ganges in delicate handwoven leaf boats , while bouquets and garlands of flowers bobbed here and there . Worshippers , mourners and morning commuters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with life as it has been lived for three thousand years . In Veranasi , sixty thousand people bathe in the Ganges daily , and plenty of them drink the water . In parts of the river , the fecal-coliform count ( not a good thing ) is 340,000 times what 's considered safe . Two million Indian children die every year from water-carried diseases like dysentery , typhoid , hepatitis and cholera , while just past the city , the surface of Mother Ganga erupts in bubbles , a sign that raw sewage is naturally converting into methane gas . A few years ago , the municipal government tried to fix the situation by importing 29,000 turtles and letting them loose into the water , hoping they 'd eat whatever flesh might be floating // about . Today , the turtles are all gone , and it 's assumed they 've been eaten themselves . Mid-river , there 's one building as distinctive to this part of India as the vast crematorium : Mukti Bhavan . The House of Salvation , was built by a wealthy businessman as the Roach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its only guests are certifiably dying Hindus . You can check in , but you ca n't take medication , you ca n't get food , you ca n't bring luggage , and you have two weeks to die . You will , however , expire in Veranasi and be guaranteed moksha . It 's said that if you die on the other side of the Ganges , you 'll come back as a donkey . Your corpse will then be carried through the streets wrapped in a cotton sheet ( red for boys , white for girls ) . If you are well-to-do , the parade will end at Manikarnika Ghat , where Siva and Parvati decided to stop being the only gods in town and created Vishnu , whose giant stone footprints are still there . The cremation platform is marked with a blackened tower and hundreds of fishing poles holding baskets of wicker oil lamps ? sky lanterns ? that arc over the river , lighting the way to heaven for the recently burned ( who can be seen from the half-dozen columns of white smoke rising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the caste of Untouchable Doms , who take over , keeping the sacred fire going , making sure the corpses are fully cremated , sprinkling offerings of camphor , butter , sandalwood and mango leaves for families who ca n't attend . Huge stacks of firewood are everywhere , and the actively working Doms are dressed in black rags and covered in soot and ashes , with skin like Appalachian coal miners . If there 's no elder son to do the final honor of releasing the soul , the Doms crack open the skull and poke through the ashes for any leftover valuables , especially dental work . At the sound of the skull crack , instead of applauding , all Indians nearby will shout out , " Va va ! " // The king of the Doms is the Dom-Raja , the universal bogeyman of India who makes his living from the dead , and lives in a circus-colored mansion right on the water . . . but not particularly close to the rising smoke of Manikarnika Ghat . The Doms do not get along with one particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act to eat human flesh , a sect who pulls off chunks of the dead and feeds , right in front of the mourning families . The work of the Doms is n't easy ; it takes three hours to burn an adult-sized body . " We do n't burn small children , " one said . " The children are still innocent and do not need the purifying flames . We take the bodies to the middle of the Ganges , tie them to stones , and cast them in . " Even after the city crematorium opened , running day and night , the Doms make a good living . Cremation fires have been burning continuously in Veranasi for two thousand years . It is the ultimate in the Land of Beauty and Squalor . Baptisms , ablutions , prayers , baths , laundry , funerals ? every aspect of life is right here and right now in Veranasi , piled up on top of each other , a big heaving stripe of human life in all its ways and means . About Mongrels , MonoIs , and Mughals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have such endless fantasies about ancestry and being purebred , like dogs ? Even democratic " classless " Americans want to be Mayflower descendants , or at least rush out to get People magazine 's latest Princess Diana cover story . Let 's face facts : The British royal family is // nothing but a bunch of Huns , and we human beings , everywhere , are all packs of mongrels . Just like Egypt , Persia , China and every other great empire of the ancient world , India was invaded on a regular basis for four thousand years , and what we think of as " Indian " today is actually a mix of Aryan , Persian , Scythian , Arab , Mongol , Turk and Afghan ( who have nothing to do with the blanket or hound of the same name , just as the French wo n't take credit for their fries and toast ) . In each case , India sucked in whatever the invaders had to offer and made it " Indian " ? until the next invaders showed up . Four thousand years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looked half Russian and half Chinese , and certainly were n't the blond-haired , blue-eyed Volkswagen lovers of Hitler 's dreams ) took over . The only reason we know this is that suddenly India had Sanskrit , horses you could ride , castes , chiefs named " raja , " the basics of Hindu belief , and the beginnings of what would become an enormous worldwide fad : the worship of cows . The Aryan cow sentiment was so tremendous that in the Vedas ( the Aryan Bible ) , " clan " is translated as " cowpen , " and " going to war " means " searching for cows . " Their key religious rite was the soma sacrifice , which involved a hallucinogenic beverage of vast importance to ancient Middle Eastern cultures , where desert lifestyles clearly favor escapist drug use . The subcontinent was taken away from the Aryans and ruled by Ghurs and Turks , until finally a whole new bunch of Mongols showed up and took control in the 1500s , led by Babur , Khan of Fergana . This Fergana must 've been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Babur concluded " Hindustan is a country of few charms . Its people have no good looks . . . of genius and capacity none . . . there are no good horses , no good dogs .... We traversed their gardens with a hundred disgusts and repulsions . " Babur did , howLET 'S // ever , begin the Mughal Dynasty , which would put its stamp on the subcontinent like no other family before or since . The Mughals would rule over India for nine generations , they 'd take beauty and squalor to bold , new heights , and they 'd leave behind some of the greatest art the world has ever seen ? a major reason why Brenda and I wanted to go to India to see for ourselves in the first place . Unfortunately , the Mughals were also one of the most evil and disgusting bunches you could ever hope to meet . After Babur 's death , one of his sons had the other blinded through the elegant technique of having the eyes repeatedly stabbed and then the ocular cavities filled with salt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plunging India into repeated civil war , until Akbar , a fourteen-year-old , pushed out all the others and claimed the throne . Akbar 's favorite sport was night polo ( played by having the balls set on fire ) , but he never could be bothered learning to read and write . Instead , he had scholars research whatever he needed to know , and then had artists paint illustrations of crucial information ? creating a whole new art form . Akbar became the patron of illuminated manuscripts , and the astonishing watercolors we think of as Indian masterpieces were first created during his reign . An illumination usually took one month to complete , so it was especially astonishing to us to get to India and see so many of them , remarkably accomplished and still , after all these years , glowing with color . The artist would sit crosslegged at a miniature easel , surrounded by clamshells filled with water , binding glue and pigments ( ground-up gold , silver , minerals , soil , crushed lac insects and even animal urine ) , along with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a single shaft . The painting 's basic elements would 've been sketched out in advance , much of it drawn from life , and commonly traced on gazelle skin . Astonishing // depths of color were created by repeatedly applying variations of pigment again and again , basically following the same method used to make enamel . The Akbar painters became so accomplished , in fact , that when the Mughals acquired artwork from other countries , they 'd commonly have court artists redo portions in the better , Indian manner . Besides painting , Akbar loved architecture , and when an oracle casually mentioned that maybe he should consider moving his capital city to the middle of the desert , the emperor jumped at the chance , creating the astonishing Fatepuhr Sikri . Remember in kindergarten , when you 'd fold up a piece of paper and cut little snips out and when you unfolded it , there was a snowflake ? That lacy style is exactly the look of this imperial city ? except instead of folded paper , it 's carved from red sandstone , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , balustrades , cupolas , defense walls , open pavilions and balcony awnings ? an entire city carved out of stone and colored dried-lipstick-red . I think it 's easily the most incredibly beautiful and just-this-side-of-insane place I 've ever been . During its day , with its vast size and great beauty , Fatepuhr put London to shame , but within a mere twelve years , Akbar found out just how difficult it is to have a big imperial city in the middle of a desert , and moved back to Delhi , leaving behind a shimmering ghost town , perfectly preserved . On the road leaving Fatepuhr , we were half lucky and half not in meeting a man and his livelihood ? a leashed and muzzled " dancing " bear . The man made the animal open its mouth as wide as possible to appear fearsome , but all this accomplished was to display that the poor creature 's teeth have been yanked out . I 'm quite fond of bears , since they are personality-wise a combination of dog , cat and raccoon ( a very large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonderful to , in the middle of nowhere , come across a dancing bear , but it 's anLET 'S // other emerging market tourist dilemma : You 're glad to see a dancing bear , and , really , you 're sorry life is like that . One thing you can say about those Mughals : They really knew how to live . Their favorite kind of wool was woven from shah tus , hairs collected from Himalayan thornbushes where mountain goats had scratched their chins . They 'd execute loved ones by forcing them to daily drink a big bowl of kawa , a mix of wine , spices and opium , commonly taken as an aperitif before dinner or , in stronger doses , to relieve pain and heal memories . When Akbar the Great passed on , there was another family struggle , this time involving alcoholics and opium addicts , lasting for two generations . Peace arrived with Akbar 's grandson , Shah Jahan ( Ruler of the World ) , who would create one of the greatest works in the history of civilization . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrator as much pity as you can muster , for his next job is completely impossible , a duty that 's horrible beyond all understanding . Think : How would you describe the best meal you ever ate . . . the most wonderful person you ever met ... the best sex you ever had . . . the most beautiful sight you 've ever seen . . . in such a way that the person listening would really feel it for themselves ? I must now try to make you feel that way about what is easily the most beautiful building ever erected , an edifice traveler Paul Theroux believes is the only one to have a soul , and I have to accomplish this even though it 's a building you 've already seen at least a hundred thousand times in photographs and movies and television shows ? you 've seen it so often , in fact , that you probably think there 's no reason at all for you to go see it in person . But , oh my God , is there a reason . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flesh start shaking , or crying , or just go completely silent , stunned at trying to take it all in . As you drive up , you get small glimpses of the ovoid , ni CRAIG NELSON pled top ( a big Persian trend at the time ) , ghostly white against the gray skies of India . The building itself is set inside a compound designed so that your entry takes on a theatrical journey , with much walking through gates and across walls and through gardens and around buildings before , finally , it looms up right there in front of your face . The first thing I realized when confronted by this tomb was how seriously familiarity can breed contempt . Just like Giza 's pyramids or even Niagara Falls , the Taj Mahal is so much bigger in real life than you expect that it 's part of the shock . Hewn from the same white marble that 's so popular with every memorial from Jefferson to Tiananmen Square to Hiroshima ( but being in a country where so much of the color is dried red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this skin seems whiter than the others ; it 's the bleached white of a movie star 's smile , and just like a movie star , it reflects whatever is directed against it . The skin 's color changes all day long , being gray and watery at dawn , too white for its own good at midday , and pinkblood-tinged at sunset . There is a tremendous lightness to the design of the minarets , the archways , the balconies and the trio of domes . . . a weightless , spun-sugar , helium-balloon spaceship that could lift to the skies at any minute and never again be seen by human eyes . Those of us coming to India with Western bias are accustomed to Middle Eastern art that 's dogmatic and belligerent , an art of Afghani scimitars and Ayatollah sneers and Saddam rifles and fat blackshrouded women . The Taj is as Middle Eastern as you can get , but it 's the polar opposite of what we know . . . something so delicate , so pretty , so eternally feminine , it is mesmerizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the favorite of his three queens , Mumtaz , who died giving birth to their thirteenth child in 1631 . When his own health began to fail in // the later years of his life , there was another battle for the throne . The winner , Aurangzeb , was not Jahan 's choice , and he immediately imprisoned his father in Fort Agra ? giving him a distant view of the Taj for nine long years . Today , Shah Jahan 's prison quarters in Agra is the Taj gift shop , run by a man descended from eight generations of sadhus , each of whom took a holy oath of silence and spent their lives carrying around chalkboards ( we studied each of their portraits , to notice that the clothes never changed , but the chalkboards did ) . The most recent sadhu is the shopkeeper 's brother , and as seen in his photograph , he keeps his holy vows by sealing his lips with extra-strength duct tape . Aurangzeb ignored his father 's dying wish to have his own Taj , this one in black marble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and Mumtaz . Instead , Jahan was interred with his beloved in the white-as-ivory marble palace while the new emperor became a Muslim devout . Between the Hindu majority not caring for his religious dogma and the district nobles not caring for his tax or army assessors , the family 's power collapsed . When Aurangzeb 's son , the last of the Mughals , lost India to an invasion by the Shah of Persia , one of the treasures taken back to Teheran was the very symbol of the family dynasty . . . the Peacock Throne itself . Hindus believe in a relationship with art that 's far more involved than our own , something called samadhi , which means the merging of the listener and the music , the dancer and the dance , the seer and the seen . I always understood the concept , but I did n't feel it until I saw , up close and in person , the Taj Mahal . // Floating Above the Roof of the World Since we are all mongrels , many of the world 's great places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and one of the greatest crossroads of them all is the Kathmandu Valley of Nepal . A tossed salad of India , Tibet , China and Persia , the Newari people of Kathmandu tend to be incredibly handsome ( as opposed to so-called purebreds like the Prince of Wales ) , and may look like any of their surrounding nationalities , or like a whole new kind of person altogether ? a pan-Asian . This is in fact the culture of Nepal , to combine everything around them into something new , something Nepalese , something for everyone . Even though a local ecologist claimed , " We say there are now three religions in Nepal : Hinduism , Buddhism , and tourism , " socially , the country is one of the many emerging markets that just is n't emerging . The kingdom 's economy is stagnant , the life of rural Nepalese one of the poorest in the world ( with few living past the age of fifty ) , and , though everyone can vote , the vast majority are illiterate and so can only take part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political parties with a sun for United Marxist-Leninist and a tree for Nepali Congress ? so if you were voting , which would you prefer for prime minister : a tree , or the sun ? Commonly , the tourist bubble keeps you from really seeing the effects of these issues , but there was a man I ca n't forget who , in Kathmandu , followed us for some time . From the waist up , he was so muscular and so good-looking he could easily co-star in Arnold Schwarzenegger 's next big action movie . From the waist down , however , he was crippled from birth defects and made his way through // the streets of the city using heavily gloved hands to push himself on a small wheeled sled , the kind American warehouses use to move around the merchandise . In the valley , we stayed in two hilltop resorts , one with a view of the mountains , the other with a panorama of the city . It was a shock to see that Nepal looks more like Bali than India , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . but here they were ringed by the towering snowcaps of the Himalayas ( for which you should use the fecund British pronunciation : he-MAL-yas ) . Every moment in the countryside , I looked at that mountain range , distant , white and foreboding , in awe at the roof of the world . This vertiginous ring , purple in the mists , always gave me a feeling of safety and comfort in Kathmandu , a visible barrier to the unknown terrors that await beyond . The terrors awaiting within are plenty enough , such as learning , intimately , from the smells of the food market , why burning incense is such a wonderful Asian custom . One district , Thamel , still has Freak Street , where all the flower children in the 1960s came to seek enlightenment and bhang . When King Sri Sri Sri Sri Sri Birendra assumed the throne in 1975 , he tried getting them all to leave by illegalizing drugs and offering free transportation out of the country . It did n't work , and today , one fifth of Kathmandu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the hippies are still there . In fact , they 've procreated and lured in fellow grunge Eurohippies carrying the faith , and this mass has formed an entire counterculture panhandling village of hippie grandparents and hippie divorced moms and hippie infants . If you really miss the spirit of the ' 60s , just come to Thamel and find out exactly why you should n't . The perseverance and determination of Freak Street denizens to get you to give them money makes the children of India look like well-meaning amateurs. // Down the road from Freak Street is a house with windows lined in grinning skulls , home of the sacred preteen , the living goddess , the virgin Kumari , who is selected in a process similar to how Tibetans find their reincarnated leaders . As a youngster , the girl must correctly identify clothing and jewelry belonging to the previous Kumari , then she must sit in the temple in the middle of the night , surrounded by buffalo heads dripping with blood , while men dressed as demons attack her . If she never shows fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her sacred home except to appear at festivals , where her feet must never be allowed to touch the ground . The minute she begins menstruating ( or bleeds from a cut ) , her service is ended , and she leaves her prepubescence of being worshipped and completely taken care of by servers and retainers , to become a common wife and mother . Frequently , this does n't go well , as by now the girl 's spoiled rotten , plus there 's a Nepalese legend that marrying an ex-Kumari brings you bad luck and an early death . We waited in her courtyard forever , with no cameras at the ready , and finally the living goddess made herself known to us : a sneering , petulant brat wearing a great deal of makeup . She looked at us with utter disdain and contempt for about five seconds , and then ran off . Get it while you can , babe . Kathmandu is a medieval city of wood and straw , of clay tile roofs and mud-daubed walls , the Indo-Chinese version of a Chaucer stage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and witches who steal human bones from the crematorium and write your name on them as an eternal curse . It is brick-paved square after brick-paved square of golden pyramids and black cube towers with spindly wooden tiers , and temples dedicated to killer gods and monkey gods and elephant gods and lion gods and reborn gods , as well as the god of nearsightedness and the god of toothache . Everywhere we turned there were laughing stone lions , purple griffins , crocLET 'S // odile faucets and albino ceramic elephants to bring good luck , which Nepal could surely afford . One of the valley 's greatest assets is the result of a national tragedy . When the Chinese invaded Tibet in 1950 , the country had six thousand active monasteries ; by 1980 , it had thirteen , with many of the religious orders fleeing to Nepal and creating a Tibet-in-exile , a sister community to the government 's Tibet-in-exile in northern India . If you still do n't believe that it 's a Mongol world and we just live in it , consider that , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mongols to Buddhism in the 1500s , his descendants , two hundred years later , returned the favor by giving them rule over Tibet . It is the chief Yellow Hat ? the Dalai Lama ? who 's still the spiritual leader we know today . The Tibetans in Nepal naturally congregate near two Buddhist stupas , or holy monuments , both of which are thought to be around a thousand years old , and both of which are straight out of the dreams of Indiana Jones . Their peaks are a facade of Buddha eyes , which are supposed to look peaceful and beneficent but , quite frankly , look surly and wrathful , like an omniscient high school principal : " I 'm watching you . " Both are outlined in a strangely heavy mascara , and look almost exactly like the ancient Egyptians ' eye of Horus , which is alarming , and both are wearing umbrella hats , which does n't symbolize schizophrenia but Nirvana . One stupa rises from the top of a steep hill , and the entire climb has been turned into a pilgrim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candy-colored Buddhas . It also features three hundred aggressive rhesus monkeys , evil monkeys , wingless versions of the lizard of Oz monkeys , who steal watches , purses , hats , food , anything they can , for no reason other than their relentless pursuit of evil , which they 've been doing for over two thousand years . I watched as one rhesus noticed a child eating some candy and so ran over // to yank the treat out of the kid 's mouth . At the top of the climb , there 's the monument , the eyes , the flags , the prayer wheels , all surrounded by a vast circle of stalls ? the terrific Nepali version of a shopping extravaganza . The other Buddhist holy spot , Bodnath , is a giant white dome with a circular stairway leading to the glaring Buddha eyes at the top , stained with the droppings of butter offerings and , according to legend , created through the efforts of a woman who became a millionaire from working as a goose girl . Everywhere are prayer wheels ( which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mantra chants and protect from psychic evil . High above are strings of prayer flags , paper laundry lines that send out messages by waving in the breeze , doused in juniper incense and tinted to represent the five elements of the world . By staggering traveler 's luck , we wandered into a Tibetan ceremony , getting to hear fifty monks chanting in that basso profundo muttering , accompanied by blaring yak horns and the rolling clank of giant metal prayer wheels . Nirvana . Kathmandu Airport may not be the number one nuttyand-scary place to get on a plane , but it 's easily in the top five . As we walked in , the security guard said to Brenda ( a perfectly respectable-looking woman ) , " Madame , do you have a bomb ? " What is more frightening is to see the group headed for Everest base camp ; waddling , obese , **26;2209;TOOLONG North Americans who look like any well-fed , underexercised family you might see sauntering about Minneapolis 's best shopping mall . It was exactly these people who 'd necessitated a state-run cleanup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truckloads of garbage . Today it costs around $30,000 to climb Everest , and over 150 have died trying ; the last three thousand feet of elevation , in fact , is called the Death Zone . At base camp , several times a day , the singing and chanting of the Sherpas is // drowned out by the pounding roar of an avalanche , and when you want to brush your teeth , first you have to defrost the toothpaste . For your ultimate climb through the Death Zone , you have to start at midnight and spend twelve hours climbing a wall of ice in the dark at temperatures of thirty degrees below zero . I got an inkling of what this is like just by trekking the Himalayas , where a festive mountain walk brought me into the Thin Air Zone , whose reduced oxygen slowed me to the trot of a little old man . " This year as we expected , there 's again the specter of bodies on the route , " said David Breashears , who 'd gone to the top in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-described Everest addict and was returning in the aftermath of the Into Thin Air carnage . ' After we went up last year , Bruce Herrod died , and the reports from the IndoSoviet ascent have him attached to the fixed rope on the Hillary Step . It does n't appear that they took the effort to remove the body , so that task will probably fall to us , if we get up there . We thought we were through with that last year , so once was enough , but we also have requests from the families to do what we can . . . . Looking at the slides of Rob that we took later on , only for his family 's use and our analysis , there 's some kind of arm or elbow of some kind protruding a few feet from him . Jan Reynolds , his wife , has asked if we could move his body off onto the Kangshung face side , so he wo n't become slide number twenty-five in people 's slide shows in years to come . " When Edmund Percival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the highest point in the world in 1953 , they took snapshots , and ate mint cake . Their historic success caused Hillary and Norgay to lead the kind of culture-mingle mongrel life that 's in the future for us all . Sir Hillary became a patron of the Sherpa people , while Norgay 's children were all educated in the U.S. The two men                     