@@773791

txt 40 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics Some Indo-Europeanists have virtually rejected out of hand the possible usefulness of conclusions reached on the basis of typological findings . In the strict neogrammarian tradition change is assumed to take place without exceptions . Recognition of apparent exceptions , and even more the procedure of basing inferences on them , is distasteful for such linguists . Moreover , successors of the neogrammarians who confine their attention to language as an abstract social system , following Saussure , or to an ideal language of an ideal speaker ? listener in an ideal speech community , following Chomsky , can not deal with actual language . Befogged as they are in the " hypotheses-beclouded atmosphere of the workshop , " they fail to understand language in its social settings and use . In spite of their objections to inferences based on the findings of typology , its application has led to improved understanding of early stages of Proto-Indo-European and has also provided explanations for residues in the early dialects as we note in chapters 9 to 11. 2.7 TYPOLOGY BASED ON VIEWS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eighteenth century sought language characteristics without relating them to a total structure of language . In the nineteenth century and early part of the twentieth century , attention was given almost entirely to morphology , though , as we have noted for Bopp , to morphological structure , not simply to single items in morphology . Pater Wilhelm Schmidt proposed to classify languages by position of the genitive with regard to its head ( 1926 ) ; it might follow the head of the construction , as generally in French and Spanish , or precede it , as in Turkish and Japanese . Including under the term " genitive " also phrasal expression , as in " purchase of houses , " English has about 90 per cent of its genitives following the head ; those that precede are almost exclusively animate nouns , such as " the neighbor 's houses . " Others did not agree on the assignment of such importance to the position of the genitive . Yet Schmidt must be credited for assuming a basic pattern for language , and noting correlations with it . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 2.7.1 Contentive typology By one typological approach , linguists of the former Soviet Union treat language by examining content in conjunction with form . They refer to this approach as " contentive . " Contentive typology recognizes three major language types : accusative , ergative and active ? stative , generally referred to simply as active . These show specific characteristics in vocabulary and syntax as well as in morphology ( Klimov 1083 ) . Accusative languages , for example , include transitive and intransitive Methods 41 verbs ; ergative languages , by contrast , include factitive and agentive verbs ; and active languages include active and stative verbs . Assuming that the accusative-language classes of transitive and intransitive verbs are clear from English , we may propose typical verbs for the two classes in ergative languages ; " eat , come " would be agentive ; " build , drive " would be factitive . While the cases in ergative languages differ from nominative vs. accusative , the accusative and ergative types are similar in having government relationships between verbs and nouns . Active languages , by contrast , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active verbs and inactive nouns require inactive verbs : for example , " boy " as well as " eat " and " come " would belong to the active class , " chair " as well as " stand " and " block " would be inactive . Moreover , active languages may include different lexical items for meanings like " stand , " the active verb corresponding to " arise , " the inactive to " be erect . " Each type includes further characteristics , distinguishing especially the active from the accusative/ergative . Further , as has been stated earlier , since languages change , we find examples of inconsistent languages in respect to contentive criteria as well as in other respects . Such inconsistencies provide means for proposing earlier patterning , as has been done spectacularly for Proto-Indo-European. 2.7.2 Syntactic typology A second approach takes syntax as the central component of language , and the government relationship of verbs with objects as primary distinguishing characteristic . The approach focuses on order , or by Bloomfield 's term arrangement , as noted in the examples above . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ related to many other characteristics : for example , object clauses , or complements as they are generally called today , have their position and also their structure determined by language type . Since complements stand before verbs in OV languages , they often are concluded by nouns meaning " fact , situation " and the like ; infinitives on the other hand , are less favored in OV languages and are rare . An example like the following is typical : " He the boat buys fact : she expects . " By contrast , VO languages make heavy use of subordinating conjunctions , as in She expects that he is buying the boat . They also include infinitives , as in She expects him to buy the boat . Such observations are important for historical purposes : for example , the various Indo-European languages show a variety of infinitive endings ; in Sanskrit they end in - turn , in Latin they end in - re , in Germanic in *-onom #@# - an , etc . Accordingly we can not reconstruct an infinitive for Proto-Indo-European . Its lack is one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ V language , which do not typically contain infinitives. 42 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics We may cite many more such characteristics ( Lehmann 1978 : 24-6 ) . Some have to do with morphology : for example , OV languages express modality and tense/aspect after verb stems , VSO languages before them . The early Indo-European languages included complex verbal endings , such as those indicating active voice , present tense , subjunctive mood , third person , singular number , e.g. Greek paidei ei " he may educate " vs the passive paideuetai " he may be educated , " etc . These have been replaced in current Indo-European languages by auxiliaries and other words that stand before the verb , as the English translations illustrate . The number of such correlations that have been identified may illustrate that syntactic typology relying on arrangement of verb and object is useful for understanding change in language . Syntactic typology does not , however , include correlations with the lexicon , except for devices to distinguish transitive and intransitive verbs ; for that reason it does not deal with content , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent that " meaning " is expressed syntactically , as by government , syntactic typology is not purely morphological as was nineteenth-century typology . 2.7.3 Head/modifier marking typology A third typological approach relies heavily on location of " marking " ( Nichols 1986 ) . Constructions like phrases and clauses are taken to consist of head and modifier . In a phrasal construction like Jean 's cat , cat is head and Jean is modifier . One of these constituents is typically marked . In English it is the modifier . In many languages it is the head ; in Biblical Hebrew , for example , nouns functioning as heads in such constructions stand in the so-called construct form rather than the absolute . In sentences the verb is taken to be head of the clause . Accordingly , verbs are heavily inflected in head-marking languages . By contrast , in modifier-marking languages , such as English , verbal inflection is scanty . Biblical Hebrew , by contrast , has massive verbal inflection . The active class of verbs is heavily inflected in active languages . Nichols has proposed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By her view , rather than the three proposed contentive types , the role of marking should be taken as primary . Whatever the reaction to this proposal , the correlations found for marking may be useful for making inferences about poorly known languages . If such languages have considerable inflection of the verb , one may draw conclusions about other morphological and syntactic characteristics . These brief characterizations of three typological approaches are designed to sketch their usefulness for historical study . Many languages are now being investigated for their typological structure , yielding further insights into these and other typological findings , as concerning the phonological component . The contributions of typology to lndo-European linguistics will be presented further below , especially in chapter 10 . Methods 43 2.8 EXTENSION OF THE TRADITIONAL METHODS In sum , historical linguists have at their disposal three methods : CM , IR and glottochronology . Of these CM is most highly regarded and most widely used ; but it can be applied only when data in three or more related languages are available . IR has been applied with impressive results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language are often unavailable . Glottochronology has severe limitations . Besides these methods , historical linguists make use of the findings of typological study , both to identify patterns that provide possibilities for explanation and patterns that lend credence to conclusions that have been advanced through application of the three methods . Linguists have always examined their conclusions with reference to patterns in other languages ; but the patterns so used have often been atypical , taken from languages that the individual happened to know . The findings of typological study are based on examination of all languages for which data have been secured ; accordingly , they provide much more secure bases for such purposes . In view of the limitations of the methods , linguists concerned with languages for which data are not available from early periods , or those seeking to determine relationships more than six millennia ago , have attempted to extend the established methods . Through such extension they set out to determine " remote relations " and " macrofamilies " or " superstocks . " The procedures employed have been called " multilateral " or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now being vigorously continued ; see , for example , Lamb and Mitchell ( 1991 : 125-350 ) . In using multilateral comparison , cognates are selected where they are available in any language of families assumed to be related . In illustrating the methodology , Dolgopolsky examines items in seven " language families " : Indo-European , Hamito-Semitic , Kartvelian , Uralic , Altaic , Chukchee-Kamchatkan and the Sumerian languages ( 1986:30 ) . Selected for their permanence in language , the items are fifteen : " two , who/what , tongue , name , eye , heart , tooth , finger/toe nail , louse , tear ( noun ) , water , dead , " first-person marker , second-person marker , and verbal negation . He then looks for cognates in any one language of the families concerned : for example , the item " name " is well-attested in Indo-European , as in Sanskrit naman ; for Hamito-Semitic Dolgopolsky cites Arabic ? ism ; for Sumerian inim " word " and so on . It is assumed that the resemblance is adequate for proposing relationship among those items @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no attempt is made to compare similar items , such as all Sanskrit , or even Proto-Indo-European , words beginning with n , or all Arabic , or even all Proto-Hamito-Semitic , clusters of sm , nor to account for all the lexical items meaning " name " in each of the languages held to he Nostratic . Moreover , even the highly selected fifteen items are open to general forces affecting language , including language loss . ' Perms for " tongue , eye , 44 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics tooth " are open to taboo ; and in active languages more than one designation is likely for " water . " Accordingly , the approach is totally different from the comparative method as it has been applied in the Indo-European languages and to other families . On the other hand , it is important to observe the care with which results of comparison are tested in reliable historical studies ; a review of problems in the history of study of the Indo-European languages and their solutions is highly salutary . Nostraticists make general assumptions , such as taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By contrast , the vowel relationships in the Indo-European languages were extensively examined to arrive at current analyses . To illustrate the difficulties , as well as the error of assuming the vowel a as basic in Indo-European , Hirt pointed out that any of the five short vowels of Greek may correspond to Sanskrit a ( 1921 : 1 ) . It is scarcely credible to assume that , over the much longer interval assumed between Proto-Nostratic and the various proto-languages of numerous families assumed to be reflexes of it , we would be able to posit retention of the same vowels in each of those proto-languages . Moreover , the families selected as originating in Nostratic are not the same among all Nostraticists . Some are dubious : for example , the " Altaic panel " brought to the workshop on linguistic change and reconstruction methodology in 1987 came to the conclusion that " Proto-Altaic , at best is a premature hypothesis and a pragmatically poor foundation on which to build a sustained research program . . . . Further , that perpetuating the term " Altaic " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1990 : 479 , 481 ; see also Miller in Lamb and Mitchell 1991 : 293-327 ) . Yet , as noted above , Altaic is one of the " language families " used for reconstructing Nostratic . Similar doubts have been expressed in dealing with the Amerindian languages . In spite of a time depth of more than ten millennia , all but Eskimo-Aleut and Na-dene are taken as reflexes of the same protolanguage . The hypothesis of a single origin has attracted massive criticism , as well as acclaim among journalists and nonlinguists , but is also strongly upheld by its proponents ( see Baldi 1990 : 23 ? 6 and Ruhlen in Lamb and Mitchell 1991 : 328-52 ) . In view of the concern , Matisoff was invited to discuss " mass comparison " ( 1990 : 106 20 ) . ( ' iting examples from languages other than Amerindian or the supposed Nostratic , Matisoff illustrates the inadequacies of mass comparison with examples from languages of southeast Asia . Methods 45 He reiterates the finding from applications of glottochronology that loss in languages obscures cognates so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be distinguished from accidental resemblances , whether among roots or grammatical morphemes . The verbal endings or expression of negation utilized by Dolgopolsky would then be open to the same difficulties as is the highly reduced set of core words . In discussing the problems , Matisoff points out with examples that large parts of the core lexicon or basic vocabulary and grammar of a language may be remodeled under the influence of languages with which it comes into contact ; see also Austerlitz ( in Lamb and Mitchell 1991 : 353-64 ) . For Indo-Europeanists it may be well to recall that Hopp proposed a relationship between Indo-European and Indonesian , as no-one would do today . Matisoff then reiterates , if at times with some vehemence , the position maintained by Indo-Europeanists on the basis of previous claims that the procedures used by the Nostraticists and others dealing with remote relationships are limited in their applicability , if at all reliable . Yet for Indo-European purposes it must be noted that Shevoroshkin and Ramer propose that " Nostratic data " provide a " new understanding of Proto-Indo-European phonology " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among " problems " they consider solved by reference to Nostratic is the assumption of three tectals rather than two , the source of two laryngeals and the " phonetic " nature of the Indo-European stops ( ibid . ) Such contributions would indeed be welcome , not only for Proto-Indo-European but also for other families in the Nostratic " macrofamily . " For acceptance of such " solutions , " however , the method of multilateral comparison will have to meet the objections of its critics . 2.9 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF HISTORICAL-LINGUISTIC STUDY Research in all fields dealing with social institutions , including language , has demonstrated that such institutions undergo change that limits the period for reliable results through use of any conceivable method for positing items or institutions of six and more millennia in the past . Strong support for such a conclusion may be taken from the modifications that have been accepted for Proto-Indo-European after the availability of data from the Anatolian languages . Little older than the data provided by the Vedas , or even the earliest Greek texts , the Anatolian data have led Indo-Europeanists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be clear in subsequent chapters . In changing so rapidly , linguistic and other social data differ starkly from biological or physical data , which are now being dated by means of remarkable new methods . By contrast , unless we have data from early periods , the relationships and genealogical classifications that may he determined with any certainty for social institutions have very specific chronological limitations . 46 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics Thanks to records from the second millennium before our era , we can reconstruct Proto-Indo-European to a credible degree . Few other language families are privileged with similar early records , so that reconstruction of earlier stages encounters severe difficulties . The conclusions of specialists in such families may be examined in essays of Baldi ( 1990 ) and Lamb and Mitchell ( 1991 ) . Even for the long studied Afro-Asiatic languages the specialists can not provide a " dependable picture of Proto-Afro-Asiatic " ( Baldi 1990 : 573 ; see however Hodge in Lamb and Mitchell 1991 : 141-77 ) . Until such a " picture " is available , attempts to relate Indo-European with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Indo-European family must therefore be examined with care . Such attempts must be scrutinized for their chronological applicability as well as the bases on which the reconstructions in other language families have been made . Proto-Indo-European reconstructions rely primarily on strict application of the comparative method , with support from the method of internal reconstruction . The accepted reconstructions are results of the procedures tested during two centuries of rigorous linguistic study . 2.9.1 Descriptive grammars used as bases in historical linguistics In their study Indo-Europeanists and historical linguists in general rely on grammars that have been produced for descriptive purposes . The grammars of Greek and Latin are based on those produced in classical times ; from medieval times similar grammars were produced for the European languages , such as Aelfric 's for Old English . Based on a long tradition , the grammars are referred to as traditional . Traditional grammars identify the sounds of a language , often devoting considerable space to examination of the writing system for proper interpretation of the sound system . They then go on to deal with the morphology , distinguishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to inflectional . Thereupon they deal with the syntax , when such a section is included . The lexicon is treated separately . The first edition of the Brugmann and Delbriick Grundriss ( 1886 ? 1900 ) and Meillet 's Introduction of 1937 among many other grammars , such as that of Leumann et al . ( 1963 ? 79 ) for Latin and that of Schwyzer ( 1939 ? 50 ) for Greek , follow this format . In some linguistic study of the past decades , departures have been made from the format of traditional grammars . A deep or underlying syntactic structure was posited , the rules of which were thereupon aligned with those of surface syntactic structure ; morphological and phonetic structures were derived by additional rules . In contrast with traditional grammars , the phonological , morphological and syntactic components were closely correlated . A distinct ( autonomous ) phonemic structure was omitted ; instead , systematic phonemes , determined in part by syntactic criteria , are posited . Methods 47 The approach led to different interpretations , especially of phonological phenomena : for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed a sound change in Proto-Indo-European by which /y/ in specific environments was represented as i , in others as iy , and in still others as y ( 1943 ) . Thereupon in the dialects or possibly even in late Proto-Indo-European , the allophones i and y became distinct phonemes , /i y/ . Under a systematic approach , the alternations in Vedic and other dialects were depicted by phonetic rules . Similarly , morphological phenomena were derived from syntactic structures rather than accounted for in a distinct morphological component . Recently , younger linguists in the generative school who have dealt extensively with actual languages have returned to a format like that of traditional grammar . For example , Sadock states explicitly of his approach : The idea that grammar consists of parallel organizational principles is really quite a traditional point of view . This orientation resembles , in broad outlook , the sort of view that underlies descriptive grammars of the last century , where one finds the discussion divided into more or less independent sections called something like " phonology , " " flexion , " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1990 : 5 ) Phonology and morphology then are treated as distinct levels , or in Sadock 's term " realms , " as are syntax and logical semantics ( i.e. relationships among linguistic elements rather than those between linguistic elements , e.g. horse , and objects in the outside world ) . The lexicon is handled apart from these realms , containing " the basic vocabulary for each of the modules and information as to the structural properties of each lexical item with respect to the several autonomous components " ( ibid. 29 ) . As part of the interface , it plays a central role " in associating representations from different modules " ( ibid. 36 ) . No underlying form or deep structure is proposed . Apart from greater attention to formalism , this format is very similar to that of traditional grammar . With some shift of terminology , the approach is that of the eminent historical linguists , Brugmann , Delbriick , Sievers , Meillet and others . It is clear then that the standard handbooks can continue to be utilized with assurance . The segments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of new information , like that provided for phonology by the Anatolian languages . Historical-linguistic study will continue to rely on the methods developed and improved over the course of two centuries . Modifications in the format for representing the results are advantageous if they assist in understanding the data in their development . 3 The standard handbooks 3.1 HANDBOOKS FOLLOWING THE NEOGRAMMARIAN MANIFESTO The formulation of strict theory and the solution of many problems that had baffled the early Indo-Europeanists prepared the way for a large number of publications in the last half of the nineteenth century . By the end of the century the field had attracted many capable and highly trained scholars . They were editing the important texts and producing handbooks , many of which are used today after numerous editions . For the first time in its long tradition , the Rigveda was published , to the initial consternation of the Brahmins ; subsequently , on recognizing that they could no longer count on oral preservation by means of dedicated young men , they were grateful to Max Muller and others who kept their sacred text @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ text with its representation of the Rigveda in both the pada or word-by-word form and the samhita or phrasal form , as well as of the transliterated text by Aufrecht . Editions of other important texts have also remained definitive , such as Sievers 's of the manuscripts of the Old Saxon Heliand , and his edition of the Old High German Tatian , among careful editions of central texts in many of the languages . Moreover , grammars , dictionaries and other monographs on specific topics were being published . Journals were established to circulate the latest findings : in addition to Kuhn 's , the journal of the Indogermanische Gesellschaft , with its review section that led to an annual bibliography . Similar developments could be cited in other countries , France , Great Britain , Italy , Russia , the Scandinavian countries , the United States , though there is no question that Germany , especially Leipzig , was the center of linguistic and Indo-European studies . The time was right for production of syntheses , or in the German term Grundrisse " compendia . " These were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Indic , Iranian and Romance studies . For IndoEuropean linguistics the responsibility was assumed by two scholars , Karl UUrugmann and lierthold I ) clbrtick . The field was and remains highly Soutcrti Itn Ihiti chaptri lirugnuunt ( IM ) 7 11 ) I61 , I ) clhtuck ( IW ) I'NNI ) . flirt ( 110I 17 ) ; M , ? 1111 ? t t 1Ut71 Si , VIM 1111711 I11 ) N11 ! I The standard handbooks 49 fortunate in their decision to undertake the reponsibility . Their work will never be surpassed because of the accuracy of its information and its care in presenting it , as well as cautiously proposed hypotheses in attempts at explanation . To evaluate these properly , we must note the principles they applied , as well as the difficulties they were faced with . 3.1.1 Brugmann 's systematic approach Probably the most important principle is a self-imposed limitation of the authors . In the first paragraph of the preface to the second edition of his Grundriss Brugmann states that a scientific grammar should be presented from a historical point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the time is not yet at hand for such a presentation , and accordingly he has selected a systematic approach . That is to say , he does not determine the older as opposed to the more recent phonological characteristics of the protolanguage , and similarly the morphological data ; instead , he simply lists all the elements that can be determined . In much the same way Meillet states that his Introduction is not a grammar ( 1937 : viii ) . He too provides a sketch of the phonological and grammatical material . This approach has been maintained in the standard handbooks , through Hirt 's , even though he called it a grammar , to the presumable replacement by the Winter publishing firm under the editorship of Kurylowicz , now Mayrhofer , and the recent " Introduction " of Szemerenyi . Although these handbooks are important , and will remain so , those using them need to understand the fundamental principle adopted by their authors with regard to their presentation . In treating some elements the traditional linguists may point out archaic features : for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that of the thematic nouns , and similarly the root verbs as opposed to the thematic verbs . However , Indo-European is treated as a kind of storehouse . Elements are identified by form . If there are formal differences , as in declensions , the elements or sets are treated under a different rubric . As a result , Brugmann arrived at a huge list of phonological elements and also a large number of nominal inflections ; the other handbooks include almost as many , as we note below ( see 7.1 ) . A further matter of presentation has to do with citation of authorities . In his preface to the first edition ( 1886 ) , Brugmann states that the field is already too extensive to allow presentation of the various points of view that have been expressed , or to list every scholar who has made any contribution . Rather , he has decided to present what he considers correct or probably correct . Such firmness a century ago arouses feelings of envy today , when one compares the subsequent publications , many of whose authors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included in bibliographical lists . Szemerenyi takes a totally different approach . le criticizes both those like Meillet who list bibliography in appendices and 50 Theoretical Bases of lndo-European Linguistics also Brugmann , who , according to him is selective in his references . He presumably solves the difficulty by listing all references that are credible , whether agreeing with his own views or not ( 1970 1989 : xii ) . By his view this procedure is more honest and more useful to the reader . But a page or more of highly abbreviated references on a specific point creates its own problems , especially when the references are to collections for which no editor is listed . While adequate bibliographies take a good bit of space , any attempt to evade them puts great burdens on users . Yet , even more than in Brugmann 's day , bibliographies in handbooks can not be complete because of the huge volume of publication . Although Brugmann did not provide exhaustive bibliographies , he made a point of citing unsolved problems , both so that others might set out to solve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made earlier by such attention . At least in his view , his own hypotheses were advanced to prompt additional attention by others . 3.1.2 The format and theoretical bases of the Grundrisse The content , and arrangement , of a compendium like that Brugmann undertook with Delbruck were also a matter of considerable concern to him . The first edition , published in five volumes from 1886 ? 1900 , follows a straightforward framework , in which the phonology , the inflectional and derivational morphology and the syntax are distinct , the last presented by Delbruck . Within a decade , however , Brugmann questioned that framework , so that the second edition was entirely his own ; as one result , the three volumes on syntax that were published from 1893 ? 1900 were not redone and have not been superseded . In his second edition Brugmann intended to provide a syntactic treatment , but was unable to achieve more than a treatise on " the simple sentence " that was published posthumously ( 1925 ) . However , his first two segments were massively expanded , especially the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including not only a presentation of the forms but also of their uses or functions . The decision to deal with their uses in connection with the forms took over a great deal of the material from the former sections on syntax . Delbriick 's role would therefore have been greatly diminished ; he turned to other interests , producing important studies on Germanic syntax . The shift in presentation must have resulted from a great deal of thought , which is formulated in the prefaces to the second edition ( 1897 ) and to Brugmann 's " Short comparative grammar of the Indo-Germanic languages " ( dated 27 October 1903 ) . In view of inaccurate impressions concerning linguistics at the time , some additional points might be noted . First , it is often stated that linguistic study neglected syntax before some fancied year , say I957 or 1964 . The statement may be countered by examining the allotment of space in the " Short grammar " but even more so I ) elbrllck 's massive treatment in the first edition of the lirundri.v.v , followThe standard handbooks 51 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparative grammar , " after an introduction of 31 pages , and 248 further pages devoted to phonology , including sentence intonation , followed by 342 to morphology , including uses of forms , allotted 83 pages to syntax that dealt largely with sentence structures . Moreover , in presenting his views on language , Brugmann states repeatedly that the sentence is the basic linguistic unit , going so far as to say that " all scientific consideration in the study of language is study of the sentence Satzlehre , because speaking is always done in sentences " ( 1904a : 623 , see also 281 ? 2 ) . He goes on to point out that linguists deal with words and phrases as well as sentences for adequacy as well as clarity of presentation ; yet words are by no means frozen , for among other things speakers manipulate the language according to their own views , as coinages of new words like " the teens " illustrates ( 1904a : 281 ) . Brugmann 's view of language is therefore not unlike that of linguists today . Further , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally cited for his characterization of language as a structure in which everything is interrelated , and Saussure is credited with guiding linguists to a structural approach . Brugmann , however , states pointedly in the preface he wrote in 1903 that " language is a highly complex human activity in which the most varied factors are coordinated in mutual dependence on the whole , and in which basically everything is conditioned by everything else " ( 1904a : viii ) . He could scarcely have stated more emphatically a structural conception of language . We may also recall that Friedrich Schlegel in one of the earliest publications in the Indo-European field was primarily concerned with determining the innermost structure of language . The view of language as a structure is therefore by no means recent , but was held through the entire period of Indo-European linguistic study , even though it may not have been applied by all Indo-Europeanists . Yet it is also important to be aware of restrictions that Brugmann imposed on himself , and of his realization that his work would be superseded just as his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In keeping with his structural conception of language Brugmann quotes approvingly a criticism of the neogrammarian approach by Schuchardt , who is often held up as an early representative of the opponents to neogrammariaji theory . In the quotation Schuchardt asks about the purpose of the " tl%ousands of sound laws " if they are stated in isolation and not related to " higher orders " ; for linguists must look for universals , and also apply their findings to clarification of human and cultural interrelationships . In this way Brugmann , while presenting details and individual facts , kept in mind the wider purposes of Indo-European linguistics . Though he graciously gives credit to Schuchardt , the position is essentially the one he had presented in his essay of 1878 on regarding language realistically . In dealing specifically with Indo-1 uropean linguistics , lrugmann states 52 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics as his goal the study of the development of all languages in the family from the earliest ascertainable periods ? the time of the proto-society ? until today , in all their differentiation ( 1897 : 29 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field , Indo-European studies actually restrict themselves to the earliest periods of the individual languages , and to the proto-language , leaving later developments to specialists in the various subgroups . Concentrating so specifically on Brugmann , this section may seem to be representing only one scholar of the time and his views . However , both the Grundriss and the short grammar were adopted by Indo-Europeanists as standard handbooks , and have remained so , indicating their representative status . The basis for their acceptance was not only Brugmann 's amazing knowledge , coupled with his capacity for careful and accurate presentation . He also continued to deal with general linguistic problems . Published in academic series , his monographs are unfortunately overlooked by subsequent linguists who examine the same topics . Thus his monograph on " Expressions for totality " of 1894 is not cited in Sapir 's brief monograph on the same topic ( 1930 ) . And the monograph on deixis ( 1904b ) is similarly disregarded by current scholars publishing on the topic . Because Brugmann was well informed and imaginative in his treatment of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superseded even though new data have been made available since his publications . 3.1.3 Shortcomings of Brugmann 's Grundriss The Grundriss has shortcomings , in part because of decisions made by its author . As he hoped , these have been noted and addressed by his successors . One of the earliest shortcomings to be treated by them is the reconstruction of elements whenever there seemed to be reflexes in the ancient dialects . It was apparently Brugmann 's strict reliance on the comparative method , coupled with his systematic approach , that required reconstruction if parallel items are found in several languages . His structuralism also contributed to this result , for he assumed parallelism among the items in a set . For example , since there was evidence for a fourfold set of obstruents at each position of articulation , e.g. t th d dh , when dental fricatives were proposed , a similar fourfold set was reconstructed , p ph d M. Somewhat similarly , a complete panoply of long vocalic resonants was reconstructed for the proto-language ( 1897 : 92 ) . As a result , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structural principles somewhat differently , Meillet reduced the inventory of phonological units considerably ( 1937 : 85-126 ) . As a second shortcoming , Brugmann 's treatment of ablaut leaves much to be desired ; he himself was unhappy with it . Here the basic problem consisted in reconstruction of all elements for the proto-language without positing earlier stages , once again in accordance with his systematic annroach . The proto-language then is a kind of storehouse . Hirt criticized The standard handbooks 53 Brugmann for his inadequate treatment of ablaut , and took as one of his own major aims solution of ablaut variation and its sources , to provide thereupon a somewhat different set of vocalic elements for the protolanguage . And shortly after Hirt published his phonological conclusions ( 1921 ) , Kurylowicz related the widely disregarded coefficients ( laryngeals ) to problems in vocalism ( 1927 ) , providing clarification of at least some of the major difficulties and eventually a far simpler vocalic system . 3.1.4 Further handbooks Nonetheless , by the time of publication of the last volume of the second edition of the Grundriss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of data , with hypotheses on difficulties , and stimuli to further publication . Brugmann 's compendium is clear and comprehensive . Anyone dealing with a problem could go to it for details on related data and proposed solutions . Although the First World War interfered with scholarship , it seemed as though Indo-European studies had reached almost a definitive stage as the major figures of the neogrammarian movement were leaving the scene . Hirt 's grammar in seven volumes is largely a rearrangement of the data in Brugmann 's Grundriss , except for Hirt 's contributions on ablaut ( 1921-37 ) . Meillet 's introduction is a carefully composed parallel to Brugmann 's short grammar ( 1937 , 8th edn ) . Szemerenyi 's introduction is restricted to phonology and inflectional morphology ( 1970 1989 ) . The presumable replacement to Hirt 's grammar by the same publisher under initial editorship by Kurylowicz consists of a series of unrelated volumes ( 1968 , etc . ) . All these handbooks are essentially comparative compendia like Brugmann 's . The more recent include some new data , as on the Anatolian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply recapitulates that of Brugmann . Since Brugmann 's collections of data and his formulations represent a careful compendium of a century of intense devotion to Indo-European studies , the Grundriss and the short grammar have by no means been replaced . Details have been modified , and supplemented , by data from the Anatolian languages , from Tocharian and from Mycenaean Greek , and occasional other welcome sources , such as the Celtic inscriptions of Spain . Taking these into account , linguists today may use the formulations of Brugmann and his contemporaries for reanalysis by improved theoretical methods , applied with a historical approach . 3.2 THE INDO-EUROPEAN FAMILY By the last quarter of the nineteenth century the members of the family had been identified , and fairly well documented . The classification had not been straightforward , for especially one reason : linguists placed undue weight on the lexicon in sorting out the interrelations . For this reason 54 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics Armenian had long been considered an Iranian dialect , in view of its many loanwords from Persian . It was only in the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that were unique to Armenian , such as changes in obstruents somewhat comparable to those in Germanic . The basis for his recognition should have made it clear once again that characteristics of the grammatical system , including the phonological component , are far more reliable than are lexical elements in establishing genetic relationships . Yet even today scholars who seek distant relationships rely heavily , some exclusively , on the lexicon . At about the same time Albanian came to be better known . It also includes many borrowings , and in addition is attested only from the nineteenth century , apart from a few earlier texts ; accordingly it was long overlooked . But distinct characteristics were now noted in it , such as the change of PIE e to o , and the presence of voiced stops after nasals where the proto-language has voiceless , as in dhender " son-in-law " from PIE *gomH-ter- . Once again phonological criteria indicated a distinct subgroup . By the end of the century then , eight subgroups or dialects were recognized for the family : Indo-Iranian , Armenian , Balto-Slavic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Views on their interrelationships , however , were disputed . Italic and Celtic were often classed together ; they share phonological features , such as the shift of g ' in some forms to b , as in Latin bos , Old Irish bo " cow " and also morphological features , such as s-forms in the preterite . Moreover , the Osco-Umbrian dialects of Italic show intriguing similarities with the Britannic dialects of Celtic and the Latin ? Faliscan with the Goidelic . Some scholars then assumed one subgroup , Italo-Celtic , in the post-Indo-European period , but this view has never been widely maintained . Such a view has , however , been persistent with regard to Balto-Slavic . Brugmann assumes such a subgroup as one of the eight he posits . Among other shared characteristics , treatment of vocalic resonants is parallel in each . Both also share an innovation in having a definite declension of the adjective made by suffixing PIE *-yo- . Both make the genitive of o-stems with a form parallel to the ablative *-od ending as maintained in Sanskrit . Both use PIE *to- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore are greater than those in the rejected Italo-Celtic . Yet the question of Balto-Slavic unity is unsettled even today , even though individual scholars maintain strong views on each side of the question . Determining the various subgroups accordingly required a great deal of attention , yet the eight subgroups of Brugmann 's handbooks , nine if Baltic and Slavic are regarded as distinct subgroups , have been maintained . Other languages , such as Thraco-Phrygian and Venetic , are so poorly attested that they provide few data for comparative studies . The chief efforts involved in dealing with them have to do with interpretation of the texts rather than seeking additional insights into the parent language . The standard handbooks 55 Besides identification of the various subgroups , their interrelationships were also examined . Brugmann was aware that shared characteristics might be ascribed either to maintenance of earlier composite subgroups or to areal relationships . Yet apart from the classification into satem and centum subgroups , he cautiously avoided hypotheses on other early groupings . But he assumed a society that maintained the proto-language , and he contemplated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier assumption of a homeland in Asia was giving way to one in Europe , or in the border regions of southwest Asia and Europe . Yet he saw little hope of more specific location for that homeland than somewhere in a broad band from France through central Europe to Iran ( 1897 : 22 ) . By Brugmann 's view , somewhere in this area the speakers at one time communicated in one language that might be viewed something like the Bavarian dialect of German ; he apparently chose Bavarian in the knowledge that it was by no means without variation in his day . His conception of Proto-Indo-European is then comparable to a dialect continuum , in Diakonoff 's term . Moreover , Brugmann also assumed differentiation already within the proto-language , with changes in some areas developing spontaneously or through influence from other languages . The change of tectal stops to sibilants in the satem languages he ascribed tentatively to the effect of indigenous speakers who gave up their own language in favor of an Indo-European ( 1904a : 25 ) . While later Indo-Europeanists may differ from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had achieved a position that is remarkably close to that held today , though scholars today attempt to be more precise in identifying the early location . Brugmann also held that , as the number of speakers increased and their territory was expanded in size , the proto-language came to be differentiated to the groups that are historically attested . Those speaking protolanguages like Proto-Indo-Iranian and Proto-Greek in turn gradually differentiated their language , in time to the varieties we know . Brugmann was well aware of the findings of dialect geography that had been secured through several decades of work ; following them , he assumed that Proto-Indo-European had developed somewhat as had Proto-Germanic or as did Vulgar Latin into the Romance languages . There is little to criticize about Brugmann 's assumptions in view of the materials available at his time . Even before all volumes of the Grundriss were published , however , Hittite and Tocharian materials had been discovered that were to modify its conclusions . Hirt and Meillet were aware of the two new subgroups , but did not modify Brugmann 's basic conclusions about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Publication of the texts , and thereupon analysis of the characteristics , took some time , so that the data from the two additional subgroups were only available shortly before Brugmann 's death , long after the initial publication 56 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics of Meillet 's Introduction and not long before Hirt 's initial volume was published in 1921 . Modifications in the classification of the subgroups and their early interrelationships were then left to others . 3.3 BASES OF THE PHONOLOGICAL SYSTEM The reconstructed phonological system proposed at the end of the nineteenth century was based on straightforward application of the comparative method . If distinct elements were found in three or more languages , especially Greek , Sanskrit and Latin , a reconstruction was made for Proto-Indo-European . Moreover , a symmetrical system was assumed , and all points in it filled . There was accordingly no hesitation about positing PIE b even though Schleicher and already Grimm had recognized its infrequency , especially in initial position . And since palatal and velar series of stops were reconstructed , nasals were proposed alongside them , not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took a further step ; he distinguished an o that varied with e , as in Greek pod- , Latin ped- " foot , " from one that did not , as in Greek his , Latin ovis " sheep " ; the nonablauting element he represented with *a . This reconstruction provides another example of his systematic approach . The various handbooks include copious examples , providing them for the phonological entities in medial as well as initial position . And the entities are listed in varied arrangements , as well as with varied diacritics , as for the palatal tectals . Since these are readily reconciled , we may follow the arrangement and representation adopted by Szemerenyi for summarizing the phonological system ( 1970 1989 : 37 ) . Table Diphthongs with i and u as second member were assumed for long and short e , o , a , though Szemerenyi accepts only di oi , and eu ou , and these only in inflectional endings . In addition , six resonants were posited , two semivowels w y , two liquids 1 r , and two nasals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and velar nasals . Moreover , all of these were assumed to have long and short vocalic variants : those for w y are u i ; the others are short and long vocalic versions of however many further resonants were posited . Szemerenyi includes short and long vocalic r / m n in his section on the phonology ( 197 ( 1 119891 : 46 52 ) , listing them as well in his phonological system ( ibid. 71 2 ) . The standard handbooks 57 All of these phonological elements were determined by use of the comparative method , with no attention to their distribution ; when it was taken into consideration , as by Meillet , the number of elements was reduced . If we disregard palatal and velar nasals , the set consisted of eleven vowels , eight further vocalic resonants , twelve diphthongs and six consonantal resonants . In the chapters on phonology , we will examine the evidence for these elements , and also modifications in approach that reduce their number even beyond the reduction by Meillet. 3.3.2 The obstruents The obstruent system proposed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method . Yet it too is extended in several sets , in spite of limited evidence . Aspirated voiceless stops are assumed almost entirely on the basis of items in Indo-Iranian , such as Sanskrit ratha- " chariot . " It is cognate with Latin rota , Lithuanian ratas , Old High German rad " wheel , " none of which include evidence for aspiration . Some , though not all , cognates of Sanskrit words with voiceless aspirate after s do include such evidence . The set of voiceless aspirates then was reconstructed largely in accordance with the systematic principles applied by Brugmann among others . Another problem in reconstruction concerns the tectals . When we survey the various languages we find evidence for palatals , velars , and labiovelars . Yet no dialect provides evidence for all three . In general , the palatals , e.g. k ' , and the velars , e.g. k , exhibit the same reflexes in the centum languages , i.e. k ; but the velars , e.g. k , and the labio-velars , e.g. k " ' , exhibit the same reflexes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the exception of Meillet 's , posit three sets for the protolanguage . Meillet proposes for Indo-European the system of the centum languages , assuming that palatal variants arose in these before front vowels . Kurylowicz is virtually alone in assuming that the labio-velars arose from velars in the centum languages ; by his hypothesis the parent language includes only palatals and velars ( 1935 : 1-26 ) . Even today , consensus on the Indo-European system has not been reached , although that proposed by Meillet accords best with assumptions based on findings of dialect geography . A third problem concerns fricatives . The sibilant s is extensively attested , and also a voiced variant before voiced stops ; Brugmann then proposed for sibilants , s sh z zh . Later handbooks do not , listing only s , with two allophones , s and z . A further problem that has been extensively treated has to do with the analysis of consonant combinations in words of the common vocabulary , especially two , those for " earth " and " bear . " Sanskrit k.cam- has as cognate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Old Church Slavic zemija . In accordance with the procedure of reconstructing an etymon for every 58 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics distinct element , an interdental fricative 6 was added to the set of obstruents . Since in the word for " bear " Greek has a voiceless stop cluster , e.g. Sanskrit rksa- , Greek krktos , a voiceless member of the set was also reconstructed . Brugmann then lists a second set of fricatives , aspirates as well as simple elements : b ph S 6h . Because of the small number of words including any of these , the set has always been treated hesitantly . As we will see below , Hittite provided data that are generally assumed to have resolved the problem . The total set of obstruents proposed by Brugmann is as follows : Table Szemerenyi omits the fricatives other than s , taking z to be a variant of it and the dental fricatives to be results of combinatory phenomena . 3.3.3 Accent As we have noted above , Verner 's solution to the third set of exceptions to Grimm 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exact parallels with Vedic were found in the preterite of strong verbs . Among examples are Old High German zeh : zigum , Vedic didega : didigimk " indicate , point out " from the PIE root *deyk- . The demonstration of variable accent with Germanic data was significant , because Greek indeed had variable accent but with its own rules ; similarly , Lithuanian and the Slavic languages with variable accent did not match that of Vedic . From Indic grammarians it was known that the Vedic accent was musical , that is , it was a pitch rather than a stress accent . Because the Germanic dialects have a strong stress accent that was fixed , their accentuation no longer provides evidence to corroborate that in Vedic ; but the pitch accent of Greek and Balto-Slavic supports the assumption that Vedic accent represents that of late Proto-Indo-European in type as well as variability . Moreover , the maintenance of unaccented vowels in the early dialects , including Germanic , is in accord with the treatment of vocalic elements in languages with pitch accent ; Germanic then indirectly supported the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his contemporaries dealt with accent as found in three The standard handbooks 59 segments : syllables , words , clauses/sentences . Evidence for accent in each was taken largely from the accentual systems of Vedic and Greek , supplemented by inferences from poetic meter , and from treatment of vowels . 3.3.3.1 Syllable accent In dealing with syllabic accent , attention was given to the difference between acute and circumflex accent , as in Greek and Lithuanian . It was recognized that evidence in Greek could be taken only from final syllables because of the shift to restriction of accent on one of the three final syllables of words . Evidence also from Vedic led to the identification of acute accent as a high pitch followed by falling pitch on the next syllable . Named Stosston " falling accent , " it contrasted with circumflex , referred to as Schleifton " slurred accent , " which was assumed to involve a shift from high to low within the syllable . To account for these patterns , the notion of mora was introduced . A mora is defined as the length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acute accent . Long vowels and diphthongs might consist of two or three morae ; two-morae vowels or diphthongs could receive either the acute accent or the circumflex , but only the circumflex fell on three-morae vowels and diphthongs . All three-morae syllables were assumed to be secondary , lengthened because of the loss of a following vowel or resonant , or because of vowel contraction , e.g. Greek accusative born , Vedic gam " cow " @#@ PIE *gwbum . Reconstruction of the accent system in Indo-European remains one of the most difficult phonological problems because the branches have shifted to a variety of systems . While Proto-Indo-European had free accent that might fall on any syllable , in the dialects other than Vedic the position of the accent is restricted to certain syllables . Moreover , most of the dialects have shifted from a pitch to a stress accent . In the attempt to determine the accent in the proto-language , the notion of mora has been maintained ; but long vowels are assumed to consist of only two morae . The difference between acute and circumflex accent is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has higher pitch ? if the initial , acute or falling , if the second , circumflex or rising accent . 3.3.3.2 Word accent I n treatment of word accent , the most important issue is its location ; for within paradigms it could shift . In the oldest inflection of verbs , the athematic , the base is accented in the singular , the ending in the plural , cf. Sanskrit as-mi , s-mks " I am , we are . " Similarly in the perfect ; that shift is ultimately responsible for the difference in vowel and final consonant in English was : were , cf. Greek oida , ismen " I know , we know . " Recent concerted attention to accent has clarified the patterns in nominal inflection ( Szcmerrnyi 1970 I 1989J : 170-1 ) . ' l'hc location of word accent has 60 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics been pretty well determined ; it is disputed only when data are lacking for individual words or morphological sets . 3.3.3.3 Sentence accent Clause and sentence accent presents a further problem because writing systems do not indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vedic provides a clue . In independent clauses the finite verb is unaccented when not initial . Since verbs stand in final position in unmarked clauses and sentences , it may be concluded that clause and sentence accent was characterized by a drop in pitch on their final elements . This conclusion could be supported by the position of alliteration in Germanic verse . A long line consists of two half-lines ; alliteration in each indicates the location of metrical stress . The first half-line may have two alliterative syllables , but the second has only one ; its last section invariably does not include an alliterative syllable , suggesting that the long line was based on a simple sentence , as it often is in the earliest Germanic verse , where stichic lines are common . Finite verbs are typically placed in the last metrical position ( non-alliterating ) of the second half-line . Since metrical principles often maintain archaisms , it could be assumed that verbs occupy this position because they were unaccented when so placed ; further , that the Germanic clause ended with a falling accent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we may cite the runic inscription on one of the horns found at Gallehus , which is noteworthy also because of its maintenance of unstressed vowels ; it is generally dated about AD 325 . Table By the time metrical principles were formulated in the Germanic area , accent occupied the first syllable of words . Choice of the initial sound for the two nouns and the descriptive epithet in this inscription , which has the form of a Germanic long metrical line , indicates location of the stronger accents , and conversely the lesser accent on the verb . Other elements in the clause as well were used to make inferences about sentence intonation , and also word accent , in the proto-language . As in many languages , particles are weakly stressed . They typically stand in second syntactic position in the clause or sentence , as Wackernagel pointed out in an influential article of 1892 . When Indo-European shifted from its OV order , the finite verb was placed in second position in declarative clauses , in accordance both with its lack of accent and with the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in typically marked syntactic patterns such as commands and questions , verbs stand initially and are accented . Through approaches like those indicated here , the accentual system of The standard handbooks 61 late Proto-Indo-European was pretty well determined . But the patterning of some derivatives from roots suggested that at an earlier stage the language had stress accent , not pitch . In this way , as noted earlier , the loss of vowels , as in *nist- , could be accounted for . Since pitch and stress accentual systems are generally distinguished sharply , the shift from one system to another may seem difficult to support . In his explanation of the difference between the two types of systems , Roman Jakobson concluded that an accent system is perceived as based on pitch if the extent of accent covers only a part of the syllabic element , or one of two or more morae ; if , by contrast , it covers the entire syllabic element , it is perceived as a stress accent system . The distinction between the two types may then not be great , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem inexplicable . As these statements may suggest , the brief treatment of accent in Brugmann 's Grundriss ( 1897 : 946 ? 54 ) was generally accepted , but expanded and supplemented by further understanding of suprasegmental phenomena in language . 3.4 MORPHOPHONEMIC VARIATION OF VOWELS ; ABLAUT One of the characteristic features of the Indo-European languages is the vowel variation in derivatives from a root . Found especially in the verbal system , it applies to derived nouns as well , as in examples like sing , sang , sung , song . Accounting for it long baffled linguists , as we noted in Grimm 's attention to the consonants but his despair about the vowels . The difficulties for the early linguists resulted from various causes . Among them , the assumption of Sanskrit as representing in great part the parent language long hindered proper understanding of its system , especially the vowels . In Sanskrit one vowel , a , in short and long form corresponds to three in Greek , short and long e a o , and to two in many of the other subgroups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a to the vowels of the other dialects could be determined ; yet the prestige of Sanskrit was long weighted more heavily than the inability to account for division of *a to *e a o . Moreover , in their own efforts to account for the variation of vocalic elements in roots , the Indian grammarians assumed a set of " grades " with u and the other vocalic resonants as basic vowels for many roots , and from a or even zero in other roots . Since the vowels of the Germanic languages , or of Latin , could often not be directly correlated with those of Greek , and certainly not those of Sanskrit , the problem long escaped even the beginnings of a solution . Only when the " law of palatals " made it clear that Sanskrit had once included an e vowel did the earlier system become apparent ( see 1.3.2 ) . By the " law , " velars are replaced by palatals before Sanskrit a that corresponds to e in other dialects ; examples arc the reduplicating syllables of the 62 Theoretical Bases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make " and jagama from the root gam " go . " The earlier forms would have been *ke-kor-e and *gwe-gwom-e #@# Proto-Indo-Iranian *ge-gom-e . The law is an example of a discovery that occurs to a numbers of scholars at approximately the same time . Linguists had become aware of the importance of scrutinizing elements in relation to one another , as illustrated by the solutions of the exceptions to Grimm 's law . While Pedersen gives priority of discovery to his countryman , Vilhelm Thomsen ( 1931 : 290 ) , Hermann Collitz claimed it . Besides illustrating the advanced state of Indo-European studies , the discovery made it clear that Indic at one time had the e-vowel and that it could no longer be taken as primary source for reconstructing the parent language . In this way it was Indo-Iranian that provided decisive evidence for assuming earlier e a o . A five-vowel system was then proposed for the parent language . Moreover , e was taken as basic vowel of roots , as by Saussure in 1879 . Theories to account for the vowel variations in ablaut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ablaut by others as well was voluminous . In the course of time a consensus was pretty well reached on the changes that had taken place , as of e to e , e to zero , and e to o , as well as the sets of forms incorporating the changed elements . Moreover , the changes were ascribed to shifts in accentuation . Yet many problems remained in determining the interrelationships of the attested vowels . In attempts to solve some of these , an additional ablaut grade , the socalled reduced grade , was assumed in addition to zero grade . And because roots and bases that included laryngeals remained opaque , long vowels resulting from merger of laryngeals with short vowels could not be clearly distinguished from long vowels that resulted from lengthening by ablaut ; they had fallen together in the parent language . Accounts of the morphophonemic variations in the vowel system were therefore highly complex . Rather than present these here , we limit ourselves to these generalizations and treat ablaut below as it is currently understood . Apart from the results of ablaut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language . Meillet assumed " autonomy " of the word , so that there are few modifications in sequences other than for enclitic particles . A pitch accent would not bring about massive changes of unaccented elements , whether medial or final . Suffixes on verbal and nominal stems then remained transparent until accentual shifts in the dialects led to losses of weakly stressed vowels , with resultant blurring of morphological elements . 3.5 DERIVATIONAL MORPHOLOGY The structure of words in the early dialects , and in the proto-language , was early understood , in large part thanks to the capable analysis of the Indian grammarians . A word typically consists of a root , a suffix , and an ending ( dfsinence , in Meillet 's term , 1937 : 147 ) A small number of nominal and The standard handbooks 63 of verbal roots have no suffix before the ending ; labeled root nouns and verbs , these are assumed to be archaic . They belong to the most frequent items of the vocabulary , such as names of body parts or major natural bodies , like the sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " come " and " go " . Later in the dialects , most of these also came to have suffixes . Root and suffix form a unit , which Benveniste called theme , Hirt base . The commonest suffix came to be the vowel e/o , which is known as the thematic vowel . As noted above , we use the term base . The base expresses lexical meaning ; the ending indicates grammatical meaning , e.g. -m on masculine nouns the accusative case , on verbs the first person singular . The language contained a large number of suffixes . Attempts have been made to determine their significance , as by Persson ( 1912 ) , though after a length of time suffixes tend to develop their own values , which may be quite distinct from their former meaning . Using evidence only from today , for example , it would be difficult to support a relationship between the suffix - dom in such words as kingdom with the noun doom . The function of a suffix in any one dialect may also come to differ from its function in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Latin though not in Indo-Iranian and other dialects provides an example . There were no prefixes in the proto-language . Short adverbial elements or particles may seem to be prefixes , such as the *ni- in *nist- " nest , " but their accentuation indicates that they are elements of compounds . The language included one infix , *-n- , which is prominent in verbal derivation . In addition , reduplication was prominent for derivation and especially for verbal inflection. 3.5.1 Derived forms based on ablaut variants The ablaut variations and the numerous suffixes permit a large number of derivations from any one root ; Meillet gives a well-chosen group of examples ( 1937 : 157-65 ) . Here we cite only some forms of the root *sem " one , same " : Table Saussure 's assumption of the structure CeC for Indo-European roots was generally maintained . But the classic analysis of roots accompanied by possible suffixes was provided only in 1935 by Benveniste . We will present his analysis below ( 5.1.1 , 6.4.1 ) . 64 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics 3.5.2 Derived forms based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up of roots and suffixes , compounding was well established . For the parent language two types of compounds are especially prominent ( see also 7.2.2 ) . One type is called possessive , or by the Sanskrit term , bahuvrihi , literally " much-rice . " The meaning of such compounds is " one who possesses something , " as here " much rice . " They then are exocentric , that is , compounds whose basic meaning differs from that of either of the elements it includes . Few are found in English , such as Blue-beard " one who possesses a blue beard , " rather than a kind of beard as blue-bird refers to a kind of bird . The second prominent type in the proto-language is called synthetic . Compounds of this type represent syntheses of sentences , e.g. Latin artifex " artist , " literally " art " + " maker . " The second element is verbal ; the whole is comparable to a clause signifying someone who makes things . These compounds are endocentric ; the function of the compound is the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different type of endocentric compound came to be most prominent : those like blue-bird in which the first element modifies the second ; an example is the Greek akrd-polis " peak-city . " They are also endocentric , but , unlike the Indo-European synthetics , the second element is nominal . Derivational morphology of the parent language is then well understood ; the forms that are attested are thoroughly described in the Grundriss as well as in later publications . The chief unsolved problems have to do with the origin of specific patterns ; solutions may never be possible , because of the well-known fading of the meanings of the suffixed material . 3.6 INFLECTIONAL MORPHOLOGY The system of inflections was earliest accounted for , as we have noted with reference to Bopp . The reasons are various . Among them , Greek and Latin morphology was thoroughly described and well known by all scholars at the beginning of the nineteenth century . Further , the discrepancies between the morphological systems of these two languages were disclosed on the availability of Sanskrit . Also its inflections are transparent . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ composite of Sanskrit and Greek for the verb . Since the Greek noun is inflected for only five cases , the ampler paradigm of Lithuanian nouns was taken as supporting the assumption for the parent language of the eight found in Sanskrit ; Slavic , and Latin with six cases , provided further support . Once again the procedure of assuming the largest possible set was followed . The standard handbooks 65 3.6.1 Nominal inflection The noun was then assumed to have had eight cases , three numbers and three genders . Some data suggested caution in constructing totally parallel forms in singular and plural ; in Vedic , for example , the oblique cases are poorly attested . However , a large system that gradually lost elements was taken as characteristic for the parent language , and accordingly eight plural as well as singular forms were accepted . No more than three dual forms could be assumed . The paradigm in grammars of Sanskrit was determined by economy in presenting forms ; in the dual the instrumental , dative and ablative share one form , as do the genitive and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illustrated by the Sanskrit root noun " foot " ; in words for which a vocative is made , the form is like that of the nominative . Table For the parent language a set of endings was determined that was added to roots and bases of whatever structure . Some modifications were thereupon introduced , as in the nominative singular of Sanskrit with loss of the final -s . Further , when preceded by vowels or resonants , the endings came to merge with segments of preceding bases . Accordingly , by the time of the later dialects nominal inflections with a variety of endings developed . These provide a complex set of declensions among the dialects , such as the five of Latin , in which the original inflection is still relatively transparent . Yet even in these dialects , losses of elements , mergers of suffix and ending and the falling together of various patterns obscures the earlier parallelism . Simplification of final clusters leads to the loss of the stem consonant in the Latin nominatives , e.g. lapi(d)s " stone , " and with lengthening , po(d)s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the stem vowel in lupus " wolf " in contrast with Greek hikos , etc . In the course of time , the losses of final syllables in Latin and other languages with stress accent led to massive reductions of nominal inflection . Adjectives exhibit the same number of forms as nouns , but differ from them in possible inflection through the several genders . Moreover , corn parison comes to be restricted to them . Personal and demonstrative pro nouns also parallel in inflection the nouns . The endings affixed to them differ in part from those of the nouns , leading to further complexities in the 66 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics dialects as noun , adjective and pronoun paradigms come to influence one another . The numerals belong to a special class . They will be discussed in 7.8. 3.6.2 Verbal inflection In accordance with the principles applied by Brugmann and his successors , the verb is fitted out in the standard handbooks with all the categories found in the central dialects . As a result , three voices were reconstructed : active , middle and passive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the early dialects . Similarly , seven tenses were reconstructed on the basis of Sanskrit , especially with attention to Greek . These are present , imperfect , future , aorist , perfect , pluperfect , future perfect . Moreover , four moods were proposed : indicative , subjunctive , optative , imperative . Some Indo-Europeanists have included a fifth , the injunctive ; the term was devised because the forms are like those of the indicative but the meanings like those of the subjunctive . Its forms are those of the imperfect or aorist , without augment ; found only in early texts of IndoIranian and Greek , it is now accounted for as a residue of an earlier pattern . Further , as for the noun , three numbers are reconstructed : singular , dual and plural . And finally , three persons . Finite forms were inflected for these categories . In addition , participles and nominal forms were made from verbal roots and bases ; the nominal forms subsequently developed into the infinitives of the several dialects . 3.6.3 Non-inflected elements Besides these two large sets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms : adpositions , conjunctions , adverbs and particles . The adpositions were placed after nouns , as in Latin mecum " with me , " and hence were postpositions ; they are maintained as residues in many of the early dialects . The conjunctions , like Latin - que " and " were postposed or treated as clitics , like its Greek cognate te . The adverbs are often frozen noun forms that provide modifications of verbal or sentential meaning , as for indications of time ( today , tomorrow ) or place ( here , there ) . The particles carry functions such as indicating nominal relationships , negation and discourse marking . 3.7 SYNTAX Views on the syntax of the parent language owe a great deal to Delbruck 's studies , which drew their conclusions from analysis of Vedic prose ( esp . 1878 , 1888 , 1893-1900 ) . Ile determined that Vedic sentences were verbfinal , a position he also assumed for the proto-language . In addition , he described other syntactic constructions , such as nouns with adpositions ; in The standard handbooks 67 the earliest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various constructions were treated as unrelated , however . Confining their attention to the Indo-European family , Delbruck and other linguists at the time did not arrive at a structural conception of syntax . Syntactic treatments , when included in the standard handbooks , provide syntactic patterns , generally by morphological criteria . Two types of sentences are acknowledged : verbal and nominal . In nominal sentences the verb " be " is generally expected , though in Latin one may find nominal sentences like Puer bonus rather than Puer bonus est " The boy is good . " Brugmann discusses nominal as well as verbal types , continuing with detailed examination of their constituents ( 1925 ) . In his introduction to this work , he states that " the structure of the sentence at the time of Proto-Indo-European society still remains hypothetical " ( 1925 : 9 ) . He had attempted to arrive at it by conjectures on sentence utterances by primitive man , besides examining the constituents of sentences in the dialects . Brugmann 's treatment of the " simple sentence " consists almost entirely of examples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Meillet 's crisper treatment may be characterized as a summary of Delbruck 's findings ( 1937 : 355 ? 77 ) . Distinguishing nominal and verbal sentences , with the help of numerous examples , chiefly from Greek , he examines the role of government and agreement . He also notes the devices for expressing negation and interrogation . And , finally , he treats coordination , indicating that it is marked especially by particles . We can have no objections to his conclusions ; but he too deals with syntactic constructions independently , so that no relationship is recognized among them . As a notable example , the comparative pattern in which the ablative case of the standard is placed before adjectives in contrast with the comparative pattern of the late dialects is disregarded . An understanding of it , as well as the general structure of syntax , came only through typological studies of the past three decades . The syntactic treatments in the standard handbooks then are useful for collections of data . But in spite of a great deal of attention to syntax from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Hirt 's mournful statement : " one assembles a series of facts but does n't know what to do with them " ( 1931 ? 4 III : vi ) . 3.8 THE LEXICON By the end of the century the word stock of the parent language had been well determined . Meillet includes in his Introduction a chapter " on the vocabulary " ( 1937 : 378-417 ) . The more extensive accounts by Walde and Pokorny ( 1927 ? 32 ) , Pokorny ( 1959 ) and Buck ( 1949 ) provide detailed information on the reflexes in the various dialects . Monographs deal with selected segments of the vocabulary , for example 1 ) elbriick 's treatment of kinship terms ( 1889 ) , now amplified by Szemerenyi 's ( 1977 ) . Analysis of 68 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics the lexicon yields information on the early speech community , which is essential for determining its location and also central for proposing earlier stages of the language . After a section on roots , Meillet discusses sets of " isolated words " that provide indications concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke Proto-Indo-European ( 1937 : 389 ) . The sets include kinship terms , names of animals and plants , words having to do with religion , some generalities , parts of the body , adjectives and finally nu-merals . With a different aim , Specht in 1944 sorted out by their form the corpus of words assumed for Proto-Indo-European , in an attempt to determine those that are older , both for insights into the developing structure of the language and the stages in the civilization of the speakers . Such lexical studies are highly important , though unfortunately their value has not been recognized , especially by archaeologists . We will not discuss them further here , except to point out the very real contributions of a century and more of lexical study . What is now necessary is informed attention , often to individual items . An exemplary study was provided by Scharfe ( 1985 : 543-8 ) , in which he demonstrated that the assumed word for " king , " as in Meillet ( 1937 : 392 ) and many other handbooks , early Sanskrit is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rat Scharfe demonstrates to be the nominative of a feminine noun meaning " power , strength " ; its oblique forms are based on the " weak stem " Turk- , as in the accusative singular urjam . When attested as second member of a compound in later Vedic texts , as in deva-raj , Scharfe takes it to mean " ruling ( over the gods ) . " Scharfe 's demonstration has important consequences : it shows that the proposed word for " king " is attested only in Latin rex and Old Irish ri so that no Proto-Indo-European etymon can be reconstructed ; it removes one argument for closer relationship between Italic , Celtic and Indic ; and it demolishes any support for a larger social organization in the early period that was ruled by a " king . " Scharfe 's finding may illustrate the kind of contribution that is now possible , and welcome , in contrast with massive new insights during the nineteenth century . It also indicates that those insights may have led to error by failing to observe key evidence ; many treatments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insti-tutions . Similar painstaking and imaginative analyses are especially import-ant in view of the data contributed by the Anatolian languages , as well as those from Tocharian and Mycenaean Greek with occasional new material in the other dialects . 3.9 HANDBOOKS THAT MAY BE CONSIDERED FUNDAMENTAL IN CURRENT STUDY The standard handbooks 69 in parts . Similarly , the large dictionary of Walde and Pokorny ( 1927-32 ) , revised and arranged in accordance with the order of the Latin alphabet by Pokorny ( 1959-69 , reissued 1989 ) , and the thesaurus of Buck ( 1949 ) are important as sources of data . Moreover , the handbooks based on these , among them those of Adrados ( 1975 ) and of Szemerenyi ( 1970 1989 ) , and Watkins 's lexicon ( 1985 ) , as well as the grammar inaugurated under the editorship of Kurylowicz ( 1968 ) and now continued under the editorship of Mayrhofer , provide useful summaries of earlier findings , with some revisions . Labeled here the standard handbooks , they aim at description of Proto-Indo-European at a late stage , shortly before its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are based largely on use of the comparative method . After the discovery of Hittite supported conclusions based on use of the method of internal reconstruction , increasing efforts have been made to determine earlier stages of the proto-language . Many of these have checked their hypotheses by means of the generalizations determined in typological study . The handbook by Gamkrelidze and Ivanov ( 1984 ) is the most comprehensive such work . It was preceded by monographs on sections of the grammar , among them my Proto-Indo-European Phonology ( 1952 ) and Proto-Indo-European Syntax ( 1974 ) as well as by many articles included in its lengthy bibliography ( 1984 : 974-1113 ) . In addition to the increased confidence in results arrived at by the method of internal reconstruction , these later works make use of methods for subgrouping languages achieved by work in dialect geography . The resulting procedures have supported the view that the extensive set of inflections found especially in Sanskrit and Greek may have arisen in a central subgroup , and that peripheral branches like Anatolian and Germanic may be more conservative in maintaining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ verbal system has been taken as providing insights into the still earlier system of Pre-IndoEuropean , through its maintenance of residues and through different redistribution of forms from those in the dialects attested previously . Moreover , we now deal with the proto-language from a historical point of view , in contrast with Brugmann 's systematic approach . Under this approach we seek to arrive at a system of all grammatical components , not only the verb system , as did Bopp in 1816 , or of the phonology and morphology , as have Brugmann and others . In the current effort the comparative method is therefore applied also to syntactic patterns . Accordingly , a grammar of Proto-Indo-European today would reconstruct the three systems : phonology , morphology and syntax . 4 Revisions on the basis of new data and new principles 4.1 NEW DATA AFFECTING THE TRADITIONAL VIEWS By the early decades of this century Indo-European studies were equipped with large and well-considered presentations on the parent language , the early dialects and the cultural background of their speakers . These were based on theoretical views that had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but , as noted in chapters 1-3 , also earlier , at the beginning of the nineteenth century . Indo-Europeanists were concerned with structure , indeed innermost structure . They sought to determine that structure by mastering the data . The data of the early texts were to be treated like information obtained about spoken languages of the present . Respect for data kept them from publishing revisions of hypoth-eses simply by examining those proposed by their predecessors as bases for intellectual gamesmanship . And when new information was provided , as after the discovery of Tocharian , the Anatolian languages and Mycenaean Greek , the articles and monographs that treated them did not begin with a section on some " theorist " or some specific " theory " ; rather , they pre-sented the data and then proposed their interpretation on the basis of long-accepted procedures and theory . This is not to say that theoretical works were lacking . They were generally produced by eminent scholars after long concern with many languages . The outstanding Sanskritist , Jakob Wackernagel , produced two volumes on syntax that still ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grammar ( 1926-8 ) . The somewhat more daring Havers published an explanatory treatise on syntax ( 1931 ) . Starting from a differ-ent tradition , Trubetzkoy laid the groundwork for treatment of phonology ( 1939 ) . Among those treating methods , Meillet , when invited to give a series of lectures in inaugurating the program of the newly founded Institute for the Comparative Study of Culture in Oslo , presented an excellent exposition of the comparative method in its relationship to typological comparison , illuminating at the same time application of these Revisions 71 procedures to data that takes into consideration the varied social situations in which language is used ( 1925 1967 ) . Meillet 's insistence on dealing with actual speech , like Brugmann 's , and his pointed statements on the variety of language in accordance with specific social communities , would scarcely have pleased his former teacher , Saussure , nor many linguists today . In one of his crisp sentences he may even exaggerate the differences among varieties within language : " Rien ne differe plus d'un etat de langue qu'un autre etat de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be little question that he chose the term langue deliberately a decade after publication of Saussure 's subsequently celebrated series of lectures . The different varieties recognized by Meillet are neither specimens of parole nor of performance , but actual languages maintained by actual language communities . And since the Caucasian languages , rather than his example of varieties within his own French language , were to be the research area of the new institute , Meillet welcomed the proposed undertakings , because they would " provide precise and comprehensive information on states of language , and in this way lead to renovation of theoretical principles doctrines ' ( 1925 : 116 ) . We may be grateful that in the country which carried out the most notable political revolution of modern times this term had not been extended to revisions in intellectual approaches . Meillet 's unsurpassed little monograph should be well known by every linguist , both because of its highly thoughtful conclusions and because of the accuracy of his predictions on the results of detailed concern with specific languages . Some of the most highly regarded linguistic study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's insistence that varieties of languages , such as the social registers of English , be studied . Moreover , some of the most fruitful theory of recent times has resulted from examination of the very Caucasian languages to which he referred . The monograph might be characterized as an updated and enlarged version of Brugmann 's manifesto , with more specific attention to actual data than Brugmann allowed himself in his brief statement . Like Brugmann 's statement , it may seem to center on historical study , but the insistence on detailed attention to current French and to investigation of the Caucasian language ? among other language ? areas indicates that Meillet is dealing with all linguistic study . It was into this highly informed and theory-based linguistic situation that the new data from Anatolia and Chinese Turkestan were introduced . Linguists have been fortunate that some of their colleagues could read , understand and interpret the data . The early fortunes of the Anatolian materials might virtually be the subject of a thriller . Their discoverer , Winckler , was reportedly too ill to do much with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death in 1913 his considerate colleagues did not encroach on his pcerogativc for their publication and interpretation . Thereupon , since the 72 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics texts were in cuneiform , Assyriologists undertook to read and interpret them . Interpretation was not hastened by the statement published in 1896 by the highly regarded classicist , Paul Kretschmer , that no Indo-European language could be expected in the future from Asia Minor . When the young Assyriologist , Friedrich Hrozny , published an article in 1915 proclaiming " The solution to the Hittite problem , " followed up by a monograph in 1917 on " The language of the Hittites , its structure and its membership in the Indo-European language family , " the IndoEuropeanists did not believe him . He provided incontrovertible evidence , such as the nominative watar , genitive wetenas " water " ; even the presence of a heteroclitic noun comparable to Latin iocur , iocinoris " liver " or cognate with English water , Norwegian vatn did not convince all the sceptics . Further , the social disruptions caused by the First World War were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new data . A strange development hampered the potential contributions of one of the most brilliant linguists of the time , Carl Marstrander . He turned his attention to the language , relying for his data on the brief texts that Hrozn had provided in transcription . Marstrander 's monograph of 1919 included advances beyond Hrozny 's publications , though its adventurous undertaking to interpret the phonology was something of a disaster . After this single publication , Marstrander dropped his concern for Hittite , quite inexplicably . The reason ? which we learned from him during personal conversations in 1951 ? may provide an insight into at least one apparent irrational development in scholarship . A colleague urged Marstrander to provide some business to an impecunious bookbinder . In impetuous generosity , Marstrander took over all his Hittite materials for binding . That night the bookbinder 's shop burned to the ground . Another early scholar , Forrer , lost credit through imaginative suggestions , such as that the people named Ahhiyava in the texts were Achaeans , a suggestion that after two generations has again found some supporters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in central America , where he was effectively separated from scholarship . It was only when the highly regarded Ferdinand Sommer dealt with the texts in accordance with the painstaking procedures developed in study of the classical languages that Indo-Europeanists accepted the identification of Hittite as a member of the family . Thereupon capable young scholars , notably Johannes Friedrich and Albrecht Gotze , dedicated themselves to concentration on the language . And a few years later the brilliant young Polish scholar , Jerzy Kurylowicz , published an article identifying some Hittite words that included the sound transliterated by h which he related to Saussurc 's coefficients ( 1927 ) . The implications of his discovery eventually Icd to the refashionifig of many of the conclusions that had been presented itt the statxlard handbooks , though cunscn'ativc scholars long Revisions 73 resisted them . Yet after publication of the article , accounting for Hittite and the other Anatolian languages came to be one of the major pursuits of Indo-European study . In the meantime knowledge of the two Tocharian languages had advanced steadily . The texts were readily understood , being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the already known BrahmFscript ( see 1.6 above ) . Specialists then needed to edit and interpret them , thereupon to produce grammars and other handbooks . Advances encountered problems that were social and political rather than linguistic ; the Tocharian B texts were in Paris , the Tocharian A texts in Berlin ; but when eventually published , the material could be used . It was soon clear that the texts were not only recent , from the seventh to the ninth centuries of our era , but also limited in value for comparative Indo-European purposes through heavy modification of the language by languages of agglutinative structure . Although full of intrinsic interest as languages greatly modified in structure and lexicon , Tocharian A and B contributed to Indo-European studies largely through their evidence that disproved the centum : satem classification , besides posing the intriguing problem of how an Indo-European branch came to be located in far-off Turkestan . In somewhat the same way the Mycenaean inscriptions that Michael Ventris demonstrated to be Greek in 1953 have great intrinsic value for this subbranch , but scarcely provided surprises with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of laryngeals , not least because of a number of unidentified syllabic signs . Yet the awkward Linear B representation of early Greek , provided in short texts produced chiefly for tax and administrative purposes , furnished only relatively minor contributions , such as evidence for retention of labio-velars as opposed to the p t k of the later language . In short , it was the Anatolian languages that led to revisions of the proto-language as presented in the standard handbooks . No-one in the academic world can be surprised that these came slowly . 4.2 THE IMPACT OF HITTITE While other members of the Anatolian branch , such as Luwian , contributed insights into the proto-language , for some time the chief materials available were Hittite . It is to these that we owe improved understanding of the early period of Indo-European . We may note specific modifications in the system that had been previously accepted . 4.2.1 The laryngeal theory An entirely new set of phonological elements had to be assumed for the proto-language . In keeping with the terminology that had been introduced for Saussure 's coefficients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their 74 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics , assumption , the laryngeal theory . As for any phonological items no longer central in the inventory of a language , evidence for them was not extensive . Reconstructing the actual number and their phonetic make-up aroused vigorous debates . Some posit three laryngeals , others four , still others very many or only one . We examine the bases for the varied positions later . 4.2.2 Elimination of the voiceless aspirated stops The set of stops proposed as voiceless and aspirated was now eliminated , on the grounds that some of the reflexes identified earlier in Sanskrit resulted from clusters of voiceless stop and laryngeal , the others from positional variants of the voiced aspirates and laryngeals . Their elimination as distinct entities in the proto-language had many consequences for the remaining system . No-one with any background in phonology would assume a set consisting of voiceless stop , voiced stop , voiced aspirated stop , the dental set of which might be represented t d dh . The problem was reviewed by Indo-Europeanists , and came to be a happy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4.2.3 Clarification of ablaut Treatments of ablaut had been highly complex , in part because of morphophonemic differences between the so-called inherited long vowels and the long ablaut vowels resulting from short vowels by compensatory lengthening . Saussure had concluded that the inherited long vowels arose from contraction of a short vowel and following laryngeal . Hittite now provided evidence for his explanation . Besides assuring the inclusion of laryngeals as a distinct set , the new evidence supported assumption of a root structure consisting of Consonant ? Vowel ? Consonant . Roots like *dhe- " place , " * ( s ) td- " stand , " *do- " give " could now be put in a class with roots like *sed- " sit " or *legh " lie " on the basis of textual evidence . As a result the entire ablaut situation was clarified . Widely attested changes like that of e to zero , or to lengthened e , or to o were assumed to have occurred in early stages of the proto-language ; eventually , the highly complex vocalic formulae and their interrelationships as presented in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4.2.4 Effects on the treatment of the morphology The recognition that the so-called original long vowels resulted from contractions of laryngeals with short vowels also clarified inflectional and derivational morphology . In inflection , the feminine nouns ending in long u , as in the Latin first declension , were now seen to he the result of a Revisions 75 laryngeal suffix that had contracted with the preceding vocalic element . This conclusion upheld Schmidt 's assumption that the ending was originally a marker of collectives ( 1889 ) . A further inference was made that the marker came to indicate feminine gender because in an agrarian society the female animals were those preferred and accordingly predominant within herds . By this inference the few masculine d-stem nouns in Latin were also accounted for ; agricola " farmer , " nauta " sailor , " poeta " artificer " did not actually stand for an individual , but rather for collectives , and thereupon their members . Moreover , it became clear why the same suffix was used to mark nominative singular feminines and nominative/accusative plural neuters . Schmidt had equated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained obscure even though some neuter plurals were translated as collectives ( see 7.3 ) . An even more spectacular clarification resulted in the verbal system . Verbs with nasal infixes had been analysed as belonging to three separate classes . In Sanskrit these had sequences consisting of - na-  , - nu-  and - nd-  , which had been distinguished as classes 7 , 5 and 9 ( Whitney 1896 : 228-9 ) . It now became clear that the verbs with long - nd-  were found in bases that ended in one of two laryngeals . In a paper presented at the Linguistic Society of America in 1953 I proposed that the base of many - nu-  verbs ended in another laryngeal ; I never submitted the paper for publication , but some time later Martinet published the same hypothesis . If one accepts the analysis , the three Sanskrit classes are readily interpreted as members of one original class . The assumption concerning the bases was supported by various other developments . 4.2.5 Effects on the treatment of syntax In syntax it now became clear why a singular verb was used after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congruence were established , the " neuter plural " was not really viewed as a number of distinct items or individuals but rather as a collective . In a less widespread pattern , found in older Germanic dialects , a neuter plural anaphor was used to refer to a group consisting of males and females ( Lehmann 1957 ) . The pattern is another residue from the period when the ending indicated a collective . As these statements illustrate , the incorporation of laryngeals into the phonological system of Proto-Indo-European has , in Vennemann 's words , " dramatically changed our view not only of the phonology but also of the morphology and lexicology " ( 1989 : xi ) . We can continue to use the stores of data compiled in the systematic treatments of the standard handbooks , especially the reliable information assembled by Brugmann and Delbruck , as well as by the notahlc authorities who produced almost definitive grammars for the dialects , among them Wackernagcl 's for Sanskrit , Schwyter 's for Greek and l , eunumn 's for Latin . however , we must update 76 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation before an accurate understanding of Proto-Indo-European phonology was achieved . 4.3 MODIFICATIONS IN METHODOLOGY In addition to the new data provided by the discovery of the Anatolian languages , a clearer understanding of the structure of language contributed to an improved treatment of the proto-language . The methodology applied represents an extension of the structural view that the early IndoEuropeanists had adopted , stimulated by generalists like Friedrich Schlegel . Bopp and his successors dealt with the morphology in this way , assisted by increasing knowledge of the presentation of the Indian grammarians , especially Panini . It was only at the end of the century that a comparable approach was applied to phonology . More recently , the approach has been introduced in the treatment of syntax . 4.3.1 Comment on theory and terminology In view of the massive attention to methodology and linguistic theory , as well as the varied use of terms , a brief statement on definitions of key terms and on theory may be useful at this point . The term " structuralism " has come to be used in linguistic study for the approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third , fourth and fifth decades of this century . Moreover , when used by many it has a derogatory implication , suggesting that linguists in the period limited their treatment of language to external form with no attention to meaning . Without discussing the merits of this implication , we may recall that " structure " for Schlegel and early Indo-Europeanists did not represent the external shell of language . Indo-Europeanists throughout the nineteenth and the twentieth centuries have dealt with forms and meanings , as well as their values in the systems of communication used by societies speaking languages of the Indo-European and other families . Further in linguistic study , the term " generative " linguistics has come to be used for an approach that succeeded the so-called structural linguistics . The term " generative " was properly applied to grammar , where its most highly regarded proponent equated it with " explicit " . Like many popular movements , generative grammar has acquired its own mythology . Its devotees credit it with introducing formalism into linguistics . It has preempted terminology like " transformation , " subsequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of specific pronouncements on his aims by Chomsky . In popular as well as academic statements he has indicated that he is chiefly concerned with mental processes involved in the use of language , and with the descriptions of the accompanying manipulations , descriptions cquiv:dcnt to what others call grammars . As in the paragraph on " structuralism . " I am not concerned here with the usefulness Revisions 77 of generative grammar/linguistics , nor of the validity of its several versions . I simply indicate that some terminology in generative grammars was used earlier , and in a different sense . The term " transformation , " for example , was introduced into generative grammar from structural grammar . There it was applied to processes long studied in approaches to language , as for interrelating passive with active sentences . Since the focus of generative grammar has now been shifted , it may be important to recall that in its early phase the term " transformation " was applied to a special kind of rule that related one set of rules ( e.g. those " generating " an active construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generating " a passive construction ) . Before its introduction into structural grammar , the term " transformational " was applied by logicians in their treatment of language . Even sketching its use there would extend this section unduly ; anyone interested can find a concise presentation in the works of Carnap . Besides noting the need to be aware of the varied applications of terminology , linguists must also be clear about the use of formalism and claims made for it . Generative grammar is often credited with its introduction and use in current linguistic study . That claim can more properly be made for computational approaches . Computer manipulation of language preceded the earliest publications in generative grammar , and obviously would have been impossible without careful formalism . The use of formal procedures and of formalist terminology like that noted above was based on symbolic logic developed in the nineteenth century and elaborated in the twentieth . Yet far more important than views about the recent application of formal procedures in treatment of language is the background of formal approaches . They deal with language by assuming categories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the theory and formulation of categories . And one of the important contributions of Indian grammar to nineteenth-century linguistic study came from its highly developed formalism that was possible through use of categories . Linguists today still praise its elegance , which can now be readily examined in the admirable presentation of Panini 's grammar by Sumitra Katre ( 1987 ) . In short , categories have long been features of eastern as well as western treatments of language . However an individual may interpret the term " categorial grammar , " grammars from the time of Bopp and earlier deal with language through categories . Terms like " indicative , subjunctive , aorist , nominative , comparative " refer to categories - morphological categories . Terms like " tenucl , mediae , aspiratae " refer to categories - phonological categories , maintained from the time of Latin grammarians . Terms like " protasis " and " apxdosis " refer to categories - syntactic categories . We may sharpen the use of categorial terms , or introduce others . The terms " tenues , mediae , ispiratac " were replaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bases of Indo-European Linguistics the term drthron hypotaktikon " hypotactic article " as marker of what seemed to him a specific type of clause , August Grotefend introduced for such a construction the term " relative clause " in his Principles of a New Theory of Syntax ( 1827 ) ; the " article " introducing them has subsequently been called a relative pronoun . Categories then have been recognized in treatment of all aspects of grammar . The role identified for a specific category , as well as theories of language , are not exempt from the change found in all social conventions . Since 1827 Grotefend 's " new theory " has been replaced by many " new " theories . Each theory , and its proponents , may claim for themselves the worn adjective " new " and even others , like " more rigorous , " or they may even express proprietary claim to terms applied in linguistic study . Whatever the claims , of greater importance is knowledge of the application of a specific term in a specific work and , of course , any advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awareness of earlier approaches and terminology is also of no slight benefit in any academic undertaking . 4.3.2 Phonological theory The major development in the treatment of the sound component of language had to do with categories of sounds , and their interrelationships . As is well known , besides the perceived , articulated sounds , classes were proposed that were labeled " phonemes " . The classes , like the long-applied morphological classes , are abstractions . Scholars vary in associating them with more concrete manifestations , some preferring articulatory values , others mental . Whatever the basis , the entities of any reconstructed item , e.g. PIE *dem- " build , " cf. Greek domos " house , " correspond to phonemes in current treatments of language ; each of the entities is determined largely by relationship with others , such as /d/ : /n/ , as in PIE *nem " arrange , " cf. Greek nomos " law . " The classes may be distinguished for subclasses , often called allophones . Phonemes may also be analysed for distinctive features ; nasality is such a feature in distinguishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in " sound change " only one distinctive feature is generally involved : for example , when *bant became bats in Old Icelandic , the primary distinctive feature involved was nasality . Phonological theory was energetically pursued in the fourth decade of the twentieth century . Trubetzkoy 's Grundzuge presents many of the findings . After the author 's death , Jakobson discussed more explicitly the application of distinctive features . Subsequently other considerations have been examined , as of accentuation ; the works of Allen ( e.g. 1973 ) are especially valuable for Indo-Europeanists . Treatments of phonology with reference to the parent language or to the early dialects today apply modern phonological theory , even it ' they arc not always explicit in identifying it . Revisions 79 4.3.3 Morphological theory Western grammatical tradition centered on morphology , developing procedures for representing it structurally through paradigms . The term " paradigm " is equivalent to structure , or substructure . Items in a selected set , for example nouns , or nouns of a subtype , such as those with bases ending in elo , are arranged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well known . The procedure yields convenient summaries . It has proved to be so successful that recently a historian of science , Thomas A. Kuhn , applied it to scientific approaches , providing means for scientists to sort out varying ideas and terminology while securing for himself wide acclaim . Semantic criteria are the principal means used to build paradigms . In nouns , for example , the dative case refers to a paradigmatic category indicating a recipient , usually , though not exclusively , an animate recipient . Stated differently , cases are defined by identification of specific functions . Like other grammatical categories , cases may be expressed with differing forms : for example , in Latin the dative singular form of " wolf " is Lupo , of " spirit " animae , of " tower " turri . In spite of the formal differences , these forms are equated in a paradigm because they stand in comparable relations to other forms within the set to which they are assigned . Such identification is extended beyond one language : for example , the genitive of " wolf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Greek , lukou , with that in Sanskrit , lukasya , and so on . The procedure has been so long applied that linguists may fail to observe its bases : for example , some linguists who do not hesitate to equate totally different morphological entities like Latin -o , - ae , -i have condemned use of the same procedure in dealing with syntax . Further , they apply the comparative method in equating as datives forms as different as Latin endings -o and - ae , but consider the method inapplicable in dealing with syntax . Those objecting to the use of similar procedures in syntax also fail to note that the meanings , or in Saussure 's term ? values ? of such morphological entities may not be equivalent . Apart from the vocative , Latin has five cases , Greek four , Sanskrit seven ; the value of any one case in each of these languages is determined by the total membership within its paradigm : for example , in Greek the genitive is used more widely than is the genitive in Latin , or that in Sanskrit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such differences in value , the cases in these languages are given the same labels . While the procedure is useful , it is also hazardous when " theoreticians " discuss categories like the genitive , or the passive , or broader spheres like aspect through a broad array of languages and even language families without distinguishing the position of such categories in the individual languages that are treated . Yet the paradigmatic procedure is advantageous in permitting disregard of formal and semantic differences after the general parameters for                     