@@773757

txt 70 Strangers oblivious to the moral significance of their actions . What follows in practice is that they may refrain from actions which moral responsibility would have prompted them to take , and engage in actions which moral responsibility would have barred them from performing . Thanks to the rules of civil inattention , strangers are not treated as enemies and most of the time escape the fate which tends to befall the enemy ; they are not a target of hostility and aggression . And yet , not unlike the enemies , the strangers ( and this includes ourselves , inasmuch as all of us are part of the universal strangerhood ' ) are deprived of that protection which only moral proximity may offer . It is but a short step from civil inattention to moral indifference , heartlessness and disregard for the needs of others . Chapter Four Together and Apart It has probably occurred to you , more than once , to start your speech with the phrase As all of us agree . . . ' I am sure you have heard other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression in newspaper articles ? particularly in the editorials , which are , indeed , a sort of editor 's speech addressed to the newspaper 's readers . But have you ever asked yourself who these all of us ' who agree ' were ? Were I to use phrases like As we all know . . . ' or As we all agree . . . ' , I would refer to an unspecified collection of people who think like me . But I would imply more than this : that I have selected such people , and set them apart , from all the others who may think differently ; that this selected collection is one which counts ( to me , at any rate ) ; and that it is precisely this selected group and no other that counts , that the shared opinion of its members lends authority ? a sufficient , trustworthy and credible authority ? to what follows . By using the phrase , I would establish an invisible link of mutual understanding between myself and my listeners or readers . I would suggest that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that we see the topic of our conversation in the same way and from the same angle . All these implied meanings would tacitly accompany my use of the phrase without my ever spelling them out . It is as if both the unity of us all ' who agree , and our shared disregard for those who do not , seemed too natural ' to me ( and , so I hope or take for granted , to my audience ) for me to argue about it or seek and supply the proof that it is , indeed , the case . It is such a collection of people ( not at all clearly defined or circumscribed ) , who agree to something that other people presumably 72 Together and Apart reject , and such an authority bestowed upon the agreement in disregard and defiance of anything else , which we have in mind whenever we speak of community . However we try to justify or explain the togetherness ' of the community , its unity , its genuine or merely desired persistence , it is the spiritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have in mind first and foremost . Without it , there is no community . One shared view which underlies and conditions the sharing of all other views is the agreement that the collection under discussion is indeed a community ? that is , that inside its boundaries views and attitudes are , or ought to be , shared , and that agreement can and should be achieved if any of the views ( merely temporarily , one believes ) differ . Agreement , or at least the readiness to agree , is assumed to be the primary , natural reality of all community members . A community is a group in which factors which unite people are stronger and more important than anything which may divide it ; the differences between members are minor or secondary by comparison with their essential ? one is tempted to say overwhelming ? similarity . Community is thought of as a natural unity . If we can get away without explaining precisely who the all of us ' are , and without proving that the views we allegedly share are indeed true and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed , it is mostly because of that naturalness ' of the implied bond . The community type of belonging comes about as if of itself , like other facts of nature ' ; it need not be laboriously constructed , maintained and serviced . The community type of belonging is at itsl , strongest and most secure when we believe just this : that we have not chosen it on purpose , have done nothing to make it exist and can do nothing to undo it . For the sake of their effectiveness , their hold over reality , it is better that the images and postulates implied by the phrase as we all agree ' are never given in detail , never come into focus , are never written down in a formal code or turn into an object of conscious effort . Their hold is all the stronger the less they are spoken about or even noticed . Only as long as they stay silent is the community what we believe it to be : naturally ' united . Sharing of beliefs comes naturally as long as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Apart 73 Ideally , such sharing would be at its fullest among isolated people who conduct all their life-business , from birth to death , in the same company , who neither venture into other places nor are visited by members of other groups who practice different styles of life . Such people would have no occasion to contemplate their own ways and means from outside ' , to see them as something strange and baffling , needing an explanation or argument . Neither would such people be pressed to justify and explain why they are living in their particular fashion , sticking to one way of life rather than another . ( Note that we are considering here an ideal case . Situations that truly meet such ideal conditions hardly ever exist . It is sometimes assumed that the old-time isolated villages or far-away islands came relatively close to fulfilling such conditions , though even this supposition rarely stands up to closer scrutiny . More than often not , community is a postulate , an expression of desire , a clarion call to close the ranks , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British scholar Raymond Williams , the remarkable thing about community is that it always has been ' ) Even if it ever existed in the past , community certainly does not exist any more , not in its imaginary idealized form , the moment it is spoken about . People are most eager to invoke the unshakeable powers of natural ' unity when they confront the practical task of creating unity artificially or rescuing by conscious effort the crumbling unity of the past . When we use a phrase like As we all agree ... ' we attempt , therefore , to bring to life , or keep alive , or resuscitate a community of meanings and beliefs which has never existed naturally ' , or is already about to fall apart , or is to rise again from the ashes . We do it under conditions admittedly unfavourable for the existence and survival of natural ' communities ? in a world in which contradictory beliefs coexist , different descriptions of reality compete with each other , and each view has to defend itself against the arguments of the other side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity ' serves as a tool for drawing as yet non-existent boundaries between us ' and them ' ; it is an instrument of mobilization , of convincing the group to which the appeal is made of its common fate and shared interests , in order to solicit a unified action . Let us repeat : the reference to the naturality ' of community is 74 Together and Apart itself a factor in making the appeal to unity effective . Most powerful ( and , as it were , the most effective ) community-building efforts allude paradoxically to factors seen as beyond human power ' , as things one can neither choose at will nor reject : traits like common blood ' , hereditary character and a timeless link with the land , which allegedly bind a race to its fate and mission ; or the shared historical past , the joint record of victories and defeats , our common historical heritage ' which made the nation into a separate entity bound together for ever , for better or worse ; or common religion , which in the distant past was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persecution later , and hence made the ancestors ' beliefs sacrosanct and venerable , and the survival of their heritage a sacred cause and duty of the descendants . What makes the appeal to such ostensibly objective facts of the case ' particularly useful for community-building is that the invoked facts remain steadfastly beyond the control of the people to whom the appeal is being made . The reference to such facts effectively hides the element of choice and arbitrariness involved in the choice . To induce the targets of community-building appeals to make their choice , they are told that they find themselves in a non-choice situation ? that the decision has already been made for them by their ancestors or by providence . Under such circumstances unwillingness to join forces can not but be treated as an act of treason . Those who commit such an act betray their own nature , memory of the ancestors , their calling , etc. ; they are renegades , or fools , arrogant enough to challenge the decision already made for them by history . Not in all cases , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus conceal their arbitrary character . Many political and religious movements openly proclaim their intention to create a community of beliefs or faith by converting ( proselytizing ) people to new ideas of which they have not been aware or which they used to reject at their own peril . They aim at creating a community of the faithful ? people united by common attachment to the cause revealed to them by the saintly founder of the religious sect or by a perceptive , far-sighted political leader . In this kind of community-building exercise , the language used is not that of sacred tradition , historical fate or class mission , but one of good news , eyeTogether and Apart 75 opening , of being born again ' , and , above all , of truth . Appeal is made not to the allegedly non-choice situation , but , on the contrary , to the noble act of choosing truth over falsehood , of embracing the true faith while rejecting superstition , illusion or ideological distortion of reality . People are asked to join the community , rather than stay in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented as an act of liberation and the beginning of a new life ; it is spoken about as an act of free will ? indeed , the first true manifestation of one 's freedom . What is concealed this time is the pressure which from now on will be exerted on the converts to remain obedient to the newly embraced faith and to surrender their freedom to whatever the cause may demand . Such demands may be no less excessive than those which invoke historical tradition as their legitimation . Communities of faith can not limit themselves to propaganda ? to the preaching of a new creed intended to unite the future devotees . Devotion to the articles of faith would never be really secure unless supported by ritual : a series of regular events ( patriotic festivals , party meetings , church services ) in which the faithful are called to participate as actors so that their common membership and commonality of fate may be reasserted and devotion reinforced . Communities of faith differ , however , in the stringency and volume of demands they make on their members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important exception of those which pursue radical ? revolutionary or reactionary , leftwing or right-wing ? ends , treat their members as fighters and thus demand unswerving loyalty and total subordination ) , seek no more unity of thought than is necessary to secure regular electoral support and a modicum of voluntary missionary ' activity on behalf of the party programme . They would leave the rest of the members ' lives to their own discretion and would refrain from legislating about , say , the family life or the choice of occupation . ieligious sects , on the other hand , are on the whole more demanding . They would not settle for the participation in periodic cult rituals ; the whole of the members ' lives will come into their area of concern . As the sects are , by definition , minorities exposed to outside pressure and hence constantly under siege , they need not merely an agreed set of beliefs , but a uniformity of the whole way of 76 Together and Apart life . They would aspire to a complete reform of the way the faithful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would also command obedience in the aspects of behaviour ostensibly indifferent to the question of faith . By making the whole of life into a profession of faith and manifestation of loyalty , sectarian communities would attempt to defend their members ' commitment against the scepticism or outright hostility of the environment . In extreme cases , attempts are made to cut off the community altogether from the ordinary ' flow of social life ; not only to embrace the whole of the members ' lives fill all their time , cater for all their needs ( or deny the worthiness of needs which are not provided for ) , but to isolate the members from all other , unsupervised , contacts . The creed to which the members are asked to remain loyal has the condemnation and rejection of the ways and means of the ordinary ' society among its central tenets . Normal ' society is censured for its unsaintliness or sinfulness , for being dominated by selfishness and greed , for substituting material concerns for spiritual ones , for trampling upon freedom of the individual , for destroying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between people and rampant injustice , for encouraging and demanding rivalry and competition , etc . Which of the many possible charges is used depends on the rules of life the community intends to promote . The members may be invited to run away from the abominations of mundane life to a hermit community , dedicated fully to prayer and contemplation . Or they may be enjoined to opt out from the rat race ' and enter instead a group in which all members are equal , no one wishes to stand above the others , and relations are based solely on mutual intimacy , sincerity and trust . Members are normally also asked to turn their backs on the attractions of consumerism and reconcile themselves to a life of modesty and austerity . Communities of this type ( frequently described as communes ) confront their members with a formidable task : to sustain their shared life , in all its aspects , by the power of affection alone . Neither habit nor contractual obligation provides the second line of defence if mutual animosities or sheer lack of consensus tear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only , and hence indispensable , condition of the Together and Apart 77 commune 's survival . All dissent constitutes therefore a mortal threat ; tolerance is a luxury a commune can ill afford . For this reason , the more comprehensive are the communities , the more oppressive they tend to become . Oppression can not but generate tensions which make communes the most fragile and vulnerable of communities . Communities differ widely in the extent of the uniformity they demand ( that is , in the relative size of the portion of life they ask their members to subordinate to the shared doctrine ) . In most cases , however , stipulations tend to be diffuse , ill defined and impossible to determine in advance . Even if the advocates of communal unity declare neutrality regarding non-spiritual aspects of members ' lives , they still claim priority and supreme importance for the beliefs they advocate . Potentially , such a claim may lead to interference in matters previously declared indifferent , should they come to clash , or be seen to be at odds , with the shared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( both the ostensibly natural ' and those admittedly made up ' ) are such groups as bring their members together solely for the sake of a single , on the whole clearly defined , task . As the purposes of such groups are limited , so are their claims on their members ' time , attention and discipline . By and large , such groups admit that they have been created on purpose . Here the purpose plays a role similar to the one played by tradition , common fate or truth in the case of communities . It is in terms of the purpose , or of a task to be performed , that the discipline and commitment of the members are claimed . One can therefore speak in this case of purpose groups , or organizations . A deliberate and openly declared self-limitation is perhaps the most salient and decisive distinctive feature of organizations . Most organizations have written statutes which detail the areas in which the members must abide by the organizational rules ( implying by the same token that other , unnamed areas of members ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the presence or absence of self-limitation , rather than of consensus of beliefs , is taken as the main difference between communities and organizations , then some of the communities discussed above ought to be , contrary to their own claims , counted rather among organizations . The partial nature of members ' involvement in the organizational 78 Together and Apart activity may be expressed in a different way : members do not enter an organization as whole persons ' ? they merely play roles . Role ' is , of course , a word drawn from the language of the theatre . A stage play , with its plot decided in advance and written up in the scenario , which assigns different lines to every actor in the cast , offers a pattern by which the organization runs its life . The theatre may be seen as a prototype also in another respect : stage actors do not exhaust ' themselves in the roles they have been assigned ; they enter ' the prescribed character only for the duration of the performance and are free ( indeed , expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the point of view of the tasks they perform , so are their members specialized from the point of view of the contribution they are expected to make to the performance of this task . Each members ' role is set apart from the roles played by other members of the same organization , as well as from other roles the same person may play in other organizations . For part of the day I am a teacher of sociology ; in the school where I teach , my role is different from that of the teacher of physical education or any other teacher , for that matter , as well as from that of the headmaster , or the librarian , or the cook . But my role as teacher also calls for different skills and actions from those demanded by other roles I play at other times of the day or on other days of the week . Thus I sit on the council of the local camera club ; I am a member of the tenants ' committee in the block of flats in which I live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ad hoc committee created in the neighbourhood to fight the project of a motorway by-pass , and to the local branch of a political party . I play a number of roles , at different places and times ; each role is played among somewhat different groups of people . None of those groups knows me well in any of my other roles . In most cases , none is interested in such other roles ; each wants me to identify myself fully with the role in which I participate in their particular activity and contribute to the task they join forces to perform . I may risk being frowned upon , or ridiculed , or reprimanded if , for instance , I bring my photographic concerns to the Fight and By-pass ' citizens ' committee , or confuse my teaching duties with my tasks as an active member of the political party . Let us repeat : unlike the community , which we think of as a Together and Apart 79 group to which its members belong ( or ought to belong ) body and soul ' , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we will better understand the way it works if we think of it as consisting of roles , not persons . People involved in an organization are expected to embrace their roles ( that is , to dedicate themselves fully to their performance while working in and for the organization , to identify themselves completely with the role they are performing at that moment ) , yet at the same time to distance themselves from them ( that is , to remember all along that it is merely a role they are playing ? so that they do not confuse the right and duties attached to this particular role with those belonging to another activity or place ) . In fact , a particular arrangement of roles is the only aspect of the organization which remains relatively stable over a period of time , and which identifies the organization as such . Incumbents of the roles may come and go , yet the roles remain . People join and leave the organization , are hired and fired , admitted and expelled ; yet the organization persists , and though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the role may change over time , the organization remains basically the same . People are interchangeable and disposable ; what counts is not them as persons , but the skill they have to perform the job and the will they show to perform it . Max Weber , one of the founders of sociology , saw the proliferation of organizations in contemporary society as a sign of the continuous rationalization of social life . Rational action ( as distinct from both traditional action ? an unreflective acting out of habit or custom ? and affective action ? an uncontrolled act , triggered by a momentary emotion and perpetrated without consideration of the consequences ) is one in which the end to be achieved is clearly spelled out , and the actors concentrate their thoughts and efforts on selecting such means to the end as promise to be most effective and economical . To Weber , organization ( Weber himself used the term bureaucracy ' ? the rule of the office ' ) is the supreme adaptation to the requirements of rational action ; it is , in fact , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that is , the way which is simultaneously the most effective and the least costly . In his famous description of the ideal 80 Together and Apart type of bureaucracy ( bureaucracy as it would be were it fully adjusted to its acknowledged purpose and free from any distractions ) , Weber listed the principles which must be observed in members ' actions and in relations between them , so that an organization could indeed be such an instrument of rationality . Let us name some of these principles . First of all , inside the organization people must act solely in their official capacity ' , which has been defined by the rules attached to the roles they perform ( so that other aspects of their social identity ? for instance , their family connections , business interests , private sympathies and antipathies ? are not allowed to interfere with what they do , how they do it , and with the way other people treat their actions ) . Roles ought to be logically divided and kept separate . This means , first , that a truly rational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities , so that each participant in the common effort could become an expert in doing his or her own job ; second , that someone ought to be responsible for every element of the overall task , so that no part of the task remains unattended ; and third , that for every part of the task it must be clear who is in charge ? so that the competences do not overlap and hence the danger of confusion arising out of contradictory decisions is averted . In performing their respective roles , the officials ought to be guided by abstract rules such as bear no regard to personal peculiarities ( see chapter 5 on the principles guiding impersonal relationships ) . The officials themselves should be appointed to their offices and promoted or demoted solely according to the estimated fit ' of the skills they possess to the skills required by the office ; all other considerations ( noble or plebeian origin , political or religious beliefs , race , sex , etc. ) must be emphatically declared out of court and not allowed to interfere with the personnel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity of the organization as a whole and in the organizational life of its members ; the official must view the job done in the organization as part of a life-career , so that he or she may build up the skills and accumulate practical experience ; the organization , on the other hand ought to be bound by the precedents ? decisions made in the past in its name ? even if the officials which made them at the time have since left or moved to other tasks . Together and Apart 81 The history of the organization is made of its files , and hence is independent from personal memories or the loyalties of individual officials . These are not the only requirements of the organized rational action , however . Not only must the roles be divided and kept apart ; they also ought to be arranged in a hierarchy which corresponds to the internal division of the overall task . The further down one moves in the hierarchy , the more specialized , partial , focused and minute are the tasks and the jobs ; the higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more of the overall purpose comes into view . To achieve this situation , the flow of two things must be maintained : information ought to pass from the lower to the higher rungs of the hierarchical ladder , becoming on the way ever more comprehensive and synthetic , while commands should flow from the top to the bottom , becoming as they travel ever more specific and unequivocal . Control from the top needs to be reciprocated by discipline from the bottom . What unites all the principles in the ideal model of the rational organization is the postulate that everybody 's decisions and behavioural choices should be subordinated to the task the organization has been called to perform . All other considerations should be declared irrelevant , and thus not allowed to influence decisions ; they are best eliminated , but in any case neutralized or disregarded . The officials should , so to speak , leave all their private concerns and outside commitments in the cloakroom , and enter their offices dressed in their official role alone . The organization as a whole should surround itself with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the input ' , through which the task the organization is expected to perform is fed in , and the output ' , which lets out the results of the organizational processing of that task : the actions aimed at the fulfilment of the task . Between the feeding in of the task and the production of results , all outside influences ought to be barred from intervening ( hence the strict requirement of organizational secrecy ) ; nothing should interfere with the strict application of organizational rules and the selection of the most effective and economical means to the declared end . Hardly any organization meets , however , such conditions . The 82 Together and Apart postulate which underlies Weber 's ideal model of rational action remains by and large unfulfilled ; the question is , can it ever be fulfilled . A person reduced to just one role is a fiction which no reality can match ; and so is a single-task action unaffected by other concerns and apparently unrelated to other human bonds . Members of the organization are naturally concerned with their own wellbeing , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hence the widespread tendency to avoid taking decisions on dubious and controversial matters ? the notorious phenomenon of the hot potato , a popular name for the tendency to elude responsibility by shifting an urgent file onto somebody else 's desk . Concern with one 's own well-being ( self-preservation , survival in terms defined by the organization ) includes also the tendency to undermine the position of potential competitors for promotion , through obstructing their work or discrediting their decisions . But a member of the organization may also find that a command received from superiors can not be squared with his or her moral beliefs ; the choice is between organizational obedience and loyalty to moral principles . Other members may believe that the requirement of secrecy put to them by superiors may endanger public welfare or some other cause they believe to be equally valid or even more important than organizational efficiency . On the other hand , members may bring into their work the prejudices they hold in their daily lives . A man , for instance , may find it difficult to accept a command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received from a person of a different race . Furthermore , no impervious walls protect the organization against the pressures and influences coming from places ostensibly unrelated to its tasks and hence denied authority in organizational decisionmaking . Most organizations must be concerned with their public image ? a consideration which may prevent them from actions that pass muster as rationality when calculated in technical terms alone , but are likely to arouse public concern and anger , particularly in the circles which wield enough influence to damage the standing of the organization . Pressures too may come from other organizations , working in apparently remote and unrelated fields , which nevertheless Together and Apart 83 find certain actions inconvenient or harmful for their own area of operation ; their resistance would again put a limit on the priority given to pure rationality ' of action . Let us suppose for a moment , however , that the postulates entailed in the ideal model have been ? miraculously ? met : that the persons involved in the organizational division of tasks have indeed been reduced to the roles they have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same time effectively fenced off from all concerns and influences irrelevant to its declared purpose . However improbable such conditions , would they guarantee the rationality of organizational activity if put in practice ? Would an organization which fully conforms to the ideal model behave indeed as rationally as Weber hoped it should ? There are strong arguments that this would not happen ; that the ideal recipe for rational action will generate , on the contrary , numerous obstacles to rationality . To start with : in the hierarchy of command the model suggests , equal weight has been ascribed to the authority of the office and that of the relevant technical skill ? without , however , pointing out why the two differently grounded authorities should coincide and remain in harmony . In fact , it is more than likely that the two will tend to clash ( for instance , the established right to the job may be threatened by novel technical skills which the current incumbents of the office do not possess , and as a result the authority of office may be deployed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the rationality of action demands ) . Nor is the principle of minute division of labour beyond reproach . Allegedly a factor boosting efficiency and expertise , it tends in fact to produce the phenomenon called trained incapacity . Having acquired expertise in a quick and efficient performance of narrowly circumscribed tasks , members gradually lose sight of the wider ramifications of their job and will fail to note adverse consequences of the activity which in the meantime has turned into mechanical routine . Because of the narrowness of their skills , members are also ill prepared to adjust their routines to changing circumstances and to react to unfamiliar situations with the necessary speed and flexibility . The organization as a whole , in other words , falls prey to its own pursuit of perfect 84 Together and Apart rationality . It becomes stiff and inflexible , and its methods of work fail to adapt quickly enough to changing circumstances . Sooner or later , it may well turn into a factory of increasingly irrational decisions . Last but not least , the ideal model of action subjected to rationality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deviation from that purpose ? the danger of so-called goal displacement . For the sake of their effectiveness , all organizations ought to reproduce their capacity to act : come what may , an organization must be continuously ready to make decisions and take actions . Such a reproduction calls for an effective mechanism of self-perpetuation , immune to outside interference . The trouble is that eventually the goal itself tends to fall among such outside interferences . There is nothing in the ideal model to prevent that mechanism from outliving the task the organization had been called to fulfil in the first place . Everything , on the other hand , points to the likelihood ( indeed , desirability ) that the concern for self-preservation should prompt the endless expansion of the organizational activity , of its resources and the scope of its authority . It may happen in effect that the task originally seen as the reason to establish it is relegated to a secondary position by the all-powerful interest of the organization in selfperpetuation and self-aggrandizement . The survival of the organization , however useless it may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purpose in its own right : the new end against which the organization tends to measure the rationality of its performance . And so we have found both models of human groupings wanting ; neither the image of community ? that total union of human persons ? nor the model of organization ? that coordination of roles in the service of the rational pursuit of a task ? describes adequately the practice of human interaction . The two models sketch artificially separated , polar models of action , with separate and often opposite motives and expectations . Real human actions , under real circumstances , resent such a radical division . There is a permanent and ineradicable tension between the conceptual frameworks ' of our actions and our practical performances . By representing the action as if ' it served one cohesive need or purpose , the model frameworks display an inherent tendency to Together and Apart 85 streamline the action , which in practice can not but be complex and convoluted ; there is a tendency to purify the action which in practice is always split by many needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of community and organization may be seen as extreme points of a continuum on which all practical human interactions can be plotted . Real interactions are torn between two gravitational forces , each pulling in an opposite direction . Routine interactions are , unlike the extreme models , mixed : they are heterogeneous , that is , subject simultaneously to logically contradictory principles . For instance , the family ? this epitome of the communitylike interaction pattern ? is hardly ever that heaven of fully personal relationships one would expect it to be ; there are tasks to be performed inside the family as in any other group of cooperating people , and it is unlikely that even a modicum of explicitly impersonal , organizationlike criteria of performance would not defile the purity of the wholeperson ' relations with their characteristic particularity and diffuseness . On the other hand , in every organization the members can hardly avoid developing personal links with people with whom they join forces for a protracted period . Much of their time is spent in the company of others ; they exchange services , communicate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other , come to like or dislike each other . Sooner or later an informal pattern of interaction would emerge ? an invisible network of personal relationships which may or may not overlap with the official chart of formal relationships of command and subordination . People involved in such patterns would find their interest in the organization richer than the one-role and one-task principles would imply ; they seek , and find , the satisfaction of such needs of personal communication as the organization is resolutely and ostentatiously unconcerned with . This tendency is more often than not deliberately used and boosted by the people in command of the organization . Contrary to what the ideal model would suggest , it is found in practice that the task-oriented performance may considerably benefit if the interaction is not reduced to specialized roles only . School is , on the face of it , a typical organization ? concerned with the welldefined task of imparting knowledge and skills and evaluating its effects on the learners ; yet the task would certainly suffer if the 86 Together and Apart school failed to develop a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many industrial , merchandising or financial companies set about soliciting the deeper commitment ol their employees through bringing more of their concerns and interests within the orbit of the organization . They offer , for example , recreation and entertainment facilities , shopping services , even living accommodation . None of these extra services is logically related to the explicit task of the organization and the one specialized role they need their employees to perform ; but all of them together are hopec to generate community feelings ' and to prompt members to identify themselves with the company . Such emotions , apparently alien to the organizational spirit , are deemed to boost the members ' dedicatior to the ends of the organizations and thus neutralize the adverse effects of the purely impersonal setting suggested by the criteria o. rationality . Communities and organizations alike assume freedom of theii members ; coming together is admittedly a voluntary act , at least it the sense that it can be revoked : one can go back on one 's decision Even if in some cases ( remember the so-called natural communities joining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choice members are still credited with the right to leave ( though they ma : be pressed , as we have seen before , to refrain from exercising it ) There is one case , however , when the organization explicitly denies freedom to leave , and the people are kept under its jurisdiction b : force : this is the case of total institutions ( a name coined b : Erving Goffman ) . Total institutions are enforced communities : then the totality of members ' lives is subjected to scrupulous regulation their needs are defined and catered for by the organization , thei allowed and disallowed actions are regimented by organizationa rules . Boarding schools , army barracks , prisons , mental hospital approximate in varying degrees the model of total institutions . Thei inmates are kept under surveillance day and night ( or at least the ; are put in such conditions that they can not be sure that they are no under observation ) so that all deviation from the rules can be spotted ii time and punished , or better still prevented . Total institutions de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ar actively discouraged from developing on their own a network o Together and Apart 8 personal relationships . The involvement of the total personality i combined with the requirement of totally impersonal relationships It is , arguably , the very incongruence of such a combination which explains the formidable role played in total institutions by coercion Neither spiritual dedication nor the hope of material gains can be appealed to in order to elicit desirable behaviour and secure th ( members ' will to stay together and cooperate . Hence another featur+ of total institutions : the strict divide between those who set the rule : and those who are bound by them . The effectiveness of coercion , a : the only substitute for absent emotional commitment and calculate ( self-interest , depends on the gap between the two sides of du division remaining unbridgeable . ( Note that the practice , here a : elsewhere , differs from the ideal model . Personal relationships d ( develop inside total institutions , often spanning the gap between th ( supervisors and the inmates . Again , it is in no way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the institution They nevertheless make the framework of interaction no less flexibl ( and vulnerable to change than in groups of other types . ) I suppose the most striking impression one gets from the survel of human groupings is their diversity . With all their diversity , how ? ever , they are all forms of human interaction . In fact , there is n ( more to the existence of the group than a persistent network o : interdependent actions of its members . The assertion there is college ' refers to the fact that a number of people come together to engage in a routine called a lecture ( that is , a communicative encounter , structured in such a way that one person speaks whil ( others , facing that person , listen and take notes ) , or seminar 0 verbal interaction which consists of a number of people sitting around a table and speaking in turn ) , or tutorial ( an interactior which consists of one person asking questions to which othen respond ) , and a few other , on the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In their interactions group member are guided by their image of what the right conduct specific to th ( group ought to be . Yet the image is never complete , and hardly even provides the unambiguous prescription for any situation which ma ) arise in the course of interaction . The ideal framework is constantl ) interpreted and reinterpreted , and the practical actions of the member5 88 Together and Apart are such interpretations . Interpretation can not but feed back on the image itself . Ideal framework and routine practices incessantly inform and transform each other . The self-preservation and continuity of a group as a distinct entity is hence a question identical with that of maintaining the routine actions of its members , conforming to a shared mental image of the group 's patterns of the right conduct . Chapter Five Gift and Exchange Reminders from my creditors pile up on my desk . Some bills are most urgent ; still , there are things I must buy ? my shoes are in tatters , I can not work late without a desk lamp , and one needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I can go to my brother and ask him for a loan . I 'll explain my situation to him . Most probably , he 'll grumble a little , and preach to me about the virtue of foresight , prudence and planning , of not living above one 's means ; but he 'll reach into his pocket in the end and count his money . If he finds some , he 'll give me what I need . Or at least a part he can afford . Alternatively , I may go to my bank manager . But it would make no sense to explain to him how dreadfully I suffer . What does he care ? The only question he 'll ask me is what guarantee I can offer that the loan will be repayed . He 'd like to know whether I have a regular income large enough to afford the repayment of the loan together with the interest . So I 'll have to show him my salary slips ; if I had a property , I 'd have to offer it as collateral ? a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that I am not too excessive a risk and that the loan is likely to be duly repaid ( with handsome interest , of course ) , he will lend me the money . Depending on where I turn to solve my problem , I can expect two very different kinds of treatment . Two different sets of questions , referring obviously to two different conceptions of my right ( my entitlement ) to receive assistance . My brother is unlikely to inquire about my solvency ; for him , the loan is not a matter of choice between good and bad business . What counts for him is that I am his brother ; being his brother and being in need , I have sufficient 90 Gift and Exchange claim to his help . My need is his obligation . The bank manager , on the other hand , could not care less who I am and whether I need the money I ask for . The one thing he would wish to know is whether the loan is likely to be a sensible , profitable business transaction for him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he obliged , morally or otherwise , to lend me money . Were my brother to refuse my request , he would have to prove to me that he was unable to offer me the loan . With the bank manager , it would be the other way around : if I wanted him to offer me a loan , it is I who would have to prove to him that I am capable of prompt repayment of my debts . Human interaction succumbs to the pressure of two principles which all too often contradict each other : the principle of equivalent exchange , and the principle of the gift . In the case of equivalent exchange , self-interest rules supreme . The other partner of the interaction may be recognized as an autonomous person , a legi-timate subject of needs and rights ? and yet those needs and rights are viewed first and foremost as constraints and obstacles to the full satisfaction of one 's own interests . One is guided above all by concern with just ' payment in exchange for the services one renders to the needs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " What is in it for me ? " Could I be better off doing something else ? " Have I not been cheated ? ' These and similar questions are what one asks about the prospective action in order to evaluate its desirability and to establish the order of preference between alternative choices . One bargains about the meaning of equivalence . One deploys all the resources one can lay one 's hand on in order to obtain the best deal possible and tilt the transaction in one 's own favour . Not so in the case of a gift . Here , the needs and the rights of others are the main ? perhaps the only ? motive for action . Rewards , even if they come in the end , are not a factor in the calculation of desirability of action . The concept of equivalence is altogether inapplicable . The goods are given away , the services are extended merely because the other person needs them and , being the person it is , has the right for the needs to be respected . The gift ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differing in their purity . Pure gift ' is , as it were , a liminal concept ' ; a sort of benchmark against which all practical cases are measured . Such Gift and Exchange 91 practical cases depart from the ideal in various degrees . In the purest of forms , the gift would be totally disinterested , and offered without regard to the quality of the recipient . Disinterestedness means the lack of remuneration in any shape or form . Judged by the ordinary standards of ownership and exchange , the pure gift is a pure loss ; it is a gain solely in moral terms , the very terms which the logic of gain does not recognize . Its moral value actually rises as the loss deepens . The moral value of the gift is not measured by the market price of the goods or services offered , but precisely by the subjective loss they constitute for the donor ( remember the proverbial widow 's farthing ) . The disregard for the quality of the recipient means that the only qualification of the recipient considered when the gift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of people in need . For this reason , generosity towards members of one 's own kin or close friends , which we discussed in chapter 2 , does not in fact meet the requirements of the pure gift : it sets apart the recipients as special people selected for special treatment . Being special , the recipients have the right to expect such generosity from others with whom they are bound by a network of special ? personal ? relationships . In its pure form , the gift is offered to anyone who may need it ? just because , and only because , he or she needs it . The pure gift is the recognition of the humanity of the other ? who otherwise remains anonymous , allocated to no particular division in the donor 's cognitive map . Gifts offer the donor that elusive , yet deeply gratifying , reward of moral satisfaction : the experience of selflessness , of self-sacrifice for the sake of another human being . In a sharp contrast to the context of exchange or gain-seeking , such moral satisfaction grows in proportion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualify the purity ideal still further , most religious teachings encourage gift-giving by presenting it as an exchange of sorts : as a means to redeem one 's sins and earn happiness in the after-life . Giving to the needy is stimulated as the way of the righteous ' ? as the good deeds required for one 's salvation . Though undoubtedly reinforcing the inclination to compassion and gift-giving , such argumentation achieves its effect by paying lip-service to the equally strong desire of gain , and so , inadvertently , reaffirming the authority of the latter . 92 Gift and Exchange Research of human behaviour under extreme , cruel condition of war and foreign occupation has shown that the most heroic cases of gift-giving ? sacrificing one 's own life in order to save another whose life was threatened ? were on the whole performed by people whose motives came very close to the ideal of pure gift : they considered helping other human beings as , purely and simply , their moral duty ? one that does not call for any justification , as it is natural , self-evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this research is that the most selfless among the helpers found it difficult to understand the unique heroism of their actions . They tended to play down the courage such conduct required and the moral virtue it evidenced . The two kinds of treatment which we discussed at the beginning of this chapter offer an example of the daily manifestations of the gift ? exchange choice . As a first approximation , we may call my relationship with my brother ( in which the gift motive prevailed ) a personal one , and the relationship between myself and my bank manager ( in which the exchange attitude came to the fore ) impersonal . What happens in the framework of a personal relationship depends almost entirely on who we , the partners , are ? and very little on what either of us has done , is doing or will do : on our quality , not performance . We are brothers , and hence we are obliged to assist each other in need . It does not matter ( or , at least , it should not matter ) whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or improvidence . It matters even less whether the sum offered to bail me out is secure ' ? that means , whether my per-formance is such that it warrants the hope of repayment . In an impersonal relationship , the opposite is true . It is only performance which counts , not the quality . It does not matter who I am , only what I am likely to do . My partner will be interested in my past record , as a basis on which to judge the likelihood of my future behaviour . Talcott Parsons , one of the most influential post-war sociologists , considered the opposition between quality and per-formance as one of the four major oppositions among which each conceivable pattern of human relationship must choose . He gave these oppositions the name of pattern variables . Another pair of Gift and Exchange 93 opposite options to choose between is , according to Parsons , that of universalism and particularism . Pondering over my request , my brother might think of many things , yet universal principles , like legal regulations , codes of conduct or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among them . For him , I was not a specimen of a category ' , a case to which some universal rule may apply . I-3. , as a particular , unique case ? his brother . Whatever he was going to i ( - he would do'because I was such a unique person , unlike any other , and hence the question What would he do in other similar circumstances ? ' simply did not arise . It was again very different with the bank manager . For him , I was just one member of a large category of past , current and prospective borrowers . Having dealt with so many others like me ' before , the bank manager surely worked out universal rules to be applied for all similar cases in the future . The outcome of my particular application would depend therefore on whatever the universal rules say about the credibility of my case . The next pattern variable also sets the two cases under consideration in opposition to each other . The relationship between me and my brother is diffuse ; the relationship between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of my brother was not just a one-off whim ; it was not an attitude improvised specifically for the distress I reported in this one conversation . His brotherly predisposition towards me spills over into . : ver iinngwl ' ' ? oncerns me ? everything is also a matter of his concern . here is nothing in the life of either of us which does not matter for the other . If my brother was inclined to be hi 1pfu-lin this particular case , it is because he is generally well disposed towards me and interested in everything I do and might have done . His understanding and care would not be confined to financial matters . Not so with the bank manager ; his conduct was specifically geared to this application there and then ; his reaction to my request and his final decision were based entirely on the facts of the case and bore no relation whatsoever to other aspects of my life or personality . Most things important to me he rightly saw as irrelevant as far as the application for the loan was concerned , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowns , so to speak , the other three ( though 94 Gift and Exchange one could argue as well that it underlies them and , indeed , makes them possible ) . This is the opposition , in Parsons ' words , between affectivity and affective neutrality . This means that some interactions are infused with emotions ? compassion , sympathy or love . Some others are cool ' , detached , unemotional . Impersonal relations do not arouse in the actors any feelings other than a passionate urge to achieve a successful transaction . The actors themselves are not objects of emotions ; they are neither liked nor disliked . If they strike a hard bargain , try to cheat , prevaricate or avoid commitments , some of the impatience with the unduly slow progress of the transaction may rub off on the attitude towards them ; again , some affection may be born if they cooperate in the transaction with zeal and goodwill ? when they are the sort of person it is a pleasure to do business with ' . By and large , however , emotions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are the very factors winch make personal interaction plausible . I and my brother both feel deeply about our relationship . In all probability , we like each other . It is more than probable , however , that we empathize with each other and have a fellow-feeling for each other : we tend to put ourselves in each other 's position , to understand each other 's predicament , to imagine the joy or the agony of the other partner , feel good about the joy , and suffer because of the agony . This is hardly the case in my relationship with the bank manager . We meet too seldom and know each other too little to read out ' the partner 's feeling . Were we able to do so , we still would n't do it ? unless the feelings we wished to discover or anticipate in the partner bear a direct relationship to the success of the transaction at hand ( I 'd try to avoid making the bank manager angry ; instead , I 'd wish to elicit his or her good humour through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counting on human weaknesses ) . Otherwise , feelings are neither here nor there . Moreover , they might be positively harmful if allowed to interfere with judgement ; if , for instance , my bank manager decides to offer me the loan because of feeling pity and compassion for my misery , and for this reason disregards my financial recklessness , which may easily cause a loss to the bank he or she represents . While emotion is an indispensable accompaniment to personal Gift and Exchange 95 relations , lt would be out of place in impersonal ones . In the latter , dispassion and cool calculation are the rules one may disregard only at one 's own peril . The unemotional stance taken by my partners in an impersonal transaction may well hurt my feelings , particularly when the situation which prompted me to turn to them in the first place has caused me pain and anguish . Unreasonably , I 'll then be inclined to blame the unemotional attitude , so jarringly at odds with my excitement , on the heartlessness and insensitivity of the bureaucrats ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of impersonal transactions . Hence we hear time and again of listening banks ' and banks who like to say yes ' ; banks consider it profitable to conceal the impersonality of their attitude towards clients ( that is , their interest in clients ' money , not in their private problems and feelings ) and therefore promise what they can not and do not intend to deliver : to conduct impersonal transactions in a mood geared to personal ones . Perhaps the most crucial distinction between personal and impersonal contexts of interaction lies in the factors on which the actors rely for the success of their action . We all depend on the actions of so many people of whom we know , if anything , very little ; much too little to base our plans and our hopes on their personal characteristics , like reliability , trustworthiness , honesty , industry and so on . With so little knowledge at our disposal , a transaction would be downright impossible were it not for the opportunity to settle the issue in an impersonal manner : the chance to appeal not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which we do not know anyhow ) , but to the universal rules which apply to all cases of the same category , whoever happens to be our partner at the moment . Under conditions of limited personal knowledge , appealing to rules is the only way to make communication possible . Imagine what an incredibly large , unwieldy volume of knowledge you would need to amass if all your transactions with others were based solely on your properly researched estimate of their personal qualities . The much more realistic alternative is to get hold of the few general rules that guide the interchange , and trust that the partner will do the same and observe the same rules . Most things in life are indeed organized in such a way as to Gift and Exchange able partners to interact without any or with little personal inforation about each other . It would be quite impossible for me , aorant about medical science as I am , to assess the healing ability Ad dedication of the consultants to whom I turn for help ; fortunately , ) wever , their competence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and certified by the British Medical Association , hitch accepted them as members , and by the hospital management , hich employed them . I can , therefore , limit myself to reporting the ct of my case and assume ? trust ? that in exchange I 'll receive e service which the case warrants and requires . When trying to ake sure that the train I have boarded is scheduled to travel to the wn I wish to reach , I may safely ask people dressed in the BR iiform , without worrying about putting their love of truth to the st . I let into my house someone showing me a gas board inspector 's ird without going through the checks and inquiries I 'd normally ) ply to a complete stranger . In all these and similar cases some ? ople , personally unknown to me ( like those sitting on the board of ie Medical Association or the gas board ) , took upon themselves the sk of vouching for the competent , rule-conforming conduct of Nople whose credentials they endorse . By so doing , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such people on trust ( a henomenon analysed in depth by the British sociologist Anthony iddens ) . And yet it is precisely because so many of our transactions are ? rformed in an impersonal context that the need of personal relationlips becomes so poignant and acute . It has been noted repeatedly iat the more we depend on people of whom we have but vague and iperficial knowledge , and the more perfunctory and fleeting our icounters are , the stronger is the tendency to expand the realm of ? rsonal relations , to force the expectations that fit only personal ansactions upon interactions which are best performed in an apersonal fashion . Resentment of the indifference of an impersonal orld is likely to be felt most strongly by young people who are just ) out to leave the relatively warm , cosy and caring world of the mily and youthful friendships , and enter the coarse and emotionally ) ol world of employment and occupational practice . Hence the tempts to opt out of the callous and heartless world where people Gift and Exchange 97 serve ( or so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which bear little relation to their own needs or happiness . Some escapees try to establish commune-like , self-enclosed and self-contained little enclaves , inside which only relations of a personal type are allowed . Such attempts , however , generally lead to disenchantment and bitterness and end in failure . One thing they prove to the participants of the experiment is that the complex business of life can not be sustained by emotional commitment alone ; the magnitude of affections such a project would require must soon prove unbearable : the dreamt-of paradise of perpetual love turns , on closer inspection , into a hell of mutual acrimony . It transpires that the unrelenting effort needed to maintain a high intensity of feelings over a long period of time , and to absorb frustrations arising from the constant clashes between affections and the considerations of effectiveness , generates even more misery than could be caused by the sheer coolness of the alternative . If the personal context can not accommodate the whole of the lifebusiness , it still remains an indispensable ingredient . Our craving for deep and wholesome ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the network of impersonal dependencies in which we are entangled . I am an employee in the company where I earn my salary , a customer in the many shops where I buy things I need or believe I need , a passenger on the bus or on the train which takes me to and from my place of work , a viewer in the theatre , a voter in the party which I support , a patient in the doctor 's surgery , and so many other things in so many other places . Everywhere I feel that only a small section of my self is present . I must constantly watch myself not to allow the rest of my self to interfere , as its other aspects are irrelevant and unwelcome in this particular context . And thus nowhere do I feel truly myself ; nowhere am I fully at home . All in all , I begin to feel like a collection of the many different roles I play , each one among different people and in a different place . Is there something to connect them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the real I ' ? Most of us fall shy of settling for an image of ourselves as , merely , a patchwork of roles . Sooner or later we grow to reconcile ourselves to the plurality of our Me 's , and even to some lack of coordination 18 Gift and Exchange between them ( recall chapter 1 ) ; but the is one , or at least ought deally to become one . As the unity is evidently missing in the world out there ' , split as it is into a multitude of partial , strictly functional ransactions , it must be supplied instead by our cohesive selves . As seorg Simmel observed a long time ago , in the densely populated , variegated world we inhabit the individuals tend to fall back upon hemselves in the never ending search for sense and unity . Once ocused on ourselves rather than on the world outside , this overwhelming thirst for unity and coherence is articulated as the search for self-identity . None of the many impersonal exchanges in which we are involved will suffice to supply this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond any of those exchanges . No impersonal context can accommodate it in full . In each single context we are , so to speak , ; omewhat displaced : our real selves , we feel , are located somewhere outside the context of the interaction now taking place . Only in a ) ersonal context , with its diffuseness , particularity , emphasis on luality and the mutual affection which saturates it , can we hope to Find what we are looking for . The German sociologist Niklas Luhmann presented the search : or self-identity as the primary and the most powerful cause of our ) verwhelming need of love ? of loving and being loved . Being oved means being treated by the other person as unique , as unlike my other ; it means that the loving persons accept that the loved ones need not invoke universal rules in order to justify the images hey hold of themselves or their demands ; it means that the loving Jerson accepts and confirms the sovereignty of my self , my right to decide for myself and to choose my self @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she agrees with my emphatic and stubborn statement Here is what ram , what I do , and where I stand . ' Being loved means , in other words , being understood ? or at east understood ' in the sense in which we use it whenever we say , I want you to understand me ! ' , or ask with anguish , Do you understand me ? Do you really understand me ? ' This craving for ) eing understood is a desperate call to someone to put himself or ierself in my shoes , to see things from my point of view , to accept Without further proof that I indeed have such a point of view , which Gift and Exchange 99 ought to be respected for the simple reason that it is mine . What I am after when craving to be understood is a confirmation that my own , private experience ? my inner motives , my image of ideal life , my image of myself , my misery or joy ? are real . I want a validation of my self-portrayal . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; in the other person 's approval of what I would otherwise suspect of being just a figment of my imagination , my idiosyncrasy , the product of my fantasy running wild . I hope to achieve such a validation through my partner 's willingness to listen seriously and with sympathy when I am talking about myself ; my partner , in Luhmann 's words , should lower the threshold of relevances ' : my partner ought to accept everything I say as relevant and worth listening to and thinking about . As a matter of fact , there is a paradox in my wishes . On one hand , I want my self to be a unique whole , and not just a collection of the roles I put on when out there ' , only to take them off the moment I move from one place ( or one company ) to another . Thus I want to be unlike anybody else , similar to no one but myself ? not to be just one of the many cogs in someone else 's wheel . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagined it . I know the difference between fantasy and reality , and I know that whatever truly exists must surely exists for others as much as it does for me ( remember the knowledge of everyday life each of us has and without which life in society is inconceivable ; one of the crucial items of this knowledge is the belief that experiences are shared , that the world looks to others the same way as it looks to ourselves ) . And so the more I succeed in developing a truly unique self , in making my experience unique , the more I need a social confirmation of my experience . It seems , at least at first sight , that such a confirmation can only be had through love . The outcome of the paradox is that , in our complex society in which most human needs are attended to in an impersonal way , the need of a loving relationship is deeper than at any other time . This means also that the burden love must carry is formidable ? and so are the pressures , tensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes a love relationship particularly vulnerable and fragile is the need for reciprocity . If I want to be loved , the partner I select 00 Gift and Exchange will in all probability ask me to reciprocate ? to respond with love . and this means , as we have already noticed , that I should return the services of my lover : act in such a way as to confirm the reality of my partner 's experience ; to understand at the same time as I am seeking : o be understood myself . Ideally , each partner will strive to find meaning in the other partner 's world . But the two realities ( mine and my partner 's ) are surely not identical ; worse still , they have but few , if any , common points . When two people meet for the first time , both have behind them a long life of their own which was not ; hared with the other . Two distinct biographies would in all prob-ability have produced two fairly distinct sets of experiences and ? xpectations . Now they must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sets are likely to be found mutually contradictory . It is improbable that I and my partner will be ready to admit right away that both sets , in their entirety , are equally real and acceptable and do not need corrections and compromises . One set , or even both , will have to give way , be trimmed or even surrendered for the sake A a lasting relationship . And yet such a surrender defies the very purpose of love and the very need love is expected to satisfy . If renegotiation indeed takes place , if both partners see it through , the rewards are great . But the road to the happy end is thorny , and much patience and looking forward is needed to travel it unscathed . The American sociologist Richard Sennett coined the term , ' destructive Gemeinschaft ' for a relationship in which both partners Dbsessively pursue the right to intimacy , to open oneself up to the partner , to share with the partner the whole , most private truth about one 's inner life , to be absolutely sincere ? that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be for the partner . In Sennett 's view , stripping one 's soul bare in front of the partner thrusts an enormous burden on the latter 's shoulders , as the partner is asked to give agreement to things which do not necessarily arouse enthusiasm , and to be equally sincere and honest in reply . Sennett does not believe that a lasting relationship , and particularly a lasting loving relationship , can be erected on the wobbly ground of mutual intimacy . The odds are overwhelming that the partners will make demands of each other which they can not meet ( or , rather , do not wish to meet , considering the price ) ; they will suffer and feel tormented Gift and Exchange 101 and frustrated ? and more often than not they will decide to call it a day , stop trying and withdraw . One or other of the partners will choose to opt out , and to seek satisfaction of his or her need of selfconfirmation elsewhere . Once again we find out , therefore , that the fragility of the love relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in love ? is caused first and foremost by the requirement of reciprocity . Paradoxically , my love would be sustainable and safe only if I did not expect it to be reciprocated . Strange as it may seem , the least vulnerable is love as a gift : I am prepared to accept my beloved 's world , to put myself in that world and try to comprehend it from inside ? without expecting a similar service in exchange .. . I need no negotiation , agreement or contract . Once aimed in both directions , however , intimacy makes negotiation and compromise inevitable . And it is precisely the negotiation and compromise which one or both partners may be too impatient , or too self-concerned , to bear lightly . With love being such a difficult and costly achievement , it is no wonder one finds demand for a substitute for love : for someone who would perform the function of love ( that is , supply confirmation of inner experience , having first patiently absorbed a full , intimate confession ) without demanding reciprocity in exchange . Herein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychoanalytic sessions , psychological counselling , marriage guidance , etc . For the right to open oneself up , make one 's innermost feelings known to another person , and in the end receive the longed-for approval of one 's identity , one need only pay money . Monetary payment transforms the analyst 's or the therapist 's relation to their patients or clients into an impersonal one . And so one can be loved without loving . One can be concerned with oneself , and have the concerns shared , without giving a single thought to the people whose services have been bought , and who have therefore taken upon themselves the obligation of sharing as a part of a business transaction . The patient buys an illusion of being loved . ( Let us note , however , that as the one-sided love is against nature ' , that is , in sharp disagreement with the socially accepted model of love , psychoanalytical exercise tends to be plagued with the so-called transference : the patient 's tendency to mistake the as if ' conduct of 102 Gift and Exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respond with a behaviour which steps beyond the strictly business-like , impersonal terms of the agreement . The phenomenon of transference may be interpreted as a most powerful confirmation of therapy as a love substitute . ) Another , perhaps less vulnerable substitute for love ( more precisely , for the function of identity-approval ) is offered by the consumer market . The market puts on display a wide range of identities ' from which one can select one 's own . Commercial advertisements take pains to show the commodities they try to sell in their social context , that means as a part of a particular life-style , so that the prospective customer can consciously purchase symbols of such self-identity as he or she would wish to possess . The market also offers identitymaking tools , which can be used differentially , to produce results which differ somewhat from each other and are in this way personalized . Through the market , one can put together various elements of the complete identikit of a DIY , customized self . One can learn how to express oneself as a modern , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable , caring housewife ; or as an aspiring , self-confident tycoon ; or as an easy-going , likeable fellow ; or as an outdoor , physically fit , macho man ; or as a romantic , dreamy and love-hungry creature ; or as any mixture of all these . The advantage of market-promoted identities is that they come complete with their social approval , and so the agony of seeking confirmation is spared . Identikits and life-style symbols are introduced by people with authority , and supported by the information that very many people approve of them by using them or by switching to them ' . Social approval therefore does not need to be negotiated ? it has been , so to speak , built into the marketed product from the start . With such alternatives widely available and growing in popularity , the effort required by the drive to solve the self-identity problem through reciprocal love has an ever smaller chance of success . As we have seen before , negotiating approval is a tormenting experience for the partners in love . Success is not possible without long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The effort and the sacrifice would perhaps be made more frequently and with greater zeal were it not for the availability of easy ' substitutes . With the substitutes being easy to obtain ( the only sacrifice needed is to Gift and Exchange 103 part with a quantity of money ) and aggressively peddled by the sellers , there is , arguably , less motivation for a laborious , timeconsuming and frequently frustrating effort . Resilience withers when confronted with alluringly foolproof ' and less demanding marketed alternatives . Often the first hurdle , the first setback in the developing and vulnerable love partnership would be enough for one or both partners to wish to slow down , or to leave the track altogether . Often the substitutes are first sought with the intention to complement ' , and hence to strengthen or resuscitate , the failing love relationship ; sooner or later , however , the substitutes unload that relationship of its original function and drain off the energy which prompted the partners to seek its resurrection in the first place . One of the manifestations of such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sennett , is the tendency of eroticism to be ousted and supplanted by sexuality . Eroticism means the deployment of sexua desire , and'ultimately of sexual intercourse itself , as a hub around which a lasting love relationship is built and maintained : a social partnership of a stable kind , bearing all the features previously ascribed to multi-sided , wholesome personal relations . Sexuality means the reduction of sexual interroursc to one function only ? that of the satisfaction of sexuaLdesire . Such a reduction is often supplemented by special precautions aimed at preventing the sexual relationship from giving rise to mutual sympathy and obligation , and thus from growing into a fully fledged personal partnership . Prised from love , sex is reduced to an unloading of tension , in which the partner is used as an essentially replaceable means to an end . Another consequence , however , is that the emancipation of sexuality from the context of eroticism leaves the love relationship considerably weakened . It now lacks ( or has to share ) one of the most powerful of its resources , and finds its stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus exposed to a twofold danger . It may collapse under the pressure of inner tensions . Or it may retreat before , or turn itself into , another type of relationship ? one which bears many or all the marks of an impersonal relationship : that of exchange . We have observed a typical form of exchange relationship when 104 Gift and Exchange considering bank customers ' transactions with the bank manager . We have noted that the only thing which counted there was the passing of a particular object , or a service , from one side of the transaction to the other ; an object was changing hands . The living persons involved in the transactions did not do much more than play the role of carriers or mediators ; they prompted and facilitated the circulation of goods . Only apparently was their gaze fixed on their respective partners . In fact , they assigned relevance solely to the object of exchange , while granting the other persons a secondary , derivative importance ? as holders or gatekeepers of the goods they wanted . They saw through ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last thing the partners would consider would be the tender feelings or spiritual cravings of their counterparts ( that is , unless the mood of the partner should influence the successful completion of the exchange ) . To put it bluntly , both partners acted selfishly ; the supreme motive of their action was to give away as little as possible and to get as much as possible ; both pursued their own self-interest , concentrating their thought solely on the task at hand . Their aims were , therefore , at cross purposes . We may say that in transactions of impersonal exchange , the interests of the actors are in conflict . Nothing in an exchange transaction is done simply for the sake of the other ; nothing about the partner is important unless it may be used to secure a better bargain in the transaction . The actors are therefore naturally suspicious of each other 's motives . They fear being cheated . They feel they need to remain wide awake , wary and vigilant . They can not afford to look the other way , lose their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the selfishness of the other side ; they would not , of course , expect the other side to act selflessly , but they insist on a fair deal ? that is , on whatever they consider to be an equivalent exchange . Hence the exchange relationships call for a binding rule , a law , and an authority entrusted with the task of adjudicating the fairness of the transaction and capable of imposing its decision by force in the case of transgression . Various consumer associations , consumer watchdogs , ombudsmen , etc. are established out of this urge for protection . They take upon themselves the difficult task of monitoring the fairness of exchange . They also Gift and Exchange 105 press the authorities for laws which would restrain the freedom of the stronger side to exploit the ignorance or naivety of the weaker one . Seldom are the two counterparts of a transaction in a truly equal position : those who produce or sell the goods know much more of the quality of their product than the buyers and users are ever likely to learn . They may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unless constrained by a law like the Trade Descriptions Act . The more complex and technically sophisticated the goods , the less their buyers are able to judge their true quality and value . To avoid being deceived , the prospective buyers have to resort to the help of independent , that is , disinterested , authorities ; they would press for a law which clearly states their rights and allows them to make up for their relatively inferior position by taking their case to court . It is , however , precisely because the partners enter exchange relationships only as functions of exchange , as conveyers of the goods , and consequently remain invisible ' to each other , that they feel much less overwhelmed and tied down than in the case of love relationships . They are much less involved . They do not take upon themselves cumbersome duties , or obligations other than the promise to abide by the terms of the transaction . Aspects of their selves which are not relevant to the transaction at hand are unaffected and retain their autonomy . All in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and their future choices will not be constrained by the bond they enter . Exchange is relatively inconsequential ' as it is confined to a transaction entered into and finished here and now and restricted in time and space . Neither does it involve the whole of one 's personality . ( Note that the fashion in which exchange is linked to personal autonomy disqualifies the claim , often taken for granted in economic and political reasonings , that human labour is a commodity like others and can be treated as an object of exchange . Unlike exchangeable goods , labour can not be detached from the labourer . Selling one 's labour means agreeing that one 's actions as a person ? the whole of the person for a specific period of time ? will from now on be subordinated to other people 's will and decisions . The totality of the labourer 's self , and not just a detachable object in 106 Gift and Exchange his possession , is parted with and transferred to somebody else 's control . The apparently impersonal contract reaches far beyond the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchange are two extremes of a continuous line along which all human relations may be plotted . In the form we have described them here they seldom appear in your or my experience . We have discussed them in a pure form , as models . Most relationships are impure ' , and mix the two models in varying proportions . Most love relationships contain elements of business-like bargaining for the fair rate of exchange in the I 'll do this if you do that ' style . Except for a chance encounter or one-off transaction , the actors in exchange relationships seldom remain indifferent to each other for long , and sooner or later more is involved than just money and goods . Each extreme model , however , retains its relative identity even if submerged in a mixed relationship . Each carries its own set of expectations , its own image of the perfect state of affairs ? and hence orients the conduct of the actors in its own specific direction . Much of the ambiguity of the relationships we enter with other people can be accounted for by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , complementary yet incompatible , sets of expectations . The model-like , pure relationships seldom appear in life , where the ambivalence of human relationships is the rule . Our dreams and cravings seem to be torn between two needs it is well nigh impossible to gratify at the same time , yet equally difficult to satisfy when pursued separately . These are the needs of belonging and of individuality . The first need prompts us to seek strong and secure ties with others . We express this need whenever we speak or think of togetherness or of community . The second need sways us towards privacy , a state in which we are immune to pressures and free from demands , do whatever we think is worth doing , are ourselves ' . Both needs are pressing and powerful ; the pressure of each grows the less the given need is satisfied . On the other hand , the nearer one need comes to its satisfaction , the more painfully we feel the neglect of the other . We find out that community without privacy feels more like oppression than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loneliness than being oneself ' . Chapter Six Power and Choice Why do I do what I do ? Unless I happen to be in a philosophical mood , this looks too simple a question to bother with . Is the answer not obvious ? At least , so it seems . Of course , I do it because . . . ( I rush to the tutorial because I was reprimanded by the tutor for missing the last one ; I stop at the lights because there the crosstraffic is heavy ; I cook my dinner because I feel hungry ; I wear jeans because this is the thing one wears nowadays . ) What makes my explanations seem so simple ? indeed , self-evident ? is that they conform to a habit we all share : the habit of explaining events by pointing out that they are effects of a cause . In most cases , when it comes to explain things we do or things that happen to us , our curiosity is by and large sated when we satisfy ourselves that provided something else has happened , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was , in other words , inevitable , or at least highly probable . Why was there an explosion in that house down the road ? Because there was a leak in the gas pipes . Well , gas is a highly inflammable substance and a spark is enough to ignite it . Why did no one hear the burglar breaking the window ? Because everybody was asleep . Well , people do not normally hear sounds when they are asleep . And so on . Our search for the explanation grinds to a halt once we have found an event or a state of affairs which the event we wish to explain always follows ( we speak then of a law , a link with no exceptions ) , or follows it in most cases ( we speak then of a norm ; a link will show itself in most , though not in all , cases ) . Explanation consists , therefore , of representing the event we want to explain as a proposition which may be deduced from another , more general proposition or set of propositions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event in such a fashion , we see it as essentially predictable : given the general law or norm and the presence of certain circumstances in which the law or the norm manifest themselves , the event must have occurred and it could not be replaced with any other event . Explanation does not allow the possibility of a choice , a voluntary selection , an arbitrary sequence of events . When applied to human conduct , however , this habitual explanation leaves something important unsaid . What it leaves out is the fact that the event we wish to explain was someone 's action , and the person whose action it was had a choice . He or she could have behaved differently . There was more than one way of acting , yet only one was selected , and this is precisely what ought have been explained ? but was not . This event was in no way inevitable . There is no set of general propositions from which it could be deduced ? not with any certainty anyway . It was not , therefore , predictable . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retrospectively , with the benefit of hindsight , we can interpret the event ? this action ? as an outcome of certain rules which the actors must have followed to do what they did . These rules , however , might have generated more than one kind of behaviour . And there was no need for the actor to follow them . In the case of human conduct , explanations of the kind given above do not satisfy us as being the whole story , everything there was to know . We know from our own experience that things are done by people with a purpose . Men and women have motives ; like myself , they do what they do in order to create or achieve a situation which for one reason or another seems to them preferable ( thus I come to the tutorials regularly in order to avoid the tutor 's reprimands or in order to follow the course in its entirety ; I watch the traffic carefully in order to escape accidents and remain alive ; I cook dinner in order to satisfy my hunger or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most people around me do , in order not to stick out and be conspicuous ) . And so there is nothing inevitable in my sitting in my tutor 's room at the appointed hour simply because the attendance of tutorials is required by the university authorities ; I am sitting there because I want to comply with the regulation ? for one reason or another I Power and Choice 109 consider it the right thing to do . There is nothing inevitable in my stopping and waiting for a green light to show ? even if , quite sensibly , I want to avoid an accident ; I obviously also believe that the system of changing lights makes sense as a means of avoiding accidents and ought to be followed for this reason . To everything I do , there is always an alternative , a choice . Plainly speaking , I could do something else instead . Human actions could be different from what they were even if the circumstances of action , and the motives of the actors , remained the same . Circumstances could be disregarded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Therefore , pointing to external circumstances , or to more general laws , does not satisfy us as fully as in the case of events which are not concerned with human actions . We know well that this man or that woman could have behaved differently in objectively identical circumstances ( which would not be identical to them subjectively , since the relevance they attach to them varies , as does their very perception of them ) . If we wish to know why this rather than that form of action has been selected , we would therefore do better to think of the decision made by the actor . We can not avoid thinking of the actor as a decisionmaker , and the action itself as an outcome of the decision-making process . We can conceive , to be sure , of a human conduct in which the decision-making does not play an important role . Some actions are virtually unreflective ? that is , alternatives are not consciously pondered , do not become a topic for consideration . One can point out two types of such an unthinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional ) behaviour is one of them . I normally wake up at the same hour every day , as if I had an alarm clock built into my body ... Still half asleep , I go through the motions of my morning routine ? I wash , brush my teeth , shave . I do not remember making decisions to follow that routine ; as a matter of fact , I probably think of something else while following it ( often I must look in the mirror to check whether I have indeed shaved , since I did it without paying any attention ) . Every day I feel hunger at the same regular hours , precisely at the time I usually have my meal . When I come back home in the evening , I 110 Power and Choice switch on the light , so to speak , automatically . I do not notice the darkness , do not ponder the advantage of light over darkness , do not give one preference over the other ; I hardly think at all about the substance and the purpose of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return I see that the lights in my room are already on , though usually they are not ... I notice them , because they break the daily routine : something unusual must have happened ? perhaps guests have arrived unexpectedly , or , worse still , burglars are inside ... The normal sequence of events , of which one could afford not to think at all , has been broken . The habitual actions would not do , and so I am forced to think about my next step . I have to make decisions . Or consider another case : I need a book which I left on the table in another room . When I go to fetch it , I find the room dark . I would naturally switch on the light , but then I notice that someone is lying asleep on the couch . Again , following the habit would not do . If I switch on the light , I might wake the sleeper . Yet if I grope for the book in the dark , I might unwittingly knock a chair or break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not routine any more , and the habit is suddenly a poor guide . The situation clearly calls for a choice , and my decision-making process is again set in motion . Habitual conduct is a sediment of past learning . At some point in the past , the habit has been acquired . Since then , however , thanks to regular repetition , it has absolved me from the need to think , to calculate and to make decisions ; one movement follows another , in a regular and immutable sequence ; that is , as long as the circumstances also remain regular . Indeed , so habitualized are my actions that I 'd find it difficult , if asked , to describe them . They come into my attention ? are noticed by me ? only if something goes wrong . Even my seemingly automatic morning routine may grind to a halt and call for my attention if I find myself in an unfamiliar house where bathroom implements are not where they should be ' , that is , where I am used to find them ; or if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The effectiveness of my habitual behaviour depends , as it were , on the regularity and orderliness of the environment in which my action occurs . There is another type of conduct in which my thinking plays but a minor role , if any . This is an affective action : acting out of strong Power and Choice 111 emotions ? strong enough , in fact , to switch off reasoning , suspend all calculation of the purposes and possible consequences of action . Affective action is compulsive and can hardly be resisted by the actor ; it does not listen to argument , is deaf to the voice of reason . It usually follows an outburst of feelings very closely . With the passage of time , the cooling off of passions would have had its effect , and I 'd think twice before committing the act . Whatever I do after that will be a calculated ( and hence not an affective ) act . Being a temperamental person , I may hit or kick a man who has offended me or a person I love and cherish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a person in need in an impulse of pity or compassion . However , if I decide to ambush a person I hate in a dark passage in order to avenge the harm for which I blame her or him , this would hardly be an affective act ; the premeditation involved would suggest instead that the act was an outcome of a calculated decision . Neither would an act be affective if the help I offered people in need was a deliberate attempt to ingratiate myself in their eyes or in the eyes of God ; such an offer would be , rather , a step in a calculated campaign , a means to an end ? in this case , the earning of salvation and forgiveness of my sins . An action is truly affective only as long as it stays unreflective , spontaneous , unpremeditated , and is perpetrated before any weighing of arguments and measuring of effects has had time to take place . Habitual and affective actions are often described as irrational . What is meant by this name is not that they are foolish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name does not imply any evaluation of the utility of the act . Most habitualized routines are quite effective and useful . They accomplish something vital to the business of life , and in addition spare us much thinking time and make our conduct less absorbing and the tasks easier to perform . Similarly , hitting an offender may in the end prove more effective than many a calculated , cool ' method of discouraging his abusive behaviour in the future . Action is irrational not when it lacks utility , but when the consideration of its utility did not precede it ? was not a factor in the decisionmaking . Action is irrational if it has not been an outcome of decisionmaking . Conversely , the opposite , rational action may happen to be less effective ( and so less reasonable ) than the irrational one . The rational action is one in which from among possible ways of 112 Power and Choice acting the actor consciously selects one which seems to him or her best geared to the end the action is meant to achieve ( this is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to what the given ends require . Alternatively , rational action may be value-rational : certain means are available to the actor that can be used for different purposes , from which the actor selects the one end he or she considers more valuable than the rest ( dear to one 's heart ' , attractive , desirable , most closely connected to the need most poignantly felt at that moment ) . What unites both cases ? instrumental and value-rational varieties of rationality ? is that in both the means are measured against the ends , and their mutual fit , true or supposed , is seen as the ultimate criterion in the choice between the right and wrong decision . The fit may in the end prove to be illusory , the calculation may look wrong in retrospect ; the only thing which makes the action rational is that a calculation was made before the action was taken . The essential idea which stands behind all this reciprocal matching , calculating , measuring and finally choosing is that action is rational as long as it is voluntary ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a free choice , rather than being goaded , pulled , pushed or bullied into doing what he or she did by uncontrolled habits or a momentary outburst of passion . Whenever we choose our actions consciously and after deliberation , we anticipate their probable outcome . This we do , first of all , by taking stock of the situation in which the action is to take place and the effects we expect to attain . More precisely , what we normally take stock of are resources and values . My resources may consist of money ? in the liquid ' form of banknotes in my pocket or an account in the bank , or in the form of valuable possessions which could be used to obtain credit . My resources also include my skills , which can be applied to create things other people need in exchange for things I demand , my social capital ' ? for instance , my access to people who are in charge of things or services I wish to obtain , and thus relevant to the task ahead . The values I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other and determine which one seems to be the best . My resources can be turned to many uses . The alternative uses differ from each other by carrying different degrees of attractiveness and being attractive for different reasons . Power and Choice 113 They represent different values . Some seem to be more satisfying , or more indispensable , or more praiseworthy . Some may be chosen because they promise to be most useful , as they may open up the possibility of increasing the volume of resources at my disposal and thus enhance my range of freedom in the future . It is ultimately my values which preside over the decision to spend a hundred pounds of extra cash on a new turntable , or on a holiday , or on purchasing sociology books ? or to keep them in my building society account . Taking stock of my resources and values shows me the degree of my freedom : what I can do and what in my case is out of the question . Different people have different degrees of freedom . The fact that they differ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions they may decide to take , is the essence of social inequality ( that is , of such differences between people as are social in their origin ; of such differences as have been brought into being and maintained by human interactions and which can be distributed differently or even abolished altogether with a change in that interaction ) . Some people are more free than others : their range of choice is wider , as they have access to more resources , and a wider range of values is within their reach ( pursuit of such values is for them realistic and feasible , while remaining no more than an idle , upsetting and in the end frustrating dream for the less fortunate ) . The difference in the degree of freedom is often spoken about as the difference in power . Power is , indeed , best understood as the ability to act ? both in the sense of choosing freely the ends of any action and of commanding the means which make such ends realistic . Power is an enabling capacity . The more power people have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger the amount of decisions they can see as realistic , the broader the scope of outcomes they may realistically pursue while being reasonably certain that they would get what they want . Being less powerful , or powerless , means it is necessary to moderate one 's dreams , or to abandon attempts to reach one 's aims due to the absence of necessary resources . To have power is to be able to act more freely ; but having no power , or less power than others have , means having one 's own freedom of choice limited by the decisions made by others . We say that A has power over B when the resources which A commands 114 Power and Choice permit A to prompt such conduct of B as is necessary to achieve the ends set by A ; when they allow , in other words , A to enlist B 's ends as further means to A 's ends ; or , which means the same , to transform B 's values into A 's resources . We can guess that were it not for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions would be different from what they were ; as B 's ends are someone else 's resources and thus used as a means to someone else 's ends , B 's freedom of choice has been most seriously compromised . B 's actions are not autonomous any more ; they become heteronomous instead . My bosses , for instance , have power over me ; they can fire me if I do not conform to the rules they set and do not obey their orders , or can reward or promote me if my performance is exemplary from their point of view . But the rights to hire and fire , to reward or punish , are not among my resources , and so I can not repay in kind . Moreover , the bosses may play their cards close to their chests . They may keep their intentions secret until it is too late for me to resist . They may plan a radical rearrangement of things in the office ? new technical equipment , a new division of labour ? which would radically worsen my situation and further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the same weapon of secrecy , as there is little I can conspire to do which may have an impact of the same magnitude on the bosses ' freedom as their clandestine designs will have on mine . My bosses ' secrecy is potentially much more deadly a weapon than anything I may keep under my hat . And so we are sharply unequal in the extent to which we may affect each other 's situation . In our reciprocal relation , power is unevenly distributed : this is an asymmetrical power relationship . My bosses can choose their actions from a much wider range of alternatives than the scope of my choice . It is because our degrees of freedom are so sharply different that I will probably do exactly what the bosses want , so that they may count on my obedience to their rules ; planning their actions , they may therefore count my actions among the resources they have at their disposal . The more my range of choices is limited , the more correctly can they anticipate my conduct . I hold fewer secrets for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their equation , and hence less a source of uncertainty in their position than they are in mine . My compliance with their ends can Power and Choice 115 he safely relied upon , much like the capital or machinery they own . To recapitulate : what power amounts to is the ability to deploy other people 's actions as the means to one 's own end ; more generally , it is the ability to reduce the constraint imposed by other people 's freedom on one 's own choice of ends and the calculation of means . Such a devaluation of other people 's freedom , equal to the enhancement of one 's own freedom , may be achieved by two methods . One is coercion , which consists of manipulating the situation of action in such a way that the resources of the other person , however large they may seem in other contexts , suddenly become inadequate or ineffective . An entirely new game is created , for which the manipulating side is much better equipped . ( Whether the victim of a mugger is a rich banker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their respective resources , which assure them a large degree of freedom in other contexts , lose their enabling ' capacity once they are confronted in a dark and deserted street with the point of a knife or sheer muscle power . ) A drastic reduction of freedom may also be achieved through enforced re-evaluation of values ? or , rather , through reshuffling the choice in such a fashion that the normally highly placed values abruptly lose much of their importance . In a night encounter with the mugger , a wallet full of banknotes and credit cards ? usually of supreme value to a greedy person ? may suddenly seem insignificant ; the choice is now between life and death , not between more and less money . Under an institutionalized coercion , in prison or in a labour camp , the new values ? good food , light work , permission of leave or receiving visitors , the avoidance of solitary confinement or high-security jail , or just the benevolence of a prison guard may well dwarf and make eerie or laughable the old , once cherished priorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of self-preservation and survival may well overshadow all the prisoner 's choices . The other method is less straightforward ( and more costly for the power-holder ) than coercion . It consists of enlisting the values of other people as one 's own resources : making the desires of others work for me ' . More specifically , it is manipulating the situation in such a way that other people may attain the values they pursue only if they follow the rules set by the power-holder . Thus the zeal and 116 Power and Choice efficiency with which the enemies are killed is rewarded by enhancing the social standing of the brave soldier with medals and honourable citations ( in the past , it could be rewarded with knighthoods and estates ) . Formal acknowledgement of skills and knowledge is made dependent upon a student 's obedience to college regulations , like regular attendance of classes and the submission of essays on time . Factory workers may secure improved living standards ( wage rises ) on condition that they work with more dedication and intensity and comply unconditionally with the management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subordinates become the resources of their superiors ; their dreams and cravings are deployed in the service of ends set by the power-holders . Having no capital of my own , I depend for my living on being employed . Yet being employed means that I must act in accordance with the terms of the job ; I suspend my freedom for the duration of my work-time . Having freely chosen the value of a better standard of living ? or , for that matter , of simply staying alive ? as my own , voluntary commitment , I now find that I have no other way of reaching the value of my choice but to surrender quite a considerable part of my freedom . Whoever can deploy coercion , or manipulate rewards , may by the same token change my chances of attaining the values I covet . Their decisions affect the volume , or the utility of the resources which I may use in my action . They may also influence the ends of my actions , though only indirectly . I may give up the chase after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now found my dream unrealistic ' . The odds have been too overwhelming , the probability of overcoming them virtually nil ; fatigue and disenchantment have taken their toll , and slowly the ends I hoped to achieve ( and , indeed , my total life-project ) have become sweet dreams of the sort one likes to muse on , but on which does not act . My actions change orientation ; they are now directed to more realistic ' ends , my assessment of the potency of my resources is altered , and from now on I reverse the order of calculation : I measure the ends against the means . The odds are that I 'd settle eventually for much less than I dreamt of achieving at the beginning . Where have my values come from in the first place , however ? Why do I put values on some ends , and disregard or downgrade Power and Choice 117 others ? Are these values a matter of my free choice ? Can I pick them up and drop them at will ? Or are they , much like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by such elements of my situation over which I have but little , if any , control ? Consider the following : I intended to go to college straight from school . My friends , however , decided otherwise . Arguing about our respective choices , they convinced me that going on with my education would not make my life much happier ; it would be more fun to start enjoying life right away ? have some income of my own , rather than condemn myself to three years of self-sacrifice and semi-starvation . After listening to their argument , I changed my mind , and instead of applying for a college place started looking for an instant income . Now I enjoy my regular pay-cheques ; it is pleasant to have money in my pocket and use it to shop for things I would like to have . Then the union people suggested that we should strike to force the management to go back on their decision to reorganize the office so that economies can be made by making quite a few employees redundant . My own job and income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even better . Moreover , the board has announced that in the event of a strike important orders will be lost and in the end all of us will be fired . I did not like this prospect at all ; yet most of my fellow employees put solidarity above the security of their own jobs , dignity above income , and voted for the strike . I did not wish to be a black sheep , and so I joined them ? though it is now likely that I 'll lose my own job as a result , and with it my freedom to enjoy life as I understand it .. . As happened in this case , the values people select to orient and guide their actions ( that is , to order their ends according to their rising or diminishing importance ) change in the course , and under the impact , of social interaction . It is this impact we have in mind whenever we speak of influence . Unlike power , influence affects the values directly : it manifests itself by shifting the relative position of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some ends seem more attractive than others , and hence worthy of more effort . Selecting values , putting some ends above the others , means believing that the ends which have been assigned priority are ultimately more satisfying , they bring more pleasure , are more dignified , more morally 118 Power and Choice elevated , more aesthetically pleasing ? on the whole they are more attuned to one 's sense of the proper and improper . Not always are the values consciously chosen . As we saw before , many of our actions are habitual and routine , and do not involve a consideration of means and ends . As long as the actions remain habitual , we seldom pause to ask about the values they serve . Habitual action does not need justification , and we would find it hard to explain why we put them above their alternatives . If really pressed , we would perhaps come up with an answer like This is the way things have always been done ' , or This is how it is ' ? as if the very length of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sorts , or as if the fact that many people do it this way is in itself a value which makes the action desirable . Let us remember , however , that these are enforced ' explanations , prompted by questioning . They were not necessarily present in the mind of the questioned person before the questioning started . As you may recall , the whole point about acting by habit , or a traditional action , is that it does not need justification . The action remains traditional as long as it is not called to legitimize itself ; traditional action can do without legitimation , that is , it does not require reference to values it is supposed to serve . It goes on repeating itself , by and large according to the same pattern , on the strength of the habit alone . Many of our daily activities are traditional ( habitual , routine and not reflected upon ) , even if most of us are most emphatically not traditionalists ( that is , were we given the opportunity to think about it and express our considered views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the timeless , and disagree with the intrinsic value of stability and lack of change ) . The most general values which guide our lives ( the values which preside over the selection of the specific ends of our actions ) ? such as the standards of decency or success , honesty or cleverness , hard work or enjoyment , consistency or flexibility ? are established on the whole in our childhood years . More often than not they are sedimented in the subconscious level ; they constitute the voice of conscience rather than a set of clearly articulated commandments we can spell out at will or need to spell out for ourselves whenever facing a decision . We hardly ever remember the influences of our Power and Choice 119 childhood years ; it is a measure of the success of such influences that they are forgotten and no longer perceived as outside pressures . We become aware of the outside influence only when it comes to the making of deliberate choices : when the values we obey are challenged , defied and called to legitimize themselves . The ability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Authority is measured by the probability that people will accept given values for the sole reason that someone else ? the person or the organization endowed with authority ? practises or preaches such values . A person or organization may carry authority for certain people inasmuch as the fact that they vouch for the values in question will be seen by those people as a sufficient reason for acceptance and compliance . The authority a person or an organization wields therefore boils down to the likelihood that other people will follow their example or advice . That obedience may be justified in all sorts of terms , such as wisdom , truthfulness , experience , the moral integrity of the source of guidance which has been followed . In each case , however , what is thus justified is the trust of the followers in the basic soundness of the guidance that comes from such a source . The values we cherish are ultimately a matter of our choice . In the end it is we who bestow authority upon the examples we decide to follow and refuse authority to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to trust , we may ponder the claims that various competing value-leaders ' , or others on their behalf , make for the worthiness of their example and for their ability to come forward with a good , trustworthy example . To become an authority for us , a person or an organization must produce a legitimation , or an argument , which demonstrates why their advice ( or their hierarchy of values ) ought to be followed in preference to another . One such legitimation we have already met : let us recall that some values are presented as worthy of esteem because of the tradition which stands behind them . They are , so we are told , time-honoured and time-tested . One ought to remain faithful to the past ; to the group with which this past has been shared ; to the common heritage of which we are jointly the guardians . History , we are told , binds its heirs ; what history brought together , no human presumption 120 Power and Choice should dare to set apart . Old virtues are venerable just because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it reverses the truth : rather than values being revered because of their old age , those who seek popular acceptance for the values they preach ( sometimes brand new , freshly invented values ) bend over backwards to dig out genuine , or putative , historical evidence of their antiquity . The image of the historical past is always selective ; in this case it is put together in such a way as to give credence to the venerable age of the values on offer . The deference people feel for the past is enlisted in the service of the current contest of values . Once it has been accepted that certain values were held by our ancestors , they are less vulnerable to contemporary criticism ; other values have still to prove themselves , while those of the good old days have already passed the test of time , even if not with flying colours . The traditionalist legitimation becomes particularly attractive in times of rapid change which can not but generate uneasiness and anxiety . It helps if radical and unprecedented innovations are acclaimed as the restoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce uncertainty , caused by rapid social change , and seems to offer a relatively safe , less agonizing choice . The alternative would be to defend new values as a revelation of sorts ? as the result of an epoch-making discovery , a particularly profound insight into the truth of the matter , or a strong vision that pierced through the unknown and hence threatening future . This kind of argument is associated with charismatic legitimation . Charisma was the quality first noted in the study of the deep and unchallenged influence exerted by the Church upon the faithful . The concept of charisma referred in that case to the conviction of the faithful that the Church is endowed with a privileged access to truth : it has been , as an institution , anointed by God to guide men to a godly life and , ultimately , salvation . Charisma , however , need not be confined to religious beliefs and institutions . We can speak of charisma whenever the acceptance of certain values is motivated by the conviction that the preacher or preachers of such values have superhuman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of knowledge closed to ordinary men and women ) that guarantee the truth of their vision Power and Choice 121 and the propriety of their choice . The ordinary reason of ordinary people has therefore no means of evaluating what charismatic people aver and thus no right to doubt the power of their perception . The stronger the charisma of the leaders , the more difficult it is to question their commands ; the more comforting it is for people to follow their orders when exposed to a situation of acute uncertainty . With rapid and profound social change fast invalidating customary patterns of acting , the demand for charismatic guarantees ' of unerring value choices is expanding unabated . Established churches satisfy , however , only a minor part of that demand . There are numerous choice situations generated by new and unprecedented social changes for which churches have not got ready recipes , or have recipes poorly geared to the present conditions . This does not necessarily mean that the divine forms of charismatic authority fall from grace . Updated versions offered by television evangelists , religious gurus and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely and strongly felt need for superhuman solutions to problems which clearly transcend the human capacity of judgement . With the demand for charismatic solutions to the problems of value growing to unprecedented proportions , some political parties and mass social movements stepped in to provide a substitute service . Among the first , the so-called totalitarian parties ( parties claiming the total dedication of their followers in every aspect of their lives ) , like the fascists or communists , gained particular notoriety for either generating charismatic leaders credited with superhuman foresight and an unimpeachable sense of right and wrong , or turning themselves into collective carriers of charismatic authority . The latter development in particular puts the charismatic influence on an altogether new , more stable basis ; the influence of a charismatic organization can in principle ( and sometimes in practice ) outlive the charismatic leader . More importantly , it can become relatively immune to the eroding impact of past errors for which mere individuals would be blamed , leaving the organization unscathed and its continuous authority assured . Such luxury is not , on the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is , they succeed in establishing a strong , party-like organization capable of selfperpetuation ) . Usually they share the fate of their leader who is the 122 Power and Choice proper carrier of charismatic authority : his meteoric rise and his rapid fall once his popularity is undermined by setbacks and unfulfilled promises or overshadowed by more successful ( not yet discredited ) contenders for public attention . The centre of charismatic authority , however , now seems to have shifted away from both the religious and the political arena . The advent of mass media ? powerful technology capable of making message-senders visible and audible , yet virtually inaccessible , to millions of message-recipients ? has played a major role in this shift . The psychological effect of this situation has proved shattering . The sheer mass **28;1148;TOOLONG of TV personalities , or TV-assisted public personalities , seems to be a source of a powerful , charismatic influence . Much like the charismatic leaders of old , they are credited with a capacity for superior judgement , this time first and foremost in the field of taste ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The impression of superiority is , one may suppose , the reflection of their exposure and the massiveness of their following . The quantity itself becomes now an authority ? the genuine carrier of charismatic aura . The large number of people who look to public personalities for guidance and advice on their own choices reinforces the power of charisma and adds strength to the popular trust in the validity of the source . Another example of collective charismatic influence is provided by the professions . Their claim to pronounce and adjudicate on human choices is grounded in their expertise : in their privileged access to knowledge otherwise difficult to obtain , and for this reason superior to the untested and often erroneous beliefs of a lay person . The knowledge the professions command is normally beyond the reach and comprehension of those who are called to obey the verdicts based on that knowledge ? and so the propriety of the verdicts can not be checked . Verdicts are accepted because people who obey them assume the impeccability of the adjudicating authority ; and the verdicts go on being accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the collective wisdom of the profession as a whole and , secondly , in the profession 's ability to monitor its individual members so that each one acts as a competent and reliable spokesperson for that wisdom . One is inclined , for instance , to forgo the Power and Choice 123 pleasure of smoking or drinking once the doctors say ' that such pleasures are harmful ; or one accepts the doctors ' opinion on the right body weight even at the cost of depriving oneself of one 's favourite food . The charismatic authority of the professions is a special case of a wider phenomenon : our common trust in the unassailable superiority of science as a method of generating valuable and trustworthy knowledge . Whatever the substantive difference between scientific knowledge and religious revelation , the mechanisms of their acceptance by the lay public do not substantively differ . In both cases the ordinary , uninitiated people have no way of testing the truthfulness of information ? they can only take it on trust , being confident about the wisdom and veracity of persons or organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the information complete with the guarantee of its quality . The two legitimations which we have considered so far ? the traditionalist and the charismatic ? share one feature : they both imply the surrender of one 's right to make value choices and ceding it to another , single or collective , actor . The ceding of choice is very often associated with the surrender of responsibility . It is now the other actors ( the past generations as we imagine them , or presentday authoritative institutions ) which have already made choices for us and thus bear the responsibility for the results ? including moral responsibility for the consequences of our actions . Legitimation of the third type , however ? the legal-rational one ? goes further still , as it apparently removes the very problem of value choice and the attendant agony of self-justification . It implies that some organizations , and the persons entitled to speak on their behalf , have the legally guaranteed right to tell us what sort of action ought to be undertaken , while it is our equally lawful duty to obey without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very question of the wisdom or moral quality of the advice seems to have lost its importance . We do not bear the responsibility ( or so we are told ) for choosing between competing carriers of charismatic authority . It is now the law and lawful command , and not our decision , which selects for us the authority which determines our action . The legalrational legitimation separates action from value choice and hence makes it apparently value-free . The executors of a command need 124 Power and Choice not scrutinize the morality of the action they have been ordered to perform , nor do they need to feel responsible if the action fails the moral test . Self-righteously , they would react with indignation to any reproach on this account : I was only carrying out the orders I received from my legal superiors . ' Whatever it gains in enhancing the potency and efficiency of human enterprise , the legal-rational legitimation is pregnant with potentially sinister consequences ? and that precisely because of its tendency to absolve the actors from their responsibility for value choice and , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from discussion . The mass murder and genocide of the last war provided the most conspicuous , though by no means unique and exceptional , example of such consequences : the perpetrators of murder refused to accept moral responsibility , pointing instead to the legal determination of their obedience to command ; they rejected the charge that their decision to obey was , in fact , a moral choice on their part . Removing the values which the actions serve from the sight of the actors by the simple expedient of extending the chain of command beyond the vision of the executors renders the action apparently value-free and exempt from moral judgement . The actors are offered , so to speak , escape from the burden of their freedom , which always comes complete with the responsibility for one 's actions . Chapter Seven Self-preservation and Moral Duty I need it . I must have it ' ? all too often I say these two sentences in one breath , as if the second sentence merely put a greater emphasis on the point made in the first ; or as if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the second sentence drew an obvious practical conclusion from the statement of fact made in the first . It looks like needing something means not having something that should be had : a deprivation . And that needing prompts the wish to have what has been missing . Having it ' is some sort of necessity or compulsion which the need prompts . I must have it ' ; it ' ? something I need to possess to be happy , or to escape the present state of need which is , presumably , a state of discomfort and unease and thus restlessness and anxiety . Possessing it is a condition of my self-preservation or even survival . Without it , I can not remain the sort of person I am . My life would be flawed or even intolerable . In an extreme case , it would not continue at all . Not just my wellbeing , but my very physical existence would be in danger . It is the quality of being needed for my survival or self-preservation that makes this something I lack and miss into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other side of the need . Since I need something , this something is a good ; something is a good in so far as I need it . This something could mean many things : commodities one can buy in the shop in exchange for money ; silence in the street at night or clean air and uncontaminated water , which can not be attained but by the concerted effort of many others ; the safety of one 's home and safe passage through public spaces , which depends on the actions of people with power ; love of another person ? and the other person 's will to understand and to manifest compassion which come with it . 126 Self-preservation and Moral Duty In other words , any good ' , anything that is made an object of our concern because we need it , always brings us into a relation with other people . Our needs can not be satisfied unless we gain access to the goods in question , either through being allowed to use them , or through owning them . But this always involves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in self-preservation is , it strengthens our ties with other people ; it makes us dependent on other people 's actions and the motives which guide them . This truth is not evident at a first glance . On the contrary : on the face of it , ownership is widely understood as a thoroughly private ' thing ; a kind of special relation between the person and the object this person owns . The image which most often comes to mind when I say , This is mine ' , or This belongs to me ' , is that of an invisible link extending between me and , say , a pen or a book or a desk which is mine ' . It seems that the object ( the property ) is somehow invisibly connected to its owner ; it is in such a connection that we suppose the essence of ownership rests . If I am the owner of the piece of paper on which I write these words , it is I and I alone who decide what to do with it . I can use it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a book , or a letter to a friend , or I can wrap a sandwich in it ; what is more , I can destroy it if I wish . ( It is true that for some of my possessions I am prohibited from doing so by law : I can not , for instance , fell an old tree in my garden without permission ; neither am I allowed to set my house on fire . But the fact that a special law is needed to forbid me to dispose of certain property in such a way only further underlines the general principle that it is up to me , and to me alone , what becomes of the things I own . ) What this popular image of ownership overlooks , however , and the popular descriptions of the property relation leave unsaid , is that ownership is also , and more than anything else , a relation of exclusion . Think of it : whenever I say , This is mine ' , I mean also , though I do not say it out loud and often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yours . Ownership is never a private quality ; it is always a social affair . Ownership conveys a special relation between an object and its owner only because it conveys at the same time a special relation between the owner and other people . Owning a thing means denying others access to it . Self-preservation and Moral Duty 127 Ownership , therefore , establishes a mutual dependence , and hence a close relationship between me and the others , but it does not connect ( things and people ) as much as it divides ( people ) . The fact of ownership sets apart , in a relation of mutual antagonism , those who own the object and all those who do not ; the first can use ( and abuse , unless specifically constrained by the law ) the object in question , while the second are denied such a right . The fact of ownership differentiates between people ( I can reach into my pocket to take out some money , but no one else is allowed to do the same ) . It may also ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people asymmetrical ; those who are denied access to the object of ownership must obey the conditions set by the owner whenever they need or want to use it . Their need , therefore , and their willingness to satisfy that need , puts them in a position of dependence on the owner ( that is , the goods necessary to satiate their needs , goods crucial to their preservation as the kind of persons they are and wish to remain , or to their continuing existence , can not be acquired without some action being taken by their present owner ) . How and for what purpose the machine plant in a factory is used by the workers who operate it is decided upon by the owner , or by the people given the right to act in the owner 's name . As he or she has bought ( in exchange for wages ) the time of his employees , the owner considers that time as his or her property ? much like the machines or the factory buildings . The owner therefore claims the tight to decide what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used for rest , chats , drinking coffee , etc . It is the right to decide about the use , rather than the use itself , which is most jealously guarded as the function from which others are to be excluded . The right to decide , the freedom of choice is the true essence of the distinction between the owner and the non-owners . The difference between ownership and non-ownership here is the difference between freedom and dependence . To own things means to be free to decide about what those who do not own them must do ? which , in fact , amounts to having power over other people . The two ? ownership and power ? merge in practice into one thing . A person 's yearning for property in such a case becomes virtually indistinguishable from the lust for power . 128 Self-preservation and Moral Duty All ownership divides and sets apart ( that is , it excludes the nonowners from the use of someone else 's property ) . Not in all cases , however , and not all the time does ownership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ownership gives power only if the needs of the excluded require the use of the objects owned . Ownership of the tools of work , of raw materials to be processed by human labour , of sites on which such processing can take place , offers such power . ( In the example considered before , employees need access to the machine plant controlled by the factory owner to gain their livelihood ; they need it for self-preservation , even for their very survival . Without such access , their skills and their time would be useless ; they would be unable to use them gainfully , to make a living out of them . ) This is not so , however , with the ownership of goods to be consumed by the owner . If I own a car or a videorecorder or a washing machine , this may make my life easier or more enjoyable than it would otherwise be . It may even add to my prestige ? to the respect I enjoy among the people whose approval is important to me : I may boast of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to impress will from now on look up to me . But it does not necessarily give me power over other people . Unless , of course , they wish to use these things for their own comfort or enjoyment , in which case I 'll set the conditions of use to which they must conform . Most things we own do not offer power ; what they do offer , however , is independence from other people 's power ( I need no longer observe the conditions other people may set for the use of goods I need ) . The larger the part of my needs which I can satisfy directly , without asking for the right to use things other people control , the less I must conform to the rules and conditions set by other people . We may say that ownership is an enabling faculty . It extends one 's autonomy , freedom of action and choice . It makes one independent . It allows one to act on one 's own motives and pursue one 's own values . The two ? ownership and freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarging the scope of freedom translates into the extension of control over things ? of ownership . Both functions ? that of power over others and that of autonomy ? are performed by ownership only in so far as it divides . Indeed , in all Self-preservation and Moral Duty 129 its versions and under all circumstances ownership means differentiation and exclusion . Underlying all ownership is the principle that the rights of others are limits of my own rights ( and vice versa ) ; that the promotion of my own freedom requires that others have their freedom restricted . By this principle , enabling always comes together with some ( albeit partial and relative ) disabling of someone else . The principle assumes an irreparable conflict of interests between people engrossed in the pursuit of their respective purposes : what one gains , the other loses . The situation is one of the zero-sum game ; nothing could be ( or so it is assumed ) gained by sharing and cooperation . In a situation in which ability to act depends on the exclusive control over resources , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( herself ) ' . This is how the task of self-preservation appears to us ; this is the logic which apparently derives from it and hence ought to be the principle of all sensible action . Whenever human action conforms to such a principle , interaction takes the form of competition . Competitors are moved by the desire to exclude their actual or potential rivals from using resources they control , hope to control or dream of controlling . The goods for which the rivals compete are perceived as scarce : it is believed that there is not enough of them to satisfy everybody , and that some rivals must be forced to settle for less than they would wish to possess . It is an essential part of the idea of competition , and the basic assumption of competitive action , that some desires are bound to be frustrated , and hence the relations between the winners and the defeated must be permanently marked with mutual dislike or enmity . For the same reason no competitive gains are considered secure unless actively and vigilantly defended against challenge and contest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final and irreversible . From this , a number of important consequences follow . First , all competition breeds a tendency to monopoly . The winning side tends to make its gains secure and permanent by denying the losers the very right ( or at least a realistic prospect ) of challenging the gains . The ultimate , though elusive and unattainable , purpose of the competitors is to abolish the competition ; competitive relations 130 Self-preservation and Moral Duty have an in-built tendency to self-annihilation . If left to themselves , they would eventually lead to a sharp polarization of chances . Resources would cluster and tend to become ever more abundant on one side of the relationship , while becoming increasingly scarce on the other . More often than not , such a polarization of resources would give the winning side the ability to dictate the rules of all further interaction and leave the losers in no position to contest the rules . Gains in such a case would be transformed into a monopoly ; monopoly , in its turn , would allow the winning side to dictate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prices of the otherwise unavailable goods ) , and so attract more gains still and further deepen the gap between the sides . Secondly , the permanent polarization of chances brought about by the monopoly ( that is , by the constraints imposed on competition ) tends to lead in the long run to the differential treatment of winners and losers . Sooner or later winners and losers solidify ' into permanent ' categories . The winners blame the failure of the losers on the latter 's inherent inferiority . The losers are declared responsible for their own misfortune . They are described as inept or wicked , fickle or depraved , improvident or morally contemptible : in short , lacking in the qualities seen as a necessary condition of competitive success , which also happen to be qualities commanding respect . So defined , the losers are denied the legitimacy of their grievances . Since it has been accepted that the misery they suffer has been brought about by their own defects , they have no one but themselves to blame , and no right to claim their share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful . The disparagement and vilification of the poor is used as a defence of the advantages enjoyed by the well-off . The poor are defiled as lazy , slovenly and negligent , as depraved rather than deprived : lacking in character , shirking hard labour and inclined to delinquency and law-breaking . Like everyone else , it is said , they are self-made people ' ? they have chosen their own fate . Their misery has been visited upon them as a consequence of their own character or conduct . The more fortunate do not owe them anything . If it happens that the better-off share part of their possessions with the poor , it is only because of the goodness of those who share , not because of the right of those they share with . Similarly , in the maleSelf-preservation and Moral Duty 131 dominated society women are blamed for their oppressed state ; their confinement to less prestigious and desirable functions is explained by inborn ' inferiority : excessive emotionality , lack of competitive spirit and lesser rationality or intelligence . Defamation of the victims of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alternative motives of human conduct : moral duty . Moral motives clash with the motives of gain in a number of important respects . Gain-oriented action favours selfconcern and ruthlessness in treating potential competitors . Moral action , on the other hand , requires solidarity , disinterested help , willingness to assist the neighbour in need without asking for , or expecting , remuneration . A moral attitude finds its expression in the consideration of the needs of others , and more often than not would result in self-restraint and a voluntary renunciation of personal gain . If in a gain-motivated action my needs ( however I may define them ) are the sole consideration , in a morally motivated action the needs of others become the basic criterion of choice . In principle , self-interest and moral duty point in opposite directions . It was first noted by Max Weber that the separation of business from the household is one of the most conspicuous characteristics of modern society . Such a separation is a way of avoiding the clash between the two opposite criteria of action . This effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the gain or the moral duty are , respectively , the dominant considerations . When engaged in a business activity , the person is prised from the network of family bonds ; freed , in other words , from the pressures of moral duties . Considerations of gain may therefore be given the sole attention the successful business activity demands . Back in the family , cool calculations of business may be forgotten , and goods shared among family members according to the needs of each member . Ideally , family life ( as well as the life of all those communal forms which are or aim to be patterned after the family ) ought to be free from the motivations of gain . Equally ideally , business activities should not be affected by the motives prompted by moral feelings . Business and morality do not go well together . Success in business ( that is , in an essentially competitive effort ) depends on the rationality of conduct , and this in turn is equal to the stubborn subordination 132 Self-preservation and Moral Duty of all conduct to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head rather than by the heart . Action is considered rational only in so far as it consists of the application of the most effective and least costly means to the task at hand . We have noted before that the organization ( or bureaucracy , as it is commonly called ) is an attempt to adjust human action to the ideal requirements of rationality . We see again that such an attempt must involve , more than anything else , the silencing of moral considerations ( that is , of the concern for others for the others ' sakes , a disinterested concern , upheld even if in conflict with the dictate of self-preservation ) . The task of every member of the organization is reduced to a simple choice of obeying or refusing to obey a command . It is also reduced to a small part of the overall purpose pursued by the organization as a whole , so that the wider consequences of the act are not necessarily visible to the actor . One can do things which have dire consequences one does not see and affect people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the most abominable and abhorrent things without experiencing moral conflict or a guilty conscience ( as when one earns one 's living , often a very decent living , by working in a weapons factory , or in an enterprise which heavily pollutes the environment or produces potentially addictive and poisonous drugs ) . Most importantly , the organization puts discipline in place of moral responsibility as the paramount standard of propriety ( I have just been following orders ' , I just tried to do my job well ' will be the most popular , and self-evident , excuses ) . As long as a member of an organization strictly follows the rules and the commands of superiors , he or she is offered freedom from moral doubts . A morally reprehensible action , unthinkable under different conditions , becomes suddenly possible and relatively easy to obtain . The potency of organizational discipline to silence or suspend moral reservations has been dramatically demonstrated in the notorious experiments of Stanley Milgram , in which a number of volunteers were instructed to deliver painful electric shocks to the objects of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the noble scientific purpose of their cruelty ( which they , as lay persons , could only admire and not really comprehend or judge ) and relying on the admittedly superior judgement of the scientists in Self-preservation and Moral Duty 133 charge of the research project , followed the intructions faithfully ? undaunted by the cries of anguish of their victims . What the experiment revealed on a small scale and in laboratory conditions was demonstrated in breath-taking dimensions by the practice of genocide during the Second World War and thereafter . The murder of millions of Jews initiated and supervised by a few thousand top Nazi leaders and officials was a gigantic bureaucratic operation which involved the cooperation of millions of ordinary ' people ? most of them , in all probability , friendly neighbours , loving spouses and caring parents . Such people drove the trains which carried the victims to gas chambers , worked in factories which produced poisonous gas or crematoria appliances , and in myriads of other small ways contributed to the overall task of annihilation . Every person had a job to do ' , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their energy and physical strength , the problem absorbing all their thoughts . These people could do the things they did only because they were but dimly , if at all , aware of the ultimate consequences of their actions ; they never saw them ? just as the learned men who designed the clever tools of destruction to be visited upon the peasants of Vietnam did not see their brainchildren in action . The final results could by so remote from the simple tasks they themselves were busy with that the connections could escape their attention or be barred from consciousness . Even if the functionaries of a complex organization are aware of the ultimate effect of the joint activity of which they are a part , that effect is often too remote to worry them . Remoteness may be a matter of mental rather than geographical distance . Because of the vertical and horizontal division of labour , the actions of any single person are as a rule mediated by the actions of many other people . Either one 's own job is of no direct consequence , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the multitude of other jobs performed by other people . There seems to be , therefore , no direct causal connection between what one is doing and what happens to the ultimate objects of action . In the end , one 's own contribution pales into insignificance , and its influence on the final result seems too small to be seriously considered as a moral problem . I myself did not do anything wrong , there is nothing you can reproach me 134 Self-preservation and Moral Duty for ' would be a normal excuse . After all , one could have been doing things as innocuous and harmless as drawing blueprints , composing reports , filing documents or switching on and off the machine which mixed two chemical compounds ... One would not easily recognize the charred bodies in an exotic country as the effects of one 's action , as one 's own responsibility . Keeping one 's eyes firmly shut on the morally horrifying endproducts of ostensibly innocent deeds is further helped by the notorious impersonality of organizational functions . It is an essential feature of any organization that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It can be argued , therefore , that the contribution to the overall task is made by the role itself , rather than by its incumbent . If the current occupant does not perform the role properly , someone else will be put in his or her place and the task will be carried out anyway . The argument can be pushed as far as insisting that the very responsibility for making the overall task feasible rests with the role , and not its performer ; and the role ought not to be confused with the personality of the performer . It should be noted that even those among the perpetrators of genocidal actions who stayed too close to the scene of the murder to claim ignorance of the real consequences of their acts could , and did , point out that in the context of bureaucratic command and division of labour moral evaluations were irrelevant . Their own feelings were neither here nor there ' . It did not matter whether they hated their victims or felt sympathy for them . The task demanded their discipline , not their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealt with appointed targets , not fellow human beings . Bureaucracy made to service inhuman purposes has demonstrated its ability to silence moral motivations not only in its employees , but also well beyond the boundaries of the bureaucratic organization itself ; it did so through appealing to the motive of self-preservation of those whom it intended to destroy as well as of those who unwillingly witnessed the destruction . The bureaucratic management of genocide secured the cooperation of many of its victims and the moral indifference of most of the bystanders . Prospective victims had been transformed into psychological captives ' ; bewitched by the illusory prospects of benign treatment as a reward for compliance , Self-preservation and Moral Duty 135 they often played into the hands of their oppressors and facilitated their own perdition . They hoped against hope that something might still be saved , some dangers averted , if only the oppressors were not unduly aggrieved ; that cooperation would be rewarded . In a great number of cases , the phenomenon called anticipatory compliance appeared : the victims went out of their way to please the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with zestful passion . Above all , not until the last moment were they faced with the unavoidability of their ultimate fate . Each successive step on the road to destruction had been presented to them as unpleasant , yet not terminal , and certainly not irreversible ; each step confronted them with a clearly defined choice with only one rational solution ? invariably the one which brought the final destruction a bit closer . The managers of genocide thus attained their ends with the minimum of disorder and virtually no resistance ; very few guards were needed to supervise the long , obedient march to the gas chambers . As for the bystanders , their compliance , or at least their silence and inactivity , were secured through setting high the price of moral behaviour and of solidarity with the victims . Choosing morally correct behaviour would have meant inviting an awesome punishment , and more often than not putting one 's own physical survival at risk . Once the stakes are raised high , the interests of self-preservation push aside moral duties and moral compunctions tend to be quelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without jeopardizing my own and my family 's lives ; I would have saved one person at best , yet if I failed , ten would die . ' Quantitative calculation of survival chances are given priority over the moral quality of action . These have been extreme illustrations of the ultimate opposition between the motives of self-preservation and those of moral duty ; admittedly , they have been drawn from rare and widely condemned situations . In a milder and for that reason less alarming form , however , the opposition leaves its imprint on the everyday human condition . By and large , in any organizational context rationality of action , hailed as the most effective tool of self-preservation , is promoted at the expense of moral obligation . Rational conduct has an apparent advantage over the action guided by moral duty in that it offers an unambiguous recipe for correct choice and appeals 136 Self-preservation and Moral Duty directly to the sense of self-preservation and self-enhancement . It is made still more alluring by its success in satisfying the desire for self-aggrandizement induced by competition . Expressed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rationality , the motive of self-preservation turns into a formidable , perhaps invincible adversary of moral concerns . Extinguishing moral obligations is further facilitated by statistical treatment of human objects of action , promoted by all bureaucracy . Seen as figures ? pure forms which can be filled with any content ? such human objects lose their individuality and are deprived of their separate existence as bearers of human rights and moral obligations . They become instead specimens of a category , fully defined by the attached assembly of organizational rules and criteria . Their personal uniqueness , and thus their unique , individual needs , lose their significance as points of orientation of bureaucratic action . What matters is solely the category to which they have been officially designated . The classification sharpens the focus on selected shared attributes of the individuals in which the organization has expressed its interest ; at the same time , it licenses neglect for all the rest of the attributes , that is , for the very individual characteristics which form the individuals as moral subjects , as unique and irreplaceable human beings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only context in which moral motivations of action tend to be declared out of court , silenced or suspended for the duration . A very similar effect of suppressing moral drive happens in a context that in virtually all other respects is diametrically opposed to the cool , calculating rationality of a bureaucratic organization , and that is also virtually free from gain-seeking and greed-arousing competition . One particular context of this kind stands out as a most effective silencer of morality : the crowd . It has been noted that people who find themselves tightly packed together in a confined space with great numbers of other people whom they do not know ? whom they have not met under other circumstances , have not interacted with before , and with whom they are united ' at present only by a temporary , accidental interest ? are prone to behave in a way they would not deem plausible in normal ' conditions . The wildest of behaviours may suddenly spread through the crowd in a fashion which can only be compared with forest fire , Self-preservation and Moral Duty 137 wind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance in a congested market place or in a theatre in the grip of panic , people overwhelmed with the desire for self-preservation may trample over their fellow humans , push others into the fire , just to secure a breathing-space for themselves or to get out of the danger . They may on other occasions attack and kill the ostensible villain pointed out to them and denounced as the source of threat . In a crowd , people are able to commit deeds no single perpetrator would be morally capable of committing left to himself or herself . If the crowd may commit collectively an odious act which every single member abhors , it is because of the facelessness of the crowd . In the crowd , individuals lose their individuality and dissolve ' in the anonymous gathering ; they are no longer perceived as moral subjects , as the targets of moral duty ( an effect not unlike that of the distancing attained by bureaucratic division of labour ) . A lynch mob or crowd of team supporters absolve their members from moral responsibility for violent acts visited upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the moral constraints of the would-be attackers . In these and similar cases , the suspension of moral obligation is an effect of the anonymity of the crowd and of a virtual absence of any lasting bonds between the participants . The crowd dissolves as quickly as it gathers , and its collective action , however coordinated it may appear , neither follows nor generates interaction of any degree of permanence . It is precisely the momentary and inconsequential character of the crowd action which makes possible the purely affective conduct of its individual members . For a fleeting moment , all stops are pulled , all inhibitions removed , all obligations made void , all rules suspended . The orderly , unemotional conduct in the context of a bureaucratic organization and the riotous eruptions of a crowd 's anger or panic seem to be poles apart ; and yet their effects on moral drive and inhibitions are remarkably similar . Similar effects have similar causes : depersonalization , effacing of faces ' , annihilation of individual autonomy . Bureaucracy ? by being constructed of roles instead of persons and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so many resources or obstacles on the road to goal-attainment or problem-solving ? and the unruly , billowing crowd ? by being 138 Self-preservation and Moral Duty made of indistinguishable particles rather than individual human beings , by acquiring its character from numbers , rather than individual qualities of its members ? are both faceless and anonymous . For their fellow humans , people remain moral subjects as long as they are acknowledged as humans : that is , as beings eligible for the treatment reserved for fellow human beings alone , and proper for every human being ( a treatment which assumes that the partners of interaction possess their own unique needs , that these needs are as valid and important as one 's own and ought to be paid similar attention and respect ) . One may even say that the concepts of a moral object ' and human being ' have the same referent ? their respective scopes overlap . Whenever certain persons or categories of people are denied the right to our moral responsibility , they are treated as lesser humans ' , flawed humans ' , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The universe of moral obligations ( the collection of people embraced by moral duty ) may or may not include all members of the human species . Many primitive ' tribes gave themselves names which meant , simply , human beings ' ; the human status of other tribes , particularly those with whom no interaction except occasional outbursts of hostility had been established , was not fully recognized . The refusal to accept the humanity of strange tribes and their members lingered on in slave-owning societies , where slaves had been assigned the status of talking tools ' and considered ( at least in principle ) solely in the light of their usefulness to the accredited task . The status of limited humanity meant in practice that the essential requirement of moral attitude ? respect for another person 's needs , which includes first and foremost the recognition of the other person 's integrity and the sanctity of his or her life ? was not seen as binding in relation to the bearers of such status . It looks as if history consisted of a gradual , yet relentless extension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the universe of obligations to become ever more inclusive and in the end co-terminus with the totality of the human species . As we have seen , however , this process has not been straightforward . Our century has been notorious for the appearance of highly influential world-views that called for the exclusion of whole categories Self-preservation and Moral Duty 139 of the population ? classes , nations , races , religions ? from the universe of obligations . The perfection of the bureaucratically organized action , on the other hand , has reached a point where moral inhibitions can not effectively interfere with considerations of efficiency any more . The combination of both factors ? the possibility of suspending moral responsi'uility offered by bureaucratic technology of management , and the presence of world-views ready and willing to deploy such a possibility ? resulted on many occasions in the successful confinement of the universe of obligations , which in its turn opened the way to such diverse consequences as the mass terror practised in communist societies against the members of hostile classes and persons classified as their helpers , persistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their human-rights record , many overt or surreptitiously practised apartheid systems , and the numerous cases of genocide , moving from the massacre of Armenians in Turkey , through the annihilation of millions of Jews , gypsies and Slays by Nazi Germany , to the gassing of Kurds or the mass murders of Cambodia . The boundaries of the universe of obligations remain to this day a contentious issue . One may suspect that the development of the bureaucratic technology adept at the task of silencing moral motivation ( as much an achievement of modern society as the extension of moral sensitivity to all members of the human species ) has made them more contentious than before ? in practice , if not in theory . Inside the universe of obligations , the authority of other people 's needs is recognized . It is accepted that the needs of others are legitimate reasons for their demands ; if the demands are not met , the failure always calls for explanation and often for some sort of apology . The life of others ought to be preserved , whatever the costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare , expand their life chances , open their access to the amenities society has to offer . Their poverty , ill health , dreariness of daily life constitute a challenge and an admonition to all other members of the same universe of obligations . Faced with such a challenge , we feel obliged to excuse ourselves ? to supply a convincing explanation why so little has been done to alleviate their lot and why not much more can be done ; we also feel obliged to prove that everything that could be 140 Self-preservation and Moral Duty done was done . Not that the explanations provided must of necessity be true . We hear , for instance , that the health service offered to the population at large can not be improved because money can not be spent until it is earned ' . What such an explanation conceals , however , is that the profits made by private medicine used by well-off patients are classified as earnings ' , while the services provided for those who can not afford private fees are counted among expenditures ' ; such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ability to pay . The very fact , however , that the explanation is offered at all , and that those who give it feel obliged to provide one , testifies to the recognition that the people whose health needs are neglected remain nevertheless inside the universe of obligations . The fact that the needs of others remain unsatisfied would not be felt as our failure , and the inner compulsion to explain it would lose much of its urgency , only if the neglected others ' were evicted altogether from the universe of obligations ; or , at least , if it was demonstrated that their presence inside the universe of obligations was doubtful or undeserved ' . Such a situation is not at all fanciful . It tends to be produced through casting those others ' in a relatively subhuman situation , and then blaming the misfortune on their inability to act like humans do ' . From this there is just one step to the decision that the others in question can not be treated as human beings are , since their failings are beyond cure and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They will , for instance , for ever remain an alien race ' that can not be accommodated in the native ' moral order , as they themselves would not be able to abide by it . Self-preservation and moral duty stand in opposition to each other . Neither of them can claim to be more natural ' than the other , better attuned to the inherent predisposition of human nature . If one gains an upper hand over the other and becomes a dominant motive of human action , the cause of imbalance can usually be traced back to the socially determined context of interaction ? to the way the stakes are defined and given prominence . Self-interested and moral motives become prevalent depending on circumstances over which the people who are guided by them have only a limited control . It has been observed , however , that the power of circumSelf-preservation and Moral Duty 141 stances is never absolute , and the choice between the two contradictory motives remains open even under the most extreme conditions . Moral responsibility of the human person , or its renouncement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference to external powers and pressures . Chapter Eight Nature and Culture Look , what a short man . Poor fellow , nature was not generous , ' we say with pity and compassion . We do not blame the man for his unimpressive height . He strikes us as shorter than most people we know ; certainly shorter than normal ' . And yet it does not occur to us that someone , somewhere , neglected to do something to make the man taller . As far as we know , one can not manipulate one 's height ; the height is , so to speak , a verdict of nature from which there is no appeal . There are no known means of rescinding or quashing the verdict . One has no choice but to accept it and live with it as well as one can . Look , what a fat man , ' we say the next moment , and laugh . He must be a glutton or a beer-swiller . Shame on him . He really should do something about it . ' Unlike height , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe ? is normally under human control . It can be made larger or smaller . There is nothing irrevocable about it . Human weight can and ought to be regulated and brought to the required standard by human effort . Humans are in charge of their own weight , they carry obligations towards it and should be ashamed of themselves if they neglect them . How do the two cases differ from each other ? Why do we react to them in such strikingly different ways ? The answer to these questions can be found in our knowledge of what people can do and our belief in what people should do . First , the question is whether doing something is within human power ' ( whether knowledge , skills or technology exist , are available and can be used by men and women to make a fragment or an aspect of the world more to their liking ) . Second , there is the question of whether there is a standard , a norm , to which that something ' should submit . In other words , there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , made different from what they are . They are to be treated differently from other things , which stay beyond human power . The first we call culture , the second nature . If , therefore , we think of something as being a matter of culture , rather than nature , what we imply is that the thing in question is manipulable , and that there is a desirable , proper ' end-state for such a manipulation . Indeed , if you think about it , the very word culture ' suggests that much . It calls to mind the labours of a farmer or a gardener , who carefully design the plots won from the wilderness and brought under cultivation , select the seeds to be sown and the seedlings to be planted , choose and supply their nourishment , trim the growing plants to give them the right shape ? that is , the shape they consider proper for the plants in question . But the farmer and the gardener do more than that . They also weed out the unwelcome guests , the uninvited ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and therefore spoiled the neat design of the plot , diminished the planned profitability of the field , or detracted from the aesthetic ideal of the garden . It was the calculation of profitability or the idea of order and beauty which divided the plants in the first place ? into useful ones , seen as proper objects calling for loving care , and weeds to be ripped out , poisoned or otherwise destroyed . It is the farmer and the gardener who conjure up the vision of the order of things ' , and then deploy their skills and tools to implement that vision , to make reality itself orderly ' , that is , more akin to their vision of order ( note that in most cases the skills and the tools they already possess set the limits to farmers ' and gardeners ' imaginations ; only such visions of order are likely to be conceived as are already feasible given the current state of the art ) . By the same token , they offer the criteria to distinguish between order and disorder , between the norm and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' jobs are prime examples of culture , as an activity with a purpose , and a special kind of purpose at that : the imposition on a certain section of reality of a form which would not be there otherwise , and which certainly would not emerge without the effort to bring it about . Culture is about making things different from what they are and otherwise would be ? and about keeping 144 Nature and Culture them in this made-up , artificial shape . Culture is about introducing and keeping an order and fighting everything that departs from it and that from the point of view of this order looks like chaos . Culture is about supplanting or supplementing the order of nature ' ( that is , the state of things as they are without human interference ) with an artificial , designed one . Culture not only promotes such an artificial order , it also evaluates it . Culture means a preference . It lauds one order as the best , perhaps even as the only good one . It denigrates all alternatives as inferior , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and culture falls depends , of course , on what skills and knowledge are available , and on whether there is an ambition to deploy them for purposes previously untried . On the whole , the development of science and technology widens the scope of possible manipulation of heretofore natural ' phenomena , and thus extends the realm of culture . To return to our original example , the know-how and the practice of genetic engineering and chemical industry together with the medical profession may well transfer the height of humans from the natural to the cultural sphere : sooner or later , the technology of manipulating the genes or drugs influencing the growth of tissues and organs of the body may be capable of preventing any individual from falling below the desired standard height , which would then become a norm . The proper height , like the proper weight today , would become a matter of collective concern and personal responsibility . Let us pause , however , a little longer over our imaginary example , as it illustrates another important feature of all culture . If the genetical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be the parents who will decide how tall their offspring will be ; or the law passed and enforced by the state authority which will decide the proper height of the citizens ; or the judgement of the medical profession which will recommend the normal ' , as distinct from the abnormal ' , size of the human body . Whichever is the case , the owner of the body will have to accept the pronouncement of others , or ( as in the case of genetic engineering ) his or her acceptance or non-acceptance will be simply irrelevant . Culture , which manifests the growing might of mankind as a whole ( we may say : the growing independence , freedom of the human species regarding nature ) , Nature and Culture 145 may itself appear to the individual , much like the laws of nature , as a fate against which one can not rebel . As our example shows , culture is indeed a human activity ? but an activity which some people perform on some others . Like in the case of the garden , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cultivated plants are clearly distinguished and kept apart . The reason why such division is less immediately evident in the case of human plants ' is that more often than not it is not clear who the gardener ' is . The authority that stands behind the norm which individuals are either shaped by or bound to observe is as a rule diffuse , often anonymous . It is impossible to tell exactly where it resides . The awesome and overwhelming authority which shapes human bodies and thoughts appears in the form of public opinion ' , fashion , common consent ' , expert view ' or even such an elusive entity as common sense ? which is a sense of all , but of nobody in particular . It may seem , therefore , that it is the evasive , intangible , abstract culture itself which makes people do things ? for instance , paint their lips rather than their ears , or urinate in private while they drink in public . Culture acquires an illusory substance ' ; it seems solid , heavy , pressing and irresistible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance to the dominant forms of life risky and unrewarding , it may well appear indistinguishable from the rest of reality out there ' . It does not seem less natural ' than nature itself . Certainly , there is little that is artificial about it , if artificial means being made by humans and thus having nothing but someone 's decision , convention and tacit agreement to support it . Despite its apparently human origin , culture like nature looms high above the reach of the individual , tough and unassailable . Like nature , it stands for how things are ' . While no one doubts that agriculture or horticulture are human doings , a similar truth is hidden or at least %-oiled in the case of homini-culture ' . It is , however , no less a truth Mere than in previous cases . Once you take a closer look at the human-made elements ' in your own life , you will probably note that they enter your situation in a twofold way ; or , to put it in a different fashion , you may say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' man-made ' order are of two types . The first is aimed at the en146 Nature and Culture vironment , the second at the individual . The first regulates , makes orderly the context in which individual life-processes are conducted . The second shapes the motives and purposes of the life-process itself . The first makes the world of one 's life less random , more regular ? so that certain kinds of behaviour become more sensible , reasonable , and in the end more probable than any other kind of conduct . The second makes one more inclined to select certain motives and purposes from innumerable others that could be imagined . Let us note that the two analytically distinct types are not mutually exclusive in their application and effects ; neither are they independent from each other . The environment of my and anybody else 's individual life-processes consists in no small measure of other individuals with motives and purposes of their own ? and thus the normative regulation ' of individual motives and patterns of conduct is an important factor in the overall regularity and predictability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chaos by the fact that in an orderly situation not everything may happen : not everything is possible . Out of a virtually infinite set of conceivable events , only a finite number may take place . Different events carry different degrees of probability : some events are more likely to occur than others . An artificial order is successfully established once what used to be improbable has been transformed into the necessary or inevitable ( like , for instance , making the thoroughly unlikely event of meeting between eggs and bacon into a regular morning occurrence ) . To design an order means , therefore , to manipulate the probability of events . Some events which otherwise would occur at random are made more probable ? normal ' ? while obstacles are mounted to prevent other events from happening . To design an order means to select , to choose ? and to establish preferences and priorities , to evaluate . The values stand behind and are eventually incorporated into all artificial orders . No description of an artificial order can be truly value-free . Each such order represents just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : one way which had been selected in preference to all the others . Once this order has become well entrenched , solid and secure , we naturally forget ' this truth ; we perceive the order as the only one thinkable . It seems now that while Nature and Culture 147 there could be one and only one order , the variety of disorder is infinite . A specific , given order is then perceived as synonymous with order as such ; all alternatives are uniformly classified as varieties of disorder or chaos . As human beings , we all have a vested interest in creating and maintaining an orderly environment . This is because of the fact most of our behaviour is learned . We memorize those of our past actions which proved successful : brought the desired effect , the pleasure , approval and praise of people around us . Thanks to the precious gift of memory and learning capacity , we are able to acquire ever more effective life-skills ; we accumulate knowledge , skills , experience . But memory and learning bring beneficial results only as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large unchanged . It is thanks to the constancy of the world around us that the actions which were successful before are likely to remain so if repeated today and tomorrow . Just imagine what havoc would occur , if , for instance , the meaning of the colours of traffic lights were changed without warning . In a randomly mutable world , memory and learning would turn from blessing into a curse . To learn , to go by past experience , would be truly suicidal . The orderly world ? that regular and thus comfortably predictable environment in which we conduct our life-business most of the time ? is a product of cultural design and selection . When properly designed and executed , buildings radically limit the amplitude of possible temperatures , totally excluding the unbearable extremes . Splitting the road into pedestrian and vehicle lanes considerably diminishes the probability of a deadly encounter between a moving vehicle and a pedestrian . A bridge spanning two banks of a river reduces the likelihood of getting wet while crossing the river . The division of the city into quarters with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of amenities limits the range of people one can meet as passers-by or neighbours . The division of the train or plane into first and second class , with sharply different fare prices , similarly limits the range of likely travelling companions . The order of the world around us has its counterpart in the orderliness of our own behaviour . On the whole , we choose different lanes for walking and driving . We do not behave at a drinks party in 148 Nature and Culture the same fashion as we do at a college seminar or business meeting . We conduct ourselves differently at our parental home during the holidays and at a formal visit among people whom we do not know . We use a different tone of voice and different words , depending on whether we address our boss or chat to our friends . There are words we say on one occasion but avoid on another . There are things we do in public , but also private ' things which we do only when we are sure that we are not being watched . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the occasion , we find ourselves in the company of others behaving exactly like us ; departures from what apparently is a rule happen but seldom ? as if a sort of invisible string pulled all of us in a similar fashion . If I confuse things , and behave in a way suitable for one context in circumstances which this conduct does not fit , I am likely to feel embarrassed or guilty . I regret committing an error which may cost me dearly ? for instance , in losing a job or promotion , compromising my reputation , failing to earn or losing the sympathy of a person dear to me . On other occasions I may feel ashamed ? as if I 've let out some secret truth about my real self ' which I wished to keep under cover or even wished was not true in the first place . Unlike the case of regretting a move that brought unpleasant results , there is nothing calculated or , indeed , rational in my feeling of shame . The feeling has been triggered off without much thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the confusion of what should have been kept apart , to violating a distinction which should have been observed and kept intact . We can say that shame is a ( culturally trained ) defence against such a mix-up ? against neglecting differences . It can be thought of as a device to keep our conduct on the right ( that is , culturally prescribed ) track . It must have become clear by now that culture ? this labour of artificial order ? is performed mostly by making distinctions , setting apart , segregating , discriminating between things or acts which otherwise would barely have been separated from one another . In a desert , untouched by human activity and indifferent to human purpose , there are neither signposts nor fences making one stretch of land different from another ; one dune is exactly like another , devoid of a meaning of its own , carrying nothing to distinguish it from the Nature and Culture 149 next one . Uninhabited desert is , it seems , formless . In an environment subjected to the work of culture , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided into areas which draw some people but repel others , or into strips fit only for driven vehicles and those that are suitable solely for walkers ; the world acquires a structure . People are divided into superiors and inferiors , agents of authority and lay persons , those who speak and those who listen and take notice ? and all this without reference to , or in defiance of , the natural ' differences or similarities of their physical build or mental constitution . A uniform flow of time is divided into breakfast-time , coffee break , lunchtime , afternoon tea or dinner . Gatherings similar or even identical in their physical ' composition are nevertheless discriminated between ? being once a seminar , a conference at some other time , a wine-and-cheese party on yet another occasion . The intake of food differentiates into events as distinct as teas , TV suppers or candlelit dinners . These and similar distinctions seem to be drawn simultaneously on two planes . One is the shape of the world ' in which the action takes place . The other is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from each other as well as different in themselves depending on the periods distinguished in the flow of time ( the same building may be a school in the morning and a ballroom in the evening , while a bedsitter is a study room during day and a bedroom at night ; both change their character in the process ) . The actions are equally differentiated . Conduct at the table differs sharply depending on what has been put on the table and who is sitting around it . Even table manners ? the way we behave while eating ? differ depending on whether the meal is formal , a routine family supper or just a friendly get-together . Let us note again that the setting apart of the two planes ( context and action , external and internal , objective and subjective ) is a product of abstraction . The two theoretically separated planes are not really independent from each other . There would be no formal dinner without the diners behaving in the formal way , or a ball without the dancers being in the ball-like mood , any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or wind without blowing . It is a certain conduct of teachers and students which makes a seminar a 150 Nature and Culture seminar . The two theoretically distinct planes are in practice inextricably linked ? more like two faces of the same coin than two separate entities . One can not exist without the other . They may be brought into being and maintained only simultaneously , and together . The distinctions which are the substance of the culturally produced order affect simultaneously , and in a parallel , coordinated , synchronized way , the context of action and the action itself . One may say that the oppositions drawn in the world around are replicated in the differentiation of the actors ' behaviour ; and that deployment of opposite patterns of conduct is reflected in the internal divisions of the world around . One can even go a step further and say that the differentiation of behaviour is the substance , or meaning , of the differentiation of the environment ? and vice versa . The other way of expressing this coordination is to say that both the culturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are structured ? that is , articulated ' , with the help of oppositions , into separate social contexts calling for distinctive conduct and separate patterns of behaviour suitable for distinctive social contexts ? and that the two articulations correspond ' to each other ( or , to use the technical term , they are isomorphic ) . Whenever we notice an opposition in the modes of conduct ( for example , the previously mentioned juxtaposition of formal and informal behaviour ) , we may safely guess the presence of a similar opposition in the social context in which these distinct modes would be deployed ? and vice versa . The device which secures this amazing overlap ' , the correspondence between structures of social reality and of culturally regulated behaviour , is called the cultural code . As you have probably guessed by now , the code is first and foremost a system of oppositions . Indeed , what is opposed in this system are signs ? visible , audible , tactile , olfactory objects or events like lights of different colours , elements of dress , inscriptions , oral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , scents , etc. ? which link actors ' behaviour and the social figuration sustained by this behaviour . The signs , as it were , point in two directions at the same time : towards the intentions of the actors and towards the given segment of social reality in which they act . Neither of the two is just a reflection of the other . Neither Nature and Culture 151 is primary or secondary . Both , let us repeat , exist only together , grounded in the same facility of the cultural code . Think , for instance , of no entry ' notice nailed to the door in an office building . You must have observed that such a notice appears , as a rule , on one side of the door only , and that the door on which it appears is usually unlocked ( were the door impossible to open , there would hardly be a need for the notice ) . The notice is not , therefore , giving information of the objective state of the door ' . It is , rather , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise would not occur . What the words no entry ' do , in fact , is to distinguish between the two sides of the door , between the two kinds of people who approach the door from the opposite sides , and the two kinds of conduct in which those people are expected or permitted to engage . The space behind the marked side of the door is barred to those who approach it from the side of the notice , but for the people on the other side , on the contrary , no such restriction has been imposed . The sign stands precisely for this distinction . Its achievement is to make a discrimination in an otherwise uniform space among equally uniform people . The homini-culture ' , the training of human individuals , consists of imparting the knowledge of the cultural code : teaching the ability to read the signs and the skill to select and display them . All properly cultured persons can faultlessly determine the demands and expectations inherent in the context they enter ; and respond to it by selecting the appropriate pattern of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are able to pick up , without error , a mode of behaviour likely to result in the type of situation they intend to evoke . Whoever knows ' the code , is addressed in both directions at the same time . Traffic lights at a crossroads offer a good example of this two-sidedness . A red light informs the drivers that the road ahead is closed . It also induces them to stop the car , thereby making the road ahead truly closed to the traffic from that direction and making true the information conveyed by the green light which opens the road going across . The code works , of course , only if all the persons participating in a given figuration have undergone a similar cultural training . All of them must have learned to read the cultural code and use it in a 152 Nature and Culture similar way . Otherwise , the signs will not be seen as signs ? will fail to send the reader to the objects or conduct they were meant to stand for ; or will be read , if at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended coordination will not occur , as the actions of various readers will be out of line ( just imagine what would happen at the crossroads if some of the drivers read the red light wrongly ; or if some drivers fixed red lights at the front of their cars and white lights at the rear ) . Whoever has entered a college or an office for the first time , or whoever has visited a faraway country on holidays , must surely have learned this unpleasant truth from experience . The comfortable feeling of security which is associated with familiar surroundings , with being at home , stems precisely from the thorough knowledge of the locally used cultural code , coupled with a reassuring and well-grounded expectation that this knowledge is shared by everybody around . To know the code is therefore to understand the meaning of signs ; to understand the meaning of signs , in its turn , means knowing how to go on in a situation in which such signs appear , and how to use them to make such a situation appear . To understand is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coordination between the structures of the situation and one 's own behaviour . Understanding stands for a double selection . The sign sends the person who is able to read it to the bond between a particular kind of setting and a particular kind of conduct . It is often said that to uderstand a sign is to grasp its meaning . It would be false , however , to think of that grasping of meaning ' as evoking a thought , a mental image in one 's mind . A thought ( the verbal unravelling ' of the content of the sign : a sort of reading aloud ' of the sign in your head ? for instance , this is a red light , and it means a command to stop ) may indeed accompany the sight or the sound of the sign ? but it is neither necessary nor sufficient for the understanding . To grasp the meaning , like understanding itself , means no more and no less than to know how to go on . What follows is that the meaning of a sign resides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or absence makes . To put this in another way ? the meaning resides in its relation ? opposition ? to other signs . The meaning of a sign is the distinction between the situation here Nature and Culture 153 and now and other situations which could have taken its place but did not ; to put it plainly , the distinction between this one situation and all the others . More often than not ? in fact in any but the simplest of cases ? one sign is insufficient to make this distinction clear and , above all , to make it stick ' . We may say that one sign sometimes does not carry enough information to single the situation out , to bring it to the attention of all involved , to force them to select the right behaviour , and thus to ensure that the intended situation indeed takes place . One sign may be read incorrectly , and if such an erroneous reading does happen , there will be nothing to correct the mistake . For instance , the sight of a military uniform tells us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a member of the armed li-rccs ; for most civilians this information would be quite sufficient to structure ' the encounter . For other members of the armed forces , with their complex hierarchy of power and division of duties , the information conveyed by the uniform would not be enough ( one relates to a corporal and a colonel in very different ways ) . Other rank-showing signs are therefore piled up ' on the primary and general sign , which is the military uniform itself , to offer the missing infirrmation . This is not the only remarkable thing we note , however : on military uniforms the signs that signal a given rank generally appear in greater quantity than would be absolutely necessary to convey all the information one needs to pinpoint unambiguously a given situation . More than one pair of opposed signs sets apart the corporal from the colonel : the uniforms are differently cut and made of different kinds of cloth , the buttons are made of different metals , there are signs of sharply different shapes on the shoulders , and also on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of further oppositions which merely replicate the information already conveyed by other aims , we may describe as redundancy . Redundancy seems to be quite essential to the proper functioning of any cultural code . It is , one may say , an insurance against mistakes ; a device required to make sure that ambivalence is thoroughly eliminated and no misreading occurs . Were it not for redundancy , the accidental distortion or overlooking of just one sign could prompt c wrong kind of behaviour . The more important for the overall 154 Nature and Culture order the information conveyed by a given opposition of signs is , the more redundancy one can expect . Redundancy is in no way a waste . On the contrary , it is an indispensable factor in the order-producing activity of culture . It reduces the danger of mistake , of misunderstanding ; it ensures that the meaning is read exactly as it has been intended . In other words , it makes possible the use of the cultural code as a means of communication ? that is , mutual coordination of behaviour . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is meaningful , not a single sign taken apart . Which implies in turn that the meanings to be read out ' and understood reside in the system of signs ? in the cultural code as a whole , in the distinctions it makes , not in the assumed special link between the sign and its referent . As a matter of fact , such a special link does not exist at all ( the impression that there is a natural bond between a sign and the thing it stands for is in itself a product of culture , the result of learning the code ) . In relation to the fragments of the world or of our actions which they evoke , the signs are arbitrary . They are unmotivated by those fragments , unconnected with them in any way but through the signifying function assigned to the signs by the cultural code . This quality of arbitrariness sets the culturally produced signs ( the whole humanmade system of signification ) apart from anything one can find in nature ; the cultural code is truly unprecedented . Speaking of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we often refer to signs ' through which nature informs ' us of itself , and which have to be read in order to extricate the information they contain . Thus we look at the drops of water flowing down the window pane and say , It is raining ' ; we speak of these drops as signs of rain . Or we note a wet pavement and we conclude that it must have been raining . I put my hand on my child 's head , note its being unusually hot , and say , She must be ill , let us call the doctor . ' On my walk through the countryside , I note tracks of a peculiar shape across the path and think , hares are back this spring , and in big numbers . In all these cases , what I have seen or felt gives me information about something I can not see ? and this is exactly what signs usually do . What is characteristic about signs like those , however , is that unlike the cultural signs we discussed before they Nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are effects of their respective causes . It is these causes that I read out ' as the information they contain . Rain sends drops of water down the window pane and leaves the roads wet ; illness changes the temperature of the body and makes the head feel hot ; hares running across a sandy path leave footprints of a specific shape . Once I know of such causal connections , I can reconstruct the invisible ' cause from the effects I observe . To avoid confusion , it would perhaps be better to speak of indices or symptoms , rather than signs , when referring to causally determined ( as distinct from the arbitrary ) clues in our reasoning ( and so a raindrop is an index of rain , a hot head a symptom of illness ) . In the case of the cultural signs , however , no such causal connection exists . The signs are arbitrary or conventional . Rain can not cause footprints to appear on the path , nor can the hares cause water to flow down the window : there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various culturally determined distinctions can be signified by all sorts of signs of all kinds of shapes . There is neither a causal link nor a similarity between the signs and what they stand for . If within a given culture emphasis is put on the distinction between sexes , this may be signified in a countless number of ways . The sex-specific fashions ( that is , the shape and look of the clothes worn , of make-up , gait , vocabulary , general demeanour ) may radically change over time and from one place to another , provided that the difference between male and female versions is maintained . The same applies to the discrimination between generations ( which , paradoxically , can sometimes be expressed in one generation 's rejection of differentiating between sexes in their dress or hairstyles ) , formal and informal contexts , sad occasions ( like funerals ) and joyful ones ( like weddings ) . Cultural signs do change their visible form freely , but the contrast between them and the signs they stand in opposition to is maintained and reconstituted with every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only job ? can be properly performed again and again . Arbitrariness , however , is not always equal to complete freedom of choice . The most free are signs that perform none but their cultural discriminatory function and serve no other need but that of human communication . These are , first and foremost , the signs of 156 Nature and Culture language . Language is a sign-system specialized in the function of communication . In language ( and in language only ) , therefore , the arbitrariness of signs has no constraints . Vocal sounds all humans are capable of producing can be modulated in an infinite number of utterly arbitrary ways , provided there is enough of them to produce the required oppositions . The same opposition , in various languages , may be construed with the help of pairs as dissimilar to each other as boy and girl , garcon and fille , Knabe and Mddchen . But freedom ( the degree of permissible arbitrariness ) is not as complete in most other sign-systems . While performing the communicative function , all systems , except for language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus tied down by other functions . Dress , for instance , is fraught with arbitrary signs , yet it also offers shelter from the vagaries of an inclement climate , protects the body heat , offers an additional protection to vulnerable parts of the skin , and upholds the binding standards of decency . Most of these other functions are also culturally regulated ( for instance , it is to a large extent a matter of culture which sections of the skin are considered vulnerable ' and in need of protection ; the need to wear shoes is the result of culture , as is the need to cover breasts but not legs , or vice versa ) , but they serve other than purely communicative needs ; skirts and trousers cover the body in addition to being signifiers . Similarly , however rich and precise are the signifying distinctions impressed upon various kind of food and meals , there are limits to the material in which cultural discriminations may be expressed , as not every stuff can be made edible given the peculiarities of the human digestive system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must , apart from signifying the specific nature of the occasion , provide nourishing substances ; it is , after all , also a food intake . While the human speech capacity is utilized solely for communicative purposes , other media of communication share their semiotic ( meaningcarrying and transferring ) function with servicing other needs . Their code is carved , as it were , on the surface of other , not primarily communicative , functions . In their communicative function ( as meaningful objects or events that structure the situation in which they appear ) signs are always arbitrary . ' The curious thing , though , is that to properly cultured ' Nature and Culture 157 people ? to people who can move with facility and without error through the world shaped by a given cultural code ? they do not seem to be arbitrary at all . For everyone brought up in a particular language there seems to be a sort of natural , necessary bond between the sound of a word and the object this word refers to ? as if the names naturally belonged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alongside their size , colour or resilience . The arbitrary aspect of forms carved in other media may altogether escape our attention : dress is there to dress , food to be eaten , the car to get from here to there . It is difficult to realize that in addition to being worn or consumed dress or food also distinguish between different people and different roles they currently play : that things to be eaten ' or things to be worn ' also serve the creation and the reproduction of a particular , made-up ' and artificial , social order . This sort of blindness is , in fact , part of the cultural game . The less we are aware of the non-substantive ( that is , unrelated to the ostensible content of a given activity ) , order-making function of culturally shaped actions , the more secure is the order these actions maintain . Culture is most effective when it is disguised as nature . What is artificial then appears to be rooted in the very nature of things ' , necessary and irreplaceable ; something no human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social treatment of men and women ( culturally inspired and sustained from the moment of birth and through the whole of life by differences in dress , toys , games played , the company kept , encouraged and discouraged interests or pastimes , etc. ) become truly well established and secure once the trainees accept that social discrimination between sexes is somehow predetermined , entailed in the physiological constitution of the human body , natural ' ? and so demands to be obeyed , outwardly expressed in virtually everything one does , be it the manner of speaking and walking , the vocabulary used or the way of expressing ( or not expressing ) emotions . Culturally produced , social differences between men and women appear as natural as the biological difference between the male and female sexual organs and procreative functions . Culture may pass for nature most successfully , without questions being asked , as long as the artificiality , the conventional character of 158 Nature and Culture the norms it propagates ( the fact that these norms could be different from what they are ) is not exposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyone within sight has been subjected to the same type of cultural training ; if everybody has internalized and retained loyalty to the same norms and values and goes on manifesting this loyalty , albeit unknowingly , in daily conduct . In other words , culture looks and acts like nature as long as no alternative conventions are seen and known . In our kind of world , however , this hardly ever happens . The contrary is the rule . Virtually everyone of us knows that there are many different ways of life . We look around us at people who dress , talk , behave differently from ourselves , and obviously ( or so we assume ) abide by norms different from ours . And so we are fully aware that any way of life is ultimately a matter of choice . There is more than one way of being human . Practically everything can be done in a different way from the one in which we do it ? no single way is really inevitable . Even if each one of these requires a culture , a training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessarily be pointed in this rather than that direction , that this rather than that choice should be made . We know that there are cultures rather than one single culture . And if culture can be thought of in the plural , it can not be conceived of as nature is . No culture can claim such unconditional obedience as nature does . While conducting its business in the company of many other , sometimes sharply distinct , ways of life , culture is unable to hold the same firm grip on human conduct and thought as it could if it were truly universal and free from competition . The order at which culture is aimed ( that ultimate purpose ' of any culture ) can not be really secure . Neither are we , the objects of cultural training ; we , the cultured ' people . The order conjured up by our cultural training seems disturbingly fragile and vulnerable . This is just one of many possible orders . We can not be certain that it is the right one . We can not even be sure that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We do not know why we should give it preference over other orders vying for our attention . We look at the way we live our lives as if from the outside , as if we were strangers in our own home . We doubt and ask questions . We need explanations and reassurance ? and demand them . Nature and Culture 159 Uncertainty is seldom a pleasant condition . Hence the attempts to escape it are fairly common . The pressure to conform to the norms promoted by cultural training is therefore usually accompanied by efforts to discredit and denigrate the norms of other cultures , as well as their products : the alternative orders . Other cultures are represented as showing an absence of culture ? as the uncivilized ' , coarse , uncouth and brutal way of being , more animal than human . Alternatively , they are depicted as a product of degeneration : morbid , often pathological , departure from the ' normal % a distortion , deviation or anomaly . If other ways of life are acknowledged as cultures in their own right , complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inferior and vaguely threatening : acceptable perhaps for other , less demanding people , but certainly not for us , people of distinction . All such reactions are various forms of xenophobia ( dread of the alien ) , or heterophobia ( dread of the different ) . They are various methods of defence of that frail and unsteady order which is sustained solely by the shared cultural code : of fighting ambivalence . One may say that the distinctions between us ' and them ' , here ' and there ' , inside ' and outside ' , native ' and foreign ' are among the most crucial differences cultures establish and promote . With these distinctions , they draw the boundary of the territory they claim for their own undivided rule and intend to guard against all competition . Cultures tend to be tolerant towards other cultures only at a distance ? that is , only on condition of barring all exchange or limiting it to a strictly controlled field and ritualized form ( for instance , trade transactions with foreign ' shopkeepers and restaurateurs ; deploying foreigners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of interaction and are not allowed to spill over into other areas of life ; admiring foreign ' cultural products in the safe enclosure of a museum , a stage , a screen or a bandstand , as recreation or entertainment : a pastime separate and held at a distance from normal ' daily life ) . The other way of describing this tendency of cultural activity is to say that cultures aim , as a rule , at hegemony ? at the monopoly of the norms and values on which their own peculiar orders are erected . Cultures aim at uniformity in the realm subjected to their hegemony , while at the same time sharply differentiating between this realm 160 Nature and Culture and the rest of the human world . They are , therefore , inherently against the equality of the forms of life , promoting as they do one choice over all others . Culture is , by and large , a proselytizing ( missionary ) activity . It aims at conversion , at inducing its objects to abandon their old habits and beliefs and embrace others instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the impact of foreign influences ' . It is resented because it exposes the inside order as arbitrary and a matter of choice , and thus weakens the grip of the dominant norms by undermining their monopolistic authority . When several cultural designs coexist without clear demarcation lines separating their fields of influence ( that is , under conditions of cultural pluralism ) , mutual tolerance ( mutual acknowledgement of the other side 's worthiness and validity ) is an attitude badly needed for coexistence , but one that does not come easily . Chapter Nine State and Nation You will probably have been required on various occasions to fill in forms which asked you to give some information about your identity . It is more than likely that the very first instruction in each form was to write down your name . It was your personal name ( your surname ? the name you share with other members of your family ? and all other names , given only to you , to distinguish you from the rest of your kin ) you were asked to write down ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form-fillers , point to you alone , as an individual , that unique , unrepeatable person unlike any other . Once your unique identity had been established , other questions followed which , on the contrary , attempted to establish features which you shared with others : to locate you in certain wider categories . Whoever composed the form must have hoped that by learning of your membership of such categories ( like sex , age , education , occupation , place of residence ) they would obtain information about such attributes of your person as may have some predictive value regarding your present standing or prospective behaviour . The authors of the form were , of course , concerned mostly with that part of your conduct which had been or might become relevant to the purpose of the organization that designed the form and for whose use the form has been completed ( if , for instance , this was an application form for a credit card or a bank loan , such information would have been collected as would allow the bank manager to assess just to what extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a loan would entail ) . On many forms a question about your nationality would appear . To this question you may answer British ' . But you may also answer 162 State and Nation English ' ( or Welsh ' , or Scottish ' , or Jewish ' , or Greek ' ) . As it happens , both answers are proper responses to the question of nationality . But they refer to different things . When answering British ' , you indicate that you are a British subject ' , that is , a citizen of the state called Great Britain or the United Kingdom . When answering English ' , you report the fact that you belong to the English nation . The question about nationality makes both answers possible and acceptable ; this shows that in practice the two memberships are not clearly distinguished from each other and tend to overlap ? and because of this tendency may well be confused . And yet , when you answer the question of nationality by writing British ' , you refer to a quite different aspect of your identity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be confused ? but they are quite different things , and your membership of each involves you in very different kinds of relationships . To start with , there is no state without a specific territory held together by a centre of power . Every resident of the area over which the authority of the state extends belongs to the state . Belonging in this case has first of all a legal meaning . Authority of the state ' means the ability to declare , and to enforce , the law of the land ' ? the rules which must be observed by all subjects of this authority ( unless the state itself exempts them from such an obedience ) , by everyone who just happens to be physically there . If the laws are not observed , the culprits are liable to be punished . They will be forced to obey , whether they like it or not . In fact the state claims the sole right to apply coercive force ( to use weapons in defence of the law , to deprive the law-breaker of freedom through imprisonment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is nil or if the breach of the law was of the kind considered too grave to be forgiven or punished with anything less than death ; when executed by the order of the state , and only then , the killing is permissible , seen not as a murder but as a form of punishment and itself unpunishable ) . The other side of the state monopoly of physical coercion is that any use of force which has not been authorized by the state , or committed by anyone other than its authorized agents , is condemned as an act of violence ( and thus a crime ' , unlike the state-initiated law enforcement ' ) , and hence invites persecution and punishment . State and Nation 163 The laws announced and guarded by the state determine the duties and the rights of the state subjects . The most important of the duties is the payment of taxes ? giving away a part of one 's income to the state , which takes it over and puts it to uses it itself determines . The rights , on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's own body and one 's possessions , unless ruled otherwise by the decision of authorized state organs ; or the right to profess one 's own opinions and beliefs ) , political ( influencing the composition and the policy of state organs , for example by taking part in the election of the body of representatives who then become rulers or administrators of the state institution ) or social ( the guarantee by the state of a basic livelihood and essential needs such as can not be attained individually , or can not be attained by the effort of a given individual ) . It is the combination of such rights and duties that makes the individual a subject of the state . The first thing we know about being state subjects is that however much we dislike it , we have to pay income tax , or value-added tax , or poll tax ; on the other hand , we can complain to the authorities and seek their assistance if our bodies or possessions have been assaulted , and demand redress ; we consider it proper to blame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , etc. ) if some of our paramount needs are in danger ( if the air or water has been polluted , health or education facilities are missing or inadequate , etc . ) . The fact that being a subject of the state is a combination of rights and duties makes us feel simultaneously protected and oppressed . We enjoy the relative peacefulness of life which we know we owe to the awesome force always waiting somewhere in the wings to be deployed against the breakers of peace . We do not lightly contemplate the alternative . As the state is the only power permitted to set apart the permissible from the impermissible and as law enforcement by the state organs is the only method of keeping this distinction permanent and secure , we believe that if the state withdrew its punishing fist , universal violence and the law of the jungle ' would rule instead . We believe that we owe our security and peace of mind to the power of the state , and that there would be no security or peace of mind without it . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state into our private 164 State and Nation lives . The state-imposed rules often seem too numerous and too pernickety for comfort ; we feel that they constrain our freedom . If the protective care of the state enables us to do things ? to plan our actions in the belief that the plans may be executed without obstacle ? the oppressive function of the state feels more like disablement ; because of it , many an option is rendered unrealistic . Our experience of the state is therefore inherently ambiguous . It may happen that we like it and dislike at the same time . Just how the two feelings are balanced and which one prevails depends on circumstances . If I am well off and money is not a problem , I 'd relish the prospect of securing for my children better educational credentials than those offered to the average person , and so I 'd probably resent the fact that the state runs the schools and decrees which children ( because of their place of residence ) ought to attend which schools . If my income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy exclusive educational services , I 'd be inclined to welcome the same educational monopoly of the state as protective and enabling . I 'd then probably resent the call of better-off people to relax the hold of the state over the schools . I 'd suspect that once the children of the rich and the influential are transferred to private schools , the state-run education , now catering only for children of poorer and less influential families , will be less well provided for than in the past and thus will lose much of its enabling power . If I managed a factory , I 'd perhaps be pleased that the state imposed severe restrictions on my employees ' right to strike . I 'd feel that this restriction was a manifestation of the enabling function of the state , not of its oppressive role . As far as I am concerned , it enhances my freedom ; it allows me to do things unpopular with my workers , make moves to which the workers would surely respond with the withdrawal of their labour , if they were only allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike as an order-keeping facility , making the world around me more predictable and amenable to control ; in such an improved ' world , my freedom to manoeuvre will be extended . If , however , I happened to be a worker in the same factory , the limits imposed on strikes would feel , unambiguously , like an act of oppression . My freedom would have shrunk . The most efficient methods of resistance to the bosses would now be beyond State and Nation 1 65 my reach . As my employers were fully aware of my new handicap , they would not consider the possibility of my retaliation as a factor limiting their freedom when developing their plans : I would have lost a good deal of my bargaining power . I would not know how many unpleasant and damaging decisions of my employers I 'd have to resign myself to . All in all , my world will become less predictable , and I myself will fall victim to other people 's whims . I will feel in control of things less than ever before . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enabling action of the state seems more like an oppression to me . And so we see that ? depending on their situation and the tissue in question ? some people may experience as an increase of freedom such actions of the state as others see as oppression , and may feel oppressed by the measures which others view as enabling , widening their range of choice . On the whole , however , everybody is likely to be interested in changing the proportion between the two functions of the state . Everybody would prefer as much enabling as possible and as little oppression as is truly necessary . What is perceived as enabling , and what as oppressive , differs ? but the urge to control or at least to influence the composition of the mixture does not . The greater the part of our lives that depends on what the state is doing , the more widespread and intense is this urge . As they wish to change the balance between enabling and oppressive functions , the subjects of the state demand more influence on running the affairs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and enforces ; they demand to exercise their citizens ' rights . To be a citizen means , in addition to being a subject ( a bearer of the rights and duties as the state has defined them ) , having a say in determining the state policy ( that is , in defining such rights and duties ) . In other words , to be a citizen means having the capacity to influence the activity of the state and thus to participate in the definition and management of that law and order ' which the state is bent on protecting . To exercise such influence in practice , the citizens must enjoy a degree of autonomy regarding the state regulation . There must be limits to the state interference with the subject 's ability to act . Here again we confront the controversy between the enabling and oppressive aspects of state activity . This 166 State and Nation time , however , enabling and oppression relate to the general capacity to influence the state policy and put a brake on excessive ambitions of the state , were such to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ability to constrain ; that nothing is done by the state to prevent the citizens ' ability to control , evaluate and influence its policy ; and that , on the contrary , the state is obliged to render such control and influence feasible and effective . For instance , citizens ' rights can not be exercised fully if the state activity is surrounded by secrecy , if the ordinary people ' have no insight into the intentions and the doings of their rulers , if they are denied access to the facts which allow them to evaluate the real consequences of the state 's action . The relations between the state and its subjects are often strained , as the subjects find themselves obliged to struggle to become citizens or to protect their citizen status threatened by the growing ambitions of the state . The main obstacles they encounter in this struggle are what may be called the tutelage complex and the therapeutic attitude of the state . The first refers to the tendency to treat the subjects as not fully grown-up , unable to determine what is good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so inclined to misunderstand and activities of the state and make all the wrong decisions which the state must subsequently correct and rectify if unable to nip in the bud . The second refers to the inclination of the state authorities to treat the subjects in the way doctors treat their patients ? as individuals burdened with problems which they can not resolve on their own , without expert guidance and surveillance ; the problems which , as it were , reside inside ' the patients , in body and soul , and therefore require that the patients be instructed and supervised so that they work on their bodies in accordance with the doctors ' orders . From the state 's point of view , the subjects are first and foremost objects of state regulation . Their conduct is seen as something that ought to be strictly defined by the rights and duties determined by the state ; if the state neglects such a defining , the subjects will determine their actions themselves ? very often to their own and their fellows disadvantage , as they pursue selfish ends , making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conState and Nation 167 duct , it seems , is in constant need of proscriptions and prescriptions . The state , like the doctor , is there to guide the subjects towards health and protect them against illness . If the conduct is not what it should be , it always means that ? as in the case of the disease ? there is something wrong with the subject himself . The inner , personal causes of ailment ought to be disclosed so that action can be taken by the warden ( by the state , as by the doctor ) to prompt behaviour leading to a cure . As in the doctor ? patient relationship , relations between the state and its subjects are asymmetrical . Even if patients are allowed to choose their doctors , once the doctor has been chosen , the patient is expected to listen and to obey . It is now the doctor who tells the patient what to do . The doctor expects discipline , not discussion . After all , the patient lacks knowledge of the causes of disease and the road to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act on this knowledge ( on the whole the doctors , hiding behind specialist knowledge , see to it that such ignorance , and the resulting dependence , continue ) . When demanding submission and unconditional subordination , the doctor explains that he does it for the patient 's own good . The state justifies its own call for the uncontested implementation of its instructions in the same terms . Its is a pastoral power ? power exercised in the best interests ' of the subjects who need to be protected against their own morbid inclinations . The asymmetry of the relationship is manifested most conspicuously in the flow of information . The doctors , as we know , demand from the patients a full confession . They ask the patients to open themselves up , to report every detail of their lives the doctors may think relevant to the case in hand , to confide their innermost secrets , however intimate , and however closely guarded from all other people , including friends and kin . This sincerity is not , however , reciprocated by the doctors . The files @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So is the doctors ' opinion and the conclusions they draw from the data obtained from or about the patient . The doctors decide how much of this ought to be divulged to the patient . The withholding of information is again justified as being for the patient 's own good : too much information may be harmful ? making the patient either depressed or desperate , reckless and otherwise dis168 State and Nation obedient . A similar strategy of secrecy is practised by the state . Quite detailed information about its subjects is gathered , processed and stored by the state institutions , while the data about the state 's own actions are classified as official secrets ' , whose betrayal is prosecuted . As most subjects of the state are denied access to such secrets , those few who are allowed access gain a distinct advantage over the rest . State freedom to collect information , coupled with the state 's practice of secrecy , further deepens the asymmetry of the mutual relations . The chances of influencing each other are sharply unequal . Citizenship therefore also carries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state ; an effort to roll back the state power , to free important areas of human life from state control and interference and to subject them instead to self-management . Such efforts go in two related , but different directions . One is regionalism : state power is a natural adversary of local autonomy ? in fact of every intermediate power standing between the state organs and each and every subject ; it is this exclusivity of the state power that is challenged . The specifity of local interests and problems is singled out as a sufficient reason for the self-management of local affairs ; and representative local institutions are demanded that will stand closer to the people in the area and be more sensitive and responsive to their specific regional concerns . The second is deterritorialization : state power always has a territorial basis ? all inhabitants of a certain territory , regardless of their other distinctive features , are subjects of the state power and the state power only ; it is this principle that is now challenged . Other traits are promoted as more significant than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion , language may be singled out as human aspects more important , with a heavier bearing on the totality of human life , than commonality of residence . Their right to autonomy , to separate management is demanded , and aimed against the pressure for uniformity from the unitary territorial power . Even under the best of circumstances , therefore , there is always at least a residue of tension and distrust between the state and its subjects . To secure the discipline of its subjects under such conditions , the state , like all power , seeking and demanding the discipline State and Nation 169 which secures the regularity of its subjects ' behaviour , needs legitimation : it needs to convince the subjects that there are valid reasons why they should obey commands of the state even if they are denied insight into all the facts of the case ; why they should obey commands simply because they are commands of the state . Legitimation is meant to secure the subjects ' trust that whatever comes from the state and bears the stamp of the appropriate authorities deserves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be obeyed . One is called to follow the law even if one is not sure that it is a sensible law , even if one dislikes what the law tells one to do . One should follow the law just because it is supported by legitimate authority ; because , as one is told , this is the law of the land ' . Legitimation is aimed at developing unconditional allegiance to the state , which is at its most secure when based on a this is my homeland ' feeling , a my homeland , good or bad ' feeling . If this is my homeland , I can only benefit from its wealth and might . As this wealth and might depend on universal agreement and cooperation , on protecting the order and peaceful cohabitation of all the residents , I believe that this home we share will grow in strength once we all act in unison and consent to whatever serves our common good . Our actions ought to be guided by patriotism ? love of the homeland , the will to keep it strong and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The paramount duty of the patriot is discipline ; obedience to the state is , indeed , the most conspicuous sign of patriotism . Any challenge to the law of the state breeds discord , and for this very reason ( regardless of the substance of the matter ) is unpatriotic ' . Legitimation aims at securing obedience through reasoning and calculation : it is better for everybody if everybody is obedient . Consensus and discipline make us all better off . All in all , a concerted action is more beneficial to everybody , therefore also to myself , than rift ? even if this requires that I submit to a policy I do not approve of . All calculation , however , invites a counter-calculation . If patriotic obedience is demanded in the name of reason , one may well be tempted to subject the argument to a test of reason . One may count the costs of obedience to a resented policy against the gains which an active resistance may bring . One may find out , or at least convince       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     