@@774086

txt // joiner 's chairs ( fig. 3 ; see also fig. 37 ) . A mortise and tenon joint also secured chair banisters ( a vertical back support , or splat ) to the crest rails and shoes ( fig. 4 ; see also figs. 8 ? 15 ) and secured chair slats ( horizontal back supports used in groups of two , three , or four ) to the rear posts ( see fig. 7 ) . Vestiges of joined-panel construction can be found in the preferred method of drawer construction . The drawer bottom , slightly beveled under its front and side edges , was fitted into a groove cut along the inside of the drawer front and sides . However , the drawer bottom did not float within this groove like a true panel because the bottom was nailed along its rear edge to the bottom of the drawer back ( see fig. 5 ) . Although both house and shop joiners used mortise and tenon joinery , differences in scale between the final products necessitated the shop join er 's use of finer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series of bench planes ? fore , jointer , and trying planes ? to produce a very square and even board or stick . He then cut a protruding tenon with a ripsaw and crosscut handsaw and cleaned up this projecting tab with a straight-edge chisel . Unlike the house joiner , who used augers and socket chisels to make mor tise holes , the shop joiner worked with a brace and bits and smaller chisels to achieve a smaller , more precise hole for the tenon . The second construction technique in the eighteenth-century joiner 's repertoire was turning . After shaping wood parts on a lathe , the artisan assembled them using round mortise and tenon joints . This method , also // known as post-and-rung construction , was applied most often in building chairs . Entire chairs or specific parts of chairs and tables such as posts or rounds featured turned construction ( see figs. 4 , 7-15 ) . The joiner also used the lathe and turning tools to shape the round feet on case furniture ( see figs. 2 , 16-19 ) . That the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being used exclusively by a specialized turner is explicitly revealed in the 1778 inventory of I Iczckiah Porter , which listed " a joiners lathe . " 21 // The Preindustrial Joiner in Western Connecticut 23 The third method of furniture assembly was dovetailing . The joiner cut interlocking , wedge-shaped fingers at the ends of butted boards , applied glue to the touching surfaces of the fingers , and fit the two boards together ( see fig. 5 ) . The lock of the fingers and the larger long-grain surface for gluing gave this joint great strength , which resulted in its widespread use in a variety of circumstances . In making chests and the upper sections of cases of drawers , the joiner dovetailed the bottom and top boards to the sides . Similarly the long boards in the frame of a fall leaf table were dovetailed to the end boards at the corners where the swing legs retract ( see fig. 41 ) . The joiner also used dovetail joints to attach drawer sides to their fronts and backs , to secure drawer blades , to fasten battens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 40 , left ) , and to secure medial stretchers in joiner 's chairs . Among the tools necessary to cut dovetails were marking and bevel gauges to lay out the desired joint ; a fine handsaw , often referred to as a dovetail saw , to cut the fingers ; a range of straight-edge chisels to clean up the fit ; and a gluepot and glue to bond the joint . A final construction technique , nailing , found greater favor among house joiners , although seventeenth-century shop joiners had used it . Carpenters relied on nails to lay floors , cover roofs and sides , and sheathe interior walls . For shop joiners , inexpensive board chests represented the most extensive use of nailing techniques . The joiner fit the sides into small rabbets cut along the inside corners of the front boards and backboards and then nailed these joints from the front and back . With the perimeter established , he dropped a bottom within these sides and nailed it in place . Finally , he attached a top with hinges . On other pieces of furniture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible . For the backs of case furniture , the joiner devised a fast and easy technique not unlike flooring . Using a series of horizontal or vertical boards , he butted or shiplapped these boards against one another , set the outer edges into rabbets cut along the back of the sides , and then nailed the backboards to the sides , bottom , and top . Another common use of nails was to fasten the rear edge of a drawer bottom to the drawer back . Some shop joiners also used nails to secure drawer supports or to fasten moldings to carcasses . Other skills related to furniture production involved decorating , finish-ing , and chair bottoming . Sawn profiles , moldings , turned ornament , carv-ing , and inlay were the available options for surface ornamentation in order of complexity and required time , and therefore of expense . The joiner effectively used sawn decoration on the skirts of dressing tables and cases of drawers and on the hacks of chairs . Simply by the way the joiner sawed out Making Furniture in Preindustrial America the front boards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banister of a chair , he could alter the design . Molding planes provided another relatively easy way to embellish a piece of furniture . Joiners often owned extensive sets of these tools , whose soles and blades allowed a regular result with minimal effort . Used individually , molding planes provided a decorative edge on drawer fronts or on the straight legs of joiner 's chairs and fall leaf tables . The joiner also used combinations of molding planes to execute intricate base molding , midmolding , and cornice molding that could be applied to case furniture . The lathe , owned by nearly all joiners in late eighteenth-century Connecticut , provided an easy but riskier decorative option . While turning chair posts and rounds , the joiner worked with turning chisels and gouges to form ball- , ring- , urn- , and baluster-shaped elements ( see figs. 4 , 7-15 ) . He also could use the lathe to fashion finials and drops for cases of drawers and dressing tables . For carving , the joiner employed many of the same tools that he worked with in furniture construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , shell , or rosette , which he then carved using a series of gouges and chisels . Gouges were also used to execute relief carving and scrolls on the knees of the crooked legs that supported case furniture ( see figs. 20-21 ) . A third carving technique can be found in rope-twist quarter-columns ( see fig. 44 ) and flame finials ( see fig. 24 ) . To achieve this spiraled , or rope , effect , the joiner laid out the line of the spiral while the wood was set in the lathe . Then he took a fine handsaw and sawed a kerf along the marked line . Finally he used a file to smooth the ridges left by the kerf . The least common form of decoration was inlay . Although inventories of joiners did not list strips of inlay or veneering tools such as veneering saws or weights , surviving artifacts document limited use of stringing , patterned inlays , and pictorial inlay ( see figs. 49-50 ) . The time and precision necessary to cut an inset , compose an inlay from several pieces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have made such decoration prohibitively expensive for most customers.22 Finishes for furniture depended on the type of wood used . Maple , pine , or yellow poplar furniture was often painted red using Spanish brown or black using lampblack . These two colors retained their popularity into the early nineteenth century , even though green Windsor chairs began to be made in the 178os , and blue or yellow chairs in the first decade of the nineteenth century . For cherry or mahogany , western Connecticut joiners did not stain the wood to resemble mahogany or walnut but rather used The Preindustrial Joiner in Western Connecticut linseed oil or varnish for a finish . James Briscoe Jr . of Newtown listed jugs of oil , jugs of varnish , Spanish brown , red ochre , and lampblack among his shop contents in 1765 . According to a recipe recorded by the Woodbury house joiner Charles Prindle , varnish consisted of " Rosum red led and oil , " which had been boiled together.23 Most chair bottoms were constructed of flag or rush . The maker quickly rounded seat lists with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vertical posts . He or a bottomer then wove the flag seat over the lists . The Housatonic River area apparently was renowned for the quality of its rushes for chair bottoms . This material 's availability made it appropriate for all chair types , as Ezra Slason , a chairmaker in Stamford , Connecticut , in-formed the public in 1792 : " Flags of the best kind and quality ? Likewise Rushes of various Kinds . . . are transported from Derby , or the Ferry a little below , and are supposed to be some of the best in the State or County for handsome genteel gentlemen 's parlor chairs ? also , a course kind for kitch-en chairs may be had . " Chair bottoming , however , was not the exclusive domain of the joiner . Handymen carpenters , older joiners who had passed along control of their shop , and even nonwoodworking villagers occasion-ally rebottomed chairs.24 The 1759 inventory of Jacob Leavitt , a shop joiner from Fairfield , provides a clear picture of the joiner 's chest of tools for furniture production in the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for assembly , Leav-itt used two fore planes , two long planes , and a smoothing plane . A fourth bench plane , the glue jointer , was specifically the tool of the shop joiner , who used it to " shoot " the edge on long boards to ensure a tight fit when glued together edge to edge . The shop joiner 's careful gluing of boards contrasted with the house joiner 's tendency to butt boards edge to edge or to use a shiplap joint . After planing the wood , Leavitt laid out mortises and tenons or dovetails using scribing gauges and squares . He cut tenons with steelplate and crosscut saws , mortises with a stock and bits and chisels , and dovetails with a dovetail saw and chisels . Or , if making a turned chair , Leavitt shaped the individual parts on the lathe with seven turning tools and then used a stock and bits to drill holes . After fitting the members together and gluing them , he used a scraper to achieve the smoothest surface possible . Like the glue jointer , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinctive among the shop joiner 's tools . To provide decoration , Leavitt relied upon nineteen molding planes and six chisels and gouges . With the product in final form , Leavitt then would have turned to its // finish . Unlike the estates of many other joiners in the area , Leavitt 's inventory does not list flags , Spanish brown , lampblack , varnish , or oil . Although he owned a small bit of beeswax , an alternative finish to oil , it is impossible to determine his favored finish . As a final step , Leavitt attached brass escutcheons , handles , knobs , and hinges , which he had in stock . The shop joiner 's woodworking tools and skills did not restrict him to furniture production . Gouges , carving skills , and a working knowledge of steel acquired through repeated sharpening and honing of edge tools enabled Lewis Prindle and Ebenezer Booth to stock guns . Familiarity with precision joinery allowed Joel Booth and Cyrus Prindle to make and repair the wood parts of such musical instruments as spinets , violins , and flutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shop joiners applied their skills to other woodworking tasks . William H. Peabody repaired farm tools and turned a roll for a map ; Harvey J. Linsley turned two rolling pins ; Cyrus Prindle made sashes and doors and helved axes ; and Lewis Prindle mended a table , fixed a saw , made a lathe , and turned bobbins.26 However , house joiners and handymen carpenters performed most of these tasks . The woodworking spectrum was more flexible at the top . Most shop joiner 's work involved furniture production and maintenance even though they also performed other jobs . On the other hand , handymen carpenters made no furniture and were confined to work associated with agricultural equipment and agricultural buildings . Organization of the Joiner 's Work With this knowledge of the shop joiner 's basic skills and tools , one can examine his shop operations without the misperceptions that have arisen in the past century and a half . Specifically , the early twentieth-century Arts and Crafts ideal of the solitary craftsman using simple tools to create individual products must be dismissed . One also has to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry of the last half of the nineteenth century . It is very important to understand the scale of the rural joiner 's work , his mode of production , and his materials . The largest joiner 's shops in rural western Connecticut contained two benches ; most shops probably operated with only one . A joiner relied on the bench , with its vise and holdfasts , to hold the boards or assembled parts on which he worked . The use of only one or two benches , therefore , greatly influenced the pace of work . Brewster Dayton 's Stratford shop , which contained two benches , Making Furniture in Preindustrial America was engaged in work on twelve chairs , one case of drawers , two stands , and one bedstead when he died in the late spring of 1796 . Fewer pieces of furniture in progress appeared in those shop inventories that listed only a single bench.27 Although no shops in western Connecticut are known to have survived , they probably were similar in size and layout to the shop of the Dominy family , formerly located in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 400 square feet , shops of this type were attached to the home or located in a separate small building . Extra boards and timber were stored in the garret or chamber above the shop , while some tools hung on the walls or from the joists in the ceiling . Other tools lay on the bench or benches , which were placed in front of a window ( most joinery , especially cutting dovetails and carving , required good natural light ) .28 Not only was the physical size of the rural joiner 's shop small but so was the workforce . Even as late as 182o , the Ridgefield shop of Samuel Hawley was considered large , and it operated with only two men and four boys.29 This scale fostered easy interaction among the workers and allowed , even encouraged , apprentices to learn most aspects of the trade . The size of the shop and workforce , relatively low cost of tools and basic materials , and variety of techniques permitted the preindustrial joiner a great deal of technical flexibility . He could respond quickly to a client @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Probate inventories and account books provide glimpses into the seaso-nal rhythms of furniture production . Inventories that listed partially assem-bled furniture were usually appraised between November and March , a pattern that suggests that the bulk of production took place during the winter months when agricultural duties slacked off . With the arrival of spring , the joiner may have been engaged more often in agricultural en-deavors , in assembling work begun in the winter , and in making occasional pieces of furniture as demand occurred.30 Unlike John Dunlap , a New Hampshire joiner in the late eighteenth century , Connecticut joiners do not appear to have alternated between shop joinery and house joinery accord-ing to the seasons . Connecticut 's denser population allowed joiners to focus on one craft in addition to their agricultural demands . Yet , like Dunlap , they tended to work within the warmth of their shop in the winter months.31 Contrary to popular belief , not all joiner 's work was custom work , which represented individual designs and solutions to every demand . Concern with efficient production and the desirability of predictable , polished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just in urban areas The Preindustrial Joiner in Western Connecticut during the preindustrial period . Rather , it already was a major part of the rural joiner 's values during the preindustrial period . The joiner recognized the waste of redrawing the profile of a chair crest rail , crooked leg , chair banister , or bracket foot every time one was needed , so he used patterns to save time , ensure compatibility of products made en suite , and ease his work . Templates , probably made from thin wood , appeared in the inventories of Ezekiel Hawley of Norwalk , Ebenezer and Joel Booth of Newtown , Thomas Kimberly of Southbury , and Hezekiah Porter of Waterbury . Haw-ley must have used many templates , for his " number of patterns " were valued at twelve shillings , the same as four molding planes . Ebenezer Booth 's estate listed " a set of patterns " valued at thirty shillings , the equiva-lent of three new round fall leaf tables or two calves.32 Rural joiners applied their knowledge of the properties of wood to orga-nize efficient production and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the craftsman would turn large quantities of " chair stuff . " Wood was easily cut and sledded in December and January , after which the joiner would turn posts and rounds , shave seat lists , and rive and bend slats while the wood was still relatively moist and easy to work and turn . Using one set of tools at a time to fabricate and stockpile parts always in demand was much more efficient than constantly juggling different sets of tools to produce individual parts as needed . Many inventories document the cus-tom of stockpiling seasoned chair rounds . Such examples range from Hezekiah Porter 's five dozen chair rounds in 1778 to Joseph Foot 's forty-three dozen chair rounds of various sorts in t 8o i and William Adee 's seventy dozen in 1765 . The listing of rounds , posts , and partially assembled chairs in inventories appraised in the summer and fall demonstrates that joiners assembled these parts only as time permitted or demand necessitated.33 The power source for the woodworking process was another important aspect of joiners ' labor in eighteenth-century rural Connecticut . Through-out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic preparation of wood . Water-powered sawmills , which had been established early in seventeenth-century New England , provided great quantities of sawn lum-ber . Nevertheless , water-powered machinery had many drawbacks : high capital investment in machinery and power drive , inefficient operation , dependence on variable water level and velocity , and vulnerability to flood damage.i4 Whereas some felt that the widespread demand for boards and the hard and time-consuming labor of pit sawing outweighed these short-comings , similar reasoning was not applied to tasks other than basic sawing . Most rural Connecticut joiners took advantage of the moderate populaMaking Furniture in Preindustrial America tion density as a source of power . Craftsmen relied on young apprentice labor to turn great lathes , foot power to turn smaller pole lathes , mallets to drive chisels , and plenty of muscle . Even when their shops had a prime location for using water power , joiners consistently rejected this option for driving their lathes or other equipment . The Newtown shop of Ebenezer and Joel Booth , for example , was located right on the Pootatuck Brook , where a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other water-powered businesses prospered in the 182os and 183os . Yet the Booths chose not to harness that power . Apparently the town 's social economy , in which a truly mixed agri-cultural system accommodated the population and balanced production and consumption , made human power more appropriate than the costly , erratic harnessing of water power for furniture production . Not until the market demanded increased production in the late 181os did rural Connect-icut joiners feel that the market possibilities outweighed continued use of their traditional power source . They turned to the abundant natural advan-tage of their hilly upland environment and began to use water power to drive lathes . In Newtown during the 182os , Abijah and George Bradley began to purchase land with water rights to ensure a reliable power source for their machinery . The inventory of Nehemiah Gray of Huntington , appraised in 1827 , contained the first explicit reference to such a shift . In addition to a large stock of table , chair , and bedstead parts , he owned a " shop &; machin-ery &; pond " valued at $125 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a water-powered saw , lathe , and boring machine among the equip-ment in William Hurlbut 's shop . By the 183os , water-powered manufactur-ing provided the Housatonic Valley with its distinctive industrial identity , ranging from papermaking and iron furnaces near the **25;2292;TOOLONG border , to clockmaking and brass buttons around Waterbury , to textiles around Derby.35 The joiner acquired wood and materials from a wide variety of sources , which meant involvement in both local economic exchange and commer-cial relations with external economies . If the joiner owned woodland , he would cut timber and sled it during the colder months . He then faced a number of options . If it was oak or chestnut to be used for shingles , clap-boards , rails , slats , or rounds , he or another woodworker would split it . He might saw some timber himself if he owned a whipsaw or frame saw . More likely he would take the logs to a nearby sawmill . Although David Miles of Woodbury and Elijah Sherman of Newtown owned sawmills , most joiners The Preindustrial Joiner in Western Connecticut did not . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 182o , only three were woodworkers . Elijah Booth sledded his timber , or contracted a handyman to sled it , to the sawmill owned by his neighbor David Stiles . At the mill , Stiles or Booth himself sawed the logs into boards and , sometimes , into bedstead posts.36 For the most part the joiner purchased the bulk of his boards directly from the sawmill or from a lumber merchant . Charles Prindle relied on a local sawmill in Bethlehem , but he often traveled as far as Norfolk or Derby to acquire boards from sawmills or from traders who dealt in timber . The reliance on mills and lumber merchants indicates that local wood lots no longer provided sufficient material . Lumbering in the region had become more intensive , and craftsmen relied on whatever might be available locally or sought good-quality primary woods elsewhere . Surviving objects from western Connecticut reveal inconsistent uses of different types of woods for interior structural elements ( e.g. , some Woodbury case furniture features drawer linings ? the sides and back of a drawer ? of oak and yellow poplar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or slab-cut boards for interior elements ( case furniture from Canaan , where the iron industry also used great quantities of wood , often has low-grade white pine as drawer linings and backboards ) .37 A third source of wood was the joiner 's clientele . Customers could supply the craftsman directly with boards intended for a specific piece of furniture or indirectly with boards as a medium of exchange . While the latter occurrence is recorded throughout surviving account books , the former appears to have been less common . Thomas Tousey , a minister-turned-doctor in Newtown , supplied Alexander Bryan with boards for a two-drawer chest and two tables in 1747 . In 1803 Dennis Bradley of Woodbury made a chest for Matthew Minor with poplar boards provided by the customer . These two examples are the only clear-cut cases in which the client provided specific boards to be used in the construction of his furniture.38 For tools and hardware , the joiner relied on local and urban sources . Although a joiner was skilled with both wood and metal , he usually did not make his own tools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he merely altered existing tools.39 Local blacksmiths usually provided nails , iron hinges , snipebill hinges , and such basic tools as axes and large chisels . John Hubbell , a Newtown blacksmith , provided Joel Booth with nails , bench hooks , hammers , and chisels . In Woodbury , blacksmiths such as Samuel Moody and Hezekiah Cole used their nail molds and nailing tools to provide local shop and house joiners with plentiful supplies of nails . For the 31 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America most precise edge tools ( planes , gouges , and chisels ) , saws , and brass hard-ware , the joiners depended on those local storekeepers who imported goods from hardware merchants in New York City . Shadrach Osborn bought tools from Ustick &; Hartshorn and brass hinges , locks , escutcheons , and knobs from John Broome and Rogers &; Murray . Merchants such as Osborn and John Botsford of Newtown sold these tools and fixtures to local craftsmen.40 In the late eighteenth century , joiners in western Connecticut ranked at the upper end of the woodworking spectrum . During this period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human skill rather than on sophis-ticated specialized equipment permitted considerable flexibility.41 Draw-ing upon a broad technical repertoire and a shop tradition that stressed economy , the joiner worked skillfully and efficiently to create a wide range of furniture , from simple to intricate . The local economic context provided the broad parameters of shop rhythms , and the interaction between makers ' traditions and patrons ' needs established the acceptable standards of per-formance and degree of elaboration . The Social Economy of the Preindustrial Joiner Despite joiners ' use of similar tools , technologies , and workspaces , considerable variety prevailed among the furniture made and owned in western Connecticut from 176o to 1820 . There are differences in furni-ture forms and decoration not only between towns but also within towns . We thus need to identify what determined the artisan 's choice of form , technique , or decoration . The specific context in which a joiner worked is crucial to any understanding of these selections and adaptations . A web of social and economic relations determined the joiner 's composition , tool selection , techniques , work rhythms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the final product . The craftsman 's choices were grounded in a specific set of learning experiences , economic systems , and social norms and obligations . By focusing on how the joiner first learned his trade and then refined or expanded these skills and attitudes , we can begin to analyze the details of the region 's social economy . Acquisition of Skills Apprenticeship , a very clear example of the social basis for the joiner 's trade during the preindustrial period , was the primary method for learning the craft . In the eighteenth century , apprenticeship differed significantly from its present form . Today , a person voluntarily enters into an apprenticeship with a company to learn a specific aspect of the trade . The company pays the apprentice a minimal wage during the learning process and defines the entire relationship with that person in terms of wage rate and working hours . The company essentially cares only about the apprentice 's per-formance on the job and how quickly he or she will pay back the invest-34 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America ment . Room , board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own responsibilities . ' By contrast , preindustrial apprenticeship was fundamentally a social contract in which mutual obligations and expectations bound the two parties . A young lad followed certain prescribed rules of living in return for instruction in a trade . Like the son of a farmer , the apprentice was willing to give up certain personal freedoms and perform specific tasks for a paternal figure with little direct recompense because he expected to become a master himself . The master willingly took the youth into his household and taught him because the apprentice 's commitment permitted the master to increase the variety and scale of operations and maximize opportunities during the master 's peak years of physical activity . Apprenticeship ensured the availability of extra human power for preparatory tasks such as sawing and dressing stock as well as the ability to undertake larger , more logistically complicated tasks such as fabricating large case furniture , paneling interiors , or hauling hoards . Young apprentices also served as a form of human credit . During slack periods in the shop , the master " rented out " his apprentices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even for agricultural labor . In such a case , the youth was not working on his own time but rather as a member of the master 's household . The apprentice 's labor thus built up indebtedness within the community , which the master could draw on as the need arose . Even apprenticeship selection was based upon the social network . A young craftsman in his twenties took on the sons of neighbors or relatives ; a joiner in his thirties turned to his adolescent sons . Those with daughters but no sons often arranged for a daughter to marry an apprentice or a member of another shop , thereby consolidating the trade for the next generation . Once the elder craftsman had set up his children as independent adults , he had less interest in his own production and earning power . At this later point in his career , the joiner became an individual craftsman , helping out in local shops when needed or undertaking light work or repair work.2 The apprenticeship agreement between Lazarus Prindle and Joseph Peck Jr. , both of Newtown , sheds light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work were interwoven and work was arranged along household lines . On June 5 , 1793 , Peck , then fifteen years old and with his father as witness , bound himself to Prindle for a two-year training period . In return for instruction , Peck promised to serve faithfully , keep his master 's secrets , waste none of his master 's goods , avoid unexcused absences , and obey his The Social Economy of the PreindustrialJoiner master 's lawful commands . In addition , Peck pledged not to commit forni-cation , contract matrimony , play at dice or other illegal games , haunt taverns or playhouses , or buy or sell anything on his own during the term of his apprenticeship . In short , Peck completely resigned himself to Prindle 's authority . For his part , Prindle , thirty years old and without a son ready to appren-tice , swore to teach and instruct the apprentice in the trade and mystery of a joiner . Furthermore , Prindle provided Peck with lodging , food , and laundry services by treating him as a surrogate son within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive a good suit of clothes and take his place as a productive member of the community in good standing.3 The " art , trade , and mystery " of the joiner 's craft encompassed a wide range of attitudes , responsibilities , and activities . In an era before specializ-ation drew lines of distinction between design , workmanship , decoration , and marketing , the rural joiner oversaw and participated in the entire fur-nituremaking process from conception through sale . The apprentice ac-quired these values and skills through a process that combined observation and imitation . Because of the casual interaction that took place in the small shop , a boy could see the decisions , actions , and results of the master or of any other craftsmen who worked there . In this manner the apprentice internalized his master 's approaches and techniques . Less consciously the apprentice also adopted certain attitudes about working wood . From a broad range of possibilities , the apprentice therefore learned and practiced the solutions favored and used by his master . In a time of human power and relatively low technology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and habitual motions , and familiar sequences helped to ensure efficient , satisfactory work . This workmanship of habit made craftwork economically viable . As a result , reflexive actions acquired and developed during training became an integral part of the joiner 's chest of tools . These conventions serve as diagnostic features that help to group surviving furniture and identify it as the work of a particular shop tradition.4 A joiner 's later experiences supplemented the basic technical foundation acquired during his time as an apprentice . His performance , however , was not entirely confined to mere replication of his master 's work . Rather , work-ing within a dynamic tradition of furnituremaking , he selectively gathered ideas about new techniques or approaches from the products of other shops in the same town or nearby , from observations made during travel , or from the challenge of replicating imported furniture , meeting a client 's demands , or repairing a piece of furniture made in another shop.5 These new ideas , // inevitable in a New England society far more mobile than has been perceived , were grafted onto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and design . In Stratford , for example , two shops dominated the local furniture market : Brewster Dayton 's and that of the Hubbell family . Dayton ( working in Stratford c. 1762 ? 96 ) was born across Long Island Sound in Brookhaven , New York , and apprenticed with an English-trained immigrant joiner in Stratford . His early experiences exposed him to the Anglo-Dutch work of Long Island joiners and the vernacular Georgian work of his master . Ebenezer Hubbell ( 1726 ? 1812 ) , master of the Hubbell shop in the last half of the eighteenth century , probably trained with his father Josiah , a joiner who helped to build the side galleries for the town 's meetinghouse in 1715 . Ebenezer 's training thus took place entirely within Stratford . Case furniture that is documented or attributed to the Dayton and Hubbell shops reveals a specific set of Stratford features : carved feet with square pads , central toes flanked by two smaller toes on each side , and a tightly curved crooked leg ; deeply carved shells in the lower drawers of desks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface of these drawer fronts to provide extra depth for the shell carving ; and extensive use of wooden trunnels rather than iron nails to secure drawer bottoms , moldings , and drawer supports . The work of each shop , however , is distinctive in its individual workmanship and forms . Slight differences in decorative work also distinguish the two shops : Dayton 's carved feet feature a central spadeshaped toe and are blockier than the Hubbell 's more modeled feet ; Dayton 's legs are slightly taller and therefore less sinuous ; Dayton 's shells are rather flat with simple ribs while Hubbell 's are deeper with more undulating ribs ; and Dayton 's base moldings tend to be thicker than the more complex cymas by Hubbell . Dayton also developed certain conventions for his construction : He often smoothed the inside surfaces of a carcass side with a toothing plane , added a butterfly key to strengthen the glued butt joint of a carcass side consisting of two boards , and chamfered the top edges of his drawer sides and backs . None of these features are found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the same town could draw from different training to develop a related language with distinct dialects.6 A similar relationship is evident in the work of Bates How of Canaan and Reuben Beeman of Kent . Signed work by these joiners bears a strong resemblance : squat carved ball-and-claw feet , extensive reliance on rope carving along base moldings and quarter-columns , similar dovetailing of The Social Economy of the Preindustrial Joiner drawers , and backboards dovetailed to the back edges of the carcass sides . In spite of these shared idiosyncrasies , there are noticeable differences . How 's signed chest features extensive use of screws to attach the moldings and quarter-columns and an abundance of knotty , second-grade white pine boards . Beeman 's work does not rely on screws and scrap pine and has a distinctive drawer detail : the sides taper toward the upper edge , thereby permitting more material where the groove for the bottom drawers is run . The variations between the How and Beeman shops suggest that craftsmen with different training , revealed in their particular structural logic and conventions , could respond to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decoration , in the hill towns of northwestern Connecticut. ? Rhythms of Work Under apprenticeship , young joiners learned to organize their tasks and rhythms in accordance with local custom . A master subtly schooled his apprentice in local economic cycles , labor conventions , and sources of materials and credit . Although most rural New England communities followed some sort of mixed agricultural economy , the mixture varied based on the town 's location , time of founding , size , and social structure , and on local materials . From the time of the earliest settlements , making chests , chairs , and tables was one facet of the agricultural cycle and fit neatly with the responsibilities of animal and grain husbandry and fishing . In the older coastal communities of western Connecticut , stretching from Milford to Norwalk , limited coastal trade made imported products and materials available . Several Stratford storekeepers imported chairs made by Edward Larkin of Charlestown , Massachusetts , in the 1740S and 1750s , and the 1 763 probate inventory of Captain Joseph Squier of Fairfield lists " 6 Chairs boston make . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of black walnut from the Middle Atlantic and southern regions and mahogany from the West Indies during the second half of the eighteenth century . Although Captain John Brooks of Stratford , who conducted trade with the Caribbean in the 1770S and 1 78os , shipped six chairs made by Henry Beardslee to St. Croix in 1785 , joiners ' work along the Long Island Sound was not as dependent upon maritime and shipbuilding rhythms as in maritime centers such as Marblehead , Massachusetts . Coastal trade was only a small part of an economy based on agriculture , animals , fishing , and small shop craftwork . Lewis Burritt ( 1772-1839 ) , an accomplished joiner 37 // who made inlaid mahogany case furniture , also participated in the varied Stratford economy of the 17905 and early i 800s . Besides making furniture , he hayed and pulled flax , made and mended oyster rakes , and made hat blocks and farming tools.9 Shop joiners in the recently settled lands of western Connecticut also organized their work in accordance with local agricultural rhythms . Widespread local use of such tools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enabled the professional joiner to draw on a number of neighbors during the slack farming months of December , January , and February to fell , score , sled , split , and saw the locally available cherry , maple , yellow poplar , oak , and white pine . Winter was the ideal time for such activity : farmers had more free time and eagerly accepted such occasional work , the wood cut best at that time , and logs were easily sledded on the snowy ground . Most preparation and assembly of furniture took place between harvest and spring planting . Joiners could count on uninterrupted time , so the workmanship of habit and the setup of lathes or bench clamps in the small shops could be used to efficient advantage . One task was the production of great quantities of turned chair parts when the lathe was set up and slightly green wood was available . Case furniture could be produced throughout the year , but the work seems to have been concentrated in two periods of heightened activity : February to April and August to November . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed the joiner to work the wood while it was slightly green , an advantage in turning and in some types of carving . The second period was when the farmer clientele were able to calculate their harvest yield and therefore gauge what they could afford to spend on furniture . ' 0 The seasonal rhythms and local economies affected the types of furniture produced . Turned chairs often were produced and exported by urban craftsmen such as Edward Larkin , but they also were the ideal chair type to be produced in a rural-based mixed agricultural community . There always was a market for chairs ? they tended to get knocked about a fair amount , were more affordable than more complicated furniture forms , possessed visual flair , and enjoyed greater demand because of changing social customs . In addition they were easier to design and make than case furniture . Owing to practical considerations such as seat height and other dimensions , the maker worked in a more circumscribed habitual manner when making chairs and tables than when making storage furniture . Standard dimensions provided the general parameters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Economy of the Preindustrial Joiner gree rather than in kind and often were concentrated in the appearance of the legs and back . Rural joiners , who had the winter months free , could produce considerable quantities of turned chairs . They set up their lathes and turned parts efficiently and quickly by using a strike pole , or marking stick , to lay out the sections of turned elements and by maximizing the rhythm of their turning tools and lathe . They could rive out large quantities of wood for the slats or use a template to cut out the banisters and crest rails . It was thus possible and advantageous to stockpile certain parts such as rounds , posts , and slats . Several jobs , like bottoming and painting , could be subcontracted to others within the community . Joiners in western Connecticut often delegated such irregular work to young joiners who were just establishing themselves , older joiners in the twilight of their careers , or other members of the community . Subcontracting was not simply a means of reducing price but also of distributing work during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawing tighter the web of local exchange , and allowing a craftsman to organize his work so as to focus on furnituremaking during the winter months and other opportune times.11 Turned chair production was not a specialized task but rather was standard output for a largely local market . Because of the speed of producing chairs and the use of local labor and materials , craftsmen could also make case furniture in the winter months . Unlike chairs , case furniture was a complex , open-ended product : Per capita ownership of case furniture in comparison with the sets of chairs listed in accounts and inventories indicates that there was relatively limited demand for large storage forms . Most households had several pieces of storage furniture , but consistently there were many more chairs and tables . There were also a great number of options for form , size , and configuration of drawers and compartments . Finally , large drawered or doored furniture required a lot of material and labor . Limited demand and the high cost of labor contributed to certain patterns of production in rural shops . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from boards sawed at the local sawmill ? has survived , but so has a variety of joined case furniture such as high chests , dressing tables , and chests of drawers.12 The number of complex storage forms listed in written documents and the evidence of the many surviving examples suggest that western Connecticut joiners employed various strategies to produce case furniture efficiently . Foremost was their reliance on local sawmills to provide boards with 39 40 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America desired dimensions , thereby precluding the need to resaw or plane the boards to usable thicknesses . In Newtown and Woodbury , surviving artifacts reveal the joiners ' use of blanks , which required only light planing before use . Some boards that were used for drawer linings or backboards still retain their water-powered-saw marks . In Newtown , most cherry boards were sawn 3/4-inch thick , and yellow poplar and oak , ? - inch thick . In Woodbury , cherry tended to be 7/8-inch thick ; yellow poplar , /- or 7/8-inch ; oak , Vzinch ; and white pine , 3/8-inch . With boards delivered in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut joints . Preparations also were made easy by jigs such as a marking gauge to mark mortise and tenon joints and a bevel gauge to lay out consistent pins and tails for dovetails . Workmanship of habit made cutting tenons or dovetails proceed quickly . We tend to romanticize the cutting of dovetails , but joiners of this period could perform like machines in turning out these items.13 Probate inventories indicate widespread ownership of templates and patterns . Although many scholars believe that template use was an urban phenomenon typical of large-scale production , patterns also proved worthwhile in a rural shop with infrequent or seasonal production . Using templates to lay out crooked legs , bracket feet , and skirt profiles saved considerable time and , combined with the mental templates of rote structural work , enabled the small-shop joiner to make a desk in about a week and a half and a case of drawers in about three weeks.14 The organizational structure of the joiner 's shop was critical to its successful operation . Written records identify two coexisting approaches to furniture production in western Connecticut during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the individual shop . In the family shop , a master craftsman took on neighbors or kin and then his own sons , as they matured , to staff his shop . These shops were part of a household economy that included improved land for crops and pasturage for animals . Acreage varied , but usually there were one to five acres of improved land and five to thirty acres of unimproved land . The historical evidence of such family dynasties as the Durands of Milford , the Hubbells and Beardslees of Stratford , and the Prindles and Fabriques of Newtown attest to the success of this approach . For other joiners , continuing in the community was not desirable or possible . Drawn by the promise of a newly developing area or pushed out of a stagnant or overcrowded center , some joiners lacked the means or connections to purchase sufficient land to establish their own mixed agricultural ? craft household . Many bought or rented small lots of one acre or less . ' lb The Social Economy of the Preindustrial Joiner compensate for their lack of productive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a living from their services . They thus concentrated more on craftwork and irregular handyman work . The instability of their lifestyles meant that their families often lasted less than a generation in a town and then moved along.15 Social Aspects of Composition With the exception of shops in commercial centers such as Boston and Newport , furniture production in eighteenth-century New England was essentially a face-to-face negotiation between the joiner and his customers . The customer purchased a piece already assembled or specified an assemblage of features . In the latter case the patron had a more active role in the craftsman-client relationship , but the joiner still selected the form , decoration , and trim from his repertoire or through his own understanding of the desired style . The artisan controlled the " nature of work " ? the physical knowledge of materials and techniques and its application ? whereas the community controlled the " context of work . " A joiner allocated his time and skills among the members of the community as he saw fit , while the community constantly judged his performance and bestowed him with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to understand and respond to the community . After all , the local clientele ultimately determined the success of a single joiner or the viability of several joiners.16 Apprenticeship introduced boys to the role of the joiner within that particular community and directly exposed them to the town 's opinions and expectations of the master and his shop . Schooled in social as well as technical skills and conventions , the young artisan developed a personal expression that blended empirical craft techniques and local aesthetics . A joiner 's cultural acumen and market judgment allowed him to practice a dynamic craft , but this dynamism was dependent on his patrons . Just as a kit of tools and learned techniques shaped the craftsman 's range of possibilities , so did the needs , aspirations , and expectations of his clientele.17 Owing to the social basis of the craft , most joiners found it easiest to remain in the town in which they were trained . Established accounts with neighbors or relatives and familiarity with the available labor and materials certainly gave such a joiner an edge . A less tangible advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ context of work , he continued to apply learned attitudes and techniques for design and fabrica-41 42 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America tion . His training conditioned him to recognize that particular community 's needs and provided him with the skills currently in demand . If techniques were introduced by a newly arrived craftsman , the locally trained joiner would perceive these options from a viewpoint similar to that of the majority of his customers . Work performed in such a context tended to be traditional but not unchanging and can be characterized as cumulatively adaptive . On the other hand , a joiner trained in one community but active in another often had different experiences . Some clients may have sought his work as different or the latest fashion , but his learned techniques and the customers ' demands did not always align so neatly . To continue his trade , such a joiner had to be willing to alter his internalized approaches , especially with respect to decoration and forms . He had to embrace and elaborate on chosen techniques rather than rely on learned methods . To survive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , paid more attention to new forms produced elsewhere , or gave greater weight to his customers ' requests . If he worked in a community with joiners trained in a number of different traditions , he had many techniques from which to draw.18 To understand the social context of furnituremaking , it is essential to reconstruct the social and economic structure of the community over time and identify the joiners ' backgrounds . Particular attention should be paid to periods of dynamic growth or internal stasis and to turning points in these trends . For example , the prosperous coastal town of Stratford experienced considerable cultural flux during the 1710S and 1720S : the Anglican church established its first Connecticut parish there ; several teachers at Yale College who converted to Anglicanism in 1 722 had close ties with the community ; there was trade with Boston merchants and with Anglo-Dutch traders on Long Island ; and two immigrant English joiners , Thomas Salmon and Samuel French , settled in the town . French and Salmon introduced a British vernacular tradition that blended with Boston and New York work to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the standard for much of the century as an Anglican ? Old Light coalition established cultural hegemony in the 1740s.19 Stratford 's selective conservatism affected clients and makers alike . Inventory references after 1750 to new fashionable and expensive furniture forms , such as sideboards , breakfast tables , and easy chairs , signified the availability of these products and an awareness of them . These forms appeared infrequently in household inventories , however . People of all inThe Social Economy of the Preindustrial Joiner come levels did own substantial quantities of furniture , but they favored traditional forms . They purchased expensive case furniture , particularly cases of drawers , dressing tables , and desks , and large quantities of chairs , especially turned and crookedback chairs . For much of the last half of the century , the conservatism even influenced younger households , which acquired traditional furniture . During the first decade of the nineteenth century the joiner Lewis Burritt made several inlaid mahogany tables ? decorative features and materials typical of the neoclassical style ? but he still satisfied the traditional demands . He made chests , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and York chairs ; these chairs had been fashionable forms in the 1740s.2 ? Brewster Dayton , who trained with an English joiner and had access to many sophisticated forms and techniques , restricted his performance in Stratford . Much of his work had its roots in a vocabulary established before 1750 . The proportions , tympanums , and crowns of two signed cases of drawers from 1784 resemble those found on Long Island examples of the 17405 : To this Anglo-Dutch work , Dayton blended the carved feet and scrolled knees introduced by his master . Dayton 's probate inventory and various account book references also indicate that he made slat-back , fiddleback , and crookedback chairs , all of which are based on traditional chair forms . Even his furniture 's primary woods , which include sycamore as well as subgrade cherry heartwood , reflect his reliance on local networks . The artifactual evidence points to the selective conservatism of the local clientele.21 The Hubbell shop evidently enjoyed a slightly greater latitude . Whereas the surviving Dayton work features only pad or carved versions of feet for case furniture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bracket feet , carved feet , and ball-and-claw feet . The Hubbell shop is also distinguished by a greater variety of primary woods . Of all the identifiable Stratford shops , it is the only one in the last half of the century to use walnut and mahogany . Ebenezer Hubbell 's brother-in-law Captain John Brooks , a merchant who was the " principal inhabitant of Stratford , " provided the Hubbell shop with access to these imported woods . The handling of the ball-and-claw foot also suggests an external influence ? the Hubbell feet closely resemble the squat plumpness of Philadelphia work . A set of joiner 's chairs that might have been made in the Hubbell shop also manifest the influence of Philadelphia furniture . Chairs of this type were listed in John Brooks 's probate inventory of 1777 , which included " New furniture at Hubbells " ? " 1 Case Black Walnut Draws ? 8.10.0 , 6 Cringlc Back do Chairs @ 20/ ? 6 , i great 43 44 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America Chair ? 1.5.0 . " Although the Hubbell shop could make high-style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their work was executed in a simpler fashion . Most surviving chairs that relate to the single set of joiner 's chairs are fiddleback and crookedback versions.22 Contrasting with the stylistic cohesion of Stratford was the stylistic frenzy of the New London County region between 1770 and 1800 . In eastern Connecticut , an entrepreneurial merchant class orchestrated a vast export trade of beef and pork for the West Indies market . Reliant on elaborate credit connections with colonial and British merchants and constantly vulnerable to local and extralocal economic changes , these traders suffered from status anxiety . Through military supply contracts and privateering profits , the regional elite amassed significant fortunes during the Revolution . After the conflict , they sought to display their rank in their furnishings : joined chairs and elaborately conceived and decorated case furniture . Within a fairly closed community , they competed with one another , a competition aided by the diversity of joiners active in the region . Joiners who had trained in Philadelphia or Boston , and even an English prisoner of war captured during the Revolution , offered a rich variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Newport furniture also provided ingredients for a stew of chosen traditions that was constantly remixed in towns such as Colchester , Norwich , or New London.23 Samuel Loomis of Colchester ( 1748 ? 1814 ) , who apprenticed with the Philadelphia-trained Benjamin Burnham , blended elements from many regional traditions and added extra shells , multiplied moldings , and developed new carved decoration to produce elaborate variations for clients who were closely related by familial or business ties . In southeastern Connecticut , the size of case furniture and any carved , molded detail on it were most highly valued . Felix Huntington of Norwich ( 1749 ? 1822 ) developed a line of plain joiner 's chairs made of rich , dense imported mahogany and upholstered by his brother Jonathan . Huntington drew his designs from imported English and Boston examples , but eliminated expensive carved details in order to provide a more affordable alternative to the carved Boston chairs . For seating , the number , upholstery , and type of wood seemed paramount to clients . Even though permanence and learned techniques often resulted in traditional but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in rapid stylistic change , we need to be careful not to suggest simple polarities . All furniture blends the familiar and the new ; what is different is the proportion of each and where change is permitted . Similarly The Social Economy of the Preindustrial Joiner we should be careful in studying Connecticut not to automatically draw a distinction between the traditional , Old Light western part of the colony and the cosmopolitan , New Light eastern section . Analysis of specific craftsmen-community relationships is essential to understand the nuances of differences in social economy . The Cultural Significance of Joiners In eighteenth-century rural New England , a world characterized by increasing population density , flourishing coastal trade , and chronic agricultural underemployment , a craft skill such as furnituremaking served an increasingly important function . Possession of craft skills had always been an integral part of estate settlement strategies , but certain trends in the eighteenth century endowed it with new importance . The expanding population , shrinking supply of unsettled land , increasing quantity and quality of English products , and rising accumulation and consumption of household goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ craft by-employment was subordinate to agriculture , by the end of the eighteenth century craft activity was primary . As many household farms became smaller and the increased population demanded and produced more goods , the transmission of craft skills gained stature . Whether in a stagnant or dynamic rural area , furnituremakers personified the adaptive resiliency that became a fundamental trait of the New England character in the late eighteenth century . Making furniture embodied the prevalent values of the period : the familial priority of permanence and stability and the pragmatic need to conduct some entrepreneurial activity with the external market.24 Many New Englanders placed particular emphasis on stability . By the mid eighteenth century , subdivision of family lands throughout several generations had taxed the limited land resources and was creating impractically sized farms . To preserve stability , agrarian families sought to keep their children on the family land or within a community of kin . Fathers provided sons with craft training , thereby enabling them to earn a living with a smaller plot of arable land . Part-time artisan work thus provided the means to subdivide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family identity in town . Combining craftwork and farming allowed a particular family to balance numbers and resources and to strengthen tics within the community . Craft shops produced needed goods 45 46 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America for the expanding population and drew on the services of other community members.25 In families with several generations of woodworkers , joiner 's skills provided both a livelihood and a legacy . Craft skills and tools , like land for sons of farmers and furnishings for their daughters , became another form of " property " that could be transmitted through the family network . Like real and personal estate , skills and tools allowed the succeeding generation to establish its own productive household unit while maintaining crossgenerational rights and responsibilities . The success of this artisan strategy can be seen in the families who produced several generations of joiners within each town : the Durands in Milford , Hubbells in Stratford , and Prindles in Newtown.26 Other New Englanders placed slightly less emphasis on geographic permanence . If pressure for land continued unabated , the father could acquire land in a nearby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his son 's migration by deeding him the land . Sons with joiner 's skills probably found such relocation easier . Demand for joiner 's work permitted some sons to establish themselves in a nearby community , close to kin support . For instance , John Fabrique , a Newtown cordwainer , provided two sons with woodworking skills . David and Bartimeus Fabrique were then able to practice the house joiner 's trade in Newtown and the adjacent communities of Derby , Southbury , Woodbury , Roxbury , and New Milford . Other families provided a number of house and shop joiners who formed a regional network of related woodworkers . Among the many examples of such families in western Connecticut were the Beardslees , Prindles , and Booths.27 Those who moved farther away often moved with other kin or people from the same town . Such joiners preserved the group 's cultural identity by providing familiar products . Like the English joiner who emigrated to New England in the 163os , the rural Connecticut joiner who moved north or west in the early nineteenth century created physical and psychological comfort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Waterbury joiner , moved west to Tallmedge in the Western Reserve in 1818 and built a church and several houses that re-created the appearance of Litchfield , Connecticut.28 Craft skills could be used in more innovative ways . Instead of being pushed into the joiner 's trade by familial pressures , some sons were pulled into it . The growing population fostered a growing need for furniture , and such structural shifts gradually and unevenly affected cultural values . Some sons of farmers took advantage of available opportunities . Lacking the strength of family tradition , farmers ' sons like Arcillus Hamlin may have The Social Economy of the Preindustrial Joiner been less tied to tradition and therefore more innovative in their work . Hamlin , the son of a Sharon farmer , worked as a joiner in Newtown . His 1827 inventory listed many items that were unique or rare for Newtown joiners : trunks , sheets of veneer , and bureaus . Such free agent joiners were also more willing to migrate as individuals . William H. Peabody , born in Norwich , worked for a few years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , worked in Woodbury for twelve years , and then returned to Stratford . Joiners like Hamlin and Peabody may have perceived their skills as a marketable commodity for an individual rather than as an adaptive strategy for family continuity and identity.29 Woodworkers ' sons who inherited skills and tools sometimes made different uses of these traditions as economic patterns changed and altered their attitudes . Justin Hobart Jr. , the son of a Fairfield shop joiner , received his father 's home and shop in 1797 but preferred to seek his fortune as a journeyman cabinetmaker in New York City . His entrepreneurial attitude was expressed in several letters to his sister Mary . In some of the early letters from 1797 , Hobart reported constant work and good earnings . Within three years , however , he lamented : " I do nt think that I shall work Journey work any longer their is no profit in it I do nt Earn but Just Enough to pay my Expenses and I believe I can doe that in the Country . . . . I have work on hand that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I intend to quit working Journey work for a Spell . . . if their is going to Bee so many traders in Fairfield it will Doe for me to Carry on the Cabinet Business their they Cant get that away from me . " Nevertheless , Hobart remained in New York a while longer , for in 1804 he took on John Jackson as an apprentice.30 Silas Cheney , a member of another woodworking family from Manchester , Connecticut , moved to Litchfield in 1799 , probably with the intent to exploit the growing economy in northwestern Connecticut . He established a rural manufactory for the production of furniture , employing several journeymen and apprentices at one time and drawing on woodworkers in nearby Connecticut and Massachusetts towns for outwork . A Lenox , Massachusetts , woodworking shop , West &; Hatch , provided Cheney with parts for kitchen and Windsor chairs . One of Cheney 's journeymen , Lambert Hitchcock , went on to refine some of these practices in the large-scale production of turned , flag-seated fancy chairs.31 In the eighteenth century , similarities in technical repertoires , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ western Connecticut . However , these artisans made different uses of the same processes and equipment according to the traditions in which they were trained and the context of 47 48 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America their mature work . By identifying the diagnostic details of craft traditions , it is possible to follow the flow and confluence of ideas and people over the New England landscape . Changes in consumption patterns or production rhythms often coincided with shifting commercial relations and increased involvement with external markets . Documentary evidence of craftsmen and communities , used in conjunction with artifactual evidence , offers explanations why different towns supported both different types of joiners and contrasting taste for furniture in the late eighteenth century . T H R E E The Joiners of Newtown and Woodbury I ocated approximately eighteen miles apart and separated by the Hou-/ satonic River , the neighboring eighteenth-century towns of New-town and Woodbury shared many topographical features ( see fig. 1 ) . l Both areas were characterized by relatively fertile loamy soil that covered an undulating , hilly terrain crisscrossed by several streams and brooks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included grains , beef , pork , cheese , butter , wool , and cider . The plentiful streams afforded each town a comparable number of sites for the gristmills and sawmills necessary to process their natural resources . The Housatonic River provided each community with equal transportation and communica tion access to northwestern Connecticut , western Massachusetts , Long Island Sound , and New York City.2 Within these shared geographic and economic parameters evolved dif ferent cultural and social textures , to which the contrasting experiences of joiners in the two communities provide a valuable entree . As a group , joiners tended to be rather ephemeral actors on the historical stage . They usually left little written record other than the occasional account book ; few signed and dated their work and many left no inventories . Even some of those with surviving probate inventories had already retired or passed their tools along to others before their estates were appraised . To identify all possible shop and house joiners who worked in Newtown or Woodbury between 176o and 1820 , it was necessary to cull biographical information from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax lists , land deeds , account books , manuscripts in private hands , published genealogies , and town histories . The data on birthplace , mobility , type of work per-formed , and length of working career within that town form collective biographies that facilitate comparison within and between towns over time . // For each town , the sixty-year period of this study was broken into three twenty-year segments.3 This comparison ( tables 2 and 3 ) indicates that stability and long careers as yeomen-craftsmen best characterized the join-ers of Newtown . Woodbury joiners , on the other hand , experienced greater fluctuations . Joiners of Newtown : Native Traditionalists Of the twenty-one joiners active in Newtown between 176o and 178o , almost two-thirds had been born in Newtown even though the town had been founded only in the second decade of the eighteenth century . Five other joiners immigrated from Stratford and Milford , coastal towns to the south that provided most of Newtown 's first-generation inhabitants . Town of birth , in turn , affected the number of different places in which each joiner lived . More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third // lived elsewhere before working in Newtown . Once settled in Newtown , these joiners remained . Joseph Ferris left town for several years to join the Loyalist cause during the Revolutionary War , but he returned in 1783 . Only Amos Sanford left town to follow his trade . Sanford worked in his home-town for eleven years , and then migrated north to Sharon , where he worked as a joiner for fifteen years.4 Another significant characteristic of this first group is the length of their careers in Newtown . The Newtown joiners of this period averaged thirty years of work in town . Such length of service had several interrelated ram ifications . The long life spans of this cohort , the need for apprentices to provide power and permit efficient production , and the increasing local // recruitment of joiners enabled older joiners to train great numbers of local youths in the established conventions . Most of of local shop traditions were established but many inhabitants possessed skill in joinery . In the period between 178o and i800 , the number of active joiners almost doubled from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population growth in town.6 Yet the greater demand for furniture and houses was met by local artisans . Eighty-four percent of the joiners active in this twenty-year period were born in Newtown , and two-thirds of all the joiners spent their entire lives there . In short , there was a direct correlation between an increase in population and an increase in the number of craftsmen , especially native ones . Population growth provided a greater number of tradesmen to satisfy the growing demand for products . The familial connections among woodworkers demonstrate the custom of local recruitment . Daniel , Edward , George , and Joseph Foot represent three different branches of the Foot family . George was a first cousin to the brothers Daniel and Edward , and Joseph was a second cousin to the other three . Furthermore , Edward 's wife was a first cousin to the Prindles . Enos ( 1703-1724 ) and Ephraim Prindle ( 1707-1756 ) of Milford were among the first " carpenters " active in Newtown during the first decade of settlement . Their nephew Joseph became one of the most prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Joseph drew on the familial labor pool by training two sons , Cyrus and Lazarus , a nephew , and a grandson . Thomas Skidmore , a Newtown carpenter of the 17206 and 1730S , was the progenitor of three generations of woodworking Skidmores active between 178o and i 800 . A third familial dynasty , the Booths , will be covered in detail later in this chapter. ? Families like the Prindles , Skidmores , and Booths recognized the advantages of an intergenerational labor force . They used family members as cheap labor , who in return could expect eventual inheritance of the shop , tools , and customers . Similar skills and aspirations for continuity linked generations.8 Other Newtown families used craft-training as a one-time , immediate solution to the problem of providing for children during a time of population growth and increased strain on resources , especially land . The sons of Ebenezer and Sarah Fairchild included two joiners , a blacksmith , and a tailor . Their first cousins included masons , sawmill owners , and millers . With these craft skills , each Fairchild was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to combine craft and agricultural work . Consequently , a Joiners of Newtown and Woodbury greater number of Fairchilds in this generation remained in Newtown.9 Only eight joiners working in Newtown during the last twenty years of the eighteenth century are known to have lived or worked in some other town before working in Newtown . Two of these eight , David Fabrique and Abner Judson , were born in Newtown , worked elsewhere for a time , and then returned to Newtown . Of the other six , three were born in Stratford and one each was born in the neighboring towns of Redding and Weston . The last of the six and the most atypical joiner was John Boyer , who is thought to have come from Maryland . Boyer was also distinguished from the other craftsmen because he owned only one acre of land , barely enough for a house , shop , and garden . Unlike the other Newtown joiners , therefore , he was unable to combine his artisanal activity with some farming or husbandry . However , his marriage to Mehitable Briscoe , daughter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger Newtown community and the smaller extended family of joiners.10 The craft-training strategy of Newtown families was so attractive and successful that it resulted in an overabundance of native joiners by the end of the eighteenth century and , therefore , many moved elsewhere after working in Newtown . Most of these craftsmen left only in the twilight of their careers . The northern and western frontiers acted as a type of pressure valve that balanced the supply and demand of joiners . Mature artisans ready to retire moved away from town , creating openings for younger , locally trained youths . For example , Ebenezer Mallery moved to Catherine , New York , in 1807 after operating a highly valued shop in Newtown for twentyfour years , and Zardis Skidmore left for Patterson , New York , in 1815 after twenty years of service in his hometown . The group biographies of joiners who worked in the third twenty-year period resemble those of the second group and further corroborate the existence of certain cultural values that guided the adaptive choices of Newtown inhabitants . The continued vitality of a mixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sons to remain in their hometown among kin . The remarkable consistency in town of birth , mean number of years at work in Newtown , gross mobility , and town of death emphasizes the strength and stability of this effective form of resource management . Immigrant craftsmen were not attracted to or perhaps not even welcomed in Newtown . Whether intergenerational or intragenerational , the emphasis on continuity is well documented in the careers of Newtown joiners active between 178o and 182o . The careers of Cyrus 1'rindlc , Alanson Northrop , and John Beardslee 53 54 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America provide specific details . Cyrus continued to perform the same sorts of tasks carried out by his father , Joseph . He made furniture , produced window sashes and doors , and even performed such basic work as helving axes and bottoming chairs . Moreover , his father deeded him the family shop and part of the family farm in 1795 . One of Cyrus 's cousins married Alanson Northrop , another joiner who spent his entire life in Newtown . Northrop worked in a single-bench shop and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acres , he grew grain and flax , tended an apple orchard , and kept four oxen , fourteen cows , and fifteen sheep . Upon his death in 1812 , Northrop 's shop , tools , and half his house were distributed to his son Oliver , thereby permitting familial continuity within the craft . John Beardslee owned only twenty acres , three cows , twelve sheep , and two pigs . He did , however , own a full complement of agricultural tools and processing equipment , a joiner 's shop , and half a sawmill . The variety of tools and products in Beardslee 's inventory indicates that he performed the work of a joiner , wheelwright , and cooper . his estate included cherry and butternut boards , jointer planes , a lathe and turning tools , many augers , broad chisels , cart and wagon spokes , oak timber , staves , heading , and window sashes . Birth in town , continuation of the yeoman-craftsman identity , and participation in several levels of the woodworking spectrum characterized the typical Newtown joiner of this period . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom settled in Newtown by 1816 , are the notable exceptions to this pattern and indicate the changing nature of the joiners ' community in the late 181os . Hamlin 's birth in Sharon , Connecticut , and his association with William Chappell , a Danbury cabinetmaker , may have imbued him with a set of values and expectations that differed from those of his native Newtown counterparts . His estate , appraised in 1827 , explicitly reveals these differences . Hamlin 's home contained such stylish items as a new mahogany tea table , a bureau , a toilet table , a work stand , and four window blinds . The products and materials of his shop included unfinished trunks , an unfinished bureau , a dining table frame , three benches , twenty-five feet of veneering , and mahogany planks . His large shop , use of mahogany and veneers , and collaboration with the urban cabinetmaker Chappell distinguish Hamlin from other Newtown joiners . Different attitudes toward furniture production also characterized the careers of the Bradleys , who grew up in the nearby commercial town of Derby . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and machinery on the I lalfway River in 1816 . In the late 181os and 18zos , they purchased // water rights to ensure reliable power for their sawmill and other machinery and acquired sixty-six acres of woodland to provide the needed raw materia for their shop . To finance expansion they mortgaged their property to mer chants in nearby commercial towns . The Bradleys ' sole concern was furni ture production , particularly turned work such as chairs and bedsteads . In 1819 they entered into a formal partnership , under the name of A &; G Bradley , as manufacturers of furniture . Joiners of Woodbury : Immigrant Innovators The analysis of joiners who worked in Woodbury presents a very differen picture ( see table 3 ) . Patterns evident in their lives are not as coherent as those in the lives of Newtown joiners . Some craftsmen were born in Wood-bury , but almost half were born elsewhere . High rates of migration into and out of town resulted in a high turnover rate , which permitted no single o even compatible shop traditions to dominate . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's world in Woodbury . In the period between 176o and 1780 , only about a third of the twenty two joiners active in Woodbury for whom there were sufficient biographica data had been born and lived their entire lives there , even though the town had been settled for approximately one hundred years . In some ways , these seven joiners resembled their Newtown counterparts . Land records , pro bate inventories , and tax lists indicate that these native joiners owned more than five acres of land and continued to combine mixed husbandry and craftwork . The native Woodbury joiners followed production rhythms simi lar to those in Newtown . Simeon King 's inventory of 1776 reveals that he made black chairs , white chairs , and cases of drawers in addition to window frames and sashes . Like Cyrus , Joseph , and Lazarus Prindle , King was a shop joiner who made window sashes during slack time . However , none o the native Woodbury craftsmen passed along the craft identity to his chil dren . King had only a daughter , so his widow sold his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train or encourage them to continue in the trade . Samuel Munn distributed his joiner 's tools to his daughters , Ruth and Patty , and deeded land , farming tools , and shoemaking tools to his sons Daniel and Benjamin . Either the joiner 's trade was sluggish or the town lacked an internal cultural system that provided the needed supply o joiners . The former explanation seems inadequate because Woodbury 's population growth during this period must have fueled a great demand fo // joiner 's work in Woodbury . Furthermore , the continued migration of woodworkers into Woodbury implies a certain vitality in the furnituremaking trade . l ' Joiners born elsewhere represented two-thirds of the total workforce and performed the greater part of the needed joiner 's work . Not only were there more immigrant craftsmen in Woodbury than in Newtown but a greater variety of Connecticut regions were represented . Eighteen percent came from the neighboring towns of Newtown and Roxbury ; 24 percent from the coastal communities of Branford , New Haven , Stratford , and Milford ; and 10 percent from the Hartford and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life in town seven years shorter than that in Newtown resulted in a greater variety of shop traditions in Woodbury . Joiners came to Woodbury for various reasons and in various ways . Artisans such as Samuel Curtiss , Truman Hurlbut , and Amos Leavenworth trained and married at young ages in their hometowns . Often related to Woodbury families , they would then move to Woodbury to begin work on their own . Such career patterns suggest either that their farming fathers had specifically apprenticed them to assist their settlement in a neighboring town or among relatives or that the fathers or sons had recognized the existence of sufficient work in Woodbury . Placing children in neighboring communities or among kin was a more open-ended variation of familial continuity than that favored in Newtown . These sons ' desire and ability to remain and work in Woodbury suggests an inadequate supply of local apprentices and underscores the difference between Newtown 's and Woodbury 's craft structure . Other joiners came to Woodbury of their own volition in the prime of their careers . Some of these craftsmen migrated from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miles , for example , they may have recognized the greater opportunities to work and provide for their children . Miles came from Milford at the age of thirty-eight and within three years accumulated one hundred and two acres of land , a sawmill and gristmill , and a joiner 's shop . Not having sons , Miles divided his estate equally among four daughters . Neither he , Eldad Spencer , Zimri Moody , nor William Adee passed along a woodworking identity to their children . Instead the shops and tools were treated simply as another form of personal estate . They were distributed equally without consideration that such dispersal diminished their intended function as a set . Other craftsmen who moved to Woodbury as mature joiners fared less well than did Miles . They either did not accumulate sufficient estate or became restless , so they moved along . " typical Joiners of Newtown and Woodbury was Billious Hill , who hailed from Goshen , worked in Woodbury from the age of thirty to forty-four , and then moved to Lenox , Massachusetts . The openness of the joiner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed nature of the Newtown artisan community . Newtown inhabitants viewed craftwork as an important means of conserving local resources and achieving continuity . Craftwork in Woodbury represented a different strategy designed to achieve immediate stability . Immigrant craftsmen established themselves in the community without reliance on family . A few joiners , such as Elijah Booth and Zimri Moody , received small plots of land when they married the daughter of a Woodbury resident . A greater number of joiners like William Adee , Ebenezer Bull , and David Miles purchased their home lots and brought their families with them . Economic involvement served as their only connection to the Woodbury community . John Gould , an orphaned mariner 's son from Branford , followed the most impersonal approach . He bought his land and remained a single man . Save for his craftwork , he was not involved with the community . According to his sister , his appraisers even took advantage of his isolation by tampering with his estate . Moreover , immigrant craftsmen such as Adee , Gould , Hill , and Naboth Candee were likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result they relied more on their craftwork than did their Newtown counterparts and were unable to distribute sufficient real estate to their children . These joiners may have died in Woodbury , but their progeny lived elsewhere . Statistics regarding the Woodbury joiners active in the last twenty years of the eighteenth century parallel those of the earlier period . Locally born and trained craftsmen accounted for just over a third of the total number . Neighboring towns , older communities , and even urban areas provided the other two-thirds . Among the apprentices of Elijah Booth and Bartimeus Fabrique were Eli Hall of Weston , Abner Judson of Newtown , and John Beardslee of Trumbull . The appearance of such urban-trained craftsmen as George Bolt of Norwalk and Nicholas Jebine of New Haven illustrates the continued attractiveness and openness of the joiner 's community in Woodbury . Jebine , who rented a house and owned a shop on land leased by Jabez Bacon , the leading merchant in town , provided Bacon with Windsor chairs . In 1807 Bacon 's store had an inventory of sixty Windsor chairs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued to concentrate on woodworking and to depend upon others for foodstuffs . jebinc 's payments included potatoes , a steer , and payment of town taxes . I ) ennis Bradley owned just half an acre , so he depended upon his custom-57 // ers for rye , potatoes , and even the pasturage of his only cow . The late eighteenth century witnessed a hardenitg of lines between the various sorts of woodworking in Woodbury . Craftsmen like Jebine , who was explicitly referred to as a cabinetmaker , provided furniture and performed repair work occasionally . They did not work on houses . Instead , crews of house joiners began to take over framing , covering , and finishing dwelling houses . Bartimeus Fabrique was one such master builder . He oversaw his journeymen and apprentices and even contracted individual craftsmen like Charles Prindle when business demanded it . When business was slack , Fabrique let out some of his workforce to other joiners . Independent joiners like Prindle made some furniture such as kitchen chairs , cupboards , and coffins , but tended to concentrate on house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with almost a quarter of them leaving town . Like their Newtown contemporaries , some moved at the end of their working careers . For example , Isaac Bunce moved to Wakeman , Ohio , when he was sixty-six years old . However , most Wood-bury joiners moved in the prime of their careers . Ephraim Munson , Hezekiah Hine , and Dennis Bradley worked in town for a decade or so and then moved along to better opportunities in nearby towns . Other recent arrivals in town or the occasional local apprentice filled the empty places . The short , one-generation shop traditions and great mobility of Woodbury joiners accounted for a rapid and thorough turnover of joiners and shop traditions , which allowed the practicing joiners to select and combine as-pects from a multiplicity of furniture traditions . Many patterns evident during r78o ? 1800 carried over into the third period , i 800 ? i 82o . Woodbury continued to attract urban-trained craftsmen such as Harvey J. Linsley of New Haven and William Peabody of Norwich and Bridgeport . These artisans provided the upper level of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , composed of craftsmen from the entire region , dominated architectural woodworking . But the third time period revealed a compositional difference in the wood-working trades : neighboring towns contributed fewer young joiners and the local Woodbury boys began to fill the joiners ' shops . However , the life cycles of these boys did not resemble those of their Newtown peers . Young native joiners such as brothers Noah Hinman Booth and Ebenezer Booth VI , and Daniel Hurlbut and William Hurlbut probably trained with their fathers but spent their early twenties as handymen carpenters , who per-formed any sort of necessary work . The Hurlbuts cut and carted wood , performed framing work , bottomed chairs , laid fences , repaired tools , carJoiners of Newtown and Woodbury ted dung and hay , and worked in the garden . Some local craftsmen such as the Booths remained restricted to this work , while for others handyman work was simply a temporary situation . The growth of an external market for inexpensive furniture began to offer some hope for Woodbury joiners in the late 181os . After making a living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1816 . Later , with the financial backing of Charles Peck , the Hurlbut shop expanded and acquired water-powered machinery by 1824 . Important differences between the mechanized shops in the two communities emphasize fundamental differences in their respective craft structures . In Newtown the Bradleys initiated financial arrangements to expand their operation . They took out mortgages but maintained control of their shop . The Hurlbuts , on the other hand , sought to gain viability as a shop by forming a partnership . When that proved insufficient , they turned to Peck , gaining financial stability in return for loss of control . Peck was recognized as owner of the firm . Lack of precedent and tradition was two-edged : it enabled joiners like the Hurlbuts to search for the best solution to setting up a viable shop , but it left the joiner isolated without the comfort , insurance , or guidance of other furnituremakers in the community . In short , the Woodbury joiner was potentially vulnerable , as the careers of several members of the Booth family reveal . Ebenezer Booth IV . Continuity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity for a more personal look at the different craft structures in Newtown and Woodbury . Among the children of Ebenezer Booth III ( 1718 ? 1803 ) of Newtown were three sons known to have been joiners : Ebenezer IV , born August 16 , 1743 ; Elijah , born October 26 , 1745 ; and David , born November 8 , 1754.12 Circumstantial evidence suggests that Ebenezer IV and perhaps Elijah trained with their uncle , Amos Sanford.13 Elijah probably trained David . By 1766 Ebenezer IV had completed his training . On November 20 of that year he married Olive Sanford , a relative of his probable master , and on December 4 his father deeded him the family homestead in the Sandy Hook section of Newtown.14 On April 9 , 1765 , Ebenezer III had sold forty-seven acres of his land on Walnut " Free l Till in Newtown to Ebenezer and Sarah Ford of Newtown and had purchased forty-one acres on Good Hill in Roxbury from the Fords. 59 6o Making Furniture in Preindustrial America Apparently he recognized that Ebenezer IV would be firmly established as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he moved the rest of the family to Roxbury to establish his other woodworking sons in a community just beginning to grow . Able to purchase sufficient quantities of land in this more sparsely populated neighboring town , Ebenezer III slowly deeded portions of the family estate to his sons , with the expectation that they would look after him when he grew too old to support himself . Ebenezer III 's subsequent relocation documents his concern with the reciprocal responsibilities of the lineal family . In the late 178os , he left the Roxbury homestead to David and moved to Norfolk , where another son , Amos , lived . In the 179os , he then returned to Newtown to live with yet another son , Asahel . Ebenezer III died in Newtown in 1803.15 Although no account books document Ebenezer IV 's furniture production , he apparently fulfilled his father 's expectations and established himself as the leading joiner in Newtown . His shop , first assessed for taxes in 1767 , maintained a consistently high assessment in relation to other craftsmen 's shops . Its value derived from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Newtown to Southbury ; east on the Sanford gristmill , a site of community gathering , and on the Pootatuck River , an as-yet-untapped source of water power ; and west on his cousin 's family lands . The Sanford sawmill was just across a street that ran up to the center of Newtown.16 As revealed by land records and the estate inventory , Ebenezer 's life was circumscribed by traditional family values . Marriage connected him to the Sanford family , who owned much of the land around the Booth homestead . Ebenezer relied on the nearby Sanford sawmill for a ready supply of sawn wood . From 1 770 until his death in 1790 , Ebenezer consolidated his holdings near the home lot and near the family land at Walnut Tree Hill and Billbury Swamp . Such accumulation and consolidation was not for speculative purposes , but rather to provide for his children . The ability to settle one 's children as separate but nearby households was the mark of success in an agricultural community.17 Ebenezer IV 's inventory revealed the continuation of a mixed agricultural economy in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In addition to a shop located on the home lot and his joiner 's tools , Ebenezer owned forty-five acres of arable land and meadow , a quantity of farming tools , two cows , three heifers , two calves , twelve sheep , four swine , one colt , and one mule . The estate also included a loom and tackle , twenty-eight pounds of sheep 's wool , and a pair of cards to clean the wool . Ebenezer IV epitomized the Newtown artisan who retained his yeomanJoiners // craftsman identity and preserved the strength of the lineal family.18 His inventory permits insight into the conservative nature of his shop and its production , much of which was chairs . All of the forms listed in the shop appeared in quantity in the Newtown inventories from the 1770S until the 182os ( see chapter 5 ) . The large supply of already turned and dried chair rounds and posts and the stock of flag to bottom the finished frame demonstrates the local preference for flag-seated turned chairs . The variety of such turned chairs offered by Ebenezer ran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( @ 3/ ) , horn chairs ( @ 4/ ) , and fiddleback chairs ( @ 5/6 ) . Similar correlations exist between the storage and table forms in his shop and those listed in the inventories . Case furniture and tables in the shop included a desk with drawers , a chest and drawers , several plain chests , a round fall leaf table , and legs for another round table . Additional evidence of Ebenezer 's ties with the local community and its values lies in his extensive stock of local woods ? cherry , maple , birch , whitewood , pine , and oak . This selection of woods may reflect his clientele 's preference for local woods or his integrated role in the local economy ( in the barter economy of a relatively self-sufficient agricultural community , woodworkers often received boards and plank as payment for services or products ) .19 Although based firmly on familial and communal values , Ebenezer IV 's career hardly resembles that of an unsophisticated craftsman . His furniture stock , the number of seasoned chair parts , and his ownership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ craftsman , nevertheless made a variety of forms and organized his work efficiently . The high value given to his sets of planes and saws ( 70/ and 27/ , respectively ) implies that he possessed a full range of these tools . Ownership of the perfectly suited tool permitted him to sustain quality production . The stockpile of chair parts and extensive set of patterns also enabled Ebenezer to run a fairly large shop . In 1790 Ebenezer 's workforce consisted of his son Joel , one male under sixteen , and two males over sixteen . In spite of the local orientation , the Booth shop was not sealed off from the rest of the world . Publication of a note of administration on his estate in the Danbury Farmer 's Journal signifies that Ebenezer had commercial contact with people outside the immediate community . Unfortunately , the extent of this contact remains u nknown.2 ? The distribution of Ebenezer 's estate in 1790 attests to the strength of values that stressed familial continuity . His daughters were established with sufficient dowries of personal estate and land to enable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His oldest son , Joel , was left the shop , tools , and a // two-thirds share of the home and home lot ( the other third went to Olive , Ebenezer 's widow ) . The youngest son , Ebenezer V , received another part of the real estate . In addition to the physical estate that Ebenezer IV distributed to his sons , he passed along a craft identity as a joiner . Joel , born June 17 , 1769 , must have assumed leadership of the shop when his father had a leg amputated in January 1790 . After Ebenezer IV 's death that June , Joel inherited the shop and tools and became legal master of the shop . In 1791 Joel took the freeman 's oath , which signified one 's status as head of a Newtown household.21 Although Joel 's death in 1794 ended his career just as it was beginning , his inventory supplies valuable information about his work and values . Joel 's life reflected an outlook more modern than his father 's , but still anchored in local traditional values . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than half of Ebenezer IV 's estate ( 61% ) , they represented slightly more than a third of Joel 's estate ( 39% ) . Such a difference can not be attributed solely to Joel 's early death and the resulting inability to accumulate land . He invested more capital in furniture production and personal belongings , such as silver spoons and window curtains . Tools , unfinished furniture , boards , and the shop facility accounted for 24 percent of Joel 's total estate , an increase of 11 percent over his father 's estate.22 Nevertheless , Joel did not abandon the mixed agricultural life of his father . His estate included a wide range of animals ? two oxen , one cow , two calves , one mare , one colt , one sow , two goats , three swine , and five sheep . The grasses in storage and grains on the ground included five tons and two stacks of hay , nine bushels of oats , three acres of wheat , and three and a half acres of rye . A detailed tax list from 1790 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owned ten acres of plowland , four acres of upland meadow and clear pasture , six acres of second-rate meadow , four acres of unmowed bog , and seventeen acres of brush pasture . Such a distribution of lands forced Joel to use his arable acreage in a more intense manner , to keep animals on the unimproved land , and to rely on a craft skill for an increasing part of his livelihood . The debts of Joel 's estate , many of them probably accrued by his shop expansion , provide additional evidence of his traditional views . He relied on kin and neighbors for economic assistance . The largest part of the debt was owed to his and his wife 's immediate families ( 44% ) , and a comparable amount to other inhabitants of the town ( 43% ) . People from outside of the community accounted for only 12 percent of the total debt.23 // The products of Joel 's shop provide proof of his solid base in the traditional and less competitive world of kin and neighbors . Spurred on by his own initiative or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including a card table and a desk , and cases for such musical instruments as a spinet , a " violene , " and a " voice flute . " These cosmopolitan items , however , were only a small part of his total work . The majority of Joel 's products were more conservative forms , similar to those of his father . The quantity of chair rounds and slats , the fifteen shillings ' worth of flag , and the listing of black chairs and red chairs document the continued popularity of flag-seated turned chairs . Case furniture made in Joel 's shop included cases of drawers , desks , chests of drawers , and painted chests . All of these forms appeared frequently in Newtown inventories from the 1770s until the 182os . Although capable of producing fine furniture in a fashionable manner , Joel 's output remained consistent with the community 's traditional orientation . Caught between the demands for fashion and the expectations of traditional social relationships , Joel gave more weight to the latter.24 Elements of new fashion and old tradition can also be detected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stonington , Connecticut , dated October 10 , 1794 , for Booth to teach Hazard " the art trad an mistrey of a Sd Cabbennet makeing " in two years . Joel 's choice to use the term cabinetmaker rather than joiner could be considered an affirmation of a more cosmopolitan view . However , the more traditional products of Joel 's shop suggest that it may have been only a rhetorical accommodation of more recent styles and techniques . The apprentice 's hometown presents equally ambigious evidence : One could conclude that Joel enjoyed a colonywide reputation , but more likely a member of the Hazard family living in Newtown arranged Robert 's apprenticeship . Firmer evidence of the conservative organization of Joel 's shop was the provision that Hazard was " to be obliged to work out at farming busnes Not to Exceed five Days in Each year . " Perhaps Joel had a reputation for concentrating on furniture production while delegating farm responsibilities to journeymen and apprentices . Other rural joiners of the same period followed this practice . Since apprentices were part of the family , masters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production.25 Joel 's brother Ebenezer V was only fourteen years old when Joel died in 1794 . He was too young to inherit the family shop and tools , but he did become a woodworker . On January 1 , 1802 , Ebenezer V married Anna I tarn of Southford . " Three months later he sold his portion of the family // lands to his uncle Asahel Booth and his cousin John Sanford and bought land in Southbury . His new home placed him within a mile of his paternal uncle , Elijah Booth . At first Ebenezer V experienced hard times in this new community . He had to mortgage his property several times and , like the Hurlbuts , devoted most of his time to such handyman carpentry work as cart repair , ax helving , and other repairs . Life for Ebenezer V improved by 1825 . He built a dam on Eight Mile Brook in Southford and set up a waterpowered cabinetmaking and turning shop . According to a local historian , Ebenezer V " made chairs in quantity , which were taken to Derby and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An account book kept by Charles Booth ( 18o2-1848 ) , a furnituremaking son of Ebenezer V , reveals that the Booth shop on Eight Mile Brook had strong ties to the external market . The shop provided " Ebenezer Dupinenach " of New York with chair parts that were boxed in Southford and then assembled in New York . Among the parts listed were curled maple posts , bows , and rounds ; eagle frets ( slats cut out in an eagle profile ) and cross frets ( X-shaped slats ) , as well as square frets , oval frets , and crown tops . Besides furniture , the Booth shop produced quantities of hat blocks for Danbury hat manufactories and spindles for nearby spinning manufactories.26 Earlier aspects of Ebenezer V 's life provide additional evidence of the strong traditional values of the Booths in Newtown . Though not trained directly by his father or brother , Ebenezer V still followed the family calling and became a joiner . He settled in Southbury , presumably because his wife 's family and his uncle Elijah lived there . Like his father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide a means of emotional and economic security , but the different craft structure of Woodbury had a profound effect . Ebenezer V found that he had to adjust his values and rely solely on his own craft skill to survive . Rather than producing entire pieces of furniture and continuing the yeoman-artisan tradition , he turned to the growing industrial market . He provided chair parts for export to the nearest large commercial center and contributed equipment for the area 's leading industries . Although able to train his son Charles , Ebenezer V found that the earlier connection between family and occupation had weakened . In fact , he paid his son wages to work in the shop . // Elijah Booth : Competition and Change Elijah Booth must have moved to Roxbury with his father , Ebenezer III , because in 1768 Elijah 's name first appeared on that town 's tax list . By 1770 Elijah had established a joiner 's shop in Roxbury , for which he was assessed S8 . Such a figure suggests a sizable operation . Elijah was not to remain in Roxbury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the 1771 Southbury tax list , he must have immediately set up shop that year ? he was assessed ? 3 for a faculty ( a craft or service shop ) in addition to a normal tax . Elijah may have been pushed out of Roxbury by the imminent maturing of his four younger brothers or attracted to the Woodbury area by the open craft structure . On March 2 , 1771 , Elijah bought a half-acre home lot and house from Edward Hinman , whose sister he married on October 14 , 1772.27 In several respects Elijah 's career as a woodworker in the Woodbury area parallels that of his brother Ebenezer IV in Newtown . According to a May 7 , 1777 , apprentice agreement between Elijah and Lewis Hurd of Woodbury , Elijah was a shop joiner , a term also applicable to Ebenezer IV . The furniture made by Elijah resembled the conservative forms made in his brother 's shop . The " plain desk " Elijah made in 1784 for Shadrach Osborn and the " plain table " and " plain chest " he made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest that Elijah produced a simple sort of furniture that lacked extensive decorative details , such as elaborate carving or inlay . He concentrated on plain , traditional forms like the chest of drawers , valued at 36/ , that he made for Bennet French in 18o I. In 1798 Elijah also sold French a bedstead , which was probably made from bedstead timber purchased at David Stiles 's sawmill . For Frances Hinman in 1802 , Elijah provided a suite of furniture that included " 1 Kitchen table ? 1.8.0 ; chest two Draws SI.16.0 ; 7 plain chares SI ; and 2 Elbow chairs ( inexpensive armchairs ) 8/ . " In February of the next year he provided Frances with a clock case valued at ? 3 . Paint often decorated Elijah 's furniture . For David Stiles he made two green chests in 1796 , and his accounts with Shadrach Osborn reveal frequent purchases of paints and red lead . An ability to pass along a woodworking legacy further links Elijah and Ebenezer IV . Two of Elijah 's sons became woodworkers in Woodbury : Noah Hinman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Booth VI , born April 7 , 1790.28 in spite of these similarities , Elijah 's career in Woodbury reflects a significant amount of change in structure and values . Unlike his brother , Elijah specialized in woodworking and lacked sufficient land to provide for his // own family . Throughout his career he purchased substantial quantities of rye , wheat , meat , potatoes , dairy products , and cider . In contrast to the relative self-sufficiency of Ebenezer IV , such specialization made Elijah more dependent on others in the community . Elijah 's widely fluctuating tax assessments indicate a less stable existence than Ebenezer 's . Even though he specialized , Elijah did not belong to the upper cadre of furniture producers that developed after the Revolution . For the most fashionable furniture , the townspeople had two choices . They patronized cabinetmakers like Nicholas Jebine or Ephraim Munson , or they purchased imported items from New York through Shadrach Osborn and other local merchants . Shop joiners like Elijah Booth were a second rank of furnituremakers , who provided conservative plain or painted furniture . Yet shop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who performed contract work hauling wood , framing barns and sheds , repairing furniture , and bottoming chairs.29 After 1790 Elijah 's career underwent striking changes . His age or a decreasing demand for traditional furniture may account for the adjustments . He began to devote an increased proportion of time to house joinery and carpentry work . After 1796 Elijah no longer consistently purchased great quantities of sawn cherry and whitewood boards and planks from David Stiles 's sawmill . Instead he bought smaller quantities sporadically , as infrequent demand dictated . During the last five years of the eighteenth century , Elijah also bought sash lights ( window glass ) and great quantities of white lead . These products are more often associated with house joinery than furnituremaking . Elijah 's journeymen and apprentices during these years provide additional evidence of his experience in house joinery . Eli Hall , Charles Prindle , Silas Bennett , and Elijah 's two sons all became house joiners/carpenters . Only Abner Judson , who returned to Newtown as Rivirius Prindle 's journeyman , remained active in furnituremaking.30 Elijah 's traditional role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to raise livestock for the market after 1800 met with failure because he did not have sufficient land . Frustrated by the lack of opportunity , Elijah took on odd carpentry jobs such as hauling , sawing , and mending during the last twenty years of his life.31 Elijah 's ideas about his family changed as the nature of his work changed . Whereas Ebenezer IV 's life revealed the intertwining of work and family , Elijah 's later career reflects a new independence between work and family . The 1790 census listed Elijah as the head of a large household comprising thirteen people , five of whom were not in the immediate family . These five // were probably journeymen and apprentices . In i800 , only eight people remained in the entire household ; all of them belonged to the immediate family . Accounts from the late 1790S and early ' Boos reveal that Elijah stopped boarding apprentices . Instead he contracted Bartimeus Fabrique 's workers or other journeymen for short periods of time . Such a change suggests that less importance was attached to the household as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspect of family life , became separated from it . Such a change in values can be seen even in the relationships between Elijah and his two sons . Although he trained Ebenezer VI and Noah as woodworkers , Elijah provided little additional support after they concluded their training . He did not pass along the family shop or any tools , but rather let his sons fend for themselves . Noah had to purchase his workbench , a gluepot , some tools , and plane stocks from Bartimeus Fabrique in 18o9 . His purchase of the joiner 's most essential possessions reflected a radical new orientation toward a craft skill . No longer did fathers train their sons , establish them in the family shop , and gradually turn the business over to them . A craftsman 's skill became more of a marketable commodity for an individual than a means of assuming traditional familial values and preserving the family identity.32 Elijah 's new attitudes toward land were symptomatic of his new ideas about family and work . Whereas Ebenezer IV accumulated land to provide for his children and passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elijah viewed his land speculatively after 1795 . He used land as a capital asset to be mortgaged in times of need . Rather than depend on neighbors or relations for economic support as his nephew Joel Booth had , Elijah relied on land . On several occasions he mortgaged his seven-acre wood lot on French 's Mountain . He even mortgaged his shop and home in 1803 . Although he recovered the property on March 15 , i 8o6 , he immediately sold it to his former journeyman Eli Hall . In 1811 he purchased a small lot of eighty-one rods , which included a house but no shop.33 Fluctuations in Woodbury 's economy or Elijah 's own maturing probably account for the changing nature of his work and workforce and his numerous land transactions . Elijah looked after himself instead of relying on kin or neighbors during hard times and old age . His hiring of journeymen by the day lowered his operational costs , and his mortgages provided immediate credit . These solutions distinguish Elijah 's individualistic value system from that of his Newtown relatives . He did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work as a legacy to be preserved and handed down through the family // F O U R line . Instead he viewed his work and his land as financial assets . Once Elijah trained his sons , he expected them to become similarly individualistic and entrepreneurial , seizing opportunity unfettered by traditional constraints . He did not provide them with assistance as they established themselves , and they felt no obligation to look after him in his old age . At his death in 1823 , Elijah distributed his meager estate to his wife and a spinster daughter with whom he lived in a small house . The careers of Ebenezer Booth IV and Elijah Booth point to the importance of the social economy in which the joiner worked . Both craftsmen grew up and trained in Newtown . Such apprenticeships must have endowed them with the same skills and concerns as other Newtown yeomenartisans . Yet Elijah and his nephew Ebenezer V altered their work habits and values when they moved to Woodbury . Elijah trained Abner Judson as a house joiner amid the narrowing craft structure of Woodbury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he returned to Newtown . He was able to make furniture , perform house joinery , and combine farming with joiner 's work . The lives of joiners who worked in Newtown or Woodbury illuminate striking differences between neighboring rural communities . What caused or contributed to these contrasting craft structures ? Why did Woodbury continue to depend on immigrant furnituremakers ? Why did immigrant craftsmen start to work in Newtown only in the 181os ? In order to understand the joiners ' communities in Newtown and Woodbury , it is essential to explore each town 's socioeconomic structure . Socioeconomic Structure in Newtown and Woodbury I n the colonial and early national periods of American history , agriculture was the root of the fundamental values that shaped public behavior and helped participants to comprehend that behavior . To understand an early American community 's values and behavior , one must therefore undertake an intensive analysis of that community 's agricultural economy . Even slight shifts in farming techniques , size or varieties of crops , or numbers or varieties of animals altered basic agricultural routines and production schedules . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and service activities in that town , with resulting adjustments in attitudes toward land and work . These changes and alterations did not occur systematically , but rather in fits and starts that varied from town to town . As one charts the socioeconomic patterns of Newtown and Woodbury and extrapolates the prevalent values in each town , one begins to see how social structure , work activities , and communal values determined career choice , mobility , production rhythms , consumer taste , and technological innovation . ' Specific evidence about the patterns of each town are found in inventories , account books , and census schedules . The patterns that emerge reflect two distinct rural experiences during a period characterized by the growth of urban markets , intensified animal husbandry , rural industry , and national financial systems . By necessity , farmers from both towns were in the market ; by choice , Woodbury farmers were also of the market , which their Newtown counterparts were not until the 181os . Newtown : A Yeoman Town founded in 171 I , Newtown was a fairly young community in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhabitants did not migrate as a cohesive // unit from the same area . Rather , families from Milford , Stratford , Derby , New Haven , and Guilford purchased shares in the town . Like other towns incorporated at the same time , Newtown received from the Connecticut General Assembly a small grant of sixty-six square miles . Town leaders intended to settle the area slowly , as shown by the first division of land , which provided only twenty-two acres per family . This restraint was short-lived . Five additional divisions followed within the next five years , and by 1723 , no common land remained in reserve . Newtown 's quick division of such a small area and its location off the migratory path to the northern or western frontiers made it less attractive to the mobile population of the colony . Nevertheless , Newtown 's population did increase , especially between 1756 and 1790 ( table 4 ) . The town 's growth resulted more from a natural increase in many of the original fami lies than from immigration . Of the 147 people on the tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a list of inhabitants from 1717 . Furthermore , Newtown 's gross rate of persistence remained high until the early nineteenth century ( table 5 ) . Newtown 's rates of 77 percent in the 176os , 65 percent in the 1770s , and 62 percent in the 17905 compare favora bly to those of stable rural communities such as Hingham , Massachusetts , at the end of the eighteenth century . The exception to these high rates , a surprising low of 50 percent in the 1780s , appears temporary and can be attributed to the dislocations experienced by some of Newtown 's Anglicans at the conclusion of the Revolution . Many of those who did not remain in town in the eighteenth century may have been native sons whose move permitted the distribution of viable family farms to one or two other sons . Not until the first two decades of the nineteenth century did Newtown 's persistence rate fall to the lower fifties . At that time migrants must have Socioeconomic Structure 71 become more attracted to Newtown or more native sons must have mi grated out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 182o list appeared on the 176o enumeration.2 The quick division of Newtown 's land and its subsequent transmission through family lines resulted in small differences between great and small estates ( see chapter 5 ) . Consequently , life in Newtown was never domi nated by only a small number of prominent families . During the third quarter of the eighteenth century , 3.8 percent of Newtown 's population served as leaders and only 45.9 percent of its terms of office were filled by men serving at least five years . More than one-half of Newtown 's families contributed a town leader . Newtown 's deputies to the General Assembly in the years 1760 ? 8o served an average of 4.87 one-year terms each . Further-more , just over half of the officers were not reelected for the subsequent term . The high deputy turnover rate of 51 percent meant that more towns-people were able to participate in government on the colonial level . Given its dense population , Newtown was surprisingly egalitarian.3 The timing and nature of Newtown 's settlement put that community at a distinct economic disadvantage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Existing transportation routes converged in older , more socioeconomically stable towns surrounding Newtown and provided those communities with greater economic possibilities . As a result , Newtown inhabitants continued to do business with the shopkeepers and craftsmen of Milford , Stratford , and other coastal towns until the 176os . Thomas Tousey , a Newtown doctor , patronized Andrew Durand of Milford and Hezekiah Treadwell of Stratford for the furniture in his daughter 's dowry in 1 740 and hired the services of a Norwalk miller in 1752 . Merchants in the older towns of Milford , Stratford , Norwalk , and Danbury organized the limited amount of external trade in agricultural surpluses.4 From estates filed at the probate court in the 176os ( tables 6 ? 8 ) , it is clear that Newtown still had a developing economy at that time : crops and oxen // // teams appear in few inventories , and most inhabitants seemed to rely on cattle raising while local economic services developed . But these farmers were not really raising cattle for market . Rather , established settlers ex-changed surplus food and cattle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of packed local meat seen in table 8 is not indicative of the town 's economy , but rather reflects the unequal weight of the considerable amount of packed meat belonging to Donald Grant , the town 's Scottish-born storekeeper . In the last three decades of the eighteenth century , Newtown exhibited a relatively self-contained barter economy . Danbury assumed great eco nomic and political power in northern Fairfield County and precluded any possibility that Newtown would become an important gathering center . Danbury 's preeminence in the region was manifest in various ways : it was the seat of the probate court , target of a British attack in 1779 , and home of a newspaper in the 179os . Newtown 's insignificant commercial role in Fair-field County is evident in its commercial index , a figure derived by dividing the town 's tax by its total area to compute property values . Newtown 's index ofo.563 was the second lowest in its region ; only New Fairfield , laid out in 1740 , possessed a smaller index.5 74 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America Newtown 's social structure further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dominant wealthy leaders in Newtown meant that no local figures would naturally take the initiative to coordinate and organize production . In addition , many of Newtown 's inhabitants may not have been interested in the external market . They continued to emphasize permanence in their hometown , even as the town became more densely populated . The smaller size of subdivided lands did not encourage farmers to turn to the market for relief . Instead the yeomen-artisans depended on their kin and neighbors . The ensuing network of obligations drew the community together . Custom and communal sanctions continued to guide Newtown families in the distribution and allocation of resources . This conservatism is explicit in a late eighteenth-century apprenticeship agreement in which Zachariah Clark was to instruct his nephew in the " Art of Farming and Common Business of Husbandry . " The use of artisanal language , such as art and common business , and the articulation of social obligations in other sections of the agreement document the continued strength of the traditional social economy.6 The inventories from the 177os reflect Newtown 's prewar mixed agricultural economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of inventories and signal the end of Newtown 's unsettled frontier period . Wheat , the traditional English grain , remained the preferred crop over rye or corn . The slight increase in corn and additional references to hay occurred in conjunction with the increased number of cows and the increase in both the number of oxen and frequency of their mention . The greater number of oxen also had a causal relationship with the increase in grain crops because teams of oxen were necessary to plow the fields . Although a noticeable increase in the frequency and number of pigs accompanied the increases in other animals , the average livestock holdings in Newtown still remained lower than those in towns that concentrated on animal husbandry. ? The balance of grain and animals in Newtown inventories implies a concern for domestic needs . Account book references provide additional proof of this emphasis . The ledger of Thomas Stilson , a native yeomanjoiner whose family remained in Newtown during the entire period of this study , shows that Newtown families exchanged agricultural produce , farm labor , specialized services , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy . Early in his career Stilson made furniture , performed house joinery , and wove cloth in the various slack periods between winter threshing , spring plowing and planting , and fall harvesting . At Socioeconomic Structure those times , he worked on his own farm with the assistance of customers indebted to him or on other farms to speed the work . These intricate mutual obligations , not always based on skill or efficiency but rather on expediency or the task itself , ensured stable social relationships.8 Newtown 's experiences during the Revolutionary War differed significantly from those of Woodbury and Danbury , both of which experienced short-term dislocations but then parlayed the mobilization effort into commercial prosperity after the war . In fact , no agricultural dislocation was evident in Newtown estates during i 78o-84 . Continuity , indeed growth in crops and animals , implies that Newtown did not contribute much of its labor and produce to the war cause . Such lack of involvement can be attributed to an economic structure not well enough organized on the local level to collect surpluses for market , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roots of this conservatism were threefold : the persistence of so many families ; the strength of the conservative Anglican faith , in which more than half of the town 's population worshipped ; and the dominating influence of the Anglican minister , John Beach . In a small inland community , Beach commanded great respect and deference as the link to a learned society . In the years of the Revolution , Beach 's role as a cultural leader even increased : he was unchallenged by a commercial elite , kept the church open to comfort his congregation during a period of great uncertainty , and continued to offer prayers for King George III . As a result of Beach and the town 's kinship network , the town petitioned the English king and Parliament rather than the Continental Congress in March 1775 . Not until 1783 did Newtown 's Loyalists pledge allegiance to the new United States of America.9 After the war , Newtown inhabitants continued a mixed agricultural economy based on an interrelationship among crops , animals , and craftwork , in spite of the inevitable encroachment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and early 1800s , the frequency of wheat , the most marketable grain , declined dramatically . Corn , a less labor intensive crop that yielded more per acre , and rye , a more dependable grain less susceptible to blasts and other natural disasters , replaced wheat as the favored grain ( see table 6 ) . Animal ownership in Newtown inventories from this period also manifests an emphasis on prudence and frugality . Estates listed sizable numbers of pigs and sheep , the most independent and low maintenance sorts of animals , while horses , oxen , and cows , which required more attention and care , appeared less often and in smaller numbers ( see table 7 ) . Newtown farmers did not concentrate on meat and dairy 75 // products as did many Connecticut farmers at the end of the eighteenth century . Very few Newtown estates listed a specialized shelter for their livestock ( table 9 ) . Instead Newtown farmers continued to use barns , multipurpose buildings that were perfectly suited for mixed agricultural production . Packed meat appeared in a number of local inventories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was merely held aside for familial con-sumption . The frequency and value of packed dairy products provides similar evidence of domestic priorities . 10 Continuation of a balanced mixed agricultural economy , frugal manage-ment of limited resources , and preference for local exchange is evident in other patterns revealed by the Newtown inventories ( table i o ) . Cider mills and barrels of cider appeared in an increasing number of estates . Locally produced cider and cider brandy rather than imported rum remained the favored drinks in Newtown . Newtown inventories also demonstrated an increased capacity to produce and process wool and linen cloth . Many households listed flax , sheep , a great wheel to spin wool , a Dutch wheel to spin flax , and a loom . In addition to this agricultural processing equipment , Newtown inventories from this period contained great quantities of other artisanal tools ( table 11 ) .11 The life of Samuel Beers , a native hatmaker-farmer , provides detailed insight into the town 's mixed agriculture and some of the changes it experi-enced during the late eighteenth century . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rye , buckwheat , oats , potatoes , and hay to provide for his family , feed his animals , and have a small surplus to use as needed . The animals included oxen , steers , cows , a horse , sheep , and pigs . The oxen helped to prepare the tillage and to haul wagons of produce or hats ; the pigs , cows , and steers provided meat and dairy products for familial consumption and limited export as well as skins for Beers 's hatmaking shop . Sheep served a similar multipurpose role : mutton became part of the family diet , and the wool was used for cloth and hats . Local demand and an intricate web of local obligations , services , and products characterized the bulk of Beers 's craftwork . His account books shed light on how he balanced these various economic roles . Agricultural // // rhythms restricted hatmaking to the winter months of December and January , a few weeks in the late spring after plowing , and a few weeks in the fall after harvesting . Most of his customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such neighboring towns as New Stratford , Huntington , Redding , and Southbury . For credit these customers supplied Beers with carded wool , craft goods , specialized services , or agricultural labor or produce . Beers drew on these obligations to supply labor for major tasks like plowing and harvesting . Sons and daughters were another important source of labor for both agricultural work and preparation of hatmaking materials . The large size of Beers 's shop , valued at 16o , occasionally allowed him to enter the external market in the 179os . Large hatmaking establishments such as James Hurlbut &; Company of Norwalk and Peleg Wood and Selah Conkling of Long Island shipped various sorts of skins to Beers . By providing the raw materials , these large firms assumed the greatest expense of hatmaking . Beers did not have to incur debts to increase his production . Freed from the expense and time of procuring and processing skins , Beers used his standard tools in a more intense manner to make greater quantities of hats . He then hired local lads such as Ely Dikeman and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Danbury , or Norwalk. 12 A detailed tax list from 1798 documents Newtown 's mixed agricultural economy ( table 12 ) . Woodlands and unimproved land accounted for 33 percent of the town 's land , which indicates that woodlands remained an important resource . A breakdown of Newtown 's improved land shows that tillage represented 25 percent ; hayland , only 25 percent ; and pasture , 51 percent . Newtown farmers did not set aside more land for hay because they preferred to let their animals forage on pastureland . This method allowed farmers to raise crops and perform craftwork with the time saved . Although ownership of chaises , riding chairs , watches , and clocks implies that some Newtown inhabitants had access to the fashion and trade of the larger world and the means to purchase some of its material products , the market 's lure did not overwhelm the community . Money tied up in interest , evidence of commercial expansion , totaled only $1,248 . The strength of a culture that venerated the past and emphasized frugal and efficient use of resources can also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Just over four-fifths of Newtown 's dwellings were depreciated at three-fourths , indicative of smaller size or older age . Most surviving eighteenth-century houses in Newtown feature traditional single-pile floor plans ( a room on either side of a central chimney ) , with a kitchen in a lean-to or ell along the hack . Socioeconomic Structure 79 8o Making Furniture in Preindustrial America Even more revealing from the 1798 tax list is the composition of the artisanal community within Newtown . One hundred and twenty-four heads of households ( 25% of all males older than twenty-one ) had faculties as sessed in Newtown . Professionals or providers of human services ( attorney , physician , merchant , tavern keeper ) operated 16 percent of these faculties , and artisans who worked with the products of mixed agriculture ( joiner , carpenter , cooper , wheelwright , shoemaker , saddler , hatter , combmaker , weaver , tailor , clothier ) owned 67 percent . Shoemakers , clothiers , and join ers were in particular abundance in Newtown . These trades offered the easiest means of making a living on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wool , flax , and wood ? had always been a part of mixed agriculture . Work could be done at home with the help of the household at one 's discretion . Furthermore , the plentiful supply of farmer-artisans meant that the demand for a particular product never became so great that it forced the craftsman to relinquish his agricultural responsibilities . Craftsmen like Samuel Beers only entered the external market if time permitted and familial and local demands had already been met . In the early nineteenth century , a turnpike was constructed from Bridgeport to New Milford , with Newtown at the halfway point . At first the town resisted the " great inconvenience and expense " of the proposed turn-pike and pointed out the advantages of a free public road . Within a year the town reconsidered and accepted the road , which opened in 1809 . Even though the road linked Newtown with Bridgeport and intensified NewSocioeconomic // town 's exposure to the market , inhabitants responded in terms of existing socioeconomic norms . Rather than embracing commercial agriculture or catering to the changing demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities . Crop patterns evident in inventories from the 18 t os and 182os indicate that wheat continued to fall from favor as rye and corn dominated the references to grain . Newtown farmers sought to maximize crop yields by fertilizing the plowland with lime , plaster of paris , and manure . Each of the three fertilizers were listed in several Newtown inventories in this period and reflect the Newtowner 's continued emphasis on grains and an awareness of agricultural advances.13 The opening of the Bridgeport ? New Milford Turnpike provided a new market for meat and grain . Initially , Newtown farmers explored the possibilities of the Bridgeport trade . Frequencies of animals and numbers of cows and oxen in the inventories jumped in the 181os . The number of estates with packed meat also rose . Some inventories even listed meat and grain sold in Bridgeport . Yet Newtown farmers did not follow the pervasive western Connecticut shift toward dairy exports during the first two decades of the nineteenth century . The quantities that each household had available for market remained small . Newtown production remained decentralized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meat in " dribbles . . . as he may want to raise a few Dollars for immediate necessity . " 14 In economic as well as political matters , the individual yeoman seemed to possess the power to participate on his own terms . The account books of three Newtown artisans active in the first two decades of the nineteenth century shed additional light on developing changes in the Newtown craft structure . Philo Beardslee , a native farmerweaver , followed the more traditional route . Listed as a weaver in the 1 798 tax lists , Beardslee made coverlids ( coverlets ) , blankets , carpets , bed ticking , and fabrics such as Irish stitch and diaper . In the winter months he also performed such coopering tasks as making barrels , tubs , pails , kegs , and firkins . He even occasionally bottomed chairs and made brooms.ts John Hubbell was a Newtown-born farmer-craftsman who followed a slightly different course . Hubbell supplied the local community with tools for woodworking and farming , shoes for animals , chains , locks , nails , and other iron or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Newtown economy was his having trained and set up another local lad , Josiah Curtiss , and teamed with carpenters such as Samuel Northrup and David Parmelee to make wagons . Hubbell retained his local focus and interaction with other craftsmen even though his shop gave him the capaci82 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America ty and technology to expand his clientele and to concentrate on his own work . His shop included five benches , three anvils and one horn , and a trip hammer . In 1821 Hubbell began to ship quantities of his axes to New Haven.16 The career of a third Newtown artisan , Eden Burchard , reveals a slightly different pattern . Born in Danbury , Burchard came to Newtown in 1799 to work as a partner with Isaac Wheeler in the saddling business . He used skins available from local sources to make saddles , bridles , and harnesses , essential products in the mixed agricultural economy . The majority of Burchard 's customers lived in Newtown , but he also sold leather goods in Danbury . In the sales of his products , Burchard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shoemakers in Newtown all occasionally performed outwork for establishments in Danbury or other commercial towns . But Burchard 's move to Newtown distinguished him from his contemporaries and signaled the beginning of a new trend in the Newtown craft community . In the 181os , more craftsmen like the joiners Arcillus Hamlin and the Bradleys were attracted to Newtown , probably because of the artisanal heritage of the town and the existing water-power sites.17 Woodbury : A Gentry Town A particular sort of land distribution determined a different social structure in Woodbury . Woodbury was settled in 1673 by a cohesive group of Stratford families . Like most Connecticut towns incorporated before 1680 , it received a large grant from the General Assembly . Only a small fraction of the original 150-square-mile patent was initially laid out for the original settlers . The remainder was parceled out piecemeal over the next century by a series of proprietary divisions . In this process , areas of common land within the town boundaries were divided up among the town 's proprietors , whose members included descendents of the original settlers or recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Membership in this group became more closed after 1730 as the price of a share increased.18 Since divisions continued throughout the eighteenth century , the proprietary system played a significant role in Woodbury . Proprietors determined why and when new lands were needed and thereby shaped the town 's economic life . If proprietors wished to increase their capacity for crops or livestock or if they wished to provide their children with sufficient land to begin new farms , they had the power to do so . This enabled dcSocioeconomic Structure 8.3 scendents of proprietors to own substantial acreage and remain in their hometown . As a result , proprietary families achieved the continuity and stability that determined local prominence and became a gentry class . From 1730 until 1770 , Woodbury 's population grew dramatically . It reached a peak of 5,313 in 1774 ( see table 4 ) . Although some of this growth was natural , some can also be attributed to an influx of migrants or transients . Because of its location at the edge of Connecticut 's northwestern frontier , which is the present Litchfield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developing region after 1730 . Migration into Woodbury was particularly noticeable in the years between 1737 and 1743 , the same years in which the northwestern lands were divided into towns , auctioned off , and first settled . Newly arrived families accounted for 25 percent of all Woodbury families in 1738 . Some of these families may have stopped in Woodbury for only a short time on their way to Cornwall or Salisbury , but many remained . A gross persistence rate of 73 percent for 1760 ? 70 attests to Woodbury 's ability to accommodate native children and recent arrivals ( see table 5 ) .19 In the fifty years after 1770 , the proprietary system affected the townspeople unequally . It helped proprietors such as the Hinmans , Minors , Strongs , and Pearces achieve local prominence . They acquired land to increase their own production or to settle descendents on large estates in town . Many proprietors began to view land as a commercial commodity as population and demand for land increased in the last half of the eighteenth century . These entrepreneurs were willing to sell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town . For example , the proprietors Zadok Hurd Jr . and Edward Hinman sold small parcels of land to Ebenezer Bull and Elijah Booth in 1758 and 1771 , respectively . Simeon Judson rented a house and half an acre in the late 177os ; Amos Hicock rented out a portion of his inherited estate ; and John Edwards and Matthew Morris were among many newcomers who leased entire farms including dwelling house , barn , farm tools , and animals.20 Children of nonproprietors and more recent arrivals such as John Dulivan , William Wilmot , Joseph Ferry , and Samuel Moody found access to economic resources more difficult . Some could afford to purchase or rent only a home having less than twenty-five acres , while others had to work small farms that had been subdivided from their parents ' estates . To achieve some sort of livelihood , these family heads relied on part-time craftwork or raised grain and pastured animals on someone else 's land . In the early nineteenth century , young men such as Jesse Green , Simeon // Munn , and William Guyre made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receiving payment in cash and provisions . Each of these three men worked for a six-month period , April to October , on Matthew Minor 's farm in 1801-3 , 1863 , and 1807 , respectively.21 The increased demand on a fixed supply of land contributed to the high cost of land and prohibited many townspeople from buying land in town for their children . Consequently , these families remained in town for a generation and were then replaced by another generation of migrants . The decline in the gross rate of persistence after 1 770 points out that population turnover intensified after that time . Only slightly more than half of the taxpayers remained in Woodbury long enough to be listed ten years later . In the eighteenth century , a persistence rate in the low fifties was more characterisitic of urban centers . Another indication of mobility was that only 36 percent of taxpayers ' surnames on the 182o tax list also appeared on the 176o list.22 A statistical analysis of leadership patterns in Woodbury during the third quarter of the eighteenth century reveals a more stratified social structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's population served in the major town offices , and 56.1 percent of the leadership terms were filled by men serving at least five years . Closer examination of these leaders reveals that less than one-fifth of Woodbury 's families contributed to the leadership pool . This suggests not only the prestige of a few prominent families but also the lack of an extended kin network . Such oligarchal patterns were more common in Connecticut 's urban or commercial centers , where a local gentry class held political , economic , and cultural power . Officeholding patterns of Woodbury 's deputies to the General Assembly reveal a similar deference to a small elite . In the twenty years from 176o to 1786 , Woodbury 's deputies served an average of 11.43 one-year terms each , a figure that surpassed those of all other Connecticut towns . Futhermore , the town consistently returned the previous deputies to office . The low turnover rate of Woodbury 's deputies ( 19% ) was comparable to the rates of New Haven and New London . It is thus accurate to label Woodbury a gentry town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Time of settlement and the social structure had a profound affect on Woodbury 's economy . The town 's early establishment and role as seat of the probate court influenced transportation networks in southern Litchfield County . People grew accustomed to traveling to Woodbury to settle estates and record wills , and they found it just as easy to take along their few surplus products to exchange for needed goods . Woodbury became the // gathering point for agricultural surpluses from its northern backcountry , and a class of men arose in town to assume control of the trade . This modest trade formed an important part of the town 's economy . Aware of its importance to the region , Woodbury even petitioned the General Assembly in 1748 to form a separate county out of southern Litchfield County , with Woodbury as the shire town.24 After 176o , Woodbury entered increasingly into the agricultural export market based in New York . This marketing network , established to procure provisions during the Seven Years ' War , continued in peacetime as New York 's population grew and its merchants shipped grain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Woodbury 's stratified social structure was well suited to this trade and provided leaders to organize and direct marketing . Truman Hinman , a wealthy proprietor , gathered farmers ' surplus cattle and drove them overland to New York as early as 1765 . Individual Woodbury farmers continued to produce mainly for familial and kin consumption , but merchants such as Hinman and Jabez Bacon collected substantial quantities of wheat , beef , and pork for the New York market . Bacon was perhaps the best-known Woodbury merchant . He attracted New Haven merchants to buy from him and even controlled the New York pork market . In return these merchants offered imported and fancy goods such as textiles , English tools , ceramics , and rum to the people of Woodbury . The town 's leading economic role in northwest Connecticut can best be seen in its commercial index . Woodbury 's index of o.618 was Litchfield County 's highest in 1774 , with Litchfield a distant second at 0.476.25 Evidence gathered from probate inventories of the r 76os and 1770S reveals the existence of agricultural surpluses . The varieties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( see table 6 ) . The equal number of corn and wheat references and the slightly fewer references to rye suggest that the Woodbury farmer could have used rye and corn for home consumption and exported the wheat . Similarly the large herds of cows , pigs , and sheep , larger than those of Massachusetts towns from the same period , encouraged the trading of surpluses ( see table 7 ) . Scholars ' calculations indicate that three cows , eight pigs , and ten sheep fulfilled domestic needs for a family of nine in the mid eighteenth century . Woodbury had a particular abundance of cows and sheep . The latter were important : they provided wool for yarn , could be driven to market , and provided mutton for local consumption , thereby allowing the export of pork , a meat more easily preserved for shipping . Apparently some Woodbury farmers must have recognized the demand for beef and pork and the relative ease of animal // husbandry . They began to view the external market as a means of maximizing productivity and gaining extra income from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listed packed meat valued at an average of E3 , the approximate value of one barrel of pork ( see table 8 ) .26 The orchestration of local surpluses by leading Woodbury merchants assumed greater significance during the Revolution . The Continental army continually demanded packed beef and pork and wool , products that formed the base of the community 's economic structure . To supply these needs , merchants Truman Hinman and Shadrach Osborn served as commissaries and sutlers . They drew on the already existing informal commercial patterns and used Woodbury as a collection and storage center . A contemporary description noted that all the streets around the Woodbury meetinghouse were " piled high on either side for a hundred yards or more with barrels and hogsheads of pork , beef , lard , and flour , besides the great quantities of bales of blankets , tents , and clothing . " 27 The war effort gave the people of Woodbury experience in a more intense market economy and legitimized the local merchant 's role . Farmers now depended on local merchants to market their produce , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . The war also exposed Woodbury inhabitants to a variety of values that would affect subsequent choices . Woodbury 's role as the major recruiting center for the region contributed to the drop in persistence rates and the presence of a greater number of men from surrounding towns . The approximately five hundred Woodbury men who entered military service between 1775 and 1783 gained additional exposure to the external world . When they returned to Woodbury , they may have been more receptive to change.28 Grain and animal statistics from the years 178o ? 84 ( see tables 6 ? 8 ) reflect the economic dislocation of war . Woodbury soon returned to its prewar economic health . In fact , account books and inventories from 1785 to 182o document increased economic activity with external markets . Extensive marketing of English exports in America in the late 178os and increased American shipping during the Napoleonic wars of the 1790S and early i800s fueled the growth of urban ports . This commercial prosperity affected both the ports and their hinterlands , which became better linked by newly built or improved transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , along the east bank of the Housatonic , provided an easy overland route for Woodbury exports . Shadrach Osborn and Nathan Preston used this turnpike to cart their collected surpluses to such I ) crhy ship owners as Joseph Hull , William Clark , // S. Clark , L. Stone , C. Gillet , Hitchcock &; Company , Gorham , and Morris . These Derby contacts then sailed for New York or the West Indies . The road to Derby also provided Woodbury with easier access to New Haven , the fastest-growing city in the state . Among Osborn 's customers in New Haven were Shipman &; Denison , Bradley &; Huggins , Forbes &; Henry , William Beecher , E. Austin , and T. Beecher . The greatest number of transactions involved pork , especially from November through February . Osborn would purchase four or five hogs each from fifteen to twenty farmers ; commission local coopers to build barrels and hogsheads ; hire part-time butchers Adam Wagner or William Pardee to cut , salt , and pack the meat ; and then contract teamsters Lewis Stiles or Abraham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or New Haven.30 A petition to the General Assembly drafted by the Southbury town meeting in 1 795 explicitly stated the area 's dependence on commerce . This address sought to prevent the erection of a bridge across the Housatonic River near Stratford because such a structure would " greatly impede the Navigation of Said River , from the Mouth to Derby Landing : from which place the greatest part of the Produce from this Town , and most of the Towns in the South part of Litchfield County , is Shipped for the New York and foreign Markets . " 31 Stratification and mobility played important roles in Woodbury 's increased involvement in the external market . Proprietary families could divide up additional lands to increase their pasturage and hayland . Nonproprietors , who usually lacked the emotional and economic reinforcement of extended kinship , confronted the problem of earning a livelihood on small holdings as individual units . For them , animal husbandry and the market provided a means to maximize the productivity of limited labor or limited land . The 1798 tax list provides insight into Woodbury 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent of the town 's land was woodland or unimproved land . The high percentage of improved land implies that local farmers allotted as much land as possible to tillage , pasturage , and meadow for their commercial farming . A breakdown of the improved land reveals that tillage accounted for 22 percent ; hayland , for 36 percent ; and pasture , for 43 percent . The high proportion of hayland and the balance between hayland and grazing land approximates the land allocation in Concord and Brookfield , Massachusetts , where farmers emphasized animal husbandry rather than mixed agriculture . But whereas an average Brookfield farmer owned two or three cows and a single horse , his Woodbury counterpart // owned about six cattle ( oxen , bulls , cows , steers , and heifers ) and two horses . Such large herds ensured an annual surplus for the external market . The influence of the market can also be seen in several taxable consumer categories . Ownership by Woodbury residents of twelve chaises or riding chairs , fifty-five watches , and twenty clocks demonstrates awareness of current fashion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were valued at one-fourth or one-half depreciation , indicative of large-scale or fairly recent construction . In contrast to the smaller , single-pile houses common in Newtown , a significant number of large double-pile houses with gambrel roofs , elaborate doors , extensive interior paneling , and other expensive features still survive in Woodbury . More substantive evidence of commercial involvement is the nearly six thousand dollars of money on interest , a sum five times greater than Newtown's.32 The assessments for faculties further distinguish Woodbury 's economy from Newtown 's . In 1798 only ninety-five heads of households ( 18% of all males older than twenty-one ) were assessed for a shop . Of the total number of shops , 28 percent of shops were devoted to professionals or providers of human services and 39 percent to artisans who worked with the products of mixed agriculture . In Woodbury , there were a greater number of lawyers , but craftwork was not widespread . Limited participation in craftwork in Woodbury can also be seen in the low proportion of estates with cider mills and clothmaking equipment and the low mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10-11 ) . Craftwork and processing were limited to a few inhabitants . Estates of the 181os and 182os offer particularly strong evidence regarding the concentration of artisanal activity in Woodbury and imply the town 's absorption with animal husbandry . In the early nineteenth century , the new Oxford Turnpike offered a second access route to Derby and New Haven . The matriculation of Woodbury youths at Yale College and the work of Woodbury factors in New Haven further enhanced Woodbury 's ties to that city . As a result , imported items entered Woodbury more easily and less expensively . Not only did the local storekeeper offer the farmer an increased selection of goods but the farmers began consciously organizing their production around the market . Beginning about 1800 , account books include a significantly greater number of references to butter and cheese . At the same time , merchants like Shadrach Osborn were purchasing greater quantities of firkins , butter pails , and other dairy containers from local coopers . Osborn filled these wooden vessels with cheese and butter gathered from local farmers and had them carted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteenth century , Osborn continued to send pork and grain to Derby , but demonstrated greater involvement in the dairy trade with New Haven . In 1811 , a contemporary observer explained this shift to dairy production in relation to the Woodbury farmers ' market orientation : " The habits of the Farmers have ever been in favor of raising Pork for Market . But it is doubtful whether they can raise it and fatten it as easily as they do where Corn is raised with less expense of ploughing and manual labor . Some are convinced of their bad economy in this respect , and are turning their attention to Dairies . " A particularly noticeable symbol of Woodbury 's increased involvement in the market was the popularity of horse teams in Woodbury . Even though oxen permitted better plowing in the region 's hard soil and would eventually provide beef , Woodbury farmers preferred a combination of oxen and horses for their teams because " horses for their speed are thought preferable to carry produce to market . " 33 Woodbury 's increased involvement in commercial animal husbandry after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tables 6-8 ) . Local farmers grew less wheat because of its susceptibility to disease and because of the plentiful supply of wheat exported by the Middle Colonies . What little wheat was grown in Woodbury was probably exported , as the increased corn and rye crops served local needs . A decreased emphasis on grains is evident in the decline of fertilizer use . Woodbury estates listed lime in the 17705 and 178os , but fertilizer was listed only once in the i 8 i os and i 82os . Grains had become less important to the town 's economy except as feed for animals . References to hay , potatoes , and corn ? the favored foodstuffs for cattle and pigs ? increased at the beginning of the nineteenth century . More frequent references to these fodder crops paralleled the increased frequency and size of cattle and pig holdings.34 Livestock ownership further demonstrates the influence of the external market on Woodbury farmers . Although Woodbury estates had always listed large numbers of animals , significant changes became evident at the turn of the century . Inventories included fewer oxen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on grain agriculture and the use of teams mainly for transportation . A corresponding interest in animal husbandry can he seen in the increased numbers of cattle and pigs in the same inventories . Some of these animals provided meat for export , but Woodbury farmers began to use their cattle more for the production of cheese and butter . In fact , the inventories imply that the Woodbury farmers even began to place greater value and importance on their cattle . Instead of using multipurpose barns for grain storage and animal shelter , a greater number of Woodbury // estates referred to a cowhouse or horsehouse in addition to a barn ( see table 9 ) . Such a specialized structure manifests an increased emphasis on cattle . Continued interest in the meat market , which became more widespread in the nineteenth century , and the shift toward dairying after i800 can be seen in table 8 . Estates filed after 1810 reveal a resurgence in sheep raising , a shift that also can be attributed to the influence of the external market on the decisions of Woodbury farmers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Southbury to Humphreysville , Connecticut 's first extensive woolen manufactory . The three carding machines , two spinning jennies and one spinning billy , twelve looms , eighteen stocking frames , three fulling mills , and other equipment demanded great quantities of raw wool and prompted Woodbury farmers to increase the size of their sheep herds.35 In comparison to Newtown 's decentralized mixed agricultural economy , Woodbury became increasingly stratified and dependent on animal husbandry toward the end of the eighteenth century . By the early nineteenth century many of the town 's inhabitants relied exclusively on sales of packed meat or dairy products . The prominence of the proprietor/shopkeeper class , the farmers ' market orientation , the amount of money borrowed to participate in the market , and centralization of artisanal work combined to support such a dependence on animals . Newtown farmers and yeomanartisans , on the other hand , continued to choose when and how to participate in the larger external market and were not dependent on that market . F I V E Consumer Behavior in Newtown and Woodbury T he striking differences in social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early national periods affected not only production but also consumption and the relationship between production and consumption of locally made goods . Probate inventories , itemized lists of decedents ' real and personal estate , offer the best " picture " of domestic environments in the late eighteenth century and remain one of the best means of exploring household consumption during this time period . From the listing and valuation of a person 's property one can discern the relative allocation of resources and chart the use of new descriptive language or the introduction of a type of domestic object . It also is sometimes possible to reassemble objects into room groupings . ) To discern broad patterns of consumer behavior over time and between towns , all Newtown and Woodbury probate inventories filed between 1 760 and 1825 were surveyed . A more intense , systematic analysis was done of seven five-year groups ( 176o-64 , 1770-74 , 1780-84 , 1790-94 , 1800-1804 , 1810-14 , and 1820-24 ) . From these estates , data on real estate , personal estate , and consumer goods were collected and collated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention was given to furniture , which was further divided into three categories : seating forms , storage forms , and tables . The focus on furniture within the broader context of household assemblage permits an understanding of the joiner 's products within their theater of use , the domestic environment . Furniture was a single but very prominent genre of household assemblage . The integrated use of quantitative analyses ( numbers , frequencies , and values ) and qualitative analyses ( types and descriptors ) permits a thorough investigation of consumption and ownership of household goods in Newtown and Woodbury . Examination of types , numbers , and relative values of furniture forms // among different economic classes over time provides evidence about changing attitudes and changing furniture traditions . Explained in relation to the towns ' socioeconomic and craft structures and general furnishing trends , these patterns permit a richer understanding of furniture 's context in the two towns.3 General Patterns of Consumption During the sixty-five-year period under study , each town displayed a differ ent pattern of consumption ( chart 1 ) . In Newtown the mean value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drop in the early 182os . Only the years I 78o ? 84 demonstrated a counter trend . However , a downturn at this point is not unexpected because of the Revolutionary conflict from 1 779 to 1781 . Although the war had little effect on the town 's agricultural economy , it may have temporarily slowed local production of household goods and limited the flow of goods into Newtown . The decrease was small in any case , and the growth evident in subsequent inventories indicates that the effects of the war were short-lived . Steady growth in the consumer assets of Newtown estates most likely is the result of the town 's high rates of persistence . As families remained in town , they gradually added items to their inherited estates . In addition , // persistence may have preserved strong communal values that permitted only gradual changes in standards of material living . Not until the 182os did the value of consumer goods drop . This decline coincided with an increased population turnover that had begun earlier in the nineteenth century and was just starting to affect probated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods in two ways : fewer native families would be distributing goods to succeeding generations in town , and more transients or people with fewer possessions would be entering the community . Greater fluctuations in the mean value of consumer assets can be found in the Woodbury inventories . After increasing between 176o and 1770 , the mean value dropped and stagnated during the next thirty years . During the last two periods of the study ( 1810 ? 14 and 1820 ? 24 ) , it rose dramatically . The dislocations of war and the gradual accumulation of material goods do not fully explain the prolonged downs and sudden ups of the mean value . Indeed such patterns preclude the possibility of natural accumulation . More valid explanations link these patterns to the town 's socioeconomic structure . The decline noted in the inventories from 1770 through 1804 occurred during a period when Woodbury 's persistence rates dropped . As in Newtown in the 182os , population turnover limited substantial estate building . The increase in the last two periods can be ascribed to the inhabitants ' close connections to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to orient their production and consumption to the external market . Further refinement of these temporal breakpoints and an understanding of the quantitative differences between the two towns can be achieved through the breakdown of consumer catagories . The mean and median values of household goods echo the respective patterns of each town 's general consumer trends ( chart 2 ) . Mean values of household goods in Newtown gradually increased until the 182os . In addition , the mean values remained fairly close to the median values . Such proximity can be attributed to Newtown 's relatively egalitarian social structure . Few inhabitants of the yeoman town accumulated unusually large collections of household goods . The mean and median figures provide additional circumstantial evidence that Newtown inhabitants shared common attitudes regarding standards of material living . The Woodbury estates of the early 17705 revealed an increased mean value of household goods and a considerable difference between the mean and median values . The higher figure reflected the valuable household possessions of Timothy Ilinman , a proprietor and shopkeeper in Southbury . As high mobility continued for the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained low . Significant changes occurred in the es tates included in the last two periods . Availability and desirability of import ed goods contributed to a greater average investment in household goods . Increased allocation did not occur evenly . Some estates listed especially expensive household goods and thus contributed to a greater difference between mean and median values . Such patterns attest to some sort of consumer stratification in the gentry town of Woodbury . Consumer spend ing on the whole was greater in Woodbury than in Newtown , and several different levels of material comfort existed in Woodbury . The raw frequencies of such specific household goods as tea dishes and silver provide additional insight because these goods usually were import ed.4 These items confirm the patterns of consistency in Newtown and fluctuations in Woodbury ( table 13 ) . Newtown inhabitants increasingly list ed such imported wares , but only gradually . Woodbury estates reveal a decline in frequency of tea dishes and silver during the Revolution , with a subsequent period of growth that began in the 1790S and accelerated in 181o . Throughout these years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newtown . Woodbury 's fluctuations demonstrate that its people lacked common standards of consumption and were subject to the vagaries of the marketplace . Economic dislocations during the Revo lution restricted Woodbury consumption , but expansion of commercial reConsumer // lations with the external markets , especially around the turn of the century , profoundly affected Woodbury households . Furniture listed in Newtown and Woodbury estates provides specific evidence of the communities ' different consumer patterns . The mean and median values of furniture , which were 9 to 15 percent of consumer assets , parallel general consumer patterns and values of household goods ( chart 3 ) . In Newtown gradual growth and small differences between mean and // median values substantiate the durability of commonly accepted standards for furniture consumption . Only in the 18zos did furniture values decline as more immigrants settled in town . Nevertheless , the difference between mean and median values remained small . Consumer stratification connected to market capitalism did not affect Newtown inhabitants . In Woodbury the greatest increases in overall value of furniture occurred during those years when the difference between mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 18zo-z4 ) . During the years of declining or stagnant values ( 1780-84 , 1790-94 , and 1800-1804 ) , the mean and median values became closer . Such shifts point out that some consumer stratification had occurred by the 17705 but great mobility contributed to a decline in values for the next three decades . In the last two periods of this study , market capitalism took hold , and the wealthier segment of Woodbury 's population allocated great sums for furniture . Newtown Furniture Forms : The Persistence of Tradition Chairs The numbers and patterns discussed above take on deeper meaning if we consider the qualitative similarities and differences that were inextricably interwoven with the quantitative ones . In seating furniture , most Newtown inhabitants expressed a preference for traditional , flag-seated turned chairs ( table 14 ) . Inventories from the last forty years of the eighteenth century specify turned chairs such as slat-back chairs ( similar to that shown in fig. 7 , with two to five horizontal slats tenoned into the rear posts to form a back support ) , crown chairs ( high-back chairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were pierced with a heart-shaped hole ) , York chairs ( like fig. 8 , with round-shouldered , yoke-shaped crest rails ) , and white chairs ( an unpainted , simple slat-back chair ) . The same chair types represented the range of turned chairs in contemporary western coastal Connecticut , from Guilford to Norwalk.5 Painted turned chairs with flag seats were technically and socially suitable in the mixed agricultural economy of Newtown , where all households frugally managed their limited resources . Turned construction allowed the yeoman-craftsman to make efficient use of his time and tools . According to the rhythms of turned chair production , the joiner turned large quantities of rounds and posts at his discretion when breaks in agricultural production permitted . " Then , as chairs were demanded , he drew on his stock of parts , Consumer Behavior some of which may have been shaped several years earlier . As a result , the actual assembling of chairs for customers took little time . Other townspeo ple 's ability to paint and bottom chairs further freed the joiner to maintain a farm . These services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ties within the interdependent community . In short , turned chair production in Newtown was a social act rather than a labor-intensive one . New chair types that appeared in the late eighteenth and early nine teenth centuries demonstrated the continued dominance of conservative values , with small concessions toward new taste . The most popular chairs from 1 790 until the 182os were fiddlebacks and Windsors . Both were painted turned chairs . I'iddleback chairs , first listed in the 1774 inventory of Ebe-97 // nezer Ford , became the most frequently specified seating form in the Newtown estates from 1790 through 1824 . These chairs retained the structure , proportions , and flag seat of the older York chairs , but featured a different crest rail ( see figs. 9 ? 14 ) . The sweeping crest rail of the fiddleback ended in upward and backward flaring ears . Such movement represented more recent fashion than the rounded shoulders of the York chair 's crest . Fiddleback chairs afforded the maker or the owner the opportunity to express an awareness of fashion without introducing a radically new design.6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their first appearance in 1791 , provide another example of Newtown 's selective acceptance of new fashion . Plank-seated Windsors ( see figs. 38 ? 39 ) represented the latest fashion in chair forms throughout the new nation . Yet they gained ready acceptance in conservative Newtown because their separate elements were already familiar to maker and owner . Windsors were made largely from turned parts , which had been shaped in quantity during slack times . Sawmill owners often supplied quantities of plank seats . The craftsman assembled , glued , and then painted these parts . The standard rhythms of joiners ' production in Newtown , varied contributions of parts and services by other members of the community , and customer preference for painted turned chairs permitted the easy accommodation of the new Windsor chair . Another new seating form , the fancy chair , appeared in the last ten years of the survey . It had a painted turned frame with a plank or a flag seat . Consequently , local furniture traditions and clientele readily accepted fancy chairs . In Newtown , the Windsor chair , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chair form . The chairs complemented rather than replaced the earlier turned forms. ? Flag-seated cherry chairs first appear in the 1777 inventory of the Reverend David Judson , but are found only sporadically afterward . Sometimes referred to as crookedback or hollowback chairs , they had proportions and seats like the fiddlebacks and older turned chairs ( see fig. 15 ) but had more concessions to fashion . The front remained essentially an early eighteenthcentury chair with decoratively turned front posts , turned front round , and carved feet . But the frame was not turned ; the joiner sawed out all the vertical posts , the rear ones with an ogee profile . Even less popular were framed chairs or joiner 's chairs , which differed from crookedback chairs in seat construction and decoration ( see fig. 37 ) . Joiner 's chairs featured straight , sawn-out legs , no turned elements or decoration , and framed seats consisting of four rectangular rails with tenons cut on each end . " These tenons fit into rectangular mortises cut into the vertical // posts and were pinned in place . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mortise-and-tenoned frame , which supported an upholstered seat consisting of webbing , sackcloth , stuffing , and a leather or textile cover . Because of the greater time and effort expended in cutting mortises and tenons and the cost of upholstery materials ( most webbing , sackcloth , and fabric was imported ) , joined chairs tended to be twice as expensive as crookedback chairs , ten to twelve shillings versus four to six shillings apiece . Only one inventory in all of the Newtown inventories surveyed listed chairs with values high enough to suggest a completely joined chair . The Reverend David Judson owned six leather-seated crookedback chairs appraised at ten shillings apiece.8 Several other types of chairs were specified in the Newtown inventories filed after 1790 . Kitchen chairs and dining chairs , especially the former , were listed , but their appearance in the inventories represented semantic rather than formal or stylistic changes . The similarity in value with the older white and crookedback chairs , respectively , and the sudden disappearance of the older terms just as kitchen and dining chairs began to be listed strongly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decade contained the first references to rocking chairs , but the consistently low value attached to them suggest that such chairs were merely old armchairs with rockers added rather than a new form designed specifically as a rocker.9 Storage Forms Inventory references to storage forms also illustrate the traditional nature of material culture in Newtown . Plain chests and their slightly larger relatives , chests with one , two , or three drawers , appeared frequently in inventories throughout the survey period . More than 90 percent of all Newtown inventories listed a plain chest , even in the nineteenth century . A consideration of the plain chests ' values reveals that mere inheritance does not fully explain this pattern ? there were as many chests that received high valuations , indicative of recent manufacture , as received low evaluations , indicative of older age . Later or more complex furniture did not replace these chests or chests with drawers . Rather they coexisted , just as the various types of turned chairs did ( table 15 ) . The more complex and expensive storage forms ? cases of drawers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inventories after 1770 . Apparently these forms continued to serve their intended function and Making Furniture in Preindustrial America satisfy their owners ' stylistic demands because few Newtown estates in cluded the more fashionable replacements : the bureau , the toilet table or washstand , and the desk-and-bookcase and later the secretary . Continued recruitment of native sons and the long working careers of Newtown joiners in a culturally stable community also contributed to the limited constella tion of forms . Susannah Shepard 's inventory of ' Boo included a bureau , but this partic ular piece of furniture was not the fashionable , neoclassical storage form usually denoted by the term bureau . Rather , her " old bureau " was appraised at eighteen shillings , a value more consistent at that time with a chest with two drawers . A true bureau , a chest of drawers in the neoclassical style , would have been worth two or three pounds . The Shepard bureau , like the references to kitchen tables and chairs , represents the application of new terminology to older forms , not the introduction of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listed in only two Newtown inven tories before 182o , and only two desk-and-bookcases and one toilet table were designated in all Newtown estates prior to 1825.10 Consumer Behavior lot The traditional practice of painting the most-used seating and storage forms persisted into the early nineteenth century in Newtown . Paint per mitted the restitution of old furniture or , since paint often was used to cover cheap wood , the purchase of greater quantities of furniture . Painted furni ture also contributed to household decoration . Nathan Washbon coordi nated the colors of his painted chairs and chests ; other people gradually accumulated differently colored sets of furniture . Black and red remained the most common colors . Even in the later years of this study , the larger estates with more expen sive furniture listed substantial quantities of painted furniture . For exam ple , Ezra Booth furnished his house with six red fiddleback chairs , six black chairs , four black crown chairs , a red chest , a cherry case of drawers , and cherry fiddleback chairs . Green , or Windsor , chairs and blue chairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nineteenth century , when coloring agents other than lampblack , red lead , and Spanish brown became more readily available ( see table 17 ) . Painting was also a service performed by many townspeople . Painting and painted furniture were particularly important to Newtown 's economy and consumption habits . " Tables Descriptions of table forms in the Newtown inventories reveal a prefer ence for traditional forms . Newtown tables continued to be multifunction-al , characterized by size ( large or small ) , by shape ( round , square , or oval ) , or by a physical trait ( fall leaf , colored , or drawered ) rather than by specific function ( table 16 ) . Specific sociofunctional terms had not evolved because Newtown inhabitants had not deemed the particular social activities associ ated with table use to be important . The exception to this pattern was the term kitchen table , which became common in the nineteenth century . Differentiation of kitchen tables from other tables could be interpreted as a reflection of old values or as an acceptance of modern ones . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the symbolic heart of the house and its inhabitants . The large fireplace provided heat and light , and the food preparation and consumption that transpired there fostered and ritualized family behavior . Denoting a table used in that room as a kitchen table may therefore be seen as a formalization of traditional family relations . On the other hand , the emergence of a distinctive kitchen table could be inter preted as a symptom of the differentiation of life processes that characterize more modern attitudes . Full acceptance of these modern values would be Making Furniture in Preindustrial America reflected in ownership of separate dining tables , dining chairs , kitchen tables , and kitchen chairs in one estate . Among the Newtown inhabitants whose estates were recorded before 1825 , only David Baldwin possessed such a suite of furniture . Other indications of cultural separation ? card tables , breakfast tables , and tea tables ? were equally rare . On the basis of this evidence , the practice of referring to certain tables as kitchen tables was Newtown 's way of accepting semantic elements of newer ideology while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an imported wood often used in joiner 's chairs , gained little favor in Newtown for chairs . None of the inventories referred to mahoga-ny seating furniture . In fact , even the locally available cherry achieved infrequent mention . When cherry was specified , it was in conjunction with fiddleback chairs or chairs with values equivalent to fiddlebacks ( approx-imately four shillings apiece ) . In Newtown , painted maple or yellow poplar , typical stock for turned chairs , remained the favored materials ( table 17 ) . Newtown estates were more likely to identify the particular wood used for tables and storage furniture than for chairs . Local cherry remained the most frequently mentioned wood . Cherry round and square tables , fall leaf tables , cases of drawers , desks , chests of drawers , and dressing tables ap-peared in Newtown inventories . Imported mahogany forms were found Making Furniture in Preindustrial America only a few times toward the end of the survey period ( table 18 ) . Other woods specified in Newtown inventories included maple , butternut , and whitewood ( yellow poplar ) for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the pine and whitewood furniture was painted . Patterns of Furniture Ownership These patterns of furniture ownership in Newtown should not be attri buted mistakenly to lack of awareness or to limited means . Conservative attitudes and satisfaction with existing forms are not uniformly the result of cultural ignorance or material poverty . Neither joiners nor patrons were unconcerned with cultural currents outside Newtown . The contract for a new town house in 1 766 explicitly expressed awareness of the larger world : It specified the building of good seats " in form as in the State House at Hartford . " The single reference to inlaid furniture , the few pieces of ma hogany furniture in Joel Booth 's shop , and the extremely small number of references to mahogany furniture , card tables , and desk-and-bookcases indicate that few Newtowners chose to partake of the new , even though they had been been exposed to more fashionable items . The mean and Consumer Behavior 1o5 median values of furniture imply that such traditional preferences were widely held . A surprisingly large number of inhabitants of various estates owned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clocks , cases of drawers , and desks , but not new-fashioned furniture ( table 19 ) . If Newtown could be considered a cultural backwater in regard to furniture , this conservatism was selective and self-imposed . Its roots lay in the town 's persistence rate and recruitment of local joiners.13 How pervasive was Newtown 's conservatism ? ' Io understand the extent of the town 's preference for traditional furniture , let us examine the raw frequencies of seating , storage , and table forms in relation to four value categories ( table 2o ) .14 Various furniture forms were evenly distributed among estates with consumer assets totaling less than ? lo . The possessions of William Seger , appraised in ' Soo , were typical of this group . At his death , Seger owned five old chairs , a chest , a square table , and a stand , as well as bedding , clothing , and household goods.I5 Earlier estates with consumer assets valued between ? lo and ? 25 con-tained furniture with an average value only slightly more than one pound . Compared to William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a certain form . David Dunning , a farmer who died in 1783 , owned more Making Furniture in Preindustrial America storage and table forms . His possessions included an armchair , three old chairs , a chest with drawers , an old pine chest of drawers , two old chests , an oval table , and two old tables . Beginning in the 1790S , furniture values in this economic group doubled . A greater number of chairs and storage forms account for this increase . John Crofut 's estate of 1822 listed seven kitchen chairs , an old case of drawers , a chest with drawers , three plain chests , two tables , and two stands . The descriptions and values of Crofut 's furniture reveal a mixture of new traditional forms and old inherited furniture . Numbers and values of furniture holdings had grown , but the types of furniture remained the same . They included painted turned chairs , chests and chests with drawers , and multifunctional tables . Some estates specified cherry tables in the nineteenth century , but real changes can be noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , Windsors and fancy chairs began to complement older , turned chairs in this class of inventories . There were just a few references to tea tables and bureaus. ' 6 A third group of estates , with consumer assets valued between ? 25 and ? 5o , contained greater quantities of furniture than the previous group . Painted chairs , simple storage forms , and inexpensive tables could be found in all the estates from these two middling classes . What distinguished the estates valued between ? 25 and ? 5o was the number of each form and the increased likelihood of owning a more expensive case of drawers or a new form , like a Windsor or fancy chair . Jonathan Northrop , whose estate was filed in 1783 , owned six black turned chairs , six white turned chairs , a chest with drawers , two plain chests , a trunk , a round table , a square table , and a stand . For this segment of the population , chairs accounted for about onethird of total furniture value , storage forms slightly more than one-half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , appraised thirty-eight years after Jonathan Northrop 's , included more chairs and similar storage forms and tables . His household consisted of ten Windsor chairs , eleven kitchen chairs , two chests with drawers , two plain chests , a round table , a kitchen table , and a chest . ' 7 Many of the same forms appeared in the estates of the fourth and final group . The same painted chairs are found in these inventories , but each household owned three different sets of different colors or styles of turned chairs . Members of this class owned a case of drawers and dressing table in addition to chests and chests with drawers and owned , along with various smaller tables , a large fall leaf table . The Reverend John Beach furnished his house with four Windsors , four black chairs , six white chairs , three chests with drawers , several plain linen chests , three tables of various Consumer Behavior 109 shapes , and two stands . A desk provided sufficient storage space for his ex tensive library . Lemuel Nichols , who operated a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Ebenezer Booth IV or Ebenezer Ford , who died twenty and forty years earlier , respectively . Nichols 's furni ture included fiddleback and kitchen chairs , a case of drawers , a desk for his business accounts , a chest with drawers , four plain chests , a kitchen table , a round table , a square table , and three stands . The only new item in his household was a set of fancy chairs , which were very similar to the older types . I8 Several observations can be made from analysis of the four value catego ries . Newtown inventories of all sizes manifest an even distribution of forms and values . Differences between groups and over time tended to be in number , not in kind , and relatively gradual through all levels . In fact , the composition of each value group further documents the slow accumulation of consumer goods and furniture in Newtown . During the first two periods , the greatest number of people had consumer goods appraised between ? 10 and ? 25 . The third group became the largest for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wealthiest class in the early nineteenth centu ry . Only in the 182os did this pattern change . At that time the upper three groups each accounted for about a third of the inventoried population . In Newtown the persistence of traditional forms illustrates the inher ently conservative consumer and producer values of a yeoman town . Those who remained in town passed artifacts down through generations , and these material precedents continued to influence new production . At the same time , local training of joiners in a restricted number of traditions reinforced the standards of appropriateness . Semantic changes and selective adapta tion of new forms characterized Newtown 's furniture consumption be tween 176o and 182o . Woodbury Furniture Forms : New Fashion and New Lifestyles Certain patterns of furniture ownership in Newtown can also be found in Woodbury . The Woodbury inventories of the 176os included chests , chests with drawers , round tables , and square tables , many of them painted . Col ored turned chairs predominated in these estates . References to slat-back , crown , York , and the generic black , red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wealthier estates from the end of the survey period contained such traditional forms . At his death in t8to , David Mitchel of Making Furniture in Preindustrial America Southbury owned a set of old chairs , a set of red chairs , a large black chair , and two red chairs , in addition to a set of cherry chairs , a set of birch chairs , a desk-and-bookcase , and a chest of drawers . Truman Hurlbut often painted chairs and bedsteads for the Woodbury merchant Nathaniel Bacon.19 Chairs In spite of such general similarities , attention to specific forms reveals a widening split in consumer behavior between Newtown and Woodbury . Taste in chairs provides one clear way of recognizing the difference . Crookedback chairs and joiner 's chairs ( both also referred to as dining chairs in the early nineteenth century ) gained greater acceptance in Woodbury than in Newtown . Beginning in the 1770S , Woodbury estates began to list crookedback chairs with flag seats and joiner 's chairs with cushion bottoms . Several estates listed joiner 's chairs or cherry chairs with values double those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listed the highest valued variation of this seating form : " 10 mahogany hair bottom chairs $3o. " 20 The popularity achieved by crookedback and joiner 's chairs came at the expense of their turned cousin , the fiddleback chair . In Woodbury , fiddlebacks first appeared in an ' Boo inventory , but never became a very common chair type.21 However , Woodbury did not totally reject turned chairs . The most frequently specified chair in estates recorded from 1810 until 1825 was the Windsor , or green , chair . Its desirability in Woodbury may have been due less to the familiarity of its turned construction and painted decoration than to its symbolic connections with the world beyond Woodbury 's boundaries . Nicholas Jebine , the New Haven ? trained cabinetmaker , was a prominent Windsor chairmaker in Woodbury . The Windsor , and later the fancy chair , did not coexist with the other chair types in Woodbury . They replaced some of the more expensive chairs and , eventually , even the cheaper turned ones . By 182o traditional , inexpensive turned chairs had lost their former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further distinguished Woodbury estates from those of Newtown . Several inventories listed chairs with cushion bottoms . Gary Bacon 's 1821 estate included a sofa and an easy chair , appraised at the high values of $6o and $18 , respectively . Contemporary values for other chairs help put these figures into proper perspective . Joiner 's chairs averaged $2 per chair ; flag-seated chairs , $1.16 ; fancy chairs , $1.26 ; Windsor chairs , $0.67 ; and kitchen chairs , $0.22.23 Patterns of chair ownership in Woodbury demonstrate higher value , Consumer Behavior 111 greater competition among styles , and shorter swings in popularity . A divi sion existed between traditional , less expensive chairs and more expensive types . The latter ? crookedbacks , joiner 's chairs , and fancy chairs ? replaced one another in succession as the most expensive chair form . Wind sors began to encroach on the less expensive furniture . Older turned chairs became less common in the inventories from the end of the study period . These patterns are quite different from those of Newtown . In that conserva tive town , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They did not continually succeed one another , but grew only gradually in number . Storage Forms New fashions in case furniture after I770 and especially after ' Boo also document different consumer behavior in Woodbury . In contrast to New-town 's continued preference for such traditional forms as chests and chests with drawers , Woodbury inventories listed a smaller percentage of tradi tional forms . After 1790 , Woodbury estates included a greater proportion of more sophisticated case furniture ( see table 15 ) . Such patterns are uncovered further in the analysis of specific storage forms . Many of those specified forms provide evidence of new styles and changing social attitudes and relationships within Woodbury . The neo-classical taste of federal America was very apparent in Woodbury estates . Whereas only two Newtown inventories before 182o listed bureaus , Wood-bury examples from the same period contained nine bureaus , including three mahogany and two cherry examples.24 The sideboard , a second type of neoclassical furniture , was absent from Newtown inventories . In Wood-bury , sideboards appeared in the estates of the community 's leaders ? the Reverend Elijah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man owned them . Aesthetically , technologically , and functionally , the side-board was the quintessential manifestation of the American Federal style . In both outline and volume , it embodied the taut , geometric symmetry and light , angular appearance of the neoclassical style . Various decorative prac tices of the period further emphasized the new style . Veneer created geo metric panels of contrasting color or figure , and carving and inlay provided neoclassical details and motifs.25 ' Ib achieve the desired geometric structure and classical decoration , the joiner drew on the latest technology and organizational practices . During this time , veneer became easier and cheaper to make because of sawing Making Furniture in Preindustrial America improvements and organizational developments in urban cabinetmaking centers . Such centers supported craftsmen who specialized in veneer or in the making of stringing and pictorial inlays . This decorative inlay was then marketed throughout the surrounding region . Widespread use of veneer permitted fabrication of carcasses with curved members made from laminated boards of a secondary wood such as pine . Standard-sized carcasses could be customized with different veneers or inlay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a value commensurate with a mahoganyveneered sideboard with some inlay or carved decoration . Hinman 's sideboard , with a lower value of $20 , more likely was a plainer version . Even so , the value of Hinman 's sideboard was double that of a case of drawers . Like joiner 's chairs , sideboards demonstrate that the Woodbury consumer was willing to invest more money for fashion.26 The sideboard was a fashionable storage area for bottles , silver , and china , and a display surface for various dining accoutrements . It implies the formalization of dining behavior , the symbolic importance of holding the key to lock the silver drawer or bottle compartment , and even the existence of a household servant to mediate between sideboard and dining table . In conjunction with the dining table , dining chairs , and extensive sets of fine ceramics , it signaled a different attitude toward dining than existed in Newtown . In that town , multifunctional chests with drawers and tables served similar storage and display functions . Dining in Woodbury started to become more of a social than familial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dining , as is clear from their purchases of a constellation of specific objects . It was a way to tie bonds with like-minded people and to distinguish themselves from other groups.27 In addition to desks , Woodbury estates featured other furniture designed specifically for books and business papers . Simple forms such as book cupboards and bookcases appeared irregularly throughout the survey period . The more expensive desk-and-bookcase , a form that first appeared in the I770 inventory of Timothy Hinman , reflected the emergence of new reading patterns , which also spurred a group of Woodbury residents to establish their own social library in 1772.211 Earlier in the eighteenth century , New Englanders tended to own a small number of religious or devotional texts . Read over and over and passed among family and friends , these books taught a religiously structured reality . This traditional world of print , based on strong relationships between oral and printed culture and between different classes , resulted in a collective mentality shared by most New Englanders in the late sevenConsumer Behavior 113 teenth century . Certain ideological and economic changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enlightenment thought and the lessons of the Great Awakening attached greater weight to an individual 's self-determination , while the postrevolutionary republican emphasis on virtuous citizenship provided additional justification for self-education . Consequently , the more cosmopolitan and rational merchants , ministers , and magistrates began to withdraw from the world of popular culture.29 Alongside this increasing emphasis on self-improvement were changes in the marketplace of print . Increased imports , greater production by the growing local presses , and more active marketing along the trade networks established after the Revolution brought greater quantities of historical , legal , and romantic literature to more people . The larger number of books available in Woodbury is reflected by the value of books listed in that town 's estates ( table 21 ) and by contemporary sources . In 1788 , Shadrach Osborn sold Chauncey Hide " the Scots Rouge , Mol Flanders &; another Romance . " Gary Bacon assembled an extensive collection of adventures . Curtis Hin man 's library featured $18o worth of books , most of which were legal stud ies . Replacing an intensive reading style with an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the increased number of books.30 The plentiful storage space of a desk-and-bookcase also facilitated storMaking Furniture in Preindustrial America age and organization of the voluminous business papers accumulated by an active merchant . For example , the surviving receipts and ledgers of just one Southbury merchant , Shadrach Osborn , are plentiful enough to occupy several feet of shelf space . As merchants drew up more bills of credit , corresponded more extensively with agents and middlemen , and sought to preserve the gentlemanly nature of commerce , the desk-and-bookcase assumed functional and symbolic significance.31 Whether used to hold an increasing library or to organize a home office , the desk-and-bookcase symbolized its owner 's involvement in a cosmopolitan and commercial culture that was distinct from the traditional popular one . Five desk-and-bookcases were listed in the twenty-four inventories from 1810 through 1814 . Estates from the last study period included three desk-and-bookcases and two secretaries , a newer style of desk-andbookcase . In contrast , the Newtown inventories listed several desks and many small portable writing desks , but only two desk-and-bookcases.32 Tables The increased number of tables for specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inventories from the nineteenth century listed card tables , tea tables , breakfast tables , and washstands ( see table 16 ) . Card tables first appeared in a 1797 Woodbury inventory . They permitted that frivolous and fashionable pastime to be carried on at home rather than at the tavern . Often listed in pairs along with other expensive furniture , this gaming furniture denoted the genteel orientation of its owners , who preferred to enjoy their leisurely activities at home and thereby aspired after the fashionable ideal of domestic sociability . The socialization and gambling that was part of card playing may also have served to endow the community 's fashionable members with a cohesive group identity , distinct from the rest of the town folk.33 Similarly , the tea table , first listed in 1753 and especially numerous in the estates of the 181os , signified the increased importance of the domestic environment as a place for leisurely socialization . Tea drinking at home , like card playing at home , was an individualized form of entertainment . It differed significantly from the more traditional social entertainment that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction among breakfast , kitchen , and dining tables represents a third example of the tendency to structure and formalize social interaction and entertainment in the home . Division of the preparatory and eating Consumer Behavior 115 activity into such specific units implies more elaborate meals or the importance of meals and drinking as social events . Six of the twenty-four inventories from the early teens and seven of the twenty-nine from the early twenties specified ownership of kitchen , dining , and breakfast tables . The increased number of these specialized tables in Woodbury inventories foreshadows the importance of cultivated domesticity later in the nineteenth century , when the home became a controllable social environment that provided refuge from the competitive , vexatious , and unpredictable world of business.35 Another group of table forms reveals increased attention to appearance and hygiene . Toilet tables and washstands , usually equipped with a basin and ewer , first appeared in an 1807 inventory and sporadically thereafter . Jabez Bacon , Samuel Tomlinson , Joel Hinman , Reverend Elijah Wood , and other cosmopolitans interested in self-image purchased furniture specifically designed to hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrast , a Newtown inventory of 18oi listed a toilet table , but only one more reference followed in the next twenty-four years . Apparently the inhabitants of Newtown did not accept the new importance attached to personal appearance with the same enthusiasm that spurred Bacon and others to buy special furniture . Instead , Newtown inventories continued to list the older multifunctional form , the dressing table.36 Patterns of Furniture Ownership Examination of furniture owned in the four economic classes permits additional insight into the effect of mobility and market orientation on Woodbury consumers ( see table 2o ) . Estates in the lowest value category lacked an even spread of resources and often contained just a single piece of furniture . Most had mainly clothing and personal possessions . Job Martin , who died in 1774 , owned a single chest ; 89 percent of his consumer assets were clothing.37 Furniture ownership in Woodbury estates with consumer assets valued between Sin and E25 remained relatively penurious , especially before 1780 . Furniture in comparable Newtown estates was consistently appraised at higher values . These Newtown estates often had more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 178o , total furniture values for this group in both towns converged , but composition of the values remained different . Newtown inventories were characterized by greater numbers of forms per estate , while their Woodbury counterparts derived similar values from small Making Furniture in Preindustrial America quantities of newer or more expensive furniture . Instead of a set of nine turned chairs , a chest with one or two drawers , a couple of plain chests , and two small tables , Woodbury estates filed after 178o included more cherry furniture and stylish forms in smaller numbers . The 1800 inventory of Justus Hinman included six Windsors , a cherry table , a cherry stand , and a breakfast table.38 Woodbury estates from the third class reveal a similar pattern . They approximated the total furniture values of Newtown estates , but compositional analysis reveals that Woodbury households contained smaller numbers of the traditional inexpensive forms and more examples of the expensive forms . Simeon Judson owned furniture with the same total value as Jonathan Northrop of Newtown . Judson owned fewer chairs and plain storage forms , but a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his furniture . In the nineteenth century , cherry tea tables , breakfast tables , Windsor chairs , bureaus , and very expensive cases of drawers and tables appeared in this group of Woodbury inventories . Joel Down 's household featured an expensive bureau , three chests of drawers , two painted chests , six painted chairs , eleven other chairs , an expensive tea table , a stand , a small table , and a kitchen table.39 In the fourth and final value group , estates from both towns between 178o and 1804 showed consistent value proportions among the three formal categories . The total values for furniture holdings were very similar . Common perceptions of an appropriate assemblage of furniture linked these more established inhabitants . After 1804 this segment of Woodbury 's population altered its furniture taste . Some of the smaller Woodbury estates from this group listed crookedback chairs , breakfast tables , bureaus , and dining tables . More significant shifts occurred in the great number of large estates . The merchant Truman Hinman owned furniture valued at ? 35.16. o . His furnishings combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newer fashion . His seating furniture included hair-bottomed mahogany joiner 's chairs , eight cherry joiner 's chairs , seventeen Windsor chairs , and twelve kitchen chairs . A desk-and-bookcase housed his business papers , and he filled a mahogany bureau , two cherry cases of drawers , and several trunks with his vast wardrobe . Hinman owned a large number of mahogany , cherry , and function-specific tables to use with an expensive array of eating and dining equipment . Among these were a mahogany breakfast table , a mahogany candlestand , a cherry dining table , cherry breakfast table and stands , a toilet tablc , and two card tables . Curtis Hinman , who operated a Woodbury Consumer Behavior 117 clothier 's manufactory , owned completely different furniture than his New-town counterpart , Lemuel Nichols . Hinman 's furniture included a side-board , mahogany and cherry breakfast tables , a bureau , a desk-and bookcase , a desk , several trunks , a number of Windsor chairs , and some older chairs , chests , and tables.40 Before 1770 the material culture of Woodbury was relatively similar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middling and wealthy Woodbury inhabitants began to contain more expensive chairs , different styles of chairs , and more complex storage forms in addition to traditional painted furniture . The town 's mobility affected both producer and consumer . Joiners who were trained in a number of different traditions provided a wide variety of formal and decorative options . The stratified social structure produced a gentry class eager to distinguish itself with new fashion and a middle class , many members of which were not born in Woodbury , less influenced by precedence . Beginning around i800 another shift in Woodbury inventories can be noted . A broader segment of the population purchased great quantities of consumer goods and owned more expensive and fashionable furniture . Ties with the external market became widespread and secure . At the same time , the proliferation of specialized furniture types and the development of a suitable language to describe them reflected acceptance of different customs and habits . In short the consumption patterns of the neighboring towns document two different responses to cultural change . Close examination of the surviving artifacts provides material evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Habit : The Furniture of Newtown W hile manuscript sources such as probate inventories and account books permit the study of patterns of distribution , usage , and patronage , actual artifacts also provide essential evidence about the context of furniture production and usage . Rigorous analysis of surviving furniture from Newtown and Woodbury proves invaluable for a number of reasons . The artifacts provide a different type of evidence , which corroborates or even elaborates upon the data presented in the previous chapter . Attention to technical and decorative details often reveals qualitative differences concealed by general inventory terms like black chairor cherry table . Artifaetual analysis and comparison also help to investigate craftsmen 's behavior . Structural and decorative features of a surviving piece of furniture provide essential information about the training , habits , and values of its maker . Rather than judging each surviving object merely on its aesthetics or historical associations , one needs to analyze a body of furniture in a collective , comparative manner . Examination of a significant object pool , with items linked by common place of origin , reveals the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cultural continuity and change . Furniture production in Newtown and Woodbury was related in several respects . The shared topographical features provided each town with the same raw materials for furniture . Particularly common in contemporary sources and surviving artifacts are cherry ( Prunus serotina ) , yellow poplar ( Liriodendron tulipifera ) , which was referred to as whitewood in the period , and red oak ( Quercus rubra ) . For the better case furniture and tables , joiners of both communities used cherry and occasionally sugar maple ( Ater sacchrum ) for the exterior wood . A combination of yellow poplar , red oak , white pine ( Pinus strobus ) , or even post oak ( Quercus stellata ) was favored for the less visible interior structure . As late as the early nineteenth century , red Workmanship of Habit iig oak remained a popular choice for drawer linings . Cherry was used for the more expensive chairs , but maple , yellow poplar , and ash ( Fraxinus ameri cana ) were used for the less expensive turned chairs and for Windsor chairs . Joiners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from maple ; sawed out and modeled crest rails , banisters , and shoe rails from yellow poplar ; and rent and shaved side rounds and slats out of ash . Painted yellow poplar and white pine storage forms and tables served utili tarian needs . Imported walnut ( Juglans nigra ) and mahogany ( , Vwietenia ma hogani ) , which were less common than the locally available woods , were used only in the most fashionable furniture and enjoyed greater popularity in Woodbury than in Newtown . Although the species of trees in Newtown and Woodbury were similar , the quality of the wood often differed . In Newtown , surviving examples indicate that joiners used good grades of yellow poplar , red oak , and white pine for drawer linings , interior structural elements , and backboards of case furniture . An even grain and a lack of defects characterize the look of these woods . Similarly the cherry or maple used as the primary , or exterior , wood is rarely marred by the contrast between heartwood and sapwood ; color and grain are uniform . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Woodbury furniture is knotty and rough , and the cherry exterior wood often contains both heartwood and sapwood . This evidence indicates that Newtown joiners had access to and valued the best-quality primary and secondary woods . Several explanations could account for this supply : sawmills carefully sawed around the log , constantly rotating it , and thereby removed the greatest number of better-grade boards and kept the knotty defects in the central portion ; Newtown inhabitants maintained carefully harvested wood lots as part of the mixed agricultural economy ; or the community internalized an allocation system in which the best lumber used in furnituremaking was designated for the local joiners , while lesser quality lumber was earmarked for other purposes such as fram ing or fuel . The lower grades of woods in Woodbury furniture could be attributed to greater use of " through and through sawing , " a more efficient way of ripping boards from logs that produces lumber of varying quality ; and careless harvesting practices , in which farmers cleared wood lots to allow more pasturage for animal husbandry . There was also no systematic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found himself restricted to local woods of widely varying quality and to lumber purchased from sur rounding areas that still maintained good stands of the necessary cabinet-making woods . I Making Furniture in Preindustrial America Coastal Connecticut cabinetmaking traditions also linked the furniture made in Newtown and Woodbury , for craftsmen such as Timothy Jordan and Samuel Curtiss of Stratford and Alexander Bryan and David Miles of Milford moved to Newtown and Woodbury in the mid eighteenth century . They introduced elements of the coastal traditions into the two inland towns ' styles of construction and decoration . As a result it can be hard initially to distinguish between furniture made in the different communities of the Housatonic Valley . The confusion resulting from this shared heritage can be seen most clearly in the common turned vocabulary ( both the shape and placement of turned elements such as balusters or rings ) of the posts and front rounds , or stretchers , of fiddleback and crookedback chairs and the widespread use of scrolled knees and carved fans on case furniture . In Stratford , Newtown , and Woodbury , joiners occasionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crooked legs and often carved a distinctive fan , characterized by concave , spoon-handled ribs , on the lower central drawer of a case of drawers or dressing table . The movement of joiners between Newtown and Woodbury also contributed to similarities in the towns ' furniture . Members of the Fabrique and Booth families worked in both towns , and Abner Judson was born in Newtown , trained in Woodbury , and returned to Newtown to work . As a result of this mobility , joiners in one town were aware of design , techniques , and workmanship in the other.2 In spite of these similarities , subtle constructional and decorative differences help to distinguish Newtown furniture from Woodbury furniture . These differences became more noticeable toward the end of the eighteenth century . After 176o Newtown continued to selectively blend the coastal furniture traditions of its earlier joiners . The compatibility of the original coastal traditions , limited immigration of new craftsmen , and training of local youths resulted in a relative homogenization of furniture production . Stability in the craft structure restricted sustained challenges to the available shops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the eighteenth century as a distinctive Newtown style of traditional forms and restrained decoration evolved . However , one should not view this as totally derivative or static material culture . Even though Newtown joiners drew on existing technical and stylistic ideas , they reordered and combined these parts in a variety of new ways . Occasionally they adapted new features to their conservative forms or added elaborate decoration . Analysis of Newtown 's turned chair production , comparison of similar case furniture made in three shops ( which researchers have not yet been Workmanship of Habit 121 able to identify ) , and examination of several other examples of locally made furniture help us to understand Newtown 's traditional culture . Chairs The chairs in figures 7 through 14 illustrate some of the most popular chair types produced in Newtown between 1770 and 181o . Consumers of the eighteenth century , like those of the present , chose from various products on the basis of cost and stylishness . Ebenezer Booth IV ( 1743 ? 1790 ) was one Newtown joiner who offered a variety of chairs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included , in order of increasing cost , " plain , " " round top , " " horn , " and " fiddleback " chairs . Although it has been impossible to determine what a horn chair looked like , the other three chair types specified in Booth 's estate can be identified.3 The illustrated plain chair ( see fig. 7 ) embodies simple design and deco-ration and ease of manufacture . The bowed profile of the back slats and the ball-and-reel finial at the top of each rear post are the only decorative details on this very chaste chair . Its method of construction contributes to its modest appearance : slats sawn from yellow poplar boards , visible elements of the frame easily produced on a lathe , rounds and seat lists shaped with a drawknife and inserted into holes drilled in the four posts , and flag seat quickly woven over the lists . The ease of construction and lack of time-consuming decorative work made this chair available at the lowest price.4 The term for the common chair underwent several changes during the period of this study . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface description to formal trait to functional delimitation . From 176o until about 1790 these chairs were referred to as white chairs , indicating an unfinished or unpainted surface . The 1777 inventory of Ebenezer Johnson , which listed " 8 white plain chairs 10/ , " foreshadowed a terminological shift that was completed by the century 's end . In 1790 these common chairs , valued between one and two shillings each , began to be called plain chairs or kitchen chairs . The latter term became predominant in the early nine teenth century.5 With the terminological change , the chair experienced a stylistic evolu tion during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries . The earlier examples featured thin posts , each embellished with a baluster , or vase-shaped decorative turning , on the rear posts and crisply executed ball-and reel finials . ' I'he nineteenth-century version had shorter , heavier plain posts Making Furniture in Preindustrial America and finials with softer turnings . Although the chair in figure 7 has undecorated posts , its sharply turned finials and the height and relative thinness of its posts suggests a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stylistic transformation of plain/kitchen chairs in Newtown paralleled a similar process in Milford and may have begun there because of the Milford origin of several Newtown families , particularly the joiners Alexander Bryan and James Briscoe Jr . Many of the techniques and styles introduced by Bryan and Briscoe became part of the Newtown joiners ' stock of ideas.6 The " round top " or " round back " chair , first listed in the 1776 inventory of Moses Platt , was a moderately priced chair that never gained the same popularity as the plain/kitchen chair or the later fiddleback chair. ? The round-top chair ( see fig. 8 ) was the rural joiner 's response to expensive joined chairs in the early Georgian style ( 1720-40 ) , what collectors of antiques commonly call the Queen Anne . Georgian chairs were distinguished by yoke-shaped crest rails , short and broad backs , baluster-shaped banisters , sawn-out rear legs with ogee , or S-shaped , profiles , sawn-out crooked front legs with claw or round feet , joined seat frames , and carved decoration . To make this new type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as walnut or mahogany ; shaped the parts with a drawknife , rasp , and scraper ; and joined them with mortises and tenons . Turning , if used at all , was confined to shaping the round feet and making rounds , which were not common on chairs of this type . Newtown joiners became aware of the new Georgian style through their own and their clients ' exposure to it , possibly during a trip to Danbury , Fairfield , New Haven , or some other larger town . The appearance of the urban chair , however , conflicted with the traditional concept of a chair in Newtown . Therefore the Newtown joiner sought to reproduce the feeling of this fashion within the locally accepted idiom , which demonstrated a preference for chairs with turned frames and flag seats . He was technically capable of producing a version of the early Georgian joined chair , but instead assessed the new type in light of his accustomed practice of turning parts . He employed a combination of turned and joined construction , updating the highly visible upper-back area with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rounded rear posts . These posts resembled the rounded stiles on some early Georgian chairs rather than posts on turned chairs . To balance this new fashion with the old style , he preserved the stretcher system , turned decoration , turned vertical posts , flag seat , and verticality of the older chair types . Extensive use of turned construction also permitted fast and easy manufacture . The round-top chair Workmanship of Habit 123 was a fairly inexpensive seating form that conformed to traditional expectations but also incorporated elements of newer taste.8 The round-top chair in figure 8 provides evidence of Newtown joiners ' origins and attests to the persistence of certain cultural ideas in the inwardly focused community . The turned intermediate spindles , running from the rear post to the front leg just under the arms , and the simple decoration of the rear posts ( a long column surmounting a flattened ball ) can he seen on contemporary chairs from Milford and Stratford . Joiners trained in these communities , such as Alexander Bryan and Benjamin Latten , could have introduced these features , or Newtown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desired furniture similar to that of their cousins . Other details link this round-top chair with earlier turned chairs from Norwalk , Fairfield , and New York . The rounded profile and molded upper surface of the arms ' handgrips and the barrel-shaped turned elements on the front posts ( where the intermediate spindles tenon into the front post ) suggest the influence of a Norwalk-area chairmaking tradition . Several crown chairs with histories of ownership in Norwalk families exhibit the prototypes of such features . The baluster turnings on the front round and the ring turnings of the front posts resemble those on a slat-back chair attributed to Ozias Buddington of Fairfield . Aspects of the front round also reflect the influence of York chairs made in New York . The rounds of those urban chairs featured bulging baluster termini at each end and a tripartite central element that consisted of a thin central ring flanked on either side by a well-articulated reel . The Newtown craftsman drew individual elements from these four different traditions and combined them in his own way.9 Beginning in the 178os , round-top chairs appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figs. 9 ? 14 ) became the most common chair form . Fiddleback and round-top chairs shared the same turned structural system derived from several coastal chairmaking traditions , but differed in their crest rails . The fiddleback had only a vestige of the yoke shape at its center between sweeping sides with squared-off ears curving up and back . The sweeping shape of the crest rail originated in English furniture in the style of William Kent during the 17405 and was adapted to American furniture in the I 750S . The fiddleback was thus a slightly more fashionable turned chair in the 178os , and its popularity coincided with a time of gradually increasing furniture value in Newtown ( see chart 3 ) .10 Close examination of fiddlebacks with histories of ownership by NewMaking Furniture in Preindustrial America town families and comparison with related chairs without definite provenance reveal the existence of at least four groups of chairs , each of which probably represents a different shop tradition . Within each group , the joiner had several options for particular features such as the rear posts or the termini at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet , front rounds , front posts , splat profile , rear post , and termini of the rear post indicates that the front stretcher and the handling of the baluster shape on the front and rear posts are the most important distinctions between shops . " One shop produced a simplified fiddleback with minimal turned decoration ( see fig. 9 ) . The use of two front rounds rather than one , simple ring turnings on the front posts , and a " turnerly " seat construction , in which the front posts continue up through the seating plane , link the chair type to the plain/kitchen chair tradition . The type is distinguished from plain/kitchen chairs by a fiddleback crest rail , baluster-shaped banister , or splat , very simplified baluster turnings on the front rounds , and turned rear posts with two baluster-shaped elements of different lengths , the lower one of which features crisp , well-defined rings at the base and the top . The joiner did not , however , turn any sort of decorative termini at the top of the rear posts , as found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the abridgment of the turned decoration on the rear posts allowed the craftsman to make this type of chair more quickly than the other fiddlebacks discussed below . Its simplicity demonstrates why certain fiddlebacks had a slightly lower value than most others in inventories or account books.12 A fiddleback ( see fig. io ) originally owned by a member of the Blackman family incorporates several features that made it more " joinerly " and more expensive . To endow the seat with the appearance of a joined seat , the craftsman shaped the front seat list to include a square block at each end . He then tenoned the front posts into the undersides of the blocks and the side seat lists into the rear edges of the blocks . This practice resulted in a single-plane seat , which was not disrupted by protruding front posts . The substitution of a single , more decoratively turned front round for two simple front rounds was another way in which the joiner distinguished this type of fiddleback from plain chairs and added decoration . The turnings of the rear post feature thinner baluster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but both types resemble the posts on crown and painted chairs from Milford . While the front rounds of figure 9 resemble those on Milford chairs , the turnings of the front round in figure to ? long , baluster-shaped termini with ring transitions to the coffin-shaped balusters , which flank a central clement consisting of a thick , recded disk between reels ? echo those Workmanship of Habit 125 found on examples from Norwalk and suggest a second shop tradition . " A joiner in a third shop produced very similar fiddlebacks distinguished by a different front round , in which the central element was a single reel , and a different handling of turning gouges . He favored robust transitions between turned elements , turning a flaring reel at the top of the attenuated rear post baluster to provide a lively flow into the baluster terminus or turning crisp tapered rings at the bases of the balusters . The chair in figure 11 descended in the Stiles family of Southbury , but its overall form , crest rail , splat , and turnings closely follow Newtown conventions and relate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working in a fourth shop favored conical-shaped termini rather than baluster-shaped stops on the front rounds and baluster-and-cone turnings rather than double-baluster turnings at the top of the front legs ; a chair that passed down in the Beers family illustrates the turning vocabulary of this Newtown shop ( see fig. 12 ) . The lack of a ring under the baluster on the front post , the consistent use of a ring on the back post just above the seat plane , and a distinctive terminus at the top of the rear post , consisting of a small reel with a large baluster above it , are also distinguishing features of chairs produced in this shop . Several fiddleback chairs combine features of two shops . One chair ( see fig. 13 ) , originally owned by Solomon Glover ( 1750-1842 ) , combines baluster-shaped termini on the front round ( seen on figs. 10 and II ) and baluster-and-cone turnings on the front post ( seen on fig. 12 ) . The rear posts illustrate the second type of back post found on Newtown fiddlebacks : a long column @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back post can be found on Stratford examples from the last two decades of the eighteenth century ; however , the Newtown joiner eliminated the termini at the top of the back post and used the typical Newtown crest rail rather than a Stratford crest.14 The survival of sufficient numbers of fiddleback chairs to identify specific shop traditions and the existence of several examples that combine elements from different shops suggest that Newtown joiners either drew easily from each other 's repertoire to offer slight variations of a commonly understood form or freely exchanged surplus parts , made in efficient batches according to the rhythms of yeomen-craftsmen , as other neighboring craftsmen needed them . The common understanding of fiddleback chairs drawn from coastal turning traditions and preserved by the artisanal continuity of Newtown and the shared sense of economic role within the mixed agricultural economy combined to defuse a competitive spirit and contribute to a mutuality of interests . Great fiddlebacks are more difficult to assign to specific shop traditions , // but they still provide invaluable information about furnituremaking in Newtown . A great fiddleback with rockers ( see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nineteenth century continued to draw from the same repertoire of parts . The maker preserved the traditional fiddleback form , particularly the crest , turned structure , and front round , but endowed it with a newer feeling by lightening the decoration and thinning the structural members ( the front round is noticeably thinner in comparison to the front rounds on earlier fiddlebacks ) . Such alterations reflect the influence of the neoclassical style . Rather than use a new type of arm , the maker searched through his repertoire for an old form compatible with the neoclassical feeling and chose arms just like those on figure 8.15 The constant , unaltered characteristics of the illustrated Newtown fiddlebacks ? painted turned frame , flag seat , and specific type of crest rail and front round ? constituted the essential definition of the Newtown fiddleback chair . Within these parameters there was room for considerable diversity . Newtown joiners continued to draw from a familiar collection of older coastal and New York chairmaking traditions to vary the turnings and arms . The structural consistency , persistence of older details , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ document the relatively unchallenged homogenization of several Newtown joiners ' shops . Even the more fashionable crookedback chair , which appeared very infrequently in Newtown inventories , reflects the existence of a selective conservatism that drew upon coastal material culture . A Newtown crookedback chair ( see fig. 15 ) is linked to the fiddleback tradition through its front round , which is identical to that on the fiddleback in figure 12 . The crest rail , banister , and rear stiles on this example are plain interpretations of a Stratford crookedback made in the middle of the eighteenth century . Unlike his Stratford counterpart , the Newtown joiner did not run a decorative molding along the lower edge of the shoe rail , and he employed amore traditional substructure . The use of double , decoratively turned side rounds rather than single sawn-out stretchers and uncarved feet suggest the influence of Newtown 's preference for turned structure and plain decoration . Even on one of the most fashionable chair types in Newtown , qualities of traditional form , uniform structure , and plain decoration predominate.16 Newtown seating furniture manifests the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the illustrated chairs document turning 's consistency over two or three generations . The chairs also draw attention to the interdependence of technology and demand . In some respects the means of production for turned chairs perpetuated the dominance of those // forms . Stockpiling seasoned rounds and lists and the turning of quantities of posts meant that many structural details were prepared far ahead of demand and were thus relatively free from the immediate caprice of fashion . Although such production rhythms limited experimentation and fostered slow change over time , certain consumer preferences must have continued to call for and legitimize these traditional techniques . In short , workmanship of habit was causally linked with consumption by habit . As old forms remained in demand , old methods continued to be applicable . Case Furniture and Tables Newtown case furniture and tables , identifiable through histories of ownership and constructional details , encompassed a relatively limited number of forms . What was preferred in the 1750s remained fashionable in Newtown into the early nineteenth century . Plain chests , chests with drawers , cases of drawers , and dressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this study . Desks appeared in inventories after 1772 . Most people in Newtown were satisfied with the limited number of forms and did not acquire new ones as early as did their Woodbury counterparts . The work of three related Newtown shops and several other pieces of Newtown furniture demonstrate this preference . The products of a Newtown joiner working in the 176os demonstrate the proficiency of the town 's furnituremakers and the conservative base of their few learned traditions . The desk in figure 16 was owned by the same Beers family that owned the fiddleback in figure 12 . The desk on crooked legs had limited popularity in preindustrial New England . Unlike desks with four drawers underneath the writing surface , few desks on long crooked legs have survived and most have origins in southwestern Connecticut . However , the Newtown desk manifests an entirely different structural conception than that of a contemporary example made in Fairfield . The latter is a desk on a crooked leg frame , in which the upper section was dovetailed together and set on top of a base formed by tenoning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the legs . Its two-part construction resembles that of a case of drawers and would have required more time to construct than the Newtown example , which was built as an integral unit , more like a dressing table . The Newtown maker tenoned the back , sides , and front rail and skirt into the extended leg posts . The desk had closer links to the joined tables and case furniture with turned legs made in the early eighteenth century Workmanship of Habit than to the dovetailed carcasses of the later eighteenth century . However , these qualities do not reflect the maker 's backwardness or incompetence , but may be attributed to a conscious , innovative approach to a new need based on familiar composition or to the influence of Anglo-Dutch work in the Long Island basin . The form itself , the flow of the legs , and the slight scrolls at the edge of the knees indicate an accomplished joiner aware of fashion . Yet he limited decoration to the knees , the sawn-out profiles on the skirt , and the brackets above the pigeonholes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) and drawer construction link the dressing table in figure 17 to the same Newtown shop . The outline of the legs and shaping of the knees and feet suggest use of the same template to cut out the legs and a consistent approach to shaping the leg blank , using a lathe to define the underside of the foot and a spoke shave , files , and gouges to shape the ankle and knees . To fit together the parts of the drawers , the joiner laid out the pins and tails in a consistent fashion and then dovetailed the yellow poplar sides to the cherry drawer front and the yellow poplar back to the sides ( see fig. 5 ) . Decorative and constructional features link the dressing table to Stratford examples from the mid eighteenth century and further demonstrate the coastal towns 's influence on Newtown furniture . The plastic feeling of the undulating ribs of the small carved fan can be found on case furniture from Stratford . Like some Stratford craftsmen , the Newtown joiner nailed side drawer supports to a piece of scrap yellow poplar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furniture made in a second Newtown shop also manifests technical proficiency and understated ornament . Typical is a flat-topped case of drawers ( see fig. 18 ) that belonged to the Walter Johnson ( 1802 ? 1889 ) family of Newtown 's Huntingtown district . ' 9 The joiner limited decorative work to round feet , beading on the edge of the knees , and a simple carved fan on the lower central drawer front . He devoted considerable time and energy instead to the finish and fit of the different parts of the chest , even those interior parts that would not be visible . The dovetailed corners lack the long , deep kerf marks ( usually seen on the inside front corner of a drawer ) of rushed production , and the interior structural members were planed to even dimensions and smooth surfaces . The joiner even ran a smoothing plane on both sides of the backboards . Various constructional features , none of them indicative by themselves , can be found on a number of similarly chaste but well-constructed flat-topped cases of drawers ( some with histories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signature of this Newtown shop . " 143 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America Dressing tables , whose values were generally between one-quarter and two-fifths the cost of a case of drawers , were often listed just before or just after cases of drawers in inventories . This pattern suggests that they were used in the same room or that they shared similar designs . Constructional and decorative features link the dressing table in figure 19 , which descended in the Curtiss family of Newtown , with the Johnson case of drawers . It has the same drawer construction , drawer support systems , dished front skirt , and tenoning techniques . However , two minor visible differences distinguish it : the fan on the dressing table contains four additional ribs for a total of fifteen and its knees lack beaded scrolls . The joiner laid out the design of a slightly larger fan in order to alter the decoration slightly , but the odd number of ribs points out the consistency in his workmanship of habit . He eliminated the beaded knees either on his own accord or at his customer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tools , and stock leg patterns to produce the beaded effect . Distinctive features of this Newtown type of dressing table include its large size , particularly its height and width , and the lack of a rail above the top drawer . Diagnostic constructional features observed in figures 18 and 19 can be found in two other pieces of furniture , one of which has an early Newtown history of ownership . The case of drawers in figure 20 was made for Hannah Grant of Newtown on the occasion of her marriage in 1769 . A similar form was referred to in 18o1 as a " crown case of drawers " because of its broken pediment.21 The aesthetic similarities with furniture from many regions , competent workmanship , and amount of decorative detailing have caused great confusion about the origin of this case of drawers . Similarly carved rosettes are found on furniture from Norwich and Glastonbury , the finial design resembles examples on Woodbury and Stratford cases of drawers , and the carving on the knees suggests the influence of New York furniture.22 The good workmanship evident in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urban origin . Furthermore , the ornamental exuberance seems greatly out of place in Newtown . Analysis of proportions , construction , and workmanship in this piece of furniture document its origin . It was made in the same way as figure 18 and is therefore the product of the same Newtown shop . Biographical facts about Hannah Grant help to explain how such an elaborately decorated case of drawers came to be made in Newtown . Hannah was the daughter of Donald Grant , a successful Newtown storekeeper born in Scotland , and she married Stephen Mitchell of Wethersfield , a thriving community at the time . I Ier lack of Newtown roots , her father 's status as one of the only shopkeepers in Newtown , and her Wethersfield connections may have iiiWorkmanship of Habit 545 fluenced her demands for the unusual quality and quantity of decoration on this piece of furniture . Many flat-topped Newtown cases of drawers with simple fan carving in the lower section have survived , but few of the more complex crown-topped ones have been identified . The Hannah Grant example was the exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the upper limits of the craftsman 's skills.23 A dressing table with no documented history of ownership ( see fig. 21 ) shares many decorative and structural features with the Grant case of drawers . The sharply articulated knuckles , softened fingers , and distinctly sloped ankles of the feet ; the carved floral motif on the knees ; and the fan 's design link the dressing table to the case of drawers . The consistent workmanship of this shop is also evident in the drawer construction , doublethickness skirt , placement of pegs in tenoning , and drawer supports . Like the Curtiss dressing table , this example lacks a rail between the full-width drawer and the top of the table . The scrolled knees , crooked legs , and claw feet in figures 20 and 21 can also be seen on several fall leaf tables found in the Newtown area ( see fig. 22 ) . The method of fastening the top to the frame of these cherry tables denotes the maker 's sophisticated understanding of the properties of wood . On the underside of the top board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then slid over the end boards of the frame . The upper edges of the end boards had been cut as dovetail keys that corresponded to the dado . This housed dovetail groove permitted movement across the grain in the top board and thereby prevented the splitting that is caused by directly screwing or pinning a top to the frame.24 A third , related Newtown shop produced conservative case furniture that can be distinguished from figures 18 ? 21 through subtle differences . At first glance the dressing table in figure 23 , which descended in the Johnson family of Newtown , seems to be the work of the joiner who made the preceding five pieces of furniture . Its appearance closely resembles that of figures 18 and 19 : its scale is larger than Massachusetts dressing tables ; there is no upper rail ; its similarly conceived and carved fan contains an odd number of ribs ; and the knees feature beaded scrolls . Certain aspects of its carcass and drawer construction seem similar as well . Even the method of attaching the top to the frame resembles that on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piece of scrap oak near the upper edge of the side between the legs , cut a dovetail key along its protruding upper edge , and cut a wedge-shaped dado on the underside of the top . He then slid the top on from the front side.25 However , closer examination of figure 23 reveals differences in both Making Furniture in Preindustrial America appearance and construction : the feet lack the same articulation along their backs ; the drops on the lower edge of the skirt resemble inverted nozzles rather than acorns ; the front corners of the drawer dovetails lack a half pin at the bottom ; the skirt is only a single cherry board ; and the joiner used a rabbeting plane instead of a panel plane along the edges of the drawer bottoms . Such changes indicate a different shop tradition , not just the drift in technique from master to apprentice within a single shop . The shop tradition also may be a slightly later one , since rabbeted drawer bottoms tend to appear around the turn of the century , but such small differences between two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of local forms and traditions . That a joiner with a different set of tools and construction practices made dressing tables so close in appearance to those of another , possibly slightly earlier , shop underscores the coherence of Newtown 's furniture trade and the closely intertwined performance of its different shops.26 Identical drawer construction , leg shapes , and drops can be seen on the case of drawers in figure 24 . The profiles and construction of the moldings in particular point out the distinction between this third shop and the second one : the midmolding on the lower section of figure 24 has a long cove that pinches the width of the upper section , and the cornice molding has only a projecting quarter-round along its upper edge rather than a cyma recta and astragal detail found on the Johnson and Grant cases of drawers . The joiner who made figure 24 used a different series of molding planes . He favored a more pronounced series of fascia moldings and an extra ovolo molding along the top of cornices and substituted a flat cove for a cyma recta on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section . The joiner who made figures 18 and 20 ran a cavetto , astragal , large cove , and fascia molding on one piece of cherry and nailed it to the upper edge of the carcass . He then decorated a smaller piece of cherry with a cyma recta and astragal molding and nailed this second cherry piece to the upper edge of the first . The maker of figure 24 used a two-piece cornice molding in which the molding was cut on a single thin cherry board . The joiner nailed this cherry molding to a piece of secondary wood , triangular in cross section , which had been attached to the carcass . This sort of construction can also be found on Woodbury furniture in figures 42 and 46-5o . A third point of distinction in figure 24 is the full-depth dustboard below the third drawer from the top ; figures 17 and 19 lacked this structural feature . Similar dustboards were found in the upper sections of two other flat-topped cases of drawers made in the same shop as figure 24.27 Workmanship of Habit The decorative detail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furniture 's influence at the turn of the century . The mismatched shells of the upper and lower sections , four-channel fluting in the upper section , and flame-twist finials are features found on case furniture from the neighboring town , as will be shown in the next chapter . However , the joiner applied this Woodbury aesthetic to a distinctively Newtown carcass , for its interior construction firmly links it to a body of documented Newtown case furniture . Even the proportional system suggests a Newtown origin : Newtown crown cases featured broad bases and tall upper sections , while Woodbury cases were thinner with shorter upper sections . " I'he proportions of the Newtown cases more closely resemble New York and Long Island examples , and the Woodbury cases more closely follow Boston and Massachusetts types . The artifactual evidence of the three Newtown shops thus shows that an Anglo-Dutch furniture tradition derived from coastal Connecticut and Long Island formed the basis of the Newtown furniture trade and that the Woodbury tradition , derived from a different synthesis , began to have a more pronounced influence on Newtown ornament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of joiners like Abner Judson and David Fabrique account for such accommodations of Woodbury decoration.28 Several other pieces of furniture possess strong histories of ownership in Newtown but have less certain connections to the three shops already discussed . Nevertheless they can be attributed to the Newtown area and provide additional insight into Newtown 's furniture production and consumption . Tables with turned legs , such as the example in figure 25 , were the logical table forms made by joiners working according to the craft rhythms of Newtown 's mixed agriculture : legs could be turned in quantity when the lathe was set up ; stretchers , sides , and top could be roughed out at the sawmill and required little finishing ; and decoration consisted largely of turned elements and sawn profiles . The most common table form in Newtown probate inventories ? the turned frame table ? represents a timeless design , which remained popular throughout the period of this study . Owned by a descendent of the Johnson family , this particular table was an expensive version of a conservative table form . The joiner used cherry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poplar for the frame and top , and spent time cutting , assembling , and fitting a drawer . Yet many of the Newtown turned cables featured drawers , an extra detail consistent with the fastidious interior finish of other case furniture in the community.29 " Iwo desks with local histories of ownership provide additional evidence 147 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America of the local aesthetic . A cherry desk ( see fig. 26 ) purchased from a family that lived in the Sandy Hook section of Newtown features the distinctive Newtown drawer construction found on figures 16 through 21 and the wide quarter-round and shallow fillet edge molding on the drawer fronts ( see fig. 5 ) so typical of Newtown drawers . Even though the joiner possessed sufficient skill to fasten the bracket feet with half-blind dovetails , he did not use his skills fully in making this very simple desk with understated bracket feet , simple cove molding along the base , and plain interior , in which the main decorative feature is two different arch profiles above the pigeonholes . It is one of the simplest forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decoration . A second desk ( see fig. 27 ) , originally owned by a branch of the Beers family from the Palestine district of town , retains many aspects of older furniture types , but several structural features indicate that it can be dated to the early nineteenth century . Features such as the cusped return of the bracket foot and the serpentine curve of the pigeonhole brackets recall the fashionable elements of furniture from the third quarter of the eighteenth century . The edges of the drawer fronts reveal the use of old techniques to produce new stylish features . In the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century , some furnituremakers ceased to use molding planes along the edges of their drawer fronts , instead applying a protruding strip around the edge of each drawer to produce a cock-bead molding . On the desk in figure 27 , the joiner chose not to use the old quarter-round-and-fillet molding , but he did use a molding plane to achieve a fashionable result . Along the drawer blades and the inner edges of the carcass sides , he used a molding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteenth-century structural and decorative practices include the use of cut rather than wrought nails and an integral base molding . The combination of old forms , old motifs or approaches updated , and new conventions parallels the same sort of blend seen in figure 14 and attests to the continued strength of tradition in the Newtown joiner 's trade.30 Compatibility and Continuity The artifactual evidence of figures 7 through 27 confirms the conclusions drawn from the craftsmen 's biographies and the analysis of probate inventories . Most of the joiners active in Newtown at the beginning of this period of study had been trained in one of several coastal Connecticut traditions . As Workmanship of Habit Robert Trent 's Hearts and Crowns implies , 3 ' the furniture traditions of the various coastal communities that contributed craftsmen to Newtown were relatively compatible . When earlier craftsmen began to train local youths , they found it easy to merge these traditions . Joiners active in the last quarter of the eighteenth century assimilated one another 's regulating habits and tools through local recruitment and the handing down of shops , sets of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workmanship predominated in most Newtown shops . Homogeneity of the shops contributed to a recognizable Newtown style . Sturdy , long-lasting turned chairs , with fashionable elements confined to the most visible areas ? the backs and crest rails ? characterize Newtown seating forms ; traditional cases of drawers , dressing tables , desks , and chests with flat , taut facades , broken only by a single carved fan or a scrolled knee , its case furniture ; and turned frame tables , its tables . Yet economical conservatism implies not a static state but rather an emphasis on slow evolution rooted in precedence . The trained , fully competent Newtown joiners viewed new fashion through a lens shaped by their training and cultural climate . They borrowed a few new details , reordered existing motifs , or used older techniques in new ways to introduce limited decorative innovation into old forms . The result was slight variation within appropriate and acceptable norms determined by past products . Although the forms were traditional and the decoration plain , Newtown furniture was not a watereddown interpretation or misunderstood copy of urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homogeneous traditions and the existence of a dominant local style , surviving Newtown furniture provides insight into the values of the community 's joiners . Workmanship reveals that the joiners shared the traditional attitudes of the inwardly focused town . Many pieces of Newtown case furniture demonstrate a greater concern for time-consuming , quality workmanship and the properties of wood than do examples from more competitive urban areas of New England such as Boston . Whereas the latter tend to be elaborately decorated but shoddily built with an unspoken concern for ease and cheapness of carcass and drawer construction , the former tend to be sturdily built with techniques that accounted for the movement of wood across the grain . Newtown joiners took time to saw and pare tight-fitting dovetails . The carcass construction shown in figure 16 , the drawer support systems and double skirts in figures 18-21 , and the rabbeted drawer bottoms and dovetailed top of figure 23 provide evidence of the overengineered quality of Newtown case furniture . The joiners even finished off structural members 149 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America that would not be visible in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They were not apt to utilize any scrap wood indiscrirninately . If one drawer of a case piece had red oak sides , a yellow poplar back , and a yellow poplar bottom , then so did the other drawers.33 Customer demand and craft structure explain this labor-intensive approach to furniture construction and indifference to ostentatious decoration . As the patterns of consumption indicate , high rates of persistence in the eighteenth century meant that many Newtown families passed along furniture to the succeeding generations . Continuity and cultural cohesion ensured that these traditional forms would remain acceptable and appropriate . Newtowners put a premium on construction rather than ephemeral decoration . They wanted furniture that would last , yet not be outdated . The preference for traditional products rather than ever-changing popular ones allowed the local joiners to turn legs or rounds , saw out crooked legs or crest rails , and dress structural timbers in quantity when it was convenient . Craftsmen could then use these parts at any time . Predictable demand enabled the joiners to perfect the workmanship of habit necessary for these few forms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of traditional furniture in Newtown . The dominance of native craftsmen and their role as yeomen-joiners resulted in a lack of competition . Different conventions introduced by craftsmen trained outside the community did not challenge the dominant local traditions . Since yeoman-joiners derived much of their livelihood from their farm and could be assured of requests for some supplemental craftwork from their kin and neighbors , they did not have to rely entirely on craftwork or compete with one another . The joiners ' embedded and secure roles within Newtown society and economy made them very aware of their responsibility to their customers . They did not organize their work to distinguish themselves , increase production , or maximize profits . Instead they made furniture to provide needed material goods for their relatives and neighbors and to complement their agricultural work . As in all aspects of life in Newtown , continuity and stability guided the joiners ' values and actions . S E V E N Workmanship of Competition : The Furniture of Woodbury survey of identifiable furniture from Woodbury and the study of several shops ' products reveal a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Several early Woodbury joiners synthesized the same coastal traditions as their Newtown peers , but they also incorporated parts of other traditions . The presence in Woodbury of several joiners trained in the Farmington and New Haven areas contributed to this more extensive structural and decorative repertoire . Continued mobility and increased involvement in the external market around the time of the Revolution combined to expand this repertoire further . Newly arrived mature joiners from several geographically and culturally diverse regions introduced new techniques , forms , and decoration . The changing composition of the Woodbury population eased the acceptance of these new stylistic options . Since many townspeople lacked a common value system achieved through longevity or continuity in Woodbury , they were less likely to be guided by precedent and more willing to purchase different types of furniture . Greater involvement with the market provided Woodbury craftsmen with additional knowledge of technical and decorative options and Woodbury inhabitants with additional knowledge of fashion systems . The emergence of a proprietary gentry class eager to use material trappings to affirm status also created a receptive environment for the extensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualitative differences in Woodbury furniture production after 1770 become striking through analysis of surviving examples . Making Furniture in Preindustrial America Chairs and Case Furniture , 1750 ? 1770 Painted , turned , flag-seated chairs represented the bulk of common seating forms in eighteenth-century Woodbury . Only in the nineteenth century did Windsor chairs , first found in the households of the wealthier inhabitants in the 1790S , begin to compete with these traditional black or red chairs as the favored sturdy , inexpensive turned chair . A great black chair ( see fig. 28 ) , which descended in the Minor family of Woodbury , is a good example of a mid eighteenth century turned chair rooted firmly in the banister-back chair tradition of the early eighteenth century rather than the more fashionable round-top form of the i 750s or fiddleback forms of the 177os . However , the Woodbury chair does not resemble the Boston version of such a turned chair , which is characterized by tall , thin proportions , turned banisters between the rear posts , and complexly sawn out and carved crests . Instead the broader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ downwardsloping arms link the Minor chair to a broader Anglo-Dutch tradition characteristic of the New York and Long Island region . The turned vocabulary of the rear posts and configuration of the reeded back with scooped crest rail demonstrates the persistence of Milford joiners ' traditions farther up the Housatonic River and thus confirms the demographic pattern of such joiners as David Miles . ' A New York rather than Boston orientation is also found in the second type of turned chair popular in Woodbury during the 176os ? the roundtop , or York , chair . Throughout the greater New York cultural region , the York chair was a local turnerly interpretation of the early Georgian joined chair . The great round-top chair in figure 29 , originally owned by the Reverend Noah Benedict of Woodbury ( 1737-1813 ) , shows that the town leaders in the third quarter of the century still found a turned chair to be satisfactory , with some concession to new fashion , even for more prestigious armed great chairs . The distinguishing features of a Woodbury round-top chair ? the high arch of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweeping movement of the flat arms , and large central disk between the flanking bulbous balusters on the front round ? resemble the same features on examples from Stratford and further document the coastal foundations of Woodbury furnituremaking.2 Several Woodbury cases of drawers from the third quarter of the eighteenth century ( see figs. 30 ? 32 ) document additional traditions that influenced furnituremaking in Woodbury and demonstrate how these various strains were blended to form a coherent Woodbury look before the RcvoluWorkmanship of Competition tion . The case of drawers , referred to as a high case of drawers in a 1768 inventory , was the most popular large storage form in Woodbury during most of the last half of the eighteenth century . Analysis of such a complex form sheds valuable light on the nature of furniture production and consumption at that time.3 Two Woodbury cases of drawers of this period ( see figs. 30-31 ) , linked primarily by structural and stylistic features , illustrate how one joiner 's shop drew upon the conventions of several different regions to offer options within a consistent approach to design.4 Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many structural and decorative features with examples made in the Stratford area . For example , the upper carved fan and the squarish knees in figures 30 and 31 resemble corresponding aspects of furniture made by Brewster Dayton ( worked 1755 ? 97 ) and other Stratford joiners ; and the vertical orientation of the backboards and inclusion of a horizontal tie bar behind the upper tier of drawers can be found on a case of drawers made in 1784 by Eli Lewis ( 1738 ? 1818 ) of Stratford . The square pediment on figure 31 may have been suggested by the cornice molding on a scroll-pedimented chest-on-chest made by a joiner who trained in England and then worked in Stratford during the second quarter of the eighteenth century.5 However , the Woodbury joiner did not depend as heavily on Stratford aesthetic or structural traditions as his Newtown counterparts . Instead his work attests to the vitality of traditions other than those of Milford and Stratford . For example , the heavy three-drawer arrangement along the upper tier of drawers in figure 30 can be seen on earlier New Haven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a large central drawer flanked by a smaller drawer on each side ( as seen in fig. 24 ) . The use of two fans and of fans with concave ribs can also be found on case furniture from the greater Hartford area . The Hartford and New Haven traditions may have provided the Woodbury joiner with certain construction conventions , such as the lack of a concealed joint where the drawer blade fits into the carcass sides in the upper section , the simple single-piece midmolding , and nailed drawer supports . Newtown craftsmen , like Dayton and his Stratford contemporaries , glued vertical cherry strips along the front edges of the sides to conceal the joints of the drawer blades , glued drawer supports into grooves run in the sides , used more complex midmoldings , and limited carved fans to the lower central drawer . In comparison to his Newtown and Stratford counterparts , the Woodbury joiner was more willing to reduce time in the construction stages in order to devote additional time to decora-153 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America tion . By nailing in drawer supports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extra fan on a case of drawers without increasing the price.6 Eastern Connecticut traditions may have influenced the Woodbury shop . An architectonic handling of the cornice molding and an elaborately decorated pediment , often found on case furniture from New London County , are seen on the case of drawers ( see fig. 32 ) made in Woodbury in 1755 by Silas Butler , who trained in eastern Connecticut and worked briefly in Woodbury from 1755 to about 1760 . Other aspects of the Butler example that may have influenced Woodbury aesthetics include wide midmolding around the top edge of the lower section , use of double fans ( one in the upper section and one in the lower ) , deeply modeled concave ribs of the fan , and upwardly angled framing ribs in the fans . Similar shells can be seen on the bottom cases of figures 30 and 31 and are different than the coastal shells seen on the top sections. ? Although the Woodbury craftsman picked from many traditions to introduce variations into his designs , he limited these changes to a restricted area of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constant formal parameters of a case of drawers , the Woodbury joiner achieved visual diversity by altering the cornice and uppermost tier of drawers , the most visible part of the object . On one example ( see fig. 30 ) , he repeated the same configuration that he used on the lowermost tier , resulting in a line of three very substantial drawers that stretched full-width across the top . In the other example ( see fig. 31 ) , the same craftsman experimented and produced a more successful , vertically oriented case of drawers by emphasizing the large central drawer of the upper section with its own pediment and by flanking this drawer with single short drawers and a stepped cornice . Through all these changes , the joiner preserved the same basic proportioning system for the overall form , for the lower and upper section , and even for the full-width drawer fronts.8 Chairs and Tables , 1 7 70 - 1800 In about 1770 , production of furniture in Woodbury began to change more dramatically . Joiners started to make chairs that more closely resembled joiner 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ varied and elaborate case furniture . The chairs in figures 33 through 37 represent the full line of chairs produced during the last quarter of the eighteenth Workmanship of Competition century by a single Woodbury shop , whose master worked comfortably in both the turned and the joined furniture traditions . The Woodbury fiddleback ( see fig. 33 ) hears a general resemblance to its Newtown counterpart . Certain features , however , establish it as a Woodbury fiddleback : the lack of termini on the back posts , a convex-bowed central portion of the crest rail , and a front round with heavier , more pronounced baluster-andring turnings . Yet fiddlebacks like figure 33 never achieved widespread ownership in Woodbury , according to inventory references . Instead the estates indicate that the more expensive , more fashion-laden crookedback chair began to encroach upon the dominance of chairs with completely turned frames.9 The same Woodbury shop provided its patrons with two different versions of the crookedback chair ( see figs. 34 ? 35 ) that were differentiated by style rather than by cost . Figure 34 is a crookedback with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ older turned chair tradition include the flag seat , the turned decoration on the front stiles , and the decoratively turned rounds . However , the frame was noticeably different from the fiddleback in figure 33 . Sawn-out , or hewn , front and rear stiles replaced the turned posts , and carved claw feet replaced turned ball feet . Even the woods of the crookedback frame were different . The joiner used cherry rather than painted maple and ash for the crest rail , stiles , and rounds of the crookedback . For the banister and shoe rail , he continued to use yellow poplar , whose grain closely approximates cherry . A second crookedback chair ( see fig. 35 ) shows the evidence of even less work on the lathe . Rectangular side and rear stretchers that were tenoned and pegged into the rear legs and into the block elements of the front legs impart the look of a joiner 's chair to this crookedback . Yet this chair was not necessarily a more expensive model than that shown in figure 34 , which had expensive features such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and decoratively turned side and rear rounds . The work evident in these features made the chair comparable in price to figure 35 . The chair in that figure represents the craftsman 's desire to make , or a client 's to own , a more stylish chair . Woodbury crookedback chairs such as figure 35 , in which turned construction accounts only for the flag seat , the front round , and some ornamentation on the front legs , offer a sharp contrast to Newtown fiddlebacks . Whereas the Newtown craftsman who made a fiddleback emphasized the older turned chair tradition while incorporating just a bit of the new fashion , the Woodbury craftsman who made a crookedback chair emphasized the 155 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America newer fashion while preserving only a vestige of the older turned tradition . Apparently , Woodbury joiners favored sawn-out frames over turned frames , a preference that may reflect both clients ' demands and the technological orientation of the joiners . The limiting of turned work to the low-end chairs as well as the widespread use of sawn-and-dressed members suggest a different artisanal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Woodbury joiners did not fit craftwork in among other tasks and thus were not dependent on turning as the appropriate technology for efficiency . Woodbury craftsmen relied solely on their trade and often had to give greater weight to fashion than to traditional rhythms . Thus they sawed up stock throughout the year and offered more crookedback chairs than fiddlebacks . The most stylish flag-seated crookedback chair made in this shop was a great chair ( see fig. 36 ) .10 In this case the joiner totally eliminated the decorative turning on the front legs and round . To replace the visual vitality of turned decoration , the artisan employed other decorative techniques more consistent with joined construction . He incorporated a hewn front stretcher and front legs , sawed out parts of the banister to produce a pierced pattern identical to one favored in Boston , ran decorative quarter-round moldings along the outer edges of the front legs and along the upper edge of the stretchers , and shaped the upper part of the arm supports with a drawknife instead of a lathe in order to give them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet the conceptualization of the chair form remained rooted in the turned chair tradition . The flag seat , arrangement of the stretchers , and set-back arms mounted on uprights mortised into the upper edge of the side stretchers and notched into the seat list link this chair with turned great chairs of the late eighteenth century . The Woodbury joiner thought turnerly , but executed joinerly . Stylishness reached a climax with a fifth chair made in the same shop ( see fig. 37 ) . This seating form , referred to in the inventories as a joiner 's chair or a cherry chair , contained neither turned elements nor turned arrangement of parts . Every part was hewn cherry , joined by mortises and tenons , and pegged . In this example , originally owned by the Hinman family of Southbury , the joiner not only hewed the stretchers but also used a medial stretcher running between the two side stretchers rather than a front stretcher running between the two front posts . This H-shaped bracing system was common on Boston joiner 's chairs made in the last quarter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joiner 's chair than the front stretchers or rounds of turned chairs . In addition to running a molding Workmanship of Competition along the edges of the front stiles and sawing out a pierced Gothic pattern in the banister , the joiner carved an incised line along the upper edge of the crest rail and along the outer edge of the rear stiles and continued the quarter-round molding along the upper outside edges of the seat rails . Most important , he made a cushion bottom to fit into rabbets cut into the inside upper edges of the seat rails . " Joiner 's chairs first appeared in the 1 770 inventory of " Timothy Hinman , but other seating forms listed only as cherry chairs were probably joiner 's chairs rather than crookedback chairs , even though both types were made from cherry . This distinction is based on valuation . Crookedback chairs tended to be valued between four and six shillings each , whereas joiner 's chairs commanded twice that amount . Such a variation in price can be attributed to the different sorts of seat construction . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expensive to construct a flag seat than to hew seat rails , cut tenons on the rails and mortises in the stiles , glue and peg the joints , and then construct a joined seat frame and upholster it . Imported upholstery materials such as webbing , sackcloth , and worsted cover fabrics also increased the price of a joiner 's chair . Such distinctions in the values of cherry chairs remain applicable as the term cherry chair gave way to dining chair in the early nineteenth century . Dining chairs appraised between four and six shillings apiece were more likely flag-seated crookedback chairs , and chairs appraised at double that value were more likely cherry joiner 's chairs with cushion bottoms.12 The exclusive use of cherry and a completely joined frame make the joiner 's chair in figure 37 one of the most cosmopolitan seating forms in Woodbury , but it still retained close visual ties with the slightly less expensive and less stylish crookedback chairs and with even the less common fiddleback of the same shop . Use of a single crest rail pattern facilitated the joiner 's work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rail freehand , and he could entrust the tracing of the pattern and the cutting out of the part to an apprentice or less-skilled member of his shop . As a result , his work became efficient without losing quality or consistency . Patterns for hewn legs and for three different sorts of banisters ? a solid banister , a pierced interlaced scroll , and a pierced Gothic pattern ? also link the more stylish products of this particular shop . Just as these patterns assisted in the production process , so they played a major role in the purchasing process . Affluent Woodbury patrons were better able to purchase matching sets of seating furniture to furnish the various social spaces of their homes . The familiar legs and crest rail of the joiner 's chair also made that form less imposing or made ' 57 Making Furniture in Preindustrial America the crookedback seem more fashionable , depending upon the customer 's perspective . Another chair form rare in Newtown but made and owned in Woodbury was the Windsor chair . The first reference to a Windsor chair in Woodbury inventories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owned " 2 green Windsor chairs 16/ . " Windsors appeared frequently in inventories after 1795 and became the predominant middle-value , inexpensive chair in all estates after 1805 . They were appraised at approximately four shillings apiece , the price of a fiddleback . Although most Windsors were painted green , others were painted black , white , or yellow . The continued use of the generic term black chair precluded any conclusions that there were black-painted Windsors in Woodbury , but black was a popular color for Windsors in all other parts of New England . White Windsors , which first appeared in 1807 , were colored rather than unpainted chairs . References to specific types of Windsors remained infrequent and identified only " green fan chairs , " beginning in i 804 , and " armed chairs green , " as early as 1803.13 The bow-hack Windsor ( see fig. 38 ) , stamped on the underside of the seat with the initials " I.M. " for Josiah Minor ( 1789 ? 1820 ) , was probably made by Nicholas Jebine of Woodbury ( worked 1794 ? 1819 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled in Woodbury by 1794.14 The Minor example displays a combination of several different regional Windsor chairmaking characteristics . Its swelled spindles are usually associated with Windsors made in eastern Connecticut or by craftsmen trained there . But the Minor bow-back has many other attributes atypical of eastern Connecti-cut work , including the incised line that delimits the spindle area of the seat , tenoning of the legs through the seat , shape of the turnings , and decorative molding along the face of the bow . The tapered column , crisp urn , and large-bellied baluster of each leg resemble New York examples , and the triple-bead molding on the bow is seen most frequently on Wind-sors from the Connecticut River Valley.15 The blending of features from eastern Connecticut , New York , and the Connecticut River Valley reflects Jebine 's training in New Haven . Because that growing commercial center had ties to all three regions , Jebine would have been exposed to craftsmen or furniture from those areas or to craftsmen who had been trained in those traditions . The armed high-back Windsor ( see fig. 39 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a base similar to the one used for the bow-back , but substituted a new back-support system . This was a popular Windsor type for the Woodbury region : the Masonic Lodge in Waterbury , Harmony Workmanship of Competition 159 Lodge 42 , purchased similar chairs in the late 1790s , and the Reverend Joseph Bellamy of Bethlehem , the renowned New Divinity leader , owned a writing-arm version . Patronage by these members of the region 's leadership attests to the high status of the Windsor chair and the prestige of this particular Woodbury shop . " ) The Woodbury furniture illustrated in figures 40 and 41 are some of the various function-specific cherry tables that inventories first listed in the 179os . Earlier estates tended to list multifunctional tables , whose price indicates that most featured turned frames and were made of maple , yellow poplar , and white pine that had been painted . By the end of the century , increasing numbers of Woodbury inventories listed specialized forms made from woods with decorative grains , especially stands , tea tables , and fall leaf tables of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three legs dovetailed into it became the favored surface for candlesticks and other artificial-lighting devices , while tea tables with large tilting tops were designed to display the silver and ceramic equipage for tea drinking and other genteel pursuits . A single Woodbury shop made a number of such forms , including the large stand and tea table in figure 40 . On the tea table the turned vocabulary of the pedestal and use of the box ( the " birdcage " mechanism that revolved on the central shaft and held the pintels on the underside of the top , thereby allowing the top to rotate and tilt up ) reveal the influence of New York tea tables and suggest that the maker or his clients were familiar with the fashionable tables of that city and their uses in polite society . The change to the elaborated , specialized forms seen in figure 40 and a specific language to describe them shows the significant new attention Woodbury , ' s leaders devoted to the increasing number of domestic comforts and social rituals.17 Cherry fall leaf tables ( or tables with hinged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sherman Hinman and appeared frequently and regularly in the inventories of the next fifteen years . References to fall leaf tables became less common in the teens , when the term dining table gained favor . All dining tables were not necessarily fall leaf tables , but the newer functional term apparently subsumed the older descriptive one.18 The cherry fall leaf table in figure 41 , whose straight or Marlborough legs reflect stylish features that became fashionable in urban centers in the 1770s , exemplifies the most common type that has survived and , with the tables in figure 40 , illustrates the ability of Woodbury joiners to keep up with current fashion and client demand for such forms . The legs ' simplicity is somewhat deceiving and needs to be understood in terms of fashion rather than technique 