@@773876

txt America 2 : Classic Modernism The war had brought to the United States not only Schoenberg and Stravinsky but also Wolpe , Hindemith , Krenek , Martini ' , and a host of other composers , leaving Europe comparatively bereft of senior figures . Another difference between the con tinents was that North America had not suffered enemy occupation or the bombing of cities . Perhaps both factors played a part in the alternative form that innovation took on the western side of the Atlantic , where there was more respect for the estab lished masters , less feeling that music could or should be built anew . Schoenberg 's own example , voiced in his words and in his music , was one of rooted growth . A late prose fragment , dating from 1950 , begins by restating a thought constant in his writings : ' I am at least as conservative as Edison and Ford have been . But I am , unfortunately , not quite as progressive as they were in their own fields . ' ' His works of his last years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period , by no means betray his lifelong commitment to orderly development and integrity of voice . The orderliness , at least , communicated itself to many of his American pupils and followers , among whom Milton Babbitt ( b. 1916 ) ? a follower , never a pupil ? soon became one of the leading exponents of twelve-note music , both as a composer and as a professor at Princeton University , where his classes included James K. Randall ( b. 1929 ) , Uonald Martino ( h. 1931 ) , Peter Westergaard ( b. 1931 ) , and Fred Lerdahl ( b. 19.13 ) , Stephen Sondheinr ( b. 1930 ) was also a student . Babbitt 's contemporary ( , eotge Petit . ( h 1915 ) pronurte ( I the same cause of rational twelve-note composi tion tlunugh his work as a teacher , theorist , and composer . His classic textbook . Setial Om position and Atonality ( 1962 ) was followed fifteen years later by Twelve-lone l onalily , an introduction to his own system , by which a twelve-note series structures relationships among notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of key feeling , and even diatonic triads , within totally chromatic music ; his musical output , chiefly of instrumental works , includes sequences of wind quintets and of string quartets . From the same generation , Leon Kirchner ( b. 1919 ) , who studied with Schoenberg in Los Angeles , developed into a twelve-note composer able , like his teacher , to command the rhetoric of tonal symphonic music . His music , too , is mostly for orchestra ( two piano concertos and a concerto for violin and cello with wind and percussion ) or chamber ensemble ( three quartets ) . One might also see the later music of Stravinsky , a US citizen since 1945 , within the conAmerica 2 : Classic Modernism 51 text of this American serial school , though in his case the impulses came more from Europe . Against the picture of even progress from Schoenberg ( or more particularly in Perle 's case from Berg and Bartok ) there might seem to stand the example of another Schoenberg pupil , Cage . Yet Cage 's work is not so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The continuities from Schoenberg to Babbitt and beyond may have been overstated . Perhaps there was indeed a revolution , if one that took place against the drift of what Babbitt and some of his colleagues said they were doing . After all , Babbitt was defiantly un-Schoenbergian in his belief in the importance of method . ( Something that Babbitt in his frequently expressed admiration of Schoenberg has left out of account is Schoenberg 's repeatedly and joyfully indulged wish to compose again in the old ' diatonic style . ) And it is in this commitment to method that all those who came to the fore after 1945 , both Americans and Europeans , seem most at one . Indeed , there is no period in musical history when , so much as between 1945 and 1960 , the attention of so many composers was focused so vigorously on basic mat - ters of compositional technique . It is as if the Second World War had brought about a large-scale failure of musical nerve . Composers could no longer rely on their own sensibilities and a given language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guide them : music had to be rethought from fundamental principles , and every creative decision justified on the basis of that rethinking . Theoretical writings ? the essays of Boulez , Cage , and Babbitt , and Messiaen 's Technique de mon langage musical ( 1944 ) ? became not only common but even central , as if the compositions were incomplete without some justification of their system . The half-decade after the war was a great age of pure music : Boulez 's sonatas , Cage 's Sonatas and Interludes , Babbitt 's Compositions . But in another sense no music was pure ; it was all techui cal demonstration , and incomplete without its manifesto or analysis . What is also remarkable is how much the new generation ? that of Babbitt , Boulez , and Cage ? affected composers who had already established their own voices . Among European composers , the phenomenon can be seen clearly iii Messiaen . Among Americans it influenced , for example , two of his outstanding contemporaries , Elliott Carter ( b. 1908 ) and Stefan Wolpe ( 1902 72 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among fhe immigrants of the 1930s . And for men of t hell age and experience , the new lessons were more likely to be intertwined with the old , to provide images of modernism relating less equivocally to what was past . Schoenberg As the Second World War came to an end Schoenberg was seventy . I he had not left Los Angeles since arriving there in 1933 , nor was he to travel during the renlai fling six years of his life . But friends , pupils , and colleagues made sure he was inforuued of his music 's revival in Europe , where ideology or apathy had kept it twin being 52 Beginning Again : From 1945 to the Early 1960s heard since his emigration . Correspondents told him , for example , about perfor-mances of the Six Little Piano Pieces for Salzburg radio in September 1945 , of the Second Quartet for Berlin radio in 1946 , and of the First Chamber Symphony in Munich in 1947.2 There were other marks of esteem . In 1946 he was named hon-orary president of the International Society for Contemporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He also had news of the Darmstadt courses , to which Leibowitz asked him in 1949 . Whether he was aware , too , of how his ideas were being adapted , extended , and rebutted by a new generation of composers is unsure : had he gone to Darmstadt in 1949 he would have met Messiaen and some of Leibowitz 's young pupils ( though not Boulez ) . His music of these last years is sparse . In August-September 1946 he was seri-ously ill , and saved by injections into the heart : the illness , and the injections , were reflected in the String Trio he wrote during these months . Thereafter he was effec-tively an invalid , and his last works , all quite short , were achieved in brief bursts : in August 1947 came A Survivor from Warsaw , in June the next year a set of three folk-song arrangements for unaccompanied chorus , in the spring of 1949 the Phantasy for violin and piano , the choral piece Dreimel tausend Jahre , sketches for another choral work ( Israel Exists Again ) , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  July 1950 a settling of Psalm 130 in Hebrew . His final year was devoted to the words and music of a set of modern psalms ' , of which only one was partly com-posed . For whatever reason ? illness , age , recollection , the resuscitation of his music in Europe ? he recaptured in these concluding works something of the brevity and fierceness of his first atonal pieces , though still with the insistent motivic echoing that the twelve-note method had encouraged . The shadows of returning tonality in the ( ) de to Napoleon and the Piano Concerto ( both 1942 ) fall away , and there are no more large scale tonal compositions , such as had played a large part in his output during the previotis dozen years ( the last tonal relics are just the folksong triptych cunl , i Baal ( alum ) . At the sauce lime the links with standard forms andgenresatten-nate . I he final chamber work is not a quartet but a trio , belonging to a much rarer i n u t tory , and though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dis-located and the whole adheres to no traditional scheme : the single movement returns finally to its point of origin , having been interrupted by two self-contained episodes and several shorter divagations . A similar wheeling course , but over a reduced and smoother circuit , is taken by the only other instrumental work of this period , the Phantasy for violin and piano . In terms of rawness , though , the String Trio 's only companion is its more imme-diate successor , A Survivor from Warsaw . A narrator , delivering Schoenberg 's own English text in Sprechgesang , recalls a brutal experience from the Warsaw ghetto : semiconscious , in darkness , he hears trumpets , and a German officer demanding America 2 : Classic Modernism 53 the inmates come out and number off . The orchestral accompaniment is a patchwork of ostinatos and sudden gestures , closely keyed into the text in the way of Erwartung , until the final surge that brings the men 's chorus on to carry the work home . The narrator refers near the start to ' the grandiose moment when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the work looks forward and builds . The message , unequivocally , is one of triumphant defiance ; it is also , for the music , one of purposeful achievement , with the majestic Hebrew hymn rising up as a twelve-note chant from the earlier disintegration . Schoenberg 's next choral works were all concerned with another new creation , that of the state of Israel , to which he dedicated his setting of Psalm 130 for six-part speaking and singing chorus . The unfinished modern psalm ' that followed was , characteristically , a prayer about the possibility of prayer ? a prayer that could have been voiced by the Moses of the opera , and is similarly projected by a man through Sprechgesang , the words being taken up and illuminated by a choir with orchestra . Schoenberg kept hoping he would be able to complete both Moses and Aron and Die Jakobsleiter , but nothing was added to those scores , and the Modern Psalm lapses at a corresponding point , where the words ask for the music of union with God . Carter The postwar tide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music more forcefully than Elliott Carter 's . His self-reinvention came before Stravinsky 's : his First Quartet , the signal of arrival in new terrain , was completed in September 1951 , the month when Stravinsky 's still resolutely neoclassical opera The Rake 's Progress was being performed for the first time . And in his music change was not only a symptom but the prime subject . From the First Quartet onwards he was to work with materials in constant evolution : materials in which stability in one or more domains is necessary only to support and show the urgent movement in others . What the First Quartet also introduced was a polyphony of such dynamic streams , and in particular a polyphony of tempos , so that the music moves at several different rates simultaneously . Change does not happen simply because time is moving on ; change is deliberately engineered and motivated . There is a connection here ? a connection of objectivity and rationalism ? with the nevertheless very different music Carter had written before the late 1940s . Like other Americans of his generation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had studied in France with Nadia Boulanger , and learned from her a reverence for the neoclassical Stravinsky . But what was ironic and suppositional in Stravinsky became candid in the music of Boulanger 's pupils , who seemed confident of a restabilization , and a renewal of contact with an audience predisposed by taste and education to music of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries ( American neoclassicism often carried this subtext of democratic utopianism ) . Carter swam with that 54 BeginningAgain : From 1945 to the Early 1960s stream as far as his ballet The Minotaur ( 1947 ) , where the allegiance is to Stravinsky 's then recent Symphony in Three Movements , but his chamber pieces of 1948-9 began to introduce the new polyphony in characteristic terms of a polyphony of musical personality : the Cello Sonata , in particular , has this dialogue nature . Then he left New York to spend a year on a Guggenheim fellowship in the Arizona desert . I decided for once to write a work very interesting to myself , and so say to hell with the public and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First Quartet . Thus where his almost exact contemporary Messiaen ( just a day older , born on 10 December 1908 ) would seem to have gained encouragement from the young pupils who surrounded him in the late 1940s and 1950s , Carter moved forward most rapidly when he was artistically alone . American popularism gave way to American independence , and did so in the music too , where a sense of self-propelled move ment asserted itself ? a sense in this quartet of up to four separate lines of activity . Ives may have provided a spur here . Carter , born into a wealthy New York family , had been introduced to Ives by his school music teacher , and would surely have been familiar with Ives 's Second Quartet , a work for 4 men ? who converse , dis cuss , argue ( in re " politick " ) , fight , shake hands , shut up ? then walk up the moun tain-side to view the firmament. ' 5 The essential difference in his own First Quartet is that the characters are not psychological , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the way that Ives 's second violin enacts the role of his despised Rollo , the imaginary guardian of musical propriety . Instead the flows at play in Carter 's First Quartet are characters existing only in and as music ? charac ters which may be introduced by particular instruments , but which can carry unin terruptedly from one voice into another . They are abstract characters , defined by their musical constituents ? intervals , tempo , pulse unit ? rather than by anything describable as tumid . This may be another inheritance from neoclassicism ; it is cer tainly a primary marker of Carter 's music . Ile is a dramatist of energies , not of hrrrn:rn figures . Since 1945 he has written very little vocal music , preferring to work with the currents of musical movement that can be steered through instruments in small groupings ( especially the string quartet ) or through combinations of soloists and ensembles in works for orchestra ( where Ives may again have provided an example : Carter 's orchestral style is an abstraction of Ives 's , with all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the colliding textures and motions ) . Almost any dozen bars from his First Quartet would show its coursing , ranging polyphony ; Example 12 comes from near the midpoint of the work , and suggests how different kinds of musical motion can be cross-related both vertically and hor izontally . At the beginning of the example , cascading 9/16 semiquavers pass from the first violin into the cello , where they come to a halt on the one note , C## , untouched during the four-barfive-octave descent in major and minor seconds 56 BeginningAgain : From 1945 to the Early 1960s Simultaneously another train of thought , in pizzicato 3/8 quavers , transfers in the opposite direction , while the pulse units in the viola are drawn out , under the influence of the syncopated second violin , from three semiquavers to five , which the change of metre to 2/4 then reinterprets as four . This change of metre is an example of Carter 's metric modulation ' , whereby a new metre is introduced as a translation of an old one , opening up the possibilities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as harmonic modulation changes the temporary tonic and thereby the pitch repertory . In this particular case , pulse ratios at the start of 2 : 3 : 9 per dotted crotchet in 3/8 ( viola : cello : violin I ) give way in the final momentary stalling to ratios of 8 : 15 : 20 per five semibreves in 2/4 ( violin I : violin II : viola ) , where the 8 under the new dispensation is equivalent to 1.2 under the old . The music is performable because of regularities that bridge across : the quaver pulse that carries over from 3/8 to 5/8 in the first violin , or the pulse that stays the same across the change of tempo and metre at the double barline . These are classic means , extended from the two-against-three cross-rhythms of music from Brahms onwards . To that extent ? as in the measure of his harmony , and his attachment to standard genres and weights of work ? Carter is still a neoclassicist . But the jostling rushes of the First Quartet are new and distinctive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the next forty years and more . Revolutions usually require some kind of radical simplification , and so it is here , in that Carter found it necessary to identify each of his pulse layers by keeping it regular : always quavers in the first violin in the six bars before the double barline , always triplet minims in the second violin from that point onwards . In later works he would be able to make the movement inside each layer more flexible , without losing the identity of the layer , and also without damaging the sense that each layer is itself concerned with change , with executing a process . The vestiges of theme that remain in the First Quartet and the Variations for orchestra ( 1953-5 ) would then dissolve away , to leave pure mobility and development within musical layers identified by speed , instrmentation , and interval content . And the relatively simple processes of the First Quartet ? represented by the elements of ostinato and scalewise movement in Example 12 ? would give place to more complex sways and surges . Carter 's polyphony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is one proof against subjectivity : because the music is happening in several speeds simultaneously , it has no speed of its own , and therefore allows no presumption that it speaks or sings ( or , given the abundant pulsed rhythms , dances ) the thinking of one person at one time . In form , the First Quartet celebrates this liberation from psychological time . It begins with several bars for the cello alone , and ends as a balancing , answering solo for the leader . At these points it has indeed a single voice ? though the status of that voice is less certain at the conclusion , after so much polyphony of contradicting voices . Nobody is thinking this music . It is thinking itself . The work 's polyphony of tempos also has an effect on the notion of what constitutes a musical movement . Tempo in Carter is not something applied to music ; America 2 : Classic Modernism 57 tempo is enacted by the music as it becomes sound . A slow movement or a scherzo is a mode of behaviour , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away or suppression of other modes of behaviour . So it is here . There are four movements ? a fantasia , a scherzo , an adagio , and a set of variations ? but the music flows from one into the next , and the two interruptions dramatize the fact by cutting almost arbitrarily into the scherzo and into the variations ( Example 12 comes from the portion of the variations before this second break ) . Within the movements , too , the continuity of change removes the music from any normal pattern of recurrence : the themes of the variations , for instance , are not only several but tumbled into a process of swirling acceleration . In its objectivity , and in its dancing rhythms , the First Quartet may still be Stravinskian , but it was also the first work in which Carter placed himself within the context of a wider divergence of modern masters : Ives , Debussy ( whose Jeux and orchestral Images provided nearer examples of multiple tempos under supreme control ) , Schoenberg ( for formal continuity and a disciplined atonality , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implicit in classical serialism ) . Unlike Boulez , however , Carter never associated his music with a programme of modernist advance , and unlike Babbitt he has done little teaching . In an age of polemic and controversy , there was no suggestion from him that his works instanced preferred aesthetic or theoretical criteria . Instead , for the two decades or so after the First Quartet he just went on producing a new big instrumental piece every few years : the Variations in 1955 , the Second Quartet in 1959 , the Double Concerto for harpsichord and piano , each with its own chamber orchestra , in 1961 , the Piano Concerto in 1965 , the Concerto for Orchestra in 1969 , the Third Quartet in 1971 , the Duo for violin and piano and the Brass Quintet both in 1974 . These works can be seen to develop from the First Quartet in various ways . All of them are hectic musical conversations . The idea of the string quartet as composed of four differently minded individuals was taken further , and closer to the Ives model , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ensemble as a double duo ? a strategy instituted in the Adagio of the First Quartet , where the viola and cello are played off against the two violins . The orchestral works , meanwhile , increasingly project a conception of different temporal drifts ? different kinds , speeds , and directions of movement ? occurring in different departments . And the emphasis on movement , on change , brings a diminishment of theme , an abstraction in the direction of music defined by harmonic and rhythmic character . The Concerto for Orchestra is the most complex piece of this period , and the most joyous : with Carter , complexity is a kind and a source of joy . The orchestra is reconceived ? and repositioned on the platform ? as a collection of four ensembles , each focused on a different register , and each in turn taking the lead in one of the four joined and intercalated movements : the tenor group ( cellos , bassoons , piano , harp , marimba , percussion ) in the opening of grand but failing gestures ; the treble group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in quick , flowing music ; the bass group ( double basses , trombones , tuba , timpani ) in solemn , rousing phrases ; the 58 Beginning Again : From 1945 to the Early 1960s alto group ( violas , oboes , trumpets , horns , drums ) in fast , affirmative pulsation . These four groupings , and four different sorts of music , are rival winds that blow through the music they bring into being . The metaphor comes from the composer , who related the work to St John Perse 's poem Vents , a vision of winds gusting across the United States , and who declared his wish for ' the wind to blow through the music ' when speaking of the variations of his First Quartet.6 Wind ? energy without visible substance , movement of great variety in speed , force , and direction , power with no purposes or destinations ? provides the nearest natural image for the ways and forms in which Carter 's music has travelled . And has gone on travelling . Since the mid-1970s he has maintained the flow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In A Symphony of Three Orchestras ( 1976 ) each of the groups now has four different types of music , the twelve being braided together . Other works explored diverse alliances on a smaller scale : the Triple Duo ( 1982 ) is a comedy of partnerships for flute and clarinet , violin and cello , and piano and percussion , Penthode ( 1984-5 ) a drama for five mixed and dissimilar quartets . And there were more contributions to the two classical genres predisposed to Carter 's kind of musical discourse : a Fourth Quartet ( 1986 ) and chamber concertos for oboe ( 1986-7 ) and violin ( 1990 ) . Since the mid-1980s , too , Carter has produced a number of miniatures ? usually for soloists or small combinations , but including also the Three Occasions for large orchestra ( 1986-9 ) . The more surprising innovation was the introduction of the solo singing voice in a triptych of chamber cantatas , collaborations with American poets close to Carter in terms both of time and of mentality : Elizabeth Bishop in A Mirror on Which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Syringa for mezzo ( 1978 ) , where a bass-baritone adds an audible substratum of ancient Greek verse in the original , and Robert Lowell in In Sleep , in Thunder for tenor ( 1981 ) . What was surprising here was not only ( he return to vocal composition , after a lapse of more than thirty years , but also the interposing of a lyric voice in the work of a composer whose voices , as exemplified in the First Quartet , had been manifold and mutable . The polyphony , however , remains . Carter 's choice was of poets whose works are themselves poly-phonic : self-questioning , spinning with references , sliding among different sorts of rhetoric . What he creates in his sung lines is , too , a constructed sort of lyricism , not unlike Stravinsky 's in the Shake3peare settings and later songs ? a sort of lyricism in which one hears both the voice and the assembly of the voice . There is also the sense of the singers as slightly apart from the musical action , which they hear a moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Syringa there is the real polyphony of two singers who not only come from two different times but spear head ? like the soloists of the Double Concerto ? two different understandings of musical time : incantatory in the case of the bass-baritone , whose line often oscil lates across wide intervals , and conversational in the case of the mezzo . The ostenAmerica 2 : Classic Modernism 59 sible subject of Syringa is the story of Orpheus , which is patched together in the bass-baritone 's anthology and mused on by the mezzo . But the story of Orpheus is also the story of time : the striking nearness of the past and yet the impossibility of return , the constant onrush of moments and yet the eternal present of love , the van ishing of music which can yet always be performed again . The two voices , those of oracle and dinner-party guest , sing mostly about the busy world in which they both astonishingly exist . Carter 's fecundity in his seventies and eighties is a measure of his mental alert ness and gaiety ( he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Atlantic , always a concerned and delighted observer ) . It may also reflect how the works of his forties , fifties , and early sixties ? works that each required a hefty stretch of time in the composing ? were needed to launch him into a more rapid creativity . Alternatively ( or additionally ) , the condition of music since the early 1970s , with the decline of modernism as a progressive force , may perversely have stimulated a composer for whom the modernist achievement was something to be celebrated rather than joined . There was always this posteriority . For Carter , com ing of age at a time when the great modernist advances of Stravinsky , Schoenberg , and Ives were recent history , the great need seems to have been one of clarification and triumphal commemoration : one could compare his historical position with Bach 's , as a master of order ( despite the fact that what he was ordering was dynamic movement ) after a period of wholesale musical revolution . Change may be his prin principal subject , but the elation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Babbitt was a Schoenbergian from an early age . According to his own account , ' it was for the sake of Schoenberg that he went to New York to study with Marion Bauer in the early 1930s ; that gave him the opportunity to meet Schoenberg when the latter was staying in New York , in 1933-4 . But during the next dozen years he composed rather little and published nothing : the release came only after the Second World War , when he began a regular pattern of composing and teaching ( chiefly at Princeton University ) . His first published works were , he has remarked , ' concerned with embodying the extensions , generalizations , and fusions of certain techniques contained in the music of Schoenberg , Webern and Berg , and above all with applying the pitch operations of the twelve-tone system to non-pitch ele ments : durational rhythm , dynamics , phrase rhythm , timbre , and register , in such a manner as to preserve the most significant properties associated with these oper ations in the pitch domain when they are applied in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search for congruence among the organizational means used for the different parameters rather than for separation and conflict , draws attention to the fundamental division between Babbitt and Boulez. 60 Beginning Again : From 1945 to the Early 1960s Something of how Babbitt went about fulfilling his self-imposed programme may be illustrated with reference to the Three Compositions for Piano ( 1947 ) , his earliest acknowledged work , and one in which the principles of rhythmic serialism differ essentially from Boulez 's techniques of unrestrained cellular variation and manip-ulating chromatic durations . Example 13 shows the start of the first Composition , which has been analysed by George Perle.9 The serial forms have been marked here in accordance with the convention that ' P ' represents a prime form , ' R ' a retro-grade , ' I ' an inversion and ' RI ' a retrograde inversion , the superscript numbers showing how many steps above C are needed to reach the first note . No analysis is needed to notice how the music , in its even progress and its wit , is totally at odds with Boulez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schoenberg , there is more connection with the oriental serenity of Cage 's Sonatas and Interludes or his String Quartet . Babbitt and Cage were alike , too , in needing a precise reason for every creative decision . Cage found reason in his use America 2 : Classic Modernism 61 of number sequences and charts , then later ? the reason of no reason ? in making choices according to dice-throws or other chance procedures . Babbitt has found reason , throughout a creative career of half a century , in the techniques of twelve-note composition . And those do need some analysis to untangle . Babbitt characteristically bases his pitch organization on bringing together frac tions of serial forms to produce ' aggregates ' , a term he uses to mean collections which contain all twelve pitch classes , but which are not instances of a work 's series . ( A pitch class ? the term is again Babbitt 's ? is a virtual pitch , not yet ascribed to any register . A twelve-note series is a series of pitch classes , because a C in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systematic than that of earlier serial composers , is required by music which is similarly more systematic . ) In this case the fractions are simply hexachords , and it is easy to see how in each bar a pair of hexachords from different serial forms is combined to create an aggregate . The principle in operation here , developed from Schoenberg 's use of hexachords in complementary relationships , is that of ' combinatoriality ' ( another key term in Babbitt 's theory ) , specifically that of hexachordal combinatoriality . A twelve-note series exhibits this property if one of its hexachords can be combined with a hexa chord from another form of the same series to produce an aggregate . Clearly , any prime form of any series will be combinatorial with the retrograde form that comes back to the same pitch class , and similarly any inversion with the retrograde inver sion that takes the same path backwards . The possibilities are extended when a prime form is combinatorial with an inversion , a retrograde inversion or a transpo sition , as will happen when there is some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three Compositions , each of the two hexachords consists of a chromatic group of four notes together with a note at each end a tone away ( E , F# , G , A6 , A , B and B6 , C , D6 , D , E6 , F , as they are in   ) . This series is particularly rich in combinatorial relationships , since a given serial form is hexachordally combinato rial with a transposition ( the association of bars 1-2 ) , an inversion ( bars 3-4 ) , a ret rograde ( bars 5-6 ) and a retrograde inversion ( bars 7-8 ) . A set of this kind is said to be ' all-combinatorial ' , and it provides a whole network of connections which the composer can use in ordering serial forms so as to ensure a perpetual circulation of the chromatic total and to achieve , as here , a density of correspondence that does not depend on thematic allusions . Not only does the combinatorial property suggest which serial forms are to be superimposed , it also provides a clue for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each hand proceeds from one serial form to another in accordance with a combinatorial relationship : the second hexachord of   forms an aggregate with the first of R10 ( right hand , bars 2-3 ) and so on . There thus emerge what Babbitt refers to as ' secondary sets ' , 10 formed when one hexachord from a particular serial form is joined to a complementary hexachord from another . In this case the secondary sets are not emphasizedbut in many later works they take on more importance . 62 BeginningAgain : From 1945 to the Early 1960s The combinatorial counterpoint and the secondary-set liaisons exemplify how Babbitt 's world is a world of musical punning , in which particular elements ( hexachords in this case ) can be interpreted in more than one way . This may be one source ? together with the rhythmic nimbleness ? of his music 's most characteristic feature : its humour . Example 13 also displays the use of non-pitch parameters to elucidate and mesh with the pitch organization according to Babbitt 's stated principles . Four dynamic levels are associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prime , mf with the retrograde , fwith the inversion , and p with the retrograde inversion ? and these associations are retained throughout the development that follows ( they are transposed down ' by two degrees , to pp , p , mp , and ppp respectively , in the eight bars that symmetrically close the piece ) . The organization of rhythm also proceeds in step with that of pitch . Babbitt chooses a basic set of 5-1-4-2 , which may be interpreted in terms of duration ( crotchet tied to semiquaver , semiquaver , crotchet , quaver ) or may alternatively , since it sums to twelve , be projected in the number of serial notes gathered together in bundles : durational rhythm ' and ' phrase rhythm ' , to repeat Babbitt 's terms , can both be organized serially , with reference to the same set . It is phrase rhythm that is so organized in Example 13 , where the prime form of the rhythmic set occurs with the prime form of the pitch set ( bars 1-2 ) and the rhythmic retrograde ( 2-4-1-5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3-4 , and left hand , bars 7-8 ) . Rhythmic inversion may be more difficult to imagine , but the process of intervallic inversion does provide a model for a rhythmic counterpart . If the notes of a series are numbered according to their distance above C in semitones ( e.g. C-D-A6 ... becomes 0-2-8 ... ) then the inversion can be derived by complementing these numbers to twelve ( 12 i.e. 01-10-4 ... being C-B6-E . . . ) . Thus , by a similar process of complementation to six , the set 5-1-4-2 can be inverted to yield 1-5-2-4 , with a corresponding retrograde inversion of 4-2-5-1 . As may be seen in Example 13 , these are indeed the rhythmic sets given to the inversion and retrograde inversion forms of the pitch set . That eight bars of music may demonstrate so much evidence of control is some measure of Babbitt 's ability to make everything in his compositions serve a constructive function , and to have a reason for everything . However , a persistent criticism of his music has been that the functions and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable training : the same criticism was often made of Boulez and other European serialists , and has only diminished with the ebbing of serialism as a consideration in composers ' self-pronouncements . In Europe , such doubts about the audibility of serial operations ? doubts often voiced by composers themselves ? contributed to the disintegration of what had been a concerted thrust to regenerate music in the 1950s , but in the United States the case was less contentious . One factor may have been the success of Schenkerian analysis in the United States , for if tonal masterpieces ? symphonies and sonatas by Beethoven and America 2 : Classic Modernism 63 Brahms ? could be shown to be full of structure unsuspected by the naive listener , it might well be possible that consciously evolved serial structure , though not iden tifiable by the unaided ear , nevertheless would contribute to perception of the music as homogenous and purposeful . This seems clearly to be so in the relatively simple case of Example 13 . The combinatorial relationships and the rhythmic seri alism may not be noticed as such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surely contribute to the impression of lucidity , elegance , and pleasure the piece conveys . There is something watertight about the music : every detail has an imme diate answer , suggesting that every eventuality has been prepared by the composer . What must also have contributed to the way in which Babbitt 's music has been received is the fact that his arguments on behalf of his music and methods have the same complete intellectual integrity : his writings compel trust . Those same writings , however , appear to assume that the comprehension of his music depends neither on some passive recognition of order nor on faith but rather on an active , conscious awareness of the rules of the game . That might explain why he took so long to establish the rules before he started to play , why he has been so concerned to keep to the same basic rules , and why he has felt able to apply the rules in gradually more complex and covert ways . Moreover , his demands for rigor ous composition and rigorous listening need not be construed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rational response to finding himself in a musical world where the general concert public - has little use for Schoenberg or Schoenbergians , and where the audience for advanced serial music is most likely to consist of fellow composers , musicologists , and committed lay adherents . That audience may be presumed to admire , and to wish for , complexity . The complexity of Babbitt 's music is , therefore , not a display of intellectual expertise and disdain , but rather a reaction of classical obedience to the wishes of what is the real audi ence. r l The second of the Three Compositions for Piano shows a further central element in Babbitt 's technical repertory : the use of derived sets ' . Following the example of such works of Webern as the Concerto , Op. 24 , he makes use of sets which contain internal symmetries , these sets being derived from a parent by proliferation from a single fragment of two , three or four notes . For instance , the first three notes of the form Rhl from Example 13 ( F-DL-C ) can be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own inversion ( B6-D-F6 ) , retrograde inversion ( A-G*-E ) and retrograde ( F#-G-B ) . This is the set presented in the right hand at the opening of Composition II , a set full of identities : by definition , each of its four trichords con tains only one each of two different intervals . With derived sets the composer is thus able to explore , systematically , different harmonic areas contained within the orig inal set : as Composition II proceeds , it unfolds and develops derived sets obtained from each trichord of the parent series in turn . 64 BeginningAgain : From 1945 to the Early 1960s The techniques of the Three Compositions for Piano ? those of rhythmic serial-ism , combinatoriality , secondary sets , derived sets , and so on ? were pursued in the Composition for Four Instruments ( 1948 ) , the Composition for Twelve Instruments ( 1948 ) , and the Composition for Viola and Piano ( 1950 ) , each again with a title whose implications of ' abstractness and " formalism " ' Babbitt declared himself happy to accept.12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former 's Second Piano Sonata and the latter 's Turangalila symphony , were producing music of great expressive force and dynamism , Babbitt and Cage were making their music as objective as possible . This difference at least balances the similarity between Boulez and Babbitt as serial composers , or that between Cage and Messiaen as anti-polyphonic musicians . Babbitt 's divergence from Boulez and Messiaen is further suggested by his abandonment of scales of twelve chromatic durations ( which he had introduced , independently of the two French composers , in the Composition for Twelve Instruments ) in favour of a rhythmic practice which would correspond more closely with pitch-class serialism ? a practice which would , in particular , provide rhythmic counterparts to interval and to octave equivalence . Hence his notion of ' time points ' , introduced in two works of 1957 : Partitions for piano and All Set ( a typical title in showing how Babbitt 's puns can be verbal as well as musical ) for jazz ensem ble . The time point of a musical event is a measure of its position within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unit of measurement is the semiquaver , a note attacked on the first beat is said to occur at time point zero , a note attacked a semi-quaver later is at time point one , and so on . Where the ' interval between two dura tions ' is a concept of obscure meaning , the interval between two time points is quite simply a duration . And where there is no justification for regarding twelve durations as completing a durational octave , the time-point equivalent to the octave is very present in the bar . For example , the interval between time points zero and six , in the case just outlined , is six semiquavers ; if the second time point is delayed until the next bar , then this interval becomes a bar plus six semiquavers . However , it needs an obvious effort from both composer and performer to make the time-point system explicit , and something of their responsibilities maybe illus trated with reference to the opening bar of Post-Partitions for piano ( 1966 ) , repro duced in Example 14 . The twelve-note aggregate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that there are twelve attacks . These attacks occur at twelve dif ferent time points in six simultaneous metres , a feature that the dynamic levels are designed to clarify . Throughout the piece a direct relationship is maintained between dynamic level and time point on the scale ppppp = 1 , pppp = 2 , ... fffff = 12 ( i.e. 0 ) : this is necessary when the conflux of metres can not be rendered by rhyth mic means alone , either notationally or in performance . The 4/4 barring in the example applied only to the triplet quaver units : on the triplet-semiquaver level , there are two notational bars in the example , and on the quintuplet-semiquaver level there are one and two-thirds . The dynamic levels make it clear that , for instance , the first C in Example 14 is at time point one ( metre counted in units of a triplet quaver ) while the Al , occurring with it is at time point two ( metre counted in triplet semiquavers ) , and the second occurrence of the same dyad is at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In this bar , two time points are struck in each of the six metrical streams : eight and zero in the semiquaver stream ( each a low bass C ) , for example , or three and seven in that of septuplet semiquavers . These time-point dyads ' are the rhythmic equivalents of the pitch-class dyads introduced , if the latter are numbered according to the usual convention that C is zero , Cl #one , and so on ; hence , for example , A6 C has the numbering eight ? zero , and El ? G is three ? seven . There is thus a cohesiveness between the dispositions of pitch classes and of time points in the example , with the dynamics following the latter . Since there is significance , too , in the registral placings and in the durations , Babbitt has an array of ways to increase the density of meaning in his music . But development has gone so far in the two decades between these two illustrations , from the Three Compositions and from Post-Partitions , that we seem to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , say , fffff and ffff is obviously hazardous , and yet it is on such fine discriminations that Babbitt depends for his time points to be communicated . Moreover , the ostensible time-point structure cuts against a much more obvious way of understanding the passage , as an overlapped sequence of two-note repetitions , the staggerings and the repetitions being at subtly different time intervals . Babbitt 's earlier works , such as the Three 66 Beginning Again : From 1945 to the Early 1960s Compositions or the streamlined Second Quartet ( 1954 ) , had suggested a smooth complicity between the composer and his audience ? a relationship in which the music enacts and displays the processes by which it was composed , so that the composer manifests his thinking . But the structural puns at the start of PostPartitions ? the repetitions that , in time-point terms , are not repetitions ? speak from a world of deliberate frustration that can appear teasing or , viewed more negatively , obfuscatory : writing about his Third Quartet ( 1969-70 ) , for instance , the composer almost congratulates himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal " pattern ' .13 Where the works of Babbitt 's first two composing decades open themselves of themselves , welcoming an understanding that will span from small-scale connections of interval and motif to larger continuities , those from around 1965 onwards generally avoid explicit correspondences , except , as in Post-Partitions , to lay false trails for the unwary . The earlier music stands disclosed . But perhaps Babbitt then reacted to uninterest and misunderstanding by making sure that his works would be approached only by performers and listeners with the necessary qualifications . Alternatively , and perhaps more optimistically , one can accept Post-Partitions as an exemplary instance of music which listeners have to grasp in ways quite different from the composer 's . Just as one need not be aware of ionic forces and molecular geometries when admiring a crystal , so the thinking necessary to create such a work as Post-Partitions may not have to be in the listener 's mind . One may be impressed more by the pianistic virtuosity and alacrity so vividly placed in evidence , or by the jittery rhythms of slightly uneven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of extreme registers ? the sense that all of the piano 's notes remain constantly available ( again typical of Babbitt 's later music ) . This perpetual implicitness of the whole pitch repertory ? coupled with an unvarying tempo of unfolding , however irregular the rhythmic detail ? gives to Babbitt 's later music a distinctive quality at once febrile and mechanical . Control is felt , but so is unpredictability . All this is to assume , though , that the music will indeed have listeners who are not composers , analysts or students . Babbitt 's own ways of talking and writing about his work may be , as already suggested , more realistic . An example would be his article " ? one of rather few he has devoted to individual works ? on an orchestral piece from the same period as Post-Partitions : Relata I ( 1965 ) . In this essay he explains how the work , like Post-Partitions , has a time-point structure based on divisions of the crotchet into units of a third , a quarter , a fifth , a sixth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which process within an unchanging tempo , the perceived speed being altered by shifts in the number of simultaneous streams and hence in the density of events . But the availability of a large ensemble makes possible an organization , unlike that of the piano work , in which timbre can play a rich part . Babbitt 's orchestration ? if one can generalize from a repertory that includes only two other works for large forces , Relata II ( 1969 ) and the Piano America 2 : Classic Modernism 67 Concerto ( 1985 ) ? proceeds in majestic homogeneous blocks : again there is the awesome simultaneity of system and unpredictability . In the case of Relata I , there is a different instrument or like group for each of the forty-eight serial forms . Yet though Babbitt in his introduction emphasizes such " ' atomic " musical features ' , he also hints at how large sections of the work are connected together in ways that parallel the smaller relationships of the music , right down to those of its pre-compositional data . In this respect Relata I may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has distinguished as Babbitt 's ' third period ' , following on from the lucidity of his first composing decade and the abruptness of his second . According to Peel , the music of this period is preoccupied ' with polyphony , that is , fundamental " lines " or " voices " ( in whatever musical dimensions these be interpreted ) contributing ordered subsets or segments to form a larger , more complex , ordered set which itself may then be regarded as a new or derived line subject to the same transfor mations and the same interpretation in a musical dimension as a fundamental line ' . This sort of writing , maintaining accuracy at the risk of appearing defensive , has taken command of most discussions of Babbitt 's music , but it fails to reflect the clarity and humour of his own prose ( in the same way that many of his composing imitators have missed those same qualities in his music ) . Peel 's point , though , is reinforced by the hope the composer has expressed of his Third Quartet that ' fur ther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate modes of progression and association which are instantly apparent through those analogously constructed and related larger units which subsume them , on to the total foreground as a totality ' .16 A ramified construction of this kind inevitably imposes severe burdens on the performers : the example from Post-Partitions has already intimated how much pre cision in the playing of rhythms and dynamics is expected . For a soloist or a small ensemble the demands are perhaps still within the bounds of the practical , and more often than not Babbitt has composed for dedicated instrumentalists ( espe cially the pianists Robert Taub and Alan Feinberg ) or chamber groups . However , an orchestra , under present conditions of work , is most unlikely to be able to give a fair account of a score as detailed as Relata I , and Babbitt drew a bitter lesson from the first performances , noting that ' only about 80 per cent of the notes were played at all , and only about 60 per cent of these were played accurately rhythmically , and only about 40 per cent of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Until things can be improved , he concludes , ' composers of such works who have access to electronic media will , with fewer and fainter pangs of renunciation , enter their electronic studios with their compositions in their heads , and leave those stu dios with their performances on the tapes in their hands ' . " This was another manifestation of Babbitt 's realism : if complex polyphony could not be prepared by orchestras , a solution was at hand , and there need be no regrets 68 BeginningAgain : From 1945 to the Early 1960s about the loss of live performance . Something quite general about Babbitt 's music is implicated here . The performance of his compositions is the realization of what is notated , the transference of printed marks into sounds ; the opportunity for per-formers to mould the music with their own sways and gestures is minimized ? partly by rapidity of change , partly by the fact that , as in the opening of Post-Partitions , the composed structure goes against what a performer would prob ably take as the natural way to play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is not to say that Babbitt is unresponsive to the sounds of instruments and combina tions : on the contrary . But one can understand how a composer who values accu racy might prefer to make his own electronic realization rather than submit his intentions to the hazards of orchestral performance . All Babbitt 's electronic pieces have been created with the aid of the RCA Synthesizer at the Columbia ? Princeton Electronic Music Center in New York.18 This machine , which has little in common with the voltage-controlled synthesizers developed later in the 1960s , can generate a wide variety of sounds or else alter sounds in quite precise ways . Oscillators and noise generators provide the raw materials which the composer , giving the synthesizer its instructions on a punched paper roll , can obtain at will with a high degree of control over pitch , timbre , and volume . The apparatus is a kind of super-organ , with an enormous range of stops , and it appears most happily employed when used to form , as in Babbitt 's composi tions , quasi-orchestral polyphonies within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on tape were the Composition for Synthesizer ( 1960 ? 1 ) and Ensembles for Synthesizer ( 1962 ? 4 ) , of which the former moves to a climax that shakes at a single chord , while the latter , in keeping with the development in his music at the time , is a composite of many tiny and ingeniously worked fragments , one that begins as an alternation between short counterpoints and chords from which notes are successively removed , then continues as a closely integrated mosaic of more diverse ' ensembles ' . Babbitt has acknowledged the instrumental character of his electronic music , and voiced reservations about works which , like Stockhausen 's Gesang derliinglinge or Kontakte , are based on postulates particular to electronic means . ' Perhaps ' , he has written , ' a system founded on the unique resources of the electronic medium , and on premises hitherto unknown and not as yet even foreseeable , will be discovered and vindicated . Meanwhile , if it is only meanwhile , there is still an unforeseeably extensive domain in which the electronic medium uniquely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been tested , and whose resources barely have been tapped . ' 19 What speaks here is his wariness not only of Stockhausen but of that whole generation of European composers , whose serial extrapolations he could not but find unsystematic and therefore , in his terms , illegitimate . America 2 : Classic Modernism 69 Yet his caution did not keep him from taking advantage of the dramatic possibilities of electronic music in his Philomel for soprano and tape ( 1963 ) . This work ? a scena for the soloist to an invisible accompaniment of recorded soprano and synthesized sounds ? is set at the instant when the tongueless Philomel of the Ovid story undergoes metamorphosis into a nightingale . That transformation can be accomplished in the mirror of the loudspeakers , the voice coming now from the human soloist , present in the flesh , now from a disembodied entity cousin to her ; there is an echo song for the two . At the same time the dense interweaving of electronically synthesized polyphony gives the work an imposing musical continuity while also making a poetic contribution in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is , also , a sympathy between the intensive punning of John Hollander 's text ? ' Feel a million filaments ; fear the tearing , the feeling trees , that are full of felony ' ? and the perpetual reinterpretation of basic elements that is central to Babbitt 's music . His other vocal works show the same taste for texts packed with patent phonetic and metrical structure : poems by Gerard Manley Hopkins in Two Sonnets for baritone and trio ( 1955 ) , by Elizabeth I and her court poets in An Elizabethan Sextette for a female madrigalian consort ( 1979 ) , and by Hollander again in The Head of the Bed for soprano and quartet ( 1982 ) . In Vision and Prayer for soprano and tape ( 1961 ) , the direct but different predecessor of Philomel , and also in the Composition for Tenor and Six Instruments ( 1960 ) , each vowel is associated with an accompanimental timbre . Vision and Prayer also shows various kinds of musical correspondence with the forms of Dylan Thomas 's stanzas , patterned on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Words for soprano and piano ( 1960 ) and Phonemena for soprano and piano ( 1969 ? 70 ) or tape ( 1975 ) the approach is different : both these works set nonsense phonemes associated with pitches according to rules of twelve-note organization , so that here music gives rise to a'text ' instead of conforming to one already existent . From Points to Groups Punkte ( 1952 ) , unperformed in its original version , ' had apparently convinced Stockhausen that composing with points had its limitations : technical limitations , in that there was no way to order timbre when working with standard instruments , and aesthetic limitations , in that an orchestra of points became an undifferentiated mass , in the same way that , as both he and Boulez had found , layers of chromatic durations combined into regular pulsing . In the 196Os , in a sequence of revisions , he redrew the score for a larger orchestra , though one confined still to pitched instruments , and converted most of the original points into melodic lines , chords , and swarms of sound , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the piece had outgrown . More immediately he presented a creative criticism of the earlier score in Kontra-Punkte ( 1952-3 ) , scored for an ensemble of ten players rather like that of Webern 's Concerto , and carrying a title that may be understood as signifying Against Points ' , and even Against Punkte ' , as well as Counterpoints ' . It was the first composition since Kreuzspiel in which Stockhausen found the musical means to keep pace with his intellectual elan , and he gave it the distinction Nr. 1 ' in his catalogue of works . It was also one of the first pieces to become widely dissemi-nated . The Viennese firm Universal Edition , the publishers of most of Schoenberg , Berg , and Wehern , printed the score in 1953 as part of a policy of promoting what their director , Alfred Kalnius , might well have seen as the twentieth century 's sec-ond musical avant garde ( they also became the publishers of Boulez , and later I'ousseur , Berio , Birtwistle , and others ) , and a recording was issued in 1956 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Boulez was to pro-fess unguarded admiration ? expanded the range of thinking at this fiercely analyt-ical time , and did so with a proud dramatic sweep that has remained characteristic of the composer , and that was surely relevant to his commanding position among his colleagues from the mid-195Os to the late 1960s . In this case the drama comes about partly because the music 's process is , at least in some measure , laid out to view . As it proceeds , so the instruments fall silent one by one , the six ' families ' of the opening ? flute plus bassoon , clarinet plus bass clarinet , trumpet plus trombone , piano , harp , and violin plus cello ? giving place to the single timbre of the piano . At the same time , the ranges of dynamic level and rhythmic value are gradually Europe 3 : Achievement , 1953-1957 71 curtailed , and a texture that begins with isolated points ends with two-part counterpoint . What chiefly distinguishes the piece , though , is the move from points to ' groups ' . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technique had to be manifested as changes in terminology . ) A group , for Stockhausen , was a collection of notes considered as an identity : if spread out through time , it was to be felt as an extended instant , and in order for that to happen , the texture of Kontra-Punkte consists largely of rapid arpeggiations , which give the piece an electric dynamism , realizing what Boulez had perhaps hoped to achieve in Polyphonie X. Example 15 shows a representative passage of counterpointed groups , and suggests how Stockhausen acquires the compelling small-scale continuity of the piece . The groups here set out more or less distinct harmonic fields , whose antagonisms are resolved in the large piano group at the end of the example ? a group referring in bar 345 to the preceding harp group , in bar 346 to the clarinet group , and in bar 347 to the piano 's own sforzato chord and group , while in the extreme bass there is a varied transposition of the flute group . Four ' families ' are thus conjoined , in a miniature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cello is perhaps to be considered as going its own way ; the sixth ' family ' , the brass duo , has by this stage dropped out . The working with allusive harmonic connections relates to Boulez , who had of course been doing this at least from the Sonatina onwards , but Kontra-Punkte , in a manner typical of Stockhausen , sets out as if from nothing but its own material , presenting a new world with joy and confidence . As in Kreuzspiel , Stockhausen creates systems which result in vivacity . For example , the usual chromatic durations are combined with a division of the unchanging bar into up to twelve equal parts : hence the abundant demisemiquavers of Example 15 ? unless of course this effect preceded its supposed cause , and the system was chosen in order to justify a glittering rapidity . Another echo of total serialism lies in the zig-zags of dynamic markings , which again may act to enliven performance . Less obvious in a brief example is the way in which a fixed system of proportions ? of the sort described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stockhausen 's works of this period as a guarantor of unity ? governs the profusion of ideas . What we have , in the composer 's words , is ' not the same shapes in a changing light a description perhaps of his distant model , the Webern Concerto . Rather this : different shapes in the same , all-pervading light . ' 2 Contemporary with Kontra-Punkte and Studie I are the first four of Stockhausen 's Piano Pieces , opening a projected cycle of twenty-one . The scope of the cycle was presumably determined by some ordering of the first six whole numbers ? an obsession in Stockhausen 's early music ( see the above discussion of Studie 1 ) ? but after sets of four , six , and one , all produced in the 1950s , any such system broke down , and the subsequent piano pieces arrived much later as scenes in Licht , the operatic heptalogy he began in 1977 . The first piece to be written , in Paris in 1952 , 2 Texte , i. 37. was the one published as III , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Example 16 ) and serve as a small model for exploring Stockhausen 's formal proce-dures . The organization of pitch here is not easy to determine : Robin Maconie3 pro-poses a hearing in terms of three overlapping chromatic segments ( D-F , F-G# , Git-B ) , whereas Dieter Schnebel , 4 Jonathan Harvey , 5 and David Lewin6 would all see the five-note set of the first bar as the structural determinant , but neither approach is entirely satisfactory . There is also the common phenomenon of the difference between composing and hearing , between intention and result ? a phenomenon that appears quite as acutely in the serial music of Boulez and Stockhausen as in the precisely contemporary chance music of Cage . Hence the possibility that both kinds of composing may produce aurally similar results : an order that goes unheard may , in certain cases , be heard as disorder ( as in Stockhausen 's hearing of the Mode de valeurs ) , just as order may be found ? perhaps always will be found ? in what has been composed by chance operations . If one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and effects ? a congruence such as seems to have characterized diatonic music ? then this divergence might be a problem . However , the obscuring of means and the qualification of intention were essential to postwar modernism : this was when it was discovered that the emancipation of dissonance had permitted discord not only in what music is but in how it is understood . The sophistication of Lewin 's analysis lies partly in its awareness of the uncertainty and partiality that must attend any analytical effort , and its clarity is partly that of an approach which , fixed on comprehending the result , leaves matters of intention in abeyance , almost as if the piece were a natural phenomenon ( in which regard the analysis is indeed attuned to the objective intentions of many composers Europe 3 : Achievement , 1953-1957 75 at this period ) ? though , to be sure , the sophistication and the clarity are there too in the findings . Lewin asks us to hear the piece as a sequence of four passes through an elegant network of transformations of its five-note set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smaller networks consist of sets related by inversion pre-serving the chromatic tetrachord ( e.g. the opening A-B-D-A6-B6 and the partly overlapping B6-A-G##-B-F ) and of those related to these by transposition through a tritone ( e.g. F-E6-D-E-Ai in bars 2-3 and the largely simultaneous B-F-E6-D-E ) ; the larger network is a grouping of four of such foursomes . Lewin provides a pitch-set abstract of the piece , a kind of chorale , as an exercise in teaching the ear to hear what he hears . By training ourselves in this way , we might think , we are being led to hear Lewin rather than Stockhausen : a particular photograph of a landscape that remains mute . So it may be , but the objection is invalid if it suggests we can ever come directly to the landscape itself , to the piece unfiltered by the commentaries and interpretations of others , and by the prejudices we bring ourselves . ( This , too , this dissolution of the musical work , has been a key theme of the period . ) As Lewin notes at the end of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diver gences between his version and the more eclectic treatment of the piece by Nicholas Cook:7 ' The differences in segmentation between Cook 's analysis and mine should not be problematic , I think , except for those who believe that form is " a Form " , something a piece has one and only one of in all of its aspects . ' If we are intent , still , on discovering Stockhausen 's intentions , they may sound more loudly in the projection of the piece into existence than in how that piece pro gresses ? in the joy of discovery more than in the nature of what is discovered . Perhaps one should understand the precise definition of pitch here as an illusion ? a necessary illusion , since the pianist must be given something to play ( improvisa tion at this point in Stockhausen 's career would have been ideologically unthinkable , and could not in any case be expected to produce such a curt and eruptive result ) ? for what any analysis in terms of pitch-class sets must leave out of account is the twinkling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sevenths and ninths ) and uncertain leaps , where the sensation of pitch is attenuated by isolation or extreme register . It may also be that the notes are sometimes to be understood more as programmes for action than as pitches , their placing on the keyboard in relation to one another being important for its effect on timing and attack . As Stockhausen has said , his concern in all four of these first piano pieces was with ' imparting a new way of feeling time in music , in which the infinitely subtle " irrational " shadings and impulses and fluctuations of a good per-former often produce what one wants better than any centimetre gauge ' 8 ? though t his may have been more a response to how his music worked than a reason for its creation . In experimental art , the fortuitous need not be discounted , but rather welcomed and celebrated . If Stockhausen was indeed coming to recognize a fundamental difference 76 BeginningAgain : From 1945 to the Early 1960s between synthesized and performed music ? a distinction that was to be tran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Kontakte ? he was still , at least in the composing of Piece III , able to transfer into the instrumental world an electronic phenomenon , that of time reversal . In the fifth bar he progres sively builds up a three-note chord , as is common ; in the seventh bar he progres sively relinquishes notes , which is less usual . There are numerous more complex instances of this effect in Piece II , suggesting he might have been trying out some-thing discovered in Schaeffer 's studio , rather as Piece W , in Maconie 's plausible view , 9 finds him leaning over Boulez 's shoulder at the worktable of Structures ( though at this moment the two composers were so close that priorities are as hard to establish as they are irrelevant ) . ' We are all ' , Stockhausen wrote , ' more or less treading on ice , and as long as this is the case , the organizational systems being put forward represent guidelines to prevent the composer from faltering . And one has to face the fact that there are as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can be dreamed up and set in motion as easily as clockwork . Their number is probably infinite , but certainly only a very few of them are acceptable systems , compatible with their means of expression , and applicable without self-contradiction to all the dimensions of music . Of these , still fewer are so perfectly prefigured that they yield beautiful and interesting music . " 0 This was the big difference from Boulez . Where Boulez wanted one grammar to support a variety of idiolects , Stockhausen went in search of a new system in each piece , each time setting new conditions out of which a new musical universe could evolve . Music 's ability to elaborate itself of itself , which Boulez wanted to control , Stockhausen was content to enable . Systems of Organization The mid- I ) 5Os confirmed Stockhausen and Boulez as the leaders of a movement whose influence was almost inescapable , touching not only many thousands of younger musicians but also the man who was almost universally regarded as the greatest living composer : Stravinsky , whose Movements for piano and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The workshop period was over ; it was a time for music of great ambition and public intent , music such as Boulez 's Le marteau sans maitre or Stockhausen 's Gesang der Jiinglinge and Gruppen . From 1956 both Boulez and Stockhausen taught regularly at Darmstadt , where student composers could also learn from Berio , Pousseur , Kagel , and Maderna . Boulez and Maderna , out of their performing work at Darmstadt , emerged as conductors , and Europe 3 : Achievement , 1953-1957 77 began to gain a place for new music in the repertories of leading orchestras.11 New journals ? notably Die Reihe , whose first issue appeared in 1955 ? were founded to publish articles by and about composers of this group , and festivals and radio sta tions continued to provide them with a forum . Their music appeared in print , very often from Universal Edition , and increasingly on record . The Vega company , for example , issued recordings of many of the new works introduced at the Domaine Musical , the concert series which Boulez founded with Barrault 's backing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Incontri , Berio 's Serenata I , and Boulez 's own Marteau were all presented under his direction and recorded during the first three Domaine seasons.12 ( The Domaine was soon imitated in Milan with the founding of the Incontri Musicali by Berio and Maderna in 1956 , in Vienna with the formation of the Die Reihe ensemble by Friedrich Cerha and Kurt Schwertsik in 1958 , and elsewhere , in company with a compositional progression from such sin gular devisings as the septet of Le marteau to what became in the 1970s a standard line-up of wind and string soloists with piano and percussion . ) Rarely can com posers who were still in their twenties or very early thirties have exerted themselves so prominently in musical life . All this has helped to generate an impression in retrospect of something mono lithic , even totalitarian , though that may not have been how it appeared at the time . The experience of total serialism ? a brief experience , confined to a few pieces written by Boulez and Stockhausen in 1951-2 ? had left composers with a determination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Darmstadt summers had a full measure of doubt and dispute . Boulez , in a 1954 essay , 13 chided his colleagues , and indeed his former self , for galloping too readily , too thoughtlessly , towards what he could only see as an illusory goal of total orga nization : ' One soon realizes ' , he wrote , perhaps with his own Structures la in mind , ' that composition and organization can not be confused without falling into a maniacal inanity . ' He went on to state his present wish for ' a dialectic operating at each moment of the composition between a strict global organization and a tem porary structure controlled by free will ' ( which would explain the appeal to him of Stockhausen 's Kontra-Punkte ) . Of course , it went without saying that the ' strict 78 Beginning Again : From 1945 to the Early 1960s global organization ' would in some way come out of total serialism . Organization would provide possibilities , among which the composer could direct himself by an alert marriage of intellect and instinct , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potentially more useful models than Webern . Boulez 's preference had always been for complexity and multiplicity ? for Klee rather than Mondrian , as he had put it in a 1951 letter to Cage14 ? and it was to Debussian allusiveness rather than to Webernian strictness and symmetry that he appealed in Le marteau sans maitre . In the same essay Boulez also points the way towards the aleatory principles that were to occupy him later in the decade . He speculates about the possibility of a composition existing as a set of ' formants ' , each linked to the organizational bases of the work as the formants of a timbre are linked to the fundamental , and yet each independent : the Polyphonie idea is reasserting itself , behind the guise of terms borrowed from acoustical analysis , and was to be partially realized in the Third Piano Sonata , a work predicted in the following passage , highly characteristic of Boulez 's wish for fluidity , ambiguity and freedom : ' Let us claim for music the right to parentheses and italics . . . a concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of remaining in airtight compartments ; and finally a sort of development where the closed circuit is not the only possible answer . ' Such a labyrinthine conception , though manifested more obviously in the Third Piano Sonata , is already present in Le marteau sans maitre , as indeed it had been in the Second Piano Sonata or the Sonatina . After Structures Ia , Boulez had immedi ately returned to what had been his earlier practice : that of using principles bor rowed and extended from Schoenberg and Webern in order to proliferate intervallic motifs and rhythmic cells in a whole variety of ways . The apparatus of total serial-ism remains in Le marteau ? the dynamic levels which change almost from note to note , the chromatic durations ? but more than two decades passed before Lev Koblyakov uncovered the serial construction of the work.15 Boulez 's serial tech niques , as described in what has been published of his Darmstadt lectures , 16 are so multifarious that almost anything could be derived from anything else , and his hor ror of the obvious makes a secure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had abandoned the idea of analysing Le marteau before tackling the transparent Structures la , pointed out in a later article for Die Reihe17 that the orig inal conventions of serialism ? and even those of total serialism ? had been so far adapted in the immediately subsequent works of Pousseur , Stockhausen , Boulez , and others , that to describe those works as ' serial ' would be almost meaningless . At best , only the essential principles ? those of ordering a set of elements , and trans-forming that ordered set according to rules ? remain . Babbitt felt this too , and Europe 3 : Achievement , 1953-1957 79 recalled how , after his hopes had been aroused by news of endeavours seemingly similar to his own being carried out in Europe , his presumed comrades " music and technical writings eventually revealed so very different an attitude towards the means , and even so very different means , that the apparent agreement with regard to end lost its entire significance . . . Mathematics ? or , more correctly , arithmetic ? is used , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pre-compositional relationships , but as a compositional device . . . The alleged " total organization " is achieved by applying dissimilar , essentially unrelated criteria of organization to each of the components , criteria often derived from outside the sys-tem , so that ? for example ? rhythm is independent of and thus separable from the pitch structure ; this is described and justified as a " polyphony " of components , though polyphony is customarily understood to involve , among other things , a principle of organized simultaneity. ' 18 Babbitt 's distress , not unmixed with self-congratulation , is occasioned by little more than the fact that his European colleagues did not share his view of what con-stituted ' general systematic , pre-compositional relationships ' : one could as well criticize Berlioz for not being Bach . But at least his diatribe points up the great gulf at the time between composers in America and those in Europe with regard to the serial heritage . That gulf might be illustrated by comparing Kontra-Punkte or Le marteau sans maitre with his Second Quartet ? a work of the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Babbitt piece is lucid about itself : it is a demonstration of how it was composed . Its all-interval series is introduced interval by interval , as it were , with each new arrival initiating a development of the interval repertory thus far acquired , each development being argued in terms of derived sets . Important landmarks in the continuous progress are firmly underlined : Babbitt calls upon harmonic octaves at the points where new intervals are brought into play , brings in a rare solo line when the first hexachord has been completed ( bar 114 ) , and has the first complete serial statement begun by all four instruments in unison ( bars 266-8 ) . It is all far away from Stockhausen 's new systems as grains of sand ? each , one must guess , unlike any other , and certainly unlike any systems familiar from the past . It is equally far away from Boulez 's ' notion of a discontinu-ous time achieved thanks to structures which will become entangled ' . Just as Boulez returned after Structures Ia to earlier musical ideals , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases within a colder climate . In 1953 , beginning his first new work after the book for two pianos , he went back again to Rene Char , but this time to an earlier collection , Le marteau sans maitre , where the verse is very much more concise , more abruptly obscure , more objective . In all 80 Beginning Again : From 1945 to the Early 1960s these respects the poems suited Boulez 's purpose , which was not so much to set them to music , in the way that he had set the very much longer texts of Le visage nuptial , but rather to make them the seed of an elaborate musical form ? a form in which purely instrumental movements would be necessary , and not merely as interludes . As he had before , Boulez wrote an essay about his new work without naming it.19 What mattered in music 's contact with poetry , he declared , was structure : ' Structure : one of the key words of our time . ' ( This sentence alone conveys a thought , more poetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compositions adds its commentary . ) The poem must be more than ' a frame for the weaving of ornamental arabesques ' ; it must become " ' centre and absence " of the whole body of sound ' : ' centre ' because everything in the music is derived from the words , and ' absence ' because the process of musical composition has completely consumed them . By applying himself thoroughly to the text , the composer would uncover ' a whole web of relationships ... , including , among others , the affective relation-ships , but also the entire mechanism of the poem , from its pure sound to its intelli gible organization . ' It was perhaps disingenuous of Boulez to assume that earlier composers of vocal music had not been excited by matters of ' pure sound ' or ' intelligible organization ' in the texts they chose to set : as so often , he conjures up a caricature of the Romantic artist in order to affirm his otherness . It was also disingenuous of him to imply that the ' expressive ' qualities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combination of violence and vagueness was essential to him ? perhaps especially the vagueness , since Le marteau as a setting of transparent , explicit texts is unthinkable . However , his emphasis on sound and structure was true to his prac tice , and true to the conscious concerns of many of his contemporaries . For exam ple , Berio 's responsiveness to verbal sound is evident right from his setting of three poems from Joyce 's Chamber Music for female voice and trio , a work which dates from 1953 ( the year before he was drawn into the Darmstadt circle through meet ing Maderna , Pousseur , and Stockhausen ) , and which shows in its monotone sec ond song a great number of patterns of timbre and rhythm suggested by patterns in the words . And as far as ' intelligible organization ' is concerned , Babbitt 's ' Spelt from Sybil 's Leaves ' , one of the pair of settings of Hopkins sonnets for baritone and trio ( 1955 ) , exhibits a neat parallel between the rhyme scheme and the serial forms used . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in later works based on Mallarme , but the Char texts of Le marteau are brusquely irregular , and the music seems not so much to echo them as to channel them into its own struc tural processes . Partly that must be because of how the work cuts down the importance of its ostensible soloist , in contrast with what happens in such widely differing examples of vocal chamber music as Pierrot lunaire and Ravel 's Mallarme poems : this is just Europe 3 : Achievement , 1953 ? 1957 81 one of its revolutionary features . Only four of the work 's nine movements are vocal ; two purely instrumental movements arrive before the singer enters ; and the drama of the finale is the drama of the voice 's being extinguished : first made wordless and a regular member of the ensemble , then replaced as principal part by the alto flute . There are no songs here , for the vocal movements are often dominated by instru mental qualities of rhythm , texture , and phrasing , and even the most song-like of them , ' L'artisanat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flute has a comprimary role . The voice is a potential danger , which the music has to limit . Or , to put it another way , vocal expression has to force itself through a mill of musical purpose . It is not that the instrumental movements extend and elaborate the vocal settings , but rather that the voice and the Char texts offer commentary on what seems most essentially an instrumental action . Boulez 's wariness of the voice ? at least in the period between the seductive ' Complainte du lezard amoureux ' in Le soleil des eaux and the fluid ornamented melismata of the Improvisations sur Mallarme ? was possibly a sign of a deeper wariness of music 's ability to comport itself as if with a voice . His disdain of ' accom panied melody ' in Messiaen , 2 ? his shattering of legato line in the Sonatina , and his insistence on polyphony ? preferably on a polyphony of polyphonies , in which musical parameters are differently adjudicated ? all point to this . In Le marteau music tumbles forth , but from no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too flick ering in colour , too jagged in outline , too prone to sudden stops and changes of course . One virtue of these Char poems , besides their brevity , was that the voice they intimate ( two of them include the first person singular pronoun ) speaks intensely of things disconnected , and of things disconnected from itself . There are three poems , each contributing , or contributed to , a cycle of move ments . ' L'artisanat furieux ' , sung in movement III , has a prelude ( I ) and a postlude ( VII ) ; ' Bourreaux de solitude ' ( VI ) comes amid a chain of ' commentaries ' that occupy the other even-numbered places ; and ' Bel edifice et les pressentiments ' ( V ) has a ' double ' , or variation , at the end of the work . The interweaving of three sepa rate cycles recalls Messiaen 's practice in the Turangalila symphony , except that in Boulez 's case the interweaving goes further . Not only does the last movement explicitly recall moments from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cycle ? such as the pulsed rhythms and the suspended continuities of the ' Bourreaux de solitude ' group ? are compromised by distinctions that cut across the cycles ( notably the distinction between vocal and purely instrumental move ments ) and by general features of the work . Among these , most important is the instrumentation , which opened new possi bilities for western chamber music without there being subsequently any dimin ishment to the work 's clang of novelty . The scoring is for contralto voice with alto flute , viola , guitar , vibraphone , xylorimba ( a xylophone with an extended lower range ) , and unpitched percussion ( one player ) , a grouping of diversities into a new 82 Beginning Again : From 1945 to the Early 1960s unity , enabled partly by a common middle-high register , partly by bonds of sound , and partly by an abrupt removal of the instruments into a special world of speed , dash and harmonic restlessness . Also , heterogeneity is itself a unifying factor . Since none of the instruments is supported by any other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is music that is defined , and perhaps even made possible , by hazardous tanglings . Its ancestries are also numerous . Derivation from Pierrot lunaire is acknowledged in the presence of a voice-flute duet ( the setting of ' L'artisanat furieux ' ) , and Boulez has also suggested that the vibraphone relates to the Balinese gamelan , the xylorimba to the music of black Africa , and the guitar to the Japanese koto , 21 to which one might add that the ensemble , like that of Kreuzspiel , is flavoured with the modern jazz of the period . Le marteau is thus a pioneering essay in the ' music of the whole world ' that Stockhausen was to take as an idea122 ? though it draws away from embracing exotic qualities of modality , rhythm , or ritual presentation : refusal is still what partly gives Boulez 's music its energy , and this particular piece its quick temper . As for the liaisons between instruments , those too have been described by the composer , in noting that the voice connects with the flute as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also awesomely assume the vocal role at the end ) , the flute with the viola as an instrument able to sustain sounds , the viola ( pizzicato ) with the guitar for its plucked strings , the guitar with the vibraphone as a resonator , and the vibraphone with the xylorimba as an instrument to be struck.L3 The unpitched percussion ( used only in the ' Bourreaux de solitude ' cycle and the omnium-gatherum finale ) he leaves out of account as ' marginal ' , though the xylorimba 's high noise-content establishes some rapport . Boulez 's commentaries on Le marteau have concerned themselves only with these matters of apparatus and descent , and the very elusiveness of his published Darmstadt lectures is enough to suggest a view of detailed compositional technique as something to he withheld . The cause for this need not be interpreted as artistic pudeur , still less as a wish to protect trade secrets . Boulez 's privacy is , rather , a silent statement of principle ? of the principle that the creative means are , and should be , engulfed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process would be impossible or , if it could be done , futile . Koblyakov 's painstaking retrieval is , corre spondingly , an astonishing detective achievement , and a resounding disproof of the impossibility , if not the futility , since the question remains as to how the process confers or determines the work 's meaning and value . After all , Le marteau sans maitre had been installed as a modern masterpiece ? and hailed by Stravinsky , who attended a performance Boulez conducted in Los Angeles in 195724 ? long before anyone but its composer had any knowledge of its compositional plan . Example 17a shows the opening of the workand Example 17b an indication , Europe 3 : Achievement , 1953-1957 83 based on Koblyakov , of how the basic series can be ' multiplied ' by any one of its five constituent groups to yield a new series in which every original note is replaced by a transposition of the multiplying group onto that note . ( It is unclear whether this was Boulez 's independent extension from Webernian serialism or his formalization of Stockhausen 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' is group c , the minor third , and the new series is transposed as a whole up a semitone so that the new dc is equivalent to the old c . The music is in two parts , one shared between the alto flute and the vibraphone , the other between the guitar and the viola , and this latter part begins with groups a , b ( the D has to be borrowed from the vibraphone ) , ac ( the C has to be borrowed , again from the vibraphone ) , dc ( the same C must do duty here too ) and bc ( with the A and the E6 borrowed from the flute ) , while the flute-vibraphone line also moves through bc ( beginning of the second bar ) and e ( beginning of the third bar ) , among other groups . Koblyakov 's analysis , carrying across the entire length of the work , is far more convincing than may appear in reference to a short extract , and its formidable detail defies summary . However ? and not only on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one must doubt that the music is heard as a succession of multiplied serial units . Not only is the division into such units not always clear ( the C-Eb , split between vibraphone and guitar , and involved in both parts , is a case in point ) , but even the nature of the music as two-part counterpoint is constantly being jeopardized by the crossings of parts and the splittings of lines between dissimilar instruments , especially when the speed is such that triplet quavers are gone in a tenth of a second ( both the prelude and the postlude to ' L'artisanat furieux ' race at double the speed of the setting , as if they were harmonics of the vocal movement ) . Pace and fracturing , one might conclude , are more at issue here than polyphony ? though with the polyphony vital for the pace and fracturing to be felt . Also , polyphonic order is expressed in the music most directly not by chains of serial multiplication products but by correspondences of shaped motif . In Example 17 one may note the prominence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ falling ninths or sixteenths ( usually major ) : it is almost as if the alto flute were announcing a three-note motif , one to be answered successively , in Webernian fashion , by the guitar ( though with mild distortion ) and the viola ( in retrograde inversion ) along a time line of consecutive quavers , a time line that then continues as far as the middle of the third bar . Regularities , of motif and of pulse , are played against irregularities , in ways that echo , though they do not precisely duplicate , the compositional process of taking units from a mechanical scheme ( the successions of units in Koblyakov 's analysis come from diagonal traverses of five-by-five squares of multiplied series ) and then interpreting them with apparent freedom in matters of note order , registration , rhythm , and dynamics . In Boulez 's terms , the basic elements were produced automatically ; it was then necessary to author them by what musical means remained . There had to be this dialectic between process and freedom , between organization and composition , between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about such dichotomies , and about their irreplace-ability . ' One used to find , especially in country towns , cafes where two walls with mirrors ran parallel . And when you entered these cafes you saw yourself into infin-ity ; but if you took one mirror away , you saw only one reflection . I think that the imagination is situated between irrational and rational invention just as between two mirrors : if it deprives itself either of the irrational or the rational , then it can see itself only once . ' 25 Even his unusually candid illustration of irrational invention , in this same article , finds excitement in an opposition : ' When you are out walking you can see the play of light on the leaves of the trees , and if you look at the leaves intensely enough you may suddenly be struck by the play of one structure in com-parison with another . I have selected the example of leaves because I have seen for myself the relationship between one fixed arrangement of light and the flexible arrangement of leaves . ' Le marteau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and instrumentation , is Boulez 's most complex and endlessly fascinating , endlessly frustrating play of such relationships between the fixed and the flexible . A more violent description of such an encounter comes at the end of his ' Sound and Word ' , where he invokes Artaud again ? ' hearing him read his own texts , accompanying them with shouts , noises , or rhythmic effects , has shown us how to Europe 3 : Achievement , 1953-1957 85 make the phoneme burst forth when the word can no longer do so ' ( a striking indi cation of what the effect of Le marteau should be , but has been less and less in Boulez 's four successive recordings26 ) ? and concludes : ' I increasingly believe that to create effective art , we have to take delirium and , yes , organize it . ' No doubt this is what he would have wished : to compose with the daemon upon him , and to wrest from the struggle a form . However , his procedure in Le marteau sans maitre sug gests much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his awareness of this ? his awareness that he belonged to a different class of artists , those needing a conscious structure to wield or fight against ? may have been responsible for the decline in his output , and the virtual extinction of his ability to commit himself to a finished work , after the first performance , when he was thirty , of what was to remain his most signal achievement.27 Sound and Word Le marteau sans maitre was one of three closely contemporary works that Stockhausen discusses , along with Nono 's Il canto sospeso ( 1956 ) and his own Gesang der Junglinge ( 1955-6 ) , in what is a rare document in showing a composer of this time ( or indeed any time ) observing his fellows.28 As he intimates , his views of his colleagues are coloured by his own preoccupations : in particular his concern with treating the comprehensibility of words as a variable . It was characteristic of him that he could not be satisfied with Boulez 's and Berio 's derivation of music from verbal sound and structure : there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be enough to demonstrate completely ? some system which a work could bring into being . Such a system he found in the organization of degrees of comprehensibility , across a range from the plainness of speech to the total incomprehensibility of wordless music . This would require electronic means . He needed to arrange everything separate into as smooth a continuum as possible , and then to extricate the diversities from this continuum and compose with them ' , 29 and he found the way to do that through attending , between 1954 and 1956 , classes in phonetics and information theory given at Bonn University by Werner Meyer-Eppler . Since , as he there discovered , vowel sounds are distin guished , whoever is speaking , by characteristic formants ( emphasized bands of fre quencies ) , it seemed it ought to be possible to create synthetic vowels out of 86 Beginning Again : From 1945 to the Early 1960s electronic sounds , so that synthesized music could begin to function as language.3 ? Working from the other end , the whole repertory of tape transformations was avail-able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towards pure , meaningless sound . Thanks to these techniques Stockhausen was able to create in Gesang der Junglinge a model union between music and language . The synthesized electronic sounds are composed according to principles analogous to those operating in vocal sounds , and the recorded voice , that of a boy treble , is carried into the electronic stream by studio alteration and editing : superimpositions creating virtual choruses , reverberations to suggest great distance , scramblings of words and parts of words , changes of speed and direction . Nothing on either side , therefore , is quite foreign to the other , and Stockhausen invites his audience to attend to degrees of compre hensibility by using a text with which he could expect them ( the work was intended for projection in Cologne Cathedral ) to be familiar : the German translation of the prayer sung in the Apocrypha by three young Jews in Nebuchadnezzar 's furnace ( hence the title , ' Song of the Youths ' ) . Even so , the choice of this particular prayer ? rather than , say , the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiar ? can not have been uninfluenced by what Stockhausen could have envisioned would be the imagery of the piece , with the boy 's singing surrounded by flames of electronic articulation . In using natural alongside synthetic sound , Stockhausen mediated not only between speech and music but also between the musique concrete of Paris and the Elektronische Musik of Cologne , opening the middle ground for exploration . His example ? in this as in so many other things ? was widely followed . Berio , for instance , transformed a passage of recorded recitation from Joyce 's Ulysses to pro-duce a stream of comprehended and half-comprehended utterance in his tape piece Thema-omaggio a Joyce ( 1958 ) , though with a physical , sensuous handling of the female voice that connects more with the vocal writing of his concert works , such as ( lumber Music , than with the ecstatic purity of the treble in Gesang der Junglinge . Ligeti , too , was impressed by Stockhausen 's achievement , and in his Artikulation ( 1958 ) made a more ambivalent , half-comic essay in electronic sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spatial dimension into electronic music . Gesang der Junglinge was originally prepared for five tape chan nels , later reduced to four , and its ebullience is greatly enhanced by antiphonal effects . Stockhausen himself was to apply in many later works the discoveries he had made here in the treatment of language and of space , of which the latter was already claiming his attention in Gruppen for three orchestras . But perhaps the deepest lesson of Gesang der Junglinge was that music of all kinds , whether natu rally or electronically producedis made of sounds rather than notesand that the Europe 3 : Achievement , 1953-1957 87 first task of the composer is to listen . ' More than ever before ' , Stockhausen wrote , ' we have to listen , every day of our lives . We draw conclusions by making tests on ourselves . Whether they are valid for others only our music can show . ' 31 II canto sospeso , the third work Stockhausen considered in his essay on music and speech , is a setting of fragments from the farewell letters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nono projects in characteristically highly charged music for soloists , chorus , and orchestra . There is certainly no Boulezian suspicion of ' expressive relationships ' here , though at the same time Nono contrasts movements whose words can be understood ( such as the fifth , for tenor and orchestra ) with others in which the sense is almost wholly confounded by his serial mechanics . He adopts this latter course , Stockhausen interestingly suggests , when the words are such as would shame musical interpre tation . Example 18 shows the start of the second movement , which is the usual example , since in this piece for unaccompanied chorus the composer 's procedures are trans parent.32 The movement is characteristic , however , in that the meaning of the text ? ' I die for a world which will shine with such a strong light and with such beauty that my sacrifice is nothing ' ? is obscured by having the four contrapuntal lines divided across the eight-part chorus . The contrapuntal lines move in units of quintuplet semiquavers , semiquavers , triplet quavers , and quavers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1-2-3-5-8-13 , which in Stockhausen 's music of this period , too , was often used to define proportions . All four lines are drawn into a single unfolding of pitches , simply repeating one of Nono 's favoured all-interval series in which the intervals expand wedgewise : A-B6 Al B GC F## C# F D E E6 . There is also a quite separate quasi-serial organization of dynamic levels . What Boulez saw as a problem ? the struggle between organization and invention ? becomes in Nono a dramatic emblem of his subject matter , as if we were hearing not so much prisoners as a prison itself singing . A further , again different example of language becoming music was provided by Mauricio Kagel ( b. 1931 ) in his Anagrama for four singers , speaking chorus , and eleven players ( 1955-8 ) , which was one of the first works he completed after arriv ing in Cologne from his native Buenos Aires in 1957 . Kagel 's relationship with Stockhausen was evidently close at this time , and mutually beneficial : what Kagel took from Gesang der @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a fresh perspective ? he seems to have developed avant-garde interests by himself in Argentina ? and a satirical slant , so that working with degrees of comprehensibility creates absurd theatre . All the singers and speakers treat the text , in four languages , as phonetic more than meaningful material , and bring to it a wide variety of vocal techniques : whispering , shouting , and so on . This was new , as was the similar variety of effect in the instrumental parts , and the score contributed decisively to the explosion of interest in the impurities and extremities of which both voices and instruments are capable . ... how time passes .. . ' Music consists of order-relationships in time . ' So begins Stockhausen 's essay ' .. . how time passes ... ' ( 1957 ) , whose title perhaps punningly speaks of bemusement at what had happened within the space of six years , as well as of his recent and pre-sent concerns with tempo ( on the large scale ) , with the momentary fluctuations and vibrations of sound ( on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 : Achievement , 1953-1957 89 divide . These were the concerns of the fruitful phase that had followed Kontra-Punkte , the concerns of Gesang der Junglinge , of the second set of Piano Pieces ( V-X , though V was revised , VI and VII were replaced , 33 and IX and X were not fin ished until 1961 ) , of Zeitmasze for five woodwind , and of Gruppen . Work on his electronic Studien had given Stockhausen a practical demonstration of how pitch and duration ? the two parameters whose parallel ordering had been such a problem to total serialism ? are aspects of a single phenomenon , that of vibration . A vibration of , say , 32 Hz will be perceived as a pitched note , whereas one of 4 Hz will be heard as a regular rhythm , and somewhere in between the one will merge into another . So for different reasons ? to do with acoustics rather than mathematics ? Stockhausen came to the same conclusion that Babbitt had reached a little earlier , that some deep coherence had to be sought between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a work . The scale of chromatic durations was inadequate , in Stockhausen 's view , because it contradicted acoustical reality , being an additive series and not a logarithmic series such as lay behind the chro matic scale of pitches ; moreover , it led to absurdities and inconsistencies , such as the tendency towards regular pulsation when many lines are superimposed , or the undue weight of long durations . To be troubled by these things was not , of course , new . Boulez in Le marteau sans maitre had developed his techniques of transformation to the point where he could range from strongly pulsed music to plastic counterpoint propelled by irregular beats or to completely ametrical movement : rhythmic variety , to which he had been led before by intuition and a sense of history , could now be justified within the sys tem . Nono in Il canto sos peso had broken up regularity simply by overlaying streams in different units . Stockhausen himself , in Kontra-Punkte and Piano Pieces I-IV , had added equal divisions of the bar to chromatic durations . But now he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To create a true confluence with the phenomenon of pitch , he introduced a logarithmic scale of twelve tempos ? a scale which could be transposed ' by altering the rhythmic unit : for example , a change from crotchets to semibreves , and therefore a deceleration by a factor of four , would be the equivalent of a downward shift of two octaves . Within this system , the obverse of the one proposed earlier by Boulez , 34 a rise of a perfect twelfth would have its analogue in a change of tempo in the ratio 3 : 2 ( the frequency ratio of a per fect fifth , if one discounts the small discrepancies of temperament ) coupled with a halving of the rhythmic unit . So any pitch line could be turned into a duration-tempo succession , a melody of rhythm , and one could also change the timbre of the rhythm , as it were , by adding partials ' in the form of other dura tion-tempo successions going on at the same time , their number limited only by      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      