@@773851

txt 180 Reproduction and breeding plicit in any progeny-testing programme where AI is used to propagate the progeny of the selected sires . Thus , breeding policy in any large-scale progeny testing and AI programme must be con tinuously reviewed . After the success of the maize breeders in crossing inbred lines and producing hybrid corn , the application of their methods to live-stock production was considered . The production and crossing of inbred lines of poultry has been commercially successful and most of the new breeds that are available in the tropics today , emanating from the large commercial breeders , are hybrids of one kind or another . Efforts are also being made to develop inbred lines of pigs with the objective of producing commercial hybrids . The extension of this system to the breeding of either dairy or beef cattle is not considered practical at the present time . Line breeding Line breeding is the term used to describe the system of inbreeding that ensures that outstanding traits in one ancestor are transmitted to descendants without the undesirable effects normally associated with inbreeding . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to each other as is possible except for their relationship to the outstanding ancestor to which the breeder wishes to line breed his stock . A schematic illustration of line breeding is shown in Fig. 4.12 . In tropical cattle breeding perhaps the best-known example of successful line breeding is the use of the Animal breeding practices 181 outstanding Santa Gertrudis sire Monkey ' and his sons at the King Ranch , Texas , in the evolution of the Santa Gertrudis breed . Crossbreeding When unrelated livestock are mated the system is known as crossbreeding . The progeny of crossbred livestock are heterozygous for those traits that differ in their parents , and the greater the dif-ferences between parental traits the greater the degree of heterozygosity in the offspring . As all crossbred progeny inherit the totality of parental characteristics in more or less the same manner they tend to resemble each other to a greater or lesser degree . A simple example would be the crossbreeding of red and white Shorthorn cattle where all progeny are roan in colour . First-cross progeny are usually superior in productive traits to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as heterosis or hybrid vigour . It is largely due to the effect of overdominance , discussed in a previous section , where the heterozygotes are superior in one way or another to both the homozygotes . The degree of hybrid vigour exhibited depends on the extent to which the characteristics of the parental stock are complementary . In general , the greater the differences in the parental genetic make-up the greater the degree of hybrid vigour , which in productive traits is expressed mainly in terms of improved fertility , viability and general thriftiness . It is also possible that the degree of heterosis depends upon the level of the environment as Barlow ( 1981 ) , reviewing the literature on environment ? genetic interactions , has suggested that the more stressful the environment the greater the heterosis . Hybrid vigour disappears very rapidly when hybrids are mated inter se so that new parental stock are continuously required if the livestock owner wishes to exploit hybrid vigour to the utmost . Crossbreeding , where it has been practicable , has been a constant feature associated with the introduction of exotic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not been utilized to any extent to improve the productivity of tropical livestock , and where it has been successfully used it has been invariably accompanied by im-provements in management and modifications of environmental conditions . One example is the development of a modern poultry industry in most tropical countries that depends upon the importa-tion of hybrid chicks from the temperate zone and the adoption of temperate-zone managerial methods . This is possible in the poultry industry as the cost ? benefit ratio is usually favourable . It may also be possible in the pig industry , as the very rapid development of pig production in some countries in Southeast Asia appears to demonstrate . However , the situation with regard to ruminant live182 Reproduction and breeding stock has been different . Although the crossbreeding of dairy cattle has been practised in many tropical countries for a long time on an experimental or pilot-scale basis , it is only very recently that crossbreeding has been used on a very extensive scale in India and other countries . Similarly the crossbreeding of beef cattle is now being advocated in the tropical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , western Asia and the Indian subcon tinent . Crossbreeding can be useful in three ways to livestock owners in the tropics . First , it can be used for breed replacement purposes . Indigenous , low-producing livestock can be upgraded by continually backcrossing them to more highly productive , introduced stock . Secondly , an attempt can be made to produce new synthetic breeds by crossbreeding indigenous with introduced livestock , mating inter se and then selecting the type of animal required . Thirdly , advantage can be taken of both hybrid vigour and complementarity using some form of systematic crossbreeding between two or more breeds of indigenous and/or introduced breeds . Upgrading This is the method of choice when a livestock owner wishes to change radically the characteristics of his animals . A schematic il lustration of the upgrading of indigenous ( I ) stock by imported exotic stock ( E ) is shown in Fig. 4.13 . Males of the exotic type are mated generation after generation to indigenous and crossbred females . It will be seen that by the F4 generation the livestock are // almost entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' animals can be upgraded to purebreds ' using this technique There are situations in which it is most advantageous to use , only Ft males for upgrading purposes . Only 50 per cent of maximum heterozygosity is achieved , but by using this technique genes from the exotic breed can be incorporated in the indigenous breed with minimum disturbance of existing conditions . A relatively small number of outstanding indigenous female stock can be selected , assembled at a centre and mated to introduced males or inseminated with imported semen . The Ft bulls produced are then distributed for breeding purposes , generation after generation , throughout the indigenous breed area , ensuring a slow upgrading of the indigenous livestock . Developing new , synthetic breeds The development of a new breed may be accomplished by the crossing of two breeds of a specific type of livestock , followed by backcrossing one way or the other to attain the planned cross of the parent breeds . At this stage the crossbreds must be mated inter se followed by intense selection among their progeny for the type of animal required . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method of establishing a synthetic breed from three parent breeds is to mate Ft individuals produced from crossing two of the breeds to purebreds of the third breed and to use the resulting generation as the foundation herd . A number of new beef cattle breeds have been evolved for use in the tropics using these techniques , including the Braford , Brangus , Charbray , Santa Gertrudis and Beefmaster in North America , the Jamaican Red in the Caribbean , the Bonsmara in Africa and the Droughtmaster in Australia ( see Ch.5 , Pt II , and Payne , 1970 ) . There has been less success in the evolution of new dairy breeds for the tropics although two examples are the Jamaican Hope in the Caribbean and the Australian Milking Zebu in Australia . The exploitation of hybrid vigour by crossbreeding systems Two or more breeds of a specific type of livestock may be used in a planned crossbreeding programme in order to exploit the phenomenon of hybrid vigour . The simplest system is one in which two parent breeds are used to produce an Ft population ; used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be retained and the cross repeated in each generation . This system maximizes heterosis and is used by pig producers in both temperate and tropical countries . A more complex system involves the rotational use of sires of one breed during one generation followed by the use of sires of a second breed during the next generation , and so on . A schematic illustration of such a system is shown in Fig.4.14 , A and B representing the two breeds used in this programme . Any number of breeds could be included in such a programme , but it is generally agreed that nothing is to be gained by using more than three breeds . The value of a rotational crossbreeding system compared with a system that attempts to develop a new breed is that it may be more productive because it exploits hybrid vigour . Genetically this is be-cause rotational crossbreeding inhibits gene recombination . The disadvantage of rotational crossbreeding is that the breeder must have access to sires or semen from two or more breeds , thus com plicating management compared with the use of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under smallholder con ditions and so the use of this breeding system in the tropics is likely to be confined to large holdings . On the latter , however , crossbreed ing may have two additional advantages . First , increases in productivity may be achieved with little increase in economic inputs , and secondly a slowly increasing impact of inbreeding depression in established breeds may be countered by the introduction of a crossbreeding programme . Genetic engineering Genetic engineering or recombinant DNA technology is a new prac tice that may become of major importance in the future , as it will probably be possible to use it for the modification of the function Breeding livestock for tropical environments 185 of animals in order to make them better adapted and more productive . The technique could even be used to produce new types of animals . However , at the present time genetic engineering is more likely to have a major effect on the production of efficient and economic vaccines for use against animal viruses . It is possible to copy genes and to increase the bulk of genetic material by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other methods , and then inducing the bacteria to reproduce very rapidly ; a technique known as gene cloning . Genes can be cut out of an organism using restriction enzymes that will cut strands of DNA at predetermined places . These genes can be spliced into a plasmid ( extrachromosomal DNA contained in bacterial cells ) . The plasmids are then placed in the presence of other enzymes known as ligases , which reseal them . The bacteria containing the engineered plasmids can subsequently be propagated and a product produced that can be formulated into a vaccine . Footand-mouth disease vaccines , among others , are being prepared by this method at the present time . Quirke and Schmid ( 1988 ) provide further and more detailed information on genetic engineering possibilities and techniques . Breeding livestock for tropical environments As already stated in a previous section , livestock development in the tropics can proceed only in an integrated manner and on a broad front . With regard to the problem of breeding livestock for tropical environments there are three major queries , for which answers are required . First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the performance characteristics of tropical and temperate-type breeds of livestock ? McDowell ( 1967 ) stated that it would be reasonable to assume that 50 per cent or more of the differences in average dairy merit between tropical and temperate-type dairy cattle could be attributed to differences in their inherent abilities for milk production , and he concluded that the preponderance of evidence indicated that under reasonable environmental conditions there are genetic differences in all livestock in a number of traits of economic importance . Differences in average productivity of dairy cattle in some temperate and tropical countries are shown in Table 4.7 . McDowell ( 1972 ) , using data from eight breeds in six countries , suggested that traits in cattle that demonstrate large genetic differences are age at first calving , calving percentage , milk yield , length of lactation period , length of dry period , birth weight , rate of daily liveweight gain and mature body weight . In addition he stated that gestation length , generation interval and carcass killing-out percentage demonstrate some indications of genetic differences , but that the efficiency of feed utilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low nutrient intake levels indigenous livestock usually exhibit superiority while at high nutrient intake levels temperate-type live-stock are more efficient . It is suggested that McDowell 's conclusions appear to be based on insufficient evidence as in some traits , such as calving percentage , mature body weight and carcass killing-out percentage , some tropi cal livestock do not exhibit any genetic inferiority , i.e. Bali cattle ( Payne and Rollinson , 1973 ) . It is further suggested that a great deal more basic information is required on all tropical livestock before these questions can be answered with any certainty . The second query is , how important is the choice of breed and/or breeding method in the tropics ? These factors may be more impor tant in the tropics than in the temperate zone , the reason being the multiplicity of different climates , types of stress and methods of utilization of livestock ( Table 4.8 ) . The third major query is , what are likely to be the most suitable breeds and the most suitable breeding system to use in any specific region in the tropics ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 . The use of suitable indigenous breeds and selection within them ; ? . The replacement of indigenous by more productive exotic breeds ; and .1 . Crossbreeding and/or upgrading indigenous breeds using exotics ( including the evolution of new synthetic breeds ) . The use of indigenous breeds The advantages of using indigenous breeds are that they are readily available and that they are acclimatized to the local environment and probably possess desirable genetic traits associated with their , acclimatization . The major disadvantages are that natural selection in indigenous breeds in the past has probably been for survival under extreme stress , that this selection is likely to have been at the ex pense of productive traits and that selection for increased productivity may therefore be a very lengthy process , particularly in large ruminant livestock . It is suggested that the use of indigenous breeds is likely to be most successful where : 1 . Stress on livestock is very severe and genotype ? environment in teractions are highly significant ; 188 Reproduction and breeding 2 . Liveweight gain or wool and skin , rather than milk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be uneconomic rapidly to improve environmental condition , i.e. in many semi-arid regions of the tropics ; and 4 . The indigenous livestock possess some specific adaptive trait , i.e. the tolerance of trypanosomiasis in N'dama and West African Shorthorn breeds of cattle . Examples where the utilization of indigenous breeds is at present economically justified and rational and where every effort should be made to improve the indigenous breeds by selection are the use of : ? N'dama and West African Shorthorn breeds of cattle in tsetseinfested regions of West and Central Africa ; ? Zebu breeds such as the Boran in East Africa and the Wadara in West Africa for meat production in semi-arid areas ; ? Sanga breeds of cattle such as the Mashona , Tuli and Africander for meat production in Central and South Africa ; ? A Bos ( Bibos ) breed such as the Bali for work and meat production in the humid areas of Southeast Asia ; ? Desert-type sheep for meat production in the semi-arid areas of Africa and western Asia ; ? Camels for meat production in the and areas of Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meat production in the humid areas of South and Southeast Asia . Efforts should of course be made to improve the present productivity of these indigenous breeds and species by intense selection , including performance and progeny testing where the use of these methods can be economically justified . In addition it is vitally important that at least limited numbers of all indigenous breeds should be conserved in their specific environments as a future source of genetic variation . Serious errors have already been committed in some tropical countries , where continual upgrading using exotic livestock has almost eliminated indigenous breeds . For example , in Venezuela indigenous Criollo cattle have almost disappeared at a time when experimental breeding is demonstrating that crossbreds between Criollo and zebu are superior in productivity to Criollo upgraded to zebu . Many countries in Southeast Asia are embarking on large-scale cattle upgrading projects and there is a real danger that useful traits in existing Southeast Asian breeds may be lost . The importation and use of exotic breeds The present distribution of the world 's livestock breeds is almost a historical accident . Primarily it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their accompanying livestock and not the result of the deliberate breeding of specific types of livestock for // specific environments . If , for example , the northern regions of South America had been colonized by South Asians and not by Europeans then it is likely that the water buffalo would now be of major importance in the Orinoco and Amazon river basins . Instead , the descendants of the European colonizers have only recently realized the potential value of water buffaloes in these environments . When the importation of exotic breeds into the tropics is discussed it is mainly in terms of importations of livestock from the temperate zone , but it is also essential to consider the importation of exotics from other regions of the tropics . The advantages of importing exotic livestock are that a rapid improvement in productivity may be achieved if suitable animals are used and/or the local environmental conditions are sufficiently improved , as exotic livestock can be introduced that possess desirable traits unavailable in indigenous livestock populations . The disadvantages are that importation is expensive , that it is difficult to increase rapidly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elapse before an adequate number of the imported animals can be made available and that the acclimatization of an imported breed may be time-consuming and expensive . The importation of exotic breeds is likely to be most useful where : 1 . Climatic , disease and nutritional stresses are moderate , such as on tropical oceanic islands , montane regions and , in the case of dairy cattle , lowland humid areas where adequate forage can be produced year-round ; ' . No indigenous breeds of livestock are available to exploit a specific environment ; examples being the use of water buffaloes in the swamp and seasonally flooded regions of tropical Africa and the Americas , and zebu cattle in the semi-arid regions of the Americas and Australia ; 3 . The managerial system is such that the livestock are more or less unaffected by external environmental factors , i.e. poultry in most tropical regions and , to a lesser extent , pigs . Examples where the importation and use of exotic breeds can probably be economically justified at the present time are the use of : ? Temperate-type hybrid poultry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in those tropical countries where there are adequate supplies of feed ; ? European-type dairy cattle in Caribbean , Indian Ocean and Pacific tropical islands and in certain humid tropical areas in central and northern South America and Southeast Asia ; ? All types of European livestock in montane areas where disease stress is limited ; ? Water buffalo in suitable areas in the Guinea coast , the Congo 190 Reproduction and breeding basin in Africa and the Sudd region of the Sudan and in Central and South America ; ? Zebu cattle breeds in some regions of Southeast Asia ( the indigenous cattle are ancient crossbreds Bos taurus x B. indicus or Bibos spp. types ) ; ? Additional zebu breeds in Australia and the Americas , i.e. the possible use of the Boran from East Africa in some regions of Brazil ( not possible at present due to quarantine restrictions ) . Crossbreeding and/or upgrading of indigenous breeds As discussed in a previous section the merits of crossbreeding are that the breeder can hope to combine desirable traits from the parental stocks and exploit hybrid vigour . The latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as vigour and fertility , usually declines with age , is higher in females than in males and is possibly higher under stress conditions . The major disadvantage of any crossbreeding programme is that two or more different breeds of livestock are required and that this usually means large-scale operations and complicated management . The usual and most suitable practice is to use indigenous female stock and imported males or semen . On account of the managerial difficulties inherent in the system the use of crossbreeding techniques in the tropics is likely to be limited to poultry and pig production and in ruminant livestock to large-scale ranching operations and government schemes for nomadic pastoralists and large groups of subsistence farmers . Details of current crossbreeding schemes for milk production are provided by Cunningham and Syrstad ( 1987 ) . Planned livestock crossbreeding schemes could lead to an immediate improvement in productivity in many tropical regions . However , the practical difficulties involved in the planning of such schemes are substantial . Regions where governments should consider planned cattle crossbreeding or continue present schemes are : ? Central and South America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has already demonstrated the value of Criollo X Zebu crossbreds and where three-way crosses such as Criollo X Zebu X Charollais may be even more productive ; ? West Africa where the productivity of three-way crosses between the N'dama , West African Shorthorn and various West African zebu breeds in tsetse-fly-infested areas should be evaluated ; ? Southeast Asia where experimental work ( Devendra et al. , 1973 ) has already demonstrated the value of American-Brahman x indigenous crossbreds and where crossbreds between a Bos ( Bibos ) breed such as the Bali and a European-type beef breed such as // the Red Poll should be evaluated ( Payne and Rollinson , 1973 ) ; and ? South Asia where crossbreeding for milk production is developing on a very large scale . Similar crossbreeding projects for other ruminant livestock should also be evaluated . If exotic-type stock are required then obtaining them by means of an upgrading programme , rather than by mass importation , is not only more economical as large numbers of indigenous livestock can be upgraded relatively rapidly and inexpensively ( Fig. 4.13 ) but it also has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ livestock owners can be upgraded during the same period that the genetic merit of their livestock is upgraded . The development of new , synthetic breeds Where managerial and other difficulties preclude crossbreeding and where breeders do not wish to completely upgrade their livestock but would like to utilize animals that are intermediate in type between the exotic and the indigenous , then the development of a new breed incorporating as many of the desired characteristics as possible is indicated . As the development of a new breed requires a fairly large-scale breeding programme and highly trained and competent personnel it can be contemplated only by very large private livestock organizations , by governments or by international agencies . As stated previously , a number of new beef cattle breeds for use in the subtropics and tropics have been developed during this century . Some of these new beef cattle breeds have made important contributions to an overall improvement in productivity in some countries . There has also been some development of new dairy cattle breeds . Some new breeds that are now urgently required in the tropics are : ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used by small farmers . One breed should be stabilized in the range five-eighths to seven-eighths Bos taurus x three-eighths to one-eighth B. indicus and the other in the range three-eighths to five-eighths B. taurus x five-eighths to three-eighths B. indicus . The high-grade B. taurus breed is required for well-managed dairy farms in the humid tropics and the lower grade breed for dairy farms in the drier tropics . ? Dairy goat breeds suitable for use in the humid and dry tropics , respectively . These could be useful for small , subsistence farmers . ? Sheep suitable for meat production in the humid tropics , particularly in rubber , oil-palm and fruit plantations . These could be bred from a cross between West African Dwarf forest sheep or 192 Reproduction and breeding Southeast Asian sheep and a meat-producing temperate-type breed . A specialized beef-type water buffalo bred for use in humid regions . A specialized beef-type camel bred for use in arid and semi-arid regions . As it is unlikely that these new breeds will be developed by in dividual livestock owners it is suggested that international or regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cattle Although major changes are occurring , the part played by cattle in the life of the indigenous people of the tropics still differs remarkably from the position accorded to them by man in the mid-latitude zones . In the tropics , as elsewhere , cattle are essential as a source of milk and meat , of work and of many by-products of great value ; but for a very large number of cattle owners these considerations are equal or secondary to the part cattle play in social custom , as a reserve of family wealth and as a mark of respectability and status in the community . The nomad would as soon deplete his breeding herd as the family man in Europe or America would his bank account ; the religious Hindu would rather starve to death than cat his cow ; and in different ways and to different degrees there are few tropical people who have not some regard for cattle quite apart from their immediate economic use . The format and the content of this chapter have been changed in order to emphasize the importance of and differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origin and breeds of tropical cattle have been discussed a classification of tropical cattle production systems will be proposed and the role of working , beef , dairy and dual- or treble-purpose cattle within major systems will be considered . Numbers and distribution The world 's cattle population is increasing more slowly than the world 's human population . The total is now considerably more than 1,000 million ( Table 5.1 ) . Cattle populations appear to be increasing more rapidly in the tropics than elsewhere . Somewhat more than 40 per cent of the world 's cattle population are to be found in the tropics ; 12 , 18 and 13 per cent of the total in the continents of Africa , the Americas and Asia respectively . However , only 0.6 per cent of the world 's cattle population is to be found in the tropical regions of Oceania . That part of the world 's cattle population bred in the tropics is increasing . The increase has been most rapid in the American tropics , where vast areas of rain forest have been felled and burnt to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high proportion of the cattle population is concentrated in the Indian sub-continent . In the African tropics there has been a steady growth in cattle numbers despite the droughts . It will be seen from Table 5.2 that within the tropics the largest concentrations of cattle are found in Northeast and East Africa , South America , the Indian subcontinent and tropical Australia . There are , however , major differences in the concentration of cattle per thousand hectares of land area and the number of cattle per thousand inhabitants in the different tropical regions . For example , stocking rates are very high in the Caribbean and the Indian subcontinent and very low in the humid region of Central Africa , the semi-arid region of western Asia and the humid region of Papua New Guinea . On the other hand , the number of cattle per thousand inhabitants is very high in tropical Australia , where cattle are exten sively ranched , moderately high in the Sahel , Northeast and East 200 Cattle Africa and CentraVSouth Africa where cattle are often managed in a nomadic or transhumant system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either transhumant or subsistence and in Central and South America where cattle are ranched . There are small numbers of cattle per thousand inhabitants in the humid region of Central Africa , where tsetse fly is prevalent , in western Asia that is arid or semi-arid , in Southeast Asia where the farming system is mainly a subsistence one and buffalo are also of some importance , and in Papua New Guinea which is relatively undeveloped . It is difficult to find common interactions between the number and concentrations of cattle and ecological factors and we must conclude that the present concentrations of cattle in different regions of the tropics are the result of many different , and sometimes conflicting , factors . In a very general way we may conclude that the major concentrations of cattle are found in the intensive subsistence agricultural regions and in the natural grassland areas and that there are relatively few cattle in some of the very dry regions and in humid rain-forest regions of the equatorial zone outside the Americas . Origin The family of animals that includes all types of domestic cattle are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hoofed mammals and one of the most recent to evolve . There is some disagreement between authorities as to how the genera within the subfamily Bovinae should be classified . One accepted method is depicted in Fig. 5.1 . This suggests that all types of cattle , yaks and bison evolved from one group of common ancestors and buffaloes from another . As there is , to date , no continuous fossil record by which the evolution of these groups can be traced , the classification in Fig. 5.1 must be considered as an interim one . There are three types of domestic cattle in the world . The most numerous and important are the Bos taurus and B. indicus breeds that appear to be variants of one species as they possess the same number of chromosomes ( 2n = 60 ) and interbreed freely . Of less and only localized importance in South and Southeast Asia are breeds derived from the gaur ( Bibos gaurus ) and/or the banteng ( B. banteng ) . A very brief description of what is known of the origin of cattle is provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1981 ) and Mason ( 1984 ) . The almost universal distribution of wild species of cattle in the temperate , Mediterranean and subtropical climatic zones of the Old World and in some areas of the tropics in the Upper Pleistocene period makes it particularly difficult to ascertain the original centre(s) of domestication . Some of the earliest evidence of domes-tication of humpless cattle ( Bos taurus ) comes from western Asia , suggesting that domestication possibly occurred some 8,000 ? 9,000 years ago . These cattle were probably the ancestors of the Hamitic Longhorn-type breeds , but there is also evidence that some 5,000 years ago Shorthorn-type cattle originated from this region . The Hamitic Longhorn and Shorthorn types of cattle are believed to be the ancestors of all the B. taurus breeds found in the world today . The origin of the humped cattle ( B. indicus ) or zebu is more con-troversial . Evidence of their origin has been discussed by Payne ( 1970 ) and he concluded that the known facts appear to indicate that the zebu originated in western Asia and not , as is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must have been at least two centres of domestication of 202 Cattle Bibos spp. cattle in South and Southeast Asia . No major archaeological or other evidence is available as to the period when these cattle were domesticated , although recent archaeological evidence from Thailand suggests that it was earlier than had previously been suspected , but their geographical distribution suggests that it was accomplished by Indo-Chinese and/or Malaysian peoples . Hamitic Longhorn- , Shorthorn- and zebu-type cattle were all introduced into Africa by immigrants from western Asia , while cattle have been imported into the Americas and Oceania by Europeans since the sixteenth century . Asia If , as suggested above , cattle were first domesticated in western Asia , the presence of and continuous movement of Semitic- , Hamitic- , Vedic Aryan- and Ural Altai-speaking peoples would have provided a unique opportunity for the dispersal and spread of domestic cattle to all parts of Asia , Europe and Africa , and for the mixing and interbreeding of different types of domestic cattle , ultimately resulting in the multiplicity of breeds that exist today . From a centre of origin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by migrating pastoralists towards the eastern Mediterranean littoral . Some then moved with their livestock northwestwards into Europe while others migrated southwestwards through Egypt and into Africa ( Fig. 5.2 ) . Hamitic Longhorn cattle may also have been taken northwards into central Asia and south and southeastwards into India , although there are few traces of such cattle in these regions today . The Shorthorn-type cattle , originating in western Asia many centuries later , were apparently also taken by migratory people westwards towards the eastern Mediterranean littoral where the nomads , like the Hamitic Longhorn-owning nomads before them , divided into groups , some moving northwards into Europe and others southwestwards into Egypt and on into continental Africa . The Shorthorn-type cattle were also taken eastwards by migratory peoples and the available evidence from China suggests that the majority of the cattle in that country originated from cattle that were brought from the West ( Phillips , Johnson and Moyer , 1945 ; Epstein , 1969 ) , and that possibly they were introduced to China by the Ural Altaic-speaking people who invaded that country about 4500 BP . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philippines , where present indigenous cattle known as Batangas , are almost identical in conformation and appearance with some of the types of cattle found today around Hong Kong and in southeastern China . It is not known when these cattle were first imported into the Philippines , but it is likely that it was before the Spanish settlement in the Origin 203 sixteenth century . From southern China these cattle were probably taken by migrating peoples into what are now Burma , Thailand , Vietnam , Kampuchea and Laos where they crossbred with zebu cat tle that had probably been introduced into these countries by migrants from the Indian peninsula . There was also crossbreeding with the wild cattle of South and Southeast Asia . Thus many of the present-day cattle in this region are likely to be descendants of crossbreds between the Shorthorn type and the zebu with some genes in addition from Bibos spp. , and they are therefore to some extent analogous with the Sanga cattle of Africa . Undoubtedly within China some zebu accompanied peoples moving from the south northwards , as Phillips , Johnson and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that modern cattle in south China exhibit some influence of zebu genes but that these influences tend to disappear as one proceeds northwards . There is also evidence that the indigenous breeds of cattle in 204 Cattle Malaysia , Borneo , Sumatra and Java are also of an ancient crossbred Bos taurus x B. indicus type mixed with genes from Bibos spp . These cattle may have originated from animals imported southwards by migratory peoples from what is now Thailand into Malaysia and Indonesia , or they may be the result of an ancient cross between the Shorthorn-type cattle that were brought into Southeast Asia by migratory people and zebu cattle from India . Zebu cattle appear to have originated in the southeastern districts of the western Asian region in which the Hamitic Longhorns were first domesticated . The earliest evidence of their existence as domestic animals has been found in northern Baluchistan and adjacent areas and is dated about 5,000 ? 6,000 years ago ( Payne , 1970 ; Epstein and Mason , 1984 ) . Zebu are believed to have been introduced into India through the northwestern passes between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is evidence that when the Vedic Aryans entered the Indus valley , humpless Shorthorn-type cattle were already present in large numbers . If the zebu originated in western Asia and not in India , then one would expect to find some zebu in western Asia today , particularly along the route that cattle-owning peoples must have taken on their way to India . There are , in fact , zebu breeds in western Asia , particularly the Iraqi and the Aden . It would also appear that once the zebu was established in India it was used to upgrade local cattle so that virtually all modern cattle in the Indian subcontinent are now of the zebu type . There are , however , some isolated pockets of crossbred survivors such as the Siri breed of northern India . From India zebu cattle were apparently taken by migrating peoples southwards into Sri Lanka and eastwards into Burma , Thailand , Vietnam , Laos , Kampuchea and Malaysia . It is probable that zebu were also introduced into Indonesia , presumably due to the spread of Hindu culture in that area . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for conjecture , but domestication must have taken place in the regions inhabited by the banteng and the gaur . As it is now generally accepted that Bali cattle are domesticated banteng it would be reasonable to assume that the centre of domestication was Bali or an adjacent island . Strong support for a centre of domestication in this region is provided by blood haemoglobin data . Studies by Namikawa ( 1981 ) , some details of which are shown in Table 5.3 , demonstrate that the proportion of genes in Southeast Asian cattle originating from Bali cattle are highest within the island of Bali , while the further away other Southeast Asian breeds are located from Bali the less genes they possess that are similar to those of the Bali breed . The mithan , another breed of Bibos spp. cattle , is found only in the hills of northeastern India , eastern Bangladesh and Burma ( Simoons , 1984 ) . It is now considered to be a domesticated gaur ( Bibos gaurus ) being , according to Fischer ( 1969 ) , identical with the gaur in karotype @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestication occurred within the natural range of the gaur and the peoples who use the mithan primarily for sacrificial purposes ; that is , in the region embracing northeast India , eastern Bangladesh and the hill country of Burma . The centres of domestication of Bibos spp. cattle are discussed in more detail by Payne ( 1989 ) . Africa As stated above , domestic cattle were probably first introduced into Northeast and East Africa from a centre of origin in western Asia . Hamitic Longhorn- , Shorthorn- and zebu-type cattle were taken by migratory peoples into Africa and they are the ancestors of the vast majority of cattle breeds found in that continent ( Payne , 1964 ) . These three types of cattle crossbred at different times and in dif ferent ways to create the breeds known as Sanga that are of considerable importance in Africa . Although Sanga cattle resulted from crossbreeding at many minor centres in East , North , West and Central Africa , East Africa was probably the main centre of origin of all the Sanga breeds now found in East , Central and South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first to be introduced into Africa . Faulkner and Epstein ( 1957 ) stated that the earliest records of their presence in Egypt date from about 7000 BP . Around 4750 to 4500 BP migratory peoples introduced humpless Shorthorn cattle ( Bos brachyceros ) and the peoples owning the Hamitic Longhorn were forced to migrate or voluntarily migrated westwards and south-wards , so that today there are no traces of Hamitic Longhorn cattle in Egypt . There were possibly three main migration routes ; westwards along the Mediterranean littoral , southwestwards across the Sahara via the Tibestsi and Tassili highland areas , and south-wards up the Nile towards the highland areas of what are today Ethiopia and Kenya . Origin 207 When the westward migration of Hamitic Longhorn cattle-owning people reached what is now Morocco some proceeded north into Spain , Portugal and beyond , others west and southwards into West Africa . Curson and Thornton ( 1936 ) suggested that characteristics of the cattle that were taken northwards can still be seen today in such breeds as the Raza de Barroza of Portugal and the Andalusian cattle of Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peninsula to the Americas and are represented today in America by the Longhorn and Criollo breeds . A breed descended from the Hamitic Longhorn cattle that were taken into West Africa still exists and is known as the N'dama . It has apparently survived because it developed a high degree of tolerance to trypanosomiasis . A second Hamitic Longhorn breed found in West Africa is the Kuri . This breed probably owes its survival to the fact that it has been isolated for a long period on and around the islands in Lake Chad . The southward movement of Hamitic Longhorn cattle is not so easy to trace , but early rock paintings and engravings in the Sudan , Ethiopia , Somalia and as far south as Mount Elgon in Kenya suggest that the Hamitic Longhorn was the first domesticated animal to be introduced into this region , and the remnant breed known as the Binga in northwest Zimbabwe appears to be a dwarf form of Hamitic Longhorn . This suggests that Hamitic Longhorn cattle were taken as far south as Zimbabwe . It is of interest that the Binga is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Peoples owning the Shorthorn-type cattle followed two of the same routes as the Hamitic Longhorn owners ? along the southern Mediterranean littoral and southwards along the Nile into Upper Egypt and the Sudan , but not across what is now the Sahara , presumably due to increased aridity of the region . Modern cattle in Egypt exhibit characteristics that have been inherited partly from these Shorthorn-type cattle , while indigenous breeds in Libya , Tunisia , Algeria and Morocco are almost entirely of the Shorthorn type . The Shorthorn-type cattle-owning peoples apparently moved in two migratory streams from Morocco . One moved north into the Iberian Peninsula and on into France and the British Isles ? the modern Jersey , Guernsey and Kerry breeds apparently being partly derived from this ancestral stock . Others moved southwards and westwards until they arrived in the forest region . Like the Hamitic Longhorn cattle preceding them , the Shorthorn-type cattle gradually acquired a tolerance to trypanosomiasis . Their descendants are known today as the West African Dwarf Shorthorn breed . However , their tolerance to trypanosomiasis is not as marked as that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peoples owning Shorthorn-type cattle , though according to Faulkner and Epstein ( 1957 ) small numbers of cattle of this type were still to be 208 Cattle found in the Koalib Hills in the Nuba Mountains of the Sudan in recent times and there is evidence that they existed in Uganda within historical times . In a recent report Alberro and Halle-Mariam ( 1982 ) state that there are still Shorthorn , humpless cattle kept by the Sheko people in mountainous territory on the Ethiopian ? Sudanese border . There is also some evidence that Shorthorn-type cattle were introduced independently into the Horn of Africa , the east coast of Africa and the offshore islands , presumably by seafaring people from western Asia . An isolated herd of Shorthorn-type cattle are still owned by the Quarra in Oman and similar cattle are found on the island of Socotra . Tradition has it that such cattle were present on the island of Pemba in historical times and on the island of Mafia , off the coast of Tanzania , up until the 1920s ( Payne , 1970 ) . A small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the influx of zebu cattle ( Dechambre , 1951 ) . Two types of humped cattle are designated as zebu ' , cervicothoracic or neck humped and thoracic or chest humped . Neckhumped zebu appear to be an intermediate type between humpless and chest-humped cattle as Slijper ( 1951 ) has shown that crossbreds of these two types tend to possess neck humps . Payne ( 1970 ) suggested that all neck-humped zebu should be designated as Sanga ' , as this is the term used in Africa for these cattle , while Epstein and Mason ( 1984 ) have suggested the term zeboid ' . Neck- and chest-humped cattle were introduced into Africa in successive waves and at different times from different regions of Asia ( Fig. 5.3 ) . Present evidence suggests that some neck-humped cattle were introduced into Egypt via the land bridge from western Asia and across the sea from Arabia , via Somalia and Ethiopia . They could not have been introduced in large numbers however , as they did not significantly change the composition of the Shorthorn , humpless cattle population of Egypt . According @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not introduced into Africa until about 1,500 years ago . It is likely , however , that there have been small-scale introductions over a long period . After the Arab invasion of Africa the numbers imported probably increased quite rapidly . Cattle were certainly imported through ports from the Red Sea to the Zambezi by Indian and Arab traders and this trade persisted almost until modern times . The first introductions would have had little influence on the composition of the pastoralist 's herds of Longhorn and Shorthorn humpless cattle in Northeast and East Africa . Gradually , however , as more zebu cattle arrived the herds changed with a predominance of crossbred neck-humped or Sanga cattle . Migration of peoples with their cattle from this centre may have taken place northwards , westwards and southwards . There were Origin 209 pressures on the early inhabitants of this region to migrate with their cattle southwards , thus neck-humped Sanga should today be found furthest to the south , as indeed to a considerable degree they are . Choice of migration routes southwards was controlled by the availability of feed and water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , but one or more fly-free corridors undoubtedly existed in the past between East and South Africa ( Payne , 1970 ) . The first migrations southwards by Hottentot-speaking people and their Sanga-type cattle ( c. 600 BP ) probably followed a route between Lakes Tanganyika and Nyasa to the Upper Limpopo , then westwards across the Orange River . Ultimately they met the first European settlers advancing north from the Cape , who purchased cattle from them . The Sanga cattle owned by these early Hottentot migrants are probably the ancestors of the breed that is known today as the Africander . Migrating behind the Hottentot people came Bantu tribes , also herding Sanga cattle of various types . Today the majority of Sanga breeds in Zambia , Angola , Botswana and Namibia are of the Hamitic Longhorn x zebu type , while those of the central region of Zambia and the eastern region of Zimbabwe are probably derived from Shorthorn type x zebu crosses . In East Africa the Sanga cattle have been displaced by zebu only in very recent times , and small numbers of Sanga cattle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas . Western migration of peoples herding Sanga cattle took place from Ethiopia to what is now Uganda and further west along the northern borders of the rain forest to West Africa , so that today it is likely that the Sanga cattle of West Africa may be derived from two sources : local crosses of introduced zebu with local Hamitic Longhorn and Shorthorn-type cattle , and imported Sanga stock from East Africa . Zebu appear to be more tolerant to rinderpest than humpless or Sanga cattle , and are also better adapted to living in and and semiarid areas . They have therefore spread rapidly in the semi-arid and arid regions and wherever rinderpest has been endemic . Today they are to be found in West Africa north of 14 ? N latitude , in Northeast Africa , in East Africa and as far south as Malawi and Zambia . This dynamic expansion has not yet spent itself and the zebu is still gradually replacing Sanga and other breeds along the borders where they meet in Uganda , northeast Congo and northern Ethiopia . The Americas No cattle existed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early European explorers . The first cattle to arrive 210 Cattle in the Western Hemisphere were unloaded in the island of Santo Domingo by Columbus on his second voyage in AD 1493 . Twentyeight years later the first cattle were landed on the American mainland at Vera Cruz in Mexico . Following these importations , large numbers of cattle of the Iberian breeds were introduced throughout North , Central and South America . Modern descendants of these cattle are the Longhorns in Mexico and the United States and Criollo cattle in Central and South America . During the seventeenth century British and other north European cattle were imported into North America and were slowly introduced southwards . In the nineteenth century the first zebu were imported into the United States . Some detail of the history of these importations has been given by Payne ( 1970 ) . Zebu were crossed with the British-type cattle and in the southeastern United States it was gradually realized that zebu and zebu crossbreds were particularly valuable in those areas where the purebred British cattle did not thrive . A new zebu breed , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stabilized crossbred breeds , such as the Santa Gertrudis , the Beefmaster , the Brangus , the Charbray , etc. , have since been used throughout the southeastern region of North America . In Central America the majority of cattle are now of mixed Iberian and north European type , but in tropical South America until recently the majority of the cattle were descendants of those originally imported from Iberia , though they are now being replaced very rapidly either by zebu , zebu crossbreds or European breeds , according to the severity of the local climatic environment . In Brazil as in the United States , a new breed of zebu known as the InduBrasil has originated from a mixture of zebu imported into Brazil during the nineteenth and the early part of the twentieth centuries . In addition three more or less purebred zebu breeds have been retained . Indu-Brasil and other types of zebu have now almost entirely replaced the indigenous Criollo cattle within Brazil . In the Caribbean islands , similar factors have operated and the original Criollo cattle have virtually disappeared , being replaced either by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crossbred breeds of cattle have been developed in the Caribbean region including the Jamaica Red , Jamaica Black , Jamaica Hope and the Nelthropp . Oceania In Australia , as in the Americas , there were no cattle before European settlement . In the early stages of settlement , British-type cattle were imported into tropical Australia , but they never fully acclimatized and in this century the local ranchers realized that they Types of tropical cattle 211 required a type of animal more adapted to the local environment . Observing what had happened in the southeastern United States and in Central and South America , the Australians commenced the importation of zebu for crossbreeding purposes ( Payne , 1970 ) . The number of zebu and zebu crossbreds in Australia has consequently grown very rapidly within a relatively short period . It is likely that ultimately , crossbred or purebred zebu will almost completely replace British-type breeds in the Australian tropics . The Australians have imported more or less stabilized crossbred breeds such as the Santa Gertrudis , Brangus , etc. , from the United States and they have also bred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zebu may be considered as original Australian contributions to the growing list of Bos taurus x B. indicus crossbred breeds . Types of tropical cattle There are many types and breeds of tropical cattle . Humpless or Bos taurus cattle may either be completely acclimatized and of very ancient origin such as the N'dama and Dwarf Shorthorn of West Africa , the Oksh of western Asia , or the Chinese Yellow of south China ; imported into the tropics during historical times and more or less acclimatized , such as the Criollo cattle of the Caribbean , Central and South America and the Creole of Mauritius ; or imported into the tropics during recent times and not well acclimatized , such as Friesian milking cattle in the Caribbean islands or British milking breeds in East Africa . Humped , B. indicus or zebu cattle may also be of ancient origin , as they are in western Asia , the Indian subcontinent and in parts of Africa ; imported during historical times , such as the zebu breeds in many parts of Africa and in some countries of Southeast Asia ; or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Americas and Oceania that include the American Brahman and the Indu-Brasil breeds . The only domesticated ( Bibos spp. ) breeds are the Bali of Indonesia and the mithan of Assam ? Burma , and these are presumably of ancient origin . In addition there are numerous breeds that are the result of crossbreeding between humpless and humped cattle , either in ancient times or more recently . The older , more or less stabilized crossbred breeds are very numerous in Africa , where as previously stated they are known as Sanga ' . Stabilized crossbred breeds are also numerous in Southeast Asia , possessing genes from Bos taurus , B. indicus and Bibos spp . ( Namikawa , 1981 ) . The new crossbred breeds such as the Santa Gertrudis and the Droughtmaster are the result of planned crossbreeding programmes in the Americas and Australia . There are therefore a great diversity of cattle breeds in the 212 Cattle tropics , but insufficient is yet known as to all their characteristics and potential productivity . Indeed , it is only recently that a full clas-sification of tropical cattle breeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this classification is only tentative it is reproduced below as a useful guide to students . Breeds have been classified ac-cording to the continent of recent origin , within continents on a regional basis , within regions on a type basis and within type on a major characteristics ' , basis . The major types recognized are hump-less ( Bos taurus ) , humped ( B. indicus ) , crossbreds between these , Bibos spp. , and crossbreds of humpless and /or humped cattle with the latter . Crossbred types have been subdivided into three groups . The first ( 1 ) includes the more or less established indigenous breeds that are considered to have developed in the past from crosses of the major types . The second group ( 2 ) consist of what Mason and Maule ( 1960 ) describe as intermediate breeds ' , that may not be par-ticularly recent in origin but are apparently still in the process of formation . The third group ( 3 ) includes breeds of very recent origin whose formation has generally been deliberately planned . Classifica-tion within type on a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Indian subcontinent and West Africa , and the Sanga of Central and Southern Africa . This is not a complete list of tropical breeds , particularly of re-cent crossbreds , as some may still be in the process of formation while others are declared by their owners or sponsors to be breeds , but never become established and/or accepted . Although it is not pos sible in an introductory text to discuss all or even the majority of the breeds listed , some details are provided of representative and/or important breeds . Representative and important tropical breeds Some details of the average performance of some of the breeds described below are given in Tables 5.4 and 5.5 . The literature has been exhaustively scanned and the data summarized in order to produce the details in these tables . No references are given as these would be too numerous and the data cited have been obtained by the collation of information from many different sources . Further information on the average performance of tropical cattle breeds not described in this section is provided by Payne ( 1970 ) . Readers with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Phil-lips ( 1953 ) , Joshi , McLaughlin and Phillips ( 1957 ) , Santiago ( 1967 ) and Rouse ( 1970a , b , 1973 ) . Asia Damascus ? synonyms : Aleppo , Damascene , Baladi , Halabi , Halep , Kheisi , Shami ( Plate 5.1 ) . Origin and habitat . This is a stabilized crossbred between Bos in dicus and B. taurus . The breed appear to have developed in the Ghuta , the oasis of Damascus , and then spread to other areas . Cat tle of this type are found today in Syria , southern Turkey , Iraq , Cyprus and Egypt . The habitat is varied and the climatic environ ment is Mediterranean on the coast and subtropical and dry inland . Physical characteristics . These animals are of medium size , with a narrow body and long , thin legs . The coat colour is light or reddish to dark brown , males being darker in colour than the females . The skin is medium in thickness and soft , while the hair is short and glossy . The head is long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hump is hardly noticeable , particularly in the female , and the dewlap is relatively well developed . The udder of the female is of medium size with long , thin teats . Utility . It is usually considered to be a milking breed with a fair average production ( Table 5.4 ) . The breed was used as a source of foundation cattle in the Zionist settlements in Palestine in 1912 and was upgraded using Holstein ( Hirsch and Shindler , 1957 ) . It is said that this breed is particularly heat tolerant and that individuals are long-lived . It is not usually used for work purposes . Hariana ( Plate 5.2 ) . Related types . Hariana are somewhere similar to the Bhagnari , Gaolao and Ongole breeds , a closely related type being the Shahabadi . Origin and habitat . The breed originated in East Punjab , India , north of the tropic . The climatic environment is subtropical and semi-arid , the mean annual rainfall being 450 mm . Physical characteristics . This is a compact animal of graceful appearance . The coat colour is white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ male . The skin is pigmented , fine , thin and tight . The face is long and narrow and there is a well-marked bony prominence at the centre of the poll . The ears are small and somewhat pendulous . The horns are fine and short , and thinner in the female than in the male . The hump is large and well developed in the male but of medium size in the female . The dewlap is moderately well developed but thin in the male ; the sheath is short and tight . The navel flap is close to the body . The udder of the female is relatively large and extends well forward . The teats are of medium size , the fore being longer than the hind . Utility . This is one of the most important dual-purpose , milk ? work breeds in northern India , and indeed cattle of this type are used all over India as the cows are quite good milkers ( Tables 5.4 ) and the bullocks make powerful work animals ( Table 5.5 ) . Ongole ? synonym : Nellore ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similarity with the Gaolao and Bhagnari breeds and blood group data suggest that it is also related to the Hariana . Origin and habitat . This breed is found in Madras where the climate is tropical and where there is a low to medium annual rainfall . Physical characteristics . These are large , long-bodied animals with short necks and long limbs . The normal coat colour is white , but the male has dark grey markings on the head , neck and hump and sometimes black points on the knees . Red or red and white animals are occasionally seen . The skin is of medium thickness and often shows black mottled markings . The head is long ; the ears are moderately long and slightly drooping . The horns are short and stumpy , growing outwards and backwards , and are thick at the base . The hump in the males is well developed and erect . The dewlap is large and fleshy and hangs in folds that extend to the navel flap . The sheath is slightly pendulous . Utility . They are primarily used for work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producers ( Table 5.4 ) . Animals of this type have been exported to many countries and they have contributed genes to both the American Brahman and the Indu-Brasil breeds . Outside India , they are considered to be good beef animals for use under very adverse conditions . They are rapidly becoming one of the major beef breeds in Brazil . Gir ? synonyms : Decan , Kathiawar , Sorthi , Surti ( Plate 5.4 ) Related types . There is definite evidence of Gir blood in the Mewati , Deoni , Krishna Valley and Nimari breeds and blood-grouping data suggest that the Gir is also related to Red Sindhi , Sahiwal and Afghan cattle . Origin and habitat . The breed originated in the Gir hills and forest on the west coast of India where the climatic environment is of the monsoonal tropical type . Physical characteristics . These cattle are moderately large , heavy animals . The coat colour is characteristic and varies from yellowish red to black or white with dark red or chocolate-brown patches distributed all over the body . The skin is loose , pliable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possess a very prominent and broad forehead and the ears are long and pendulous . The horns are moderate in size , curving away from the head in a downwards and backwards manner and then inclining a little upwards and forwards , taking a spiral inward sweep and finally ending in a fine taper . The hump is large . The dewlap is only moderately developed while the sheath in the male is large and pendulous . Utility . They are fairly good milkers ( Table 5.4 ) and are also used extensively for draught purposes . Although they are not used in India for beef production , outside India they have an excellent reputation as beef animals and large numbers have been exported to Brazil from whence they have been introduced to other American countries . Gir are one of the foundation breeds of the American Brahman and Indu-Brasil , and are used as a pure breed in Brazil . 222 Cattle Red Sindhi ? synonyms : Malir , Red Karachi , Sindhi ( Plate 5.5 ) Origin and habitat . The original herd was founded at Malir outside Karachi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are somewhat similar to the Sahiwal and they may be related to the red Afghan cattle and also possess some mixture of Gir blood . The home base of the breed is now around Karachi , just outside the tropics , where the climatic environment is subtropical and semi-arid . Physical characteristics . The Red Sindhi is a medium to small animal with a deep , compact frame and round , drooping quarters . The coat colour is usually red , varying from dark red to dun yellow , often with specks of white on the dewlap and the forehead . In the male the colour is darker on the shoulders and thighs . The hair is soft and short ; the skin is loose , of medium thickness and usually pigmented . The ears are of moderate to large size and drooping . The horns are thick at the base and emerge laterally , curving upwards . The hump is of medium size though well developed in the male . The dewlap and sheath are pendulous . The udder of the female also inclines to be pendulous and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the best dairy breeds in the Indian subcontinent ( Table 5.4 ) , though it is also used for light work . It has been exported all over the tropical world and used for upgrading indigenous cattle , particularly for milk production . Types of tropical cattle 223 Sahiwal ? synonyms : Lambi Bar , Lola , Montgomery , Multani , Teti ( Plate 5.6 ) Origin and habitat . This breed originated in the district of Montgomery in West Punjab , Pakistan , and may have been derived from the Red Sindhi . The climatic environment of the original habitat is subtropical and arid . Physical characteristics . It is a large , heavily built , long , deep , rather fleshy animal . The coat colour is varied , with reddish dun being rather common . Other coat colours are pale red , dark brown and almost black flecked with white . The skin is frequently unpigmented . The head is broad and massive in the male . The ears are of medium size with black hair on the fringes . The horns are very short and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The hump of the male is massive and frequently falls to one side . The dewlap is large and heavy , the navel flap loose and hanging ; the sheath in the male is pendulous . The udder of the female is large and sometimes pendulous . Utility . This is one of the most productive of tropical dairy breeds ( Table 5.4 ) and cattle of this type have been exported to many parts 224 Cattle of the tropical world . In Jamaica they have been crossed with the Jersey to provide the foundation stock for the breed known as the Jamaica Hope , and in East Africa they have been widely used for upgrading Small East African Zebu cattle . Although the Sahiwal is basically a dairy breed , cattle of this type can be used for beef and work purposes . Kankrej ? synonyms : Bannai , Gujarati , Nagar , Sanchore , Talebda , Vadhiyar , Wagadia , Wagad , Wadhiar , Wadial ( Plate 5.7 ) . Origin and habitat . This breed originated in north Gujarat , in the Bombay province of India , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Physical characteristics . This is a large animal . The coat colour varies from silver to iron-grey or steel-black . New-horn calves are Types of tropical cattle 225 coloured a rusty-red on the poll . The skin is pigmented and the hair is soft and short . The forehead is wide with prominent orbital arches . The cars are large and pendulous . The horns are large and lyre-shaped , and covered in skin to a much higher point than is normal in other breeds . The hump is well developed . The dewlap is thin and pendulous , the males possessing pendulous sheaths . Utility . In India this is a dual-purpose milk and draught breed , but it has excellent potentiality for beef production and large numbers have been exported to Brazil where it has been used as one of the foundation breeds of the Indu-Brasil . Some Kankrej-type animals were also included in the foundation stock of the American Brahman . It is also used in Brazil ? where it is known as the Guzerat ? as a purebred type . Tharparkar ? synonyms : Grey Sindhi , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of the related types is the Cutchi , which originates from the Cutch , on the northwest border between India and Pakistan . Origin and habitat . The home of the breed is the Tharparkar District of Hyderabad , India . This is an arid area and in drought years 226 Cattle cattle have had to be removed to the surrounding regions where they have interbred with Kankrej , Red Sindhi , Gir and Nagori cattle . The habitat is situated just outside the tropics and is very arid . The rainfall averages 200 mm per annum . Physical characteristics . They are strongly built , medium-size animals with comparatively short , straight limbs and good feet . The skin is pigmented and thin , the hair fine and short . The coat colour is usually white or grey with a light grey stripe along the top line . In the male the grey colour may deepen with age , particularly on the face and hindquarters . Black and red-coloured cattle are also seen . The head is medium in size , the forehead broad and flat ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are set well apart and curve gradually upwards and outwards , ending in blunt points that are inclined inwards . The horns of the male are thicker , shorter and straighter than those of the female . The hump is moderately well developed and firm ; the dewlap is of medium size ; the sheath in the male is of moderate length and semi-pendulous and the navel flap in the female is prominent . Utility . This is one of the best dual-purpose work ? milk breeds found in the Indian subcontinent . It will milk ( Table 5.4 ) under very poor feeding conditions and has great powers of endurance and resistance to poor feeding and to drought conditions . Large numbers of these cattle have been exported , particularly to Zaire , Iraq , Sri Lanka and the Philippines . Hallikar ( Plate 5.9 ) Origin and habitat . This is one of the south Indian longhorned zebu breeds and is found mainly in the state of Mysore . The climatic environment in the area is montane tropical . Physical characteristics . These cattle are of medium size , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The differences between male and female in size and build are not so well marked as in other breeds as the female has a muscular , masculine appearance . The coat colour is grey to dark grey with darker shadings on the fore- and hindquarters . Frequently , there are light grey markings on the face , dewlap and under the body . The skin is fine and the coat short and glossy . The face is long , the forehead prominent and the ears small . The horns emerge close to each other from the top of the poll and are carried backwards for nearly half their length , and then bend forwards inclining towards their tips which are black and sharp . The hump is moderately developed as is the dewlap . The sheath is very small and close to the body . Utility . The Hallikar is one of the best all-round draught breeds to be found in southern India , but like other southern Indian cattle they are poor milkers ( Table 5.4 ) . Thai ? synonym : Siamese ( Plate 5.10 ) Related types . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be considered as a related type . They appear to possess more 13os indicus genes than other Thai cattle . Origin and habitat . Thai cattle are very similar in conformation to the other breeds of Southeast Asia . Little is known of their origin but it is likely that they are the result of crossbreeding between zebu introduced by some route from the Indian subcontinent and humpless Shorthorn-type cattle that possibly accompanied nomadic peoples coming from the north by way of China , and wild , indigenous Bibos spp . Fischer ( 1971 ) stated that Thai cattle are a variant of zebu cattle as they possess a karotype ( 2n = 60 ) of which the Y-chromosome is acrocentric as in zebu cattle . Namikawa ( 1981 ) , however , has shown that Thai cattle genes originate from Bos taurus , B. indicus and Bibos spp. and that southern Thai cattle possess less Zebu genes than northern Thai cattle . The climatic environment is varied ; in the south of Thailand it is humid tropical , while in the northeast it is monsoonal and/or montane tropical . Physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size , hardy and relatively long-legged . The coat colour is usually yellow , red , brown or black ? lighter shades being preferred by the local farmers . The head is short , the forehead narrow and the ears small . The horns are small , set well apart , curve upwards and slightly forwards and are pointed . The hump is cervico-thoracic , small in the male and virtually absent in the female . The dewlap is moderately large . Southern cattle are blockier than the cattle in the north with short , strong legs and strong hooves . The coat colour is varied , but black , red and reddish grey are common , as is a speckled colour . The head is short or medium in size , as are the ears . The horns are similar to those of cattle in the northern provinces and are particularly well developed in the male . The latter possess a strongly developed cervico-thoracic and pointed hump , the female being more or less humpless . One peculiar characteristic of this breed is the very prominent sex organs in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used for draught purposes , but in south Thailand some are used for bull-fighting ? a local sport . Fighting bulls are selected at 4 years of age and should possess a good strong pair of horns and a well-developed chest , but they are Types of tropical cattle 229 not used until they are 6 years old . After being used for fighting they are then utilized for work and breeding purposes . Bali ( Bibos banteng Wagner ) ? synonym : Balinese ( Plate 5.11 ) Origin and habitat . These animals are unique as they are the only domesticated type of banteng ( Bibos banteng Wagner ) . They probably originated somewhere in Indonesia ( see p. 204 ) and are found today in Bali , Lombok , Timor , Flores , Sulawesi , east Java and Kalimantan in Indonesia and in small numbers in Sabah . The climatic environment throughout this area is generally humid and tropical . Physical characteristics . The Bali is a medium-size , deep-chested , fine-legged animal . The coat colour is usually red , though a golden colour and deep brown are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and switch are black and the legs are white up to the hocks , and there is white under the thighs and a very distinct white oval patch on the hindquarters . There is always a distinctive black line along the back , commencing at the shoulders and ending above 230 Cattle the tail . The male is darker than the female , the coat colour becoming dark brown to black at maturity . At birth the calves of both sexes possess a golden to reddish-brown coat with typical light spots on the back of the legs . The black colour disappears and the reddish-brown coat colour returns if the male is castrated . The hair is short , fine and smooth . The skin is pigmented and fine . The head is broad and short , with a flat poll ; the ears are of medium size and erect . The horns of the male are large , grow sideways and then upwards , and are pointed . Those of the female are considerably smaller . The male possesses a definite crest and the dewlap is well developed in both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and covered with hair . Utility . The breed is used for work purposes , but it is also considered to be a good meat animal that possesses a high dressing-out percentage ( Table 5.5 ) ( Payne and Rollinson , 1973 ) . It is more fertile than the Zebu and is considered to be superior to the Zebu as a work animal in humid tropical climates . It also demonstrates an ability to thrive on feeds of very low nutritive value . Bali cattle have been introduced to Malaysia , the Philippines and Hawaii and feral animals have become established in northern Australia . Africa N'dama ? synonyms : Boenca , Fouta Djallon , Fouta Jallon , Fouta Longhorn , Fouta Malinke , Futa , Gambian Longhorn , Madingo ( Plate 5.12 ) Origin and habitat . This is a humpless breed of the Hamitic Longhorn type and the ancestors of this breed were probably the first domesticated cattle in Africa . They are found today in Liberia , Guinea , Gambia , south Senegal , north Ivory Coast , Sierra Leone , north Benin , Burkina Faso , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point in West Africa from which the breed spread is the Fouta Djallon plateau in Guinea . The breed has apparently increased in numbers during the last 100 years and has acclimatized to life in or on the edges of the rain forest of West Africa . The northern limit of distribution of this breed approximates to the northern limit of the tsetse-infested area and to the southern limit of distribution of zebu . The climatic environment of this area can generally be characterized as humid and tropical . Physical characteristics . It is a small , humpless , well-built animal with a straight top line and short , fine limbs . The coat is usually yellow , fawn , light red or dun in colour , although there are black and pied animals with black or fawn on a white background . The Sierra Leone variety is usually coloured various shades of red . The skin is pigmented , the colour varying from black to light brown , and the hair is soft and short . The head is short and broad , the ears small and horizontal . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upwards from the poll . In mature cattle they are 45 ? 50 cm long , circular in cross-section and white with dark tips . Polled cattle are not uncommon . The dewlap and umbilical fold are not large . The udder of the female is very small and set high between the legs . Utility . They are poor milkers ( Table 5.4 ) , but they can be , and sometimes are , used for draught purposes . They are essentially beef animals producing reasonably good carcasses under poor grazing conditions ( Table 5.5 ) . Their meat is of good quility . Their most unusual attribute is that they are inherently tolerant to trypanosomiasis and that this tolerance appears to be enhanced by exposure to infection but breaks down under stress . Their trypanotolerance has been studied in detail ( ILCA/FAO/UNEP , 1979 ) . They are also said to he tolerant of piroplasmosis and they have a reputation for longevity . On account of their tolerance to trypanosomiasis , cattle of this breed have been imported into Ghana , Nigeria and Zaire . Recently they have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transfer technique ( p. 174 ) . They have also been exported to the West Indies where they were crossed with the Red Poll to form the breed known as the Nelthropp . West African Shorthorn ( Plate 5.13 ) Two subgroups may be distinguished ( ILCA/FAO/UNEP , 1979 ) . Larger animals found in the savannas and dwarf animals from the coastal and forest regions . The related types are : The Savanna West African Shorthorn : ( a ) Baoule ; bred by the Baoule people in northern Ivory Coast ; ( b ) Ghana Shorthorn ; found in the Wa region ( northeast Ghana ) ; the name embraces crossbreds with more Shorthorn than zebu genes ; ( c ) Lobi ; these are the cattle found in northeast Ivory Coast and in the Gaoua region of Burkina Faso ; ( d ) Mere ; this name is used by Fulani pastoralists for pure and crossbred West African Shorthorns ; ( e ) Muturu ; these are the cattle found in the savanna regions of Benue and Anambra in Nigeria ; and ( f ) Somba ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Atacora highlands . The Dwarf West African Shorthorn : ( a ) Bakosi ; synonyms Bakwiri , Kosi ; cattle of the highland areas of Cameroon also known as Muturu ; ( b ) Gambian Dwarf ; very small numbers still to be found in southwest Gambia , likely to become extinct ; ( c ) Lagune ; found in the coastal areas of Ivory Coast , Togo and Benin ; ( d ) Manjaca ; found in very small numbers in the coastal areas of Guinea Bissau ; likely to become extinct ; and ( e ) Muturu ; the common anglophone term used in Liberia , Ghana and Nigeria where these cattle are found in forest and coastal areas . This breed is humpless and has developed from Shorthorn-type cattle that were introduced by nomadic pastoralists into Africa from western Asia . Origin and habitat . Today they are found in coastal forest and savanna areas between Gambia and the Republic of Cameroon and to a more limited extent in the interior . The climate of their habitat is mainly humid and tropical , but they are also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ghana and Benin where the rainfall is comparatively low , and the interior savannas of Ghana , Ivory Coast , Togo , and Burkina Faso . 234 Cattle Physical characteristics . They are small , thickset animals with short , fine-honed limbs . The dwarf type is smaller than the savanna type . The skin is tight and pigmented and the coat usually black , dark brown or pied in colour . The head is short and broad , the animal possessing a broad poll and short horns that grow sideways and upwards and curve forwards at the extremities . In cross-section the horns are circular in the male and oval in the female . Polled animals are common . There is little dewlap or sheath . Utility . These cattle are poor milkers ( Table 5.4 ) , but they possess a reasonably good conformation and produce fairly good beef . They can he used for work purposes , but their capacity is small and their stamina limited . Like the N'dama they also exhibit tolerance to trypanosomiasis , but this tolerance is not as marked as that of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are weakened by disease or malnutrition or if they are overworked . They have been introduced into the Central African Republic , Gabon , Congo and Zaire . Sokoto ? synonyms : Gudali , Sokoto Gudali ( Plate 5.14 ) Origin and habitat . These cattle are typical of the shorthorned zebu found in West Africa . In general appearance and conformation they are somewhat similar to the grey-white breeds of Indian cattle . This particular breed is found in Sokoto Province of northwestern Nigeria where the climatic environment is semi-arid and tropical . Types of tropical cattle 235 Physical characteristics . They are medium-size , deep-bodied animals . The usual coat colour is white or cream in the female and light grey or cream with dark shading over the poll , neck , shoulders and tail in the male . There are some males that are coloured dun with blue-grey shading . The hair is short and the skin medium thick , loose and pigmented . They possess pendulous ears . The male has very short , lateral upturned horns while the female has smaller but slightly longer horns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both sexes . A well-pronounced dewlap and umbilical fold is possessed by both sexes . Utility . This is essentially a dairy ? draught breed , but these cattle are also used for beef production . It is a fair milker under natural grazing conditions ( Table 5.4 ) and as a work animal it is slow , docile , sturdy and reliable . White Fulani ? synonyms : Akou ( Republic of Cameroon ) , Bunaji , White Bororo , White Kano , Yakanaji ( Plate 5.15 ) Origin and habitat . This breed is typical of the West African lyrehorned zebu owned by the Fulani people . It is found in northern Nigeria and in the Republic of Cameroon in a climatic environment 236 Cattle that is tropical and semi-arid . A related type is the Wodobe which appears to be intermediate in characteristics between the White Fulani and the Red Bororo . Physical characteristics . They are large animals . The coat is usually white with black points , but a few animals possess coats that are black with blue flecking or red and white . The skin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ears are erect . The horns are medium to long , lyre-shaped and curve outwards and upwards . In some animals there is an outward turn again at the tip . The hump is well developed and often more or less cervico-thoracic in position . The dewlap is large and well developed , possessing many folds . The sheath and navel flap are not large . The udder of the female is well developed with medium-size teats . Utility . It is a triple-purpose breed , used primarily for milk production ( Table 5.4 ) as milk constitutes the basic diet of the Fulani . These cattle fatten well on natural grasslands and they are good beef animals , possessing a light skeleton . They are good but slow workers . At Shika in northern Nigeria White Fulani have been crossed with the Holstein in an effort to produce a more productive milk animal for use in the region . Sudanese ? synonyms : Arab , Northern Sudan Shorthorned Zebu , North Sudan Zebu ( Plate 5.16 ) Origin and habitat . There are a number of related types , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synonyms : Blue Nile , Fung , Rufa'ai ; 2 . Butana ? synonyms : Bambana , Batahin , Hodendowa , Red Butana , Shukria ; 3 . White Nile ; 4 . Baggara ? synonyms : Darfur , Kordofan , Kordofani , Western . These cattle are of very mixed origin ; 5 . Northern Province ? synonyms : Deleigabi , Dongola , Geigarawi , Shendi . In general it is difficult to specify distinct types as over wide areas there has been a mixture of these related animals , some of whom closely resemble the Indian-type zebu in conformation . Of the related types , the Kenana and White Nile are representative of the nomadic cattle of the northern Sudan , their habitat being semi-arid desert scrub where the rainfall is 350 ? 450 mm . The Northern Province type of cattle come from the riverine region between Khartoum and the Egyptian border and are of somewhat mixed origin , while the Butana are found in the semi-arid area between the Blue Nile and the river Atbara . Baggara cattle have been derived from P1. 5.16 Sudanese . stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with many other types . They are found in the savanna regions between the Nile and the western frontier of the Sudan . Physical characteristics . The different types vary in size , but much of this variation may be due to environmental influences . The coat colour is also variable , possibly due to past selection by man . Whitegrey predominates in the Kenana . In the White Nile there are many colours : red , fawn , white , black and admixtures of these . In the Butana and in the Northern Province cattle the coat is usually red although mixed-colour animals are found . In the Baggara the most usual coat colour is white with red and , less often , black markings , but cattle of many different colours are seen . Kenana calves are born with a red-brown coat that changes to white-grey at 3 ? 6 months of age . The coat of the majority of these cattle is short and the skin loose , fairly long and semi-pendulous . The horns seldom exceed 31 ? 35 cm in length , are shorter in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and grow from a flat poll in an outward and upward direction . There appear to be a few true polls although loose , hanging horns and scurs are common . The hump is cervico-thoracic to thoracic in position and slopes from front to rear . In Baggara cattle the hump in males is almost always cervico-thoracic and that of females is often very small . The dewlap is large and prominent , in238 Cattle deed in some cattle it is often double folded under the chin and may be continuous with the umbilical fold . Utility . The majority of these cattle are kept by nomadic or seminomadic peoples and they are primarily used for milk production ( Table 5.4 ) , although surplus males are sold for slaughter . These cattle have a very strong herding instinct , are very docile and are well adapted for living in semi-arid areas . Within Sudanese breeds , the Kenana are considered the best milkers . Northern Province cattle are also used for work purposes . In a small number of Kenana herds the cattle have been especially selected for milk production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most productive milk breeds in Africa . Boran ( Plate 5.17 ) There are three related types : 1 . Somali Boran ? synonym : Avai ; 2 . Tanaland Boran ? synonym : Galla ; 3 . Kenya Boran ? synonym : NFD . Origin and habitat . Boran originated from southern Ethiopia , but today the breed is found in southern Ethiopia , Somalia and Kenya . Types of tropical cattle 239 In the latter country the Boran has become an important beef breed on the ranches . The type of Boran cattle now found on the ranches originated from animals sold to the European farmers by Somali traders , and there is no doubt that some of the herds include cattle that possess some temperate-type stock genes , particularly Hereford , as cattle of this breed were imported into Kenya 50 years ago and used as foundation stock on the ranches . They were later upgraded using Boran bulls . The original habitat was tropical and semi-arid , but in the major ranching areas it is montane , tropical and semi-arid . Physical characteristics . The Ethiopian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body conformation . Some of the Tanaland Boran are inclined to legginess and arc rather slab-sided . The coat colour of all types is normally white or grey , but red or pied colours occur . The Somali type is normally white with black points . The Tanaland Boran is also usually white , but shades of fawn occur . The Boran on the ranches in Kenya is typically white with black points , but fawn , red and black animals are seen and cattle in some of the herds are being bred for other colours apart from white . The Kenya Boran and the Somali Boran usually possess a pigmented skin , but the skin of the Tanaland Boran is not always pigmented . The skin of all types is thin , loose and pliable . The head is medium to long . The ears are small and not pendulous . The horns are usually small , thick at the base , pointed and directed forward . In the Tanaland and NFD types the horns are variable . Polled animals are not uncommon . The hump is well defined , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side and is larger in the male than in the female . The dewlap and sheath are not excessively developed in the Somali Boran but more so in the Tanaland Boran . The improved Boran on Kenya ranches is characterized by a very straight top line and well-developed hindquarters . Utility . These cattle are used by the semi-nomadic peoples primarily for milk , and if selected for milk production are moderately good milkers ( Table 5.4 ) . On the ranches they have been selected for beef purposes and now appear to be one of the outstanding beef breeds of Africa ( Table 5.5 ) . Unlike most Small East African Zebu , the Boran are susceptible to tick-borne diseases and particularly to East Coast fever ( ECF ) . Because of their reported productive ability and their size they are much in demand in the tick-infested areas and a considerable number of experiments have been made to attempt the pre-immunization of these cattle so that they can be used throughout East Africa . Some success has been claimed . 240 Cattle Small East African Zebu ? synonym : East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major type of cattle found in most parts of East Africa , with different names in different regions . The main related types are : 1 . Mongalla ? synonyms : Southeastern Zebu , Southern Sudan Hill Zebu ; 2 . Lugware ? synonyms : Bahu , Lagware and Lugwaret. 3 . Bukedi ? synonyms : Eastern Province Zebu , Lango , Nkedi , Teso , Uganda Zebu ; 4 . Nandi ? synonyms : Kavirondo , Kikuyu , Kamba , Akamba , Ukamba , Wakamba. 5 . Masai ; 6 . Tanzania Zebu ? synonyms : Iringa Red , Masai Grey , Mkalama Dun , Singida White , Mbulu , Wachagga ; 7 . Zanzibar Zebu . Origin and habitat . Although there are so many different types of Small East African Zebu varying somewhat in size and colour , it is generally accepted that they all have a common origin . Undoubtedly , the total number of these cattle has increased during the last century and it is likely that they are now used in areas where Sanga Types of tropical cattle 241 cattle were previously maintained . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are managed from sea-level to 3000 m , but generally they are most numerous in the wetter and more humid areas of East Africa , whereas the larger zebu , such as the Boran , are more numerous in the drier areas . Physical characteristics . The majority are small , stocky animals . Coat colour varies over a very wide range from white to black . Their hair is short and soft and their skin pliable and deeply pigmented . The head is of medium length , and although horn shape varies over a wide range , in general horns are short , grow outwards and curve slightly inwards at the tip . Humps are pronounced in both sexes , but are larger in the male than in the female . In the male they often fall over backwards or to one side . Dewlaps vary in size but tend to be small , as are the umbilical folds . Utility . Some types of this breed are excellent milkers for their size , particularly the Bukedi and Nandi ( Table 5.4 ) . They are all used , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ceremonial purposes . Animals that are owned by the seminomadic peoples such as the Masai are also used for the production of blood , which is a small part of the staple diet , and are rarely slaughtered for meat . In general , these cattle are more tolerant of tick-borne disease than the larger types of zebu . Ankole ? synonyms : Ankole Longhorn , Toro , Wakuma ( Plate 5.19 ) Related types : 1 . Bahima ? synonyms : Banioro , Banyoro , Bunyoro , Nsagalla ; 2 . Watusi ? synonyms : Barundi , Kivi , Kuku , Nyambo , Watusi Lon-ghorn ; 3 . Kigezi ; 4 . Bashi . Origin and habitat . These are Sanga cattle with large or mediumsize , lyre-shaped horns and small humps , and the principal owners are two related Hamitic pastoral tribes known as the Bahima and the Watusi . These cattle are found in Uganda in two regions separated by a tsetse belt , in Rwanda , Burundi , in the Kivu District of Zaire and in one region of Tanzania . The climatic environment is very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ruzizi Valley to the cool upland areas of Rwanda . Physical characteristics . The Bahima are large , long-legged animals with a straight back . The prominent and favoured coat colour is 242 Cattle deep red , but red and white also occur . The hair is short and the skin soft , pliable and pigmented . The distinguishing features are the horns : these are very long and large , curving gracefully outwards and upwards and finally inwards . There is a great deal of variation in type of horn . Some of the cattle have a horn span of 185 ? 190 cm while others have shorter , thicker horns and 2 per cent are polled . The total horn weight is often as much as 6.8 kg or 1.7 per cent of the body weight , but according to Trail and Sacker ( 1966 ) there does not appear to be any significant difference in the growth rate of horned and dehorned cattle from birth to 2 or 3 years of age . The males sometimes have a slight cervico-thoracic hump , but there is usually no hump @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Watusi are brown , fawn , red or black , and combinations of these colours with white . There is a very wide variation in the size and shape of the horn and horn growth is sometimes deliberately stimulated . In Rwanda the Nyambo or Inyambo strain has exceptionally long horns , up to 2 ? 3 m between the points , and is held to Types of tropical cattle 243 be sacred . There is also a shorthorned strain known as the Inkuku or Kuku found in the mountains . The Kigezi are smaller and finer-boned cattle , paler in colour than the Bahima and with smaller , more upright horns . The Bashi is also a smaller animal , the common coat colour being red , fawn , black or white or combinations of these . The horns are much shorter and the hump is hardly developed in the male and is absent in the female . Utility . These cattle are used primarily for social purposes and for milk production , the Bashi type being the best milk animal ( Table 5.4 ) . They do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for work purposes . They are more susceptible to rinderpest than the zebu , and in Uganda and Tanzania the total number of these cattle appears to be slowly declining as cattle owners replace them by crossbred zebu-type animals . Angoni ( Plate 5.20 ) These are the shorthorned zebu cattle found in Zambia , Malawi and Mozambique in an area south and west of Lake Nyasa . There are 244 Cattle four types , but it is likely that they all have the same origin and that they are descendants of shorthorned Zebu cattle that were introduced from the north . Related types : 1 . Zambia Angoni ; 2 . Malawi Angoni ; 3 . Mozambique Angoni ? synonyms : Tete , Zulu , Angone Zambesi , Angonia Zebu ; 4 . Malawi Zebu ? synonyms : Nyasa Shorthorned Zebu , Nyasa Zebu . Origin and habitat . These cattle represent the southernmost distribution of the shorthorned zebu cattle of East Africa . The habitat is very varied both climatically and topographically , but the climate is generally tropical and dry . Physical characteristics . Zambia Angoni are medium-size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The hair is short and the skin thin , loose and pigmented . The ears are of medium size . The horns are usually short and stout , but approximately 15 per cent possess lyre-type horns . The hump and dewlap are well developed in both sexes . Horns of the Malawi Angoni are usually large , the hump is more variable while the dewlap is generally less developed than in the Zambia Angoni . Mozambique Angoni are smaller animals , their horns are short and stout and their humps are very well developed . The Malawi Zebu is also a small animal very similar to the Small East African Zebu in conformation . Utility . These cattle are used for draught , milk , meat and ceremonial purposes . The Zambia Angoni appear to possess some beef characteristics and selection for these is taking place at local experimental stations . It has been stated , on the other hand , that the meat of the Mozambique Angoni is dry , coarse and tasteless . Mashona ? synonyms : Amajanja , Ikomo eza Makalanga , Mombe , Makahalanga , Makalanga @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ngombe Dza Vakaranga ( Plate 5.21 ) Origin and habitat . These cattle are said to have arrived in the region with a people migrating from the north into Zimbabwe and they are now found over a wide area although they are named after the Shona people of Mashonaland , located in the eastern part of Zimbabwe . During this century they have been extensively crossed with temperate-type and Africander cattle on Zimbabwean ranches . Types of tropical cattle 245 Physical characteristics . The general conformation is compact , fine-boned and small . The most common coat colours are black , red , brown with yellow muzzle , brownish black with a lighter back stripe , dun , yellow , cream , black and white , red and white , and brindle , in that order . The hair is short and glossy ; the skin well pigmented and of fine texture . The head is short and dished . The ears small and pointed . The horns tend to be of medium size , growing upwards and outwards , though polled animals are quite common . The hump is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the female . The dewlap is small . The udder is small and is placed well forward and possesses small teats . Utility . These are good beef and draught animals , being extremely docile and hardy . They are rarely milked and are not considered to be a milking breed . Africander ? synonym : Afrikander ( Plate 5.22 ) Related type . Bolowana ? synonym : Izankayi . These cattle have been upgraded with Africander and have now lost their identity as a separate type . Origin and habitat . It is generally recognized that this breed originated from the cattle owned by the Hottentots in the seven246 Cattle teenth and eighteenth centuries , but some Portuguese workers claim that it originated from an importation of cattle of the Alentejo breed from Portugal . The early Dutch settlers in South Africa acquired their first herd of Africander cattle in 1652 . The climatic environment of the habitat might he described as modified subtropical to tropical in the north and Mediterranean in Cape Province . Physical characteristics . Africanders are large , muscular and hardy . The coat colour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marks on the underline . The hair is short and glossy , the skin , thick , pliable and amber to yellow in colour . The head is long , the ears small and pointed . The horns are long , wide and have a downwards and backwards sweep where they leave the head . The horns are oval in cross-section and have a characteristic twist . The male has short , strong horns , while those of the female are thinner and more spiral . The hump is cervico-thoracic and prominent in the male . The dewlap is large with loose folds and the umbilical fold is well developed . Utility . These cattle were originally developed as draught animals and were considered exceptionally good for this purpose , but more Types of tropical cattle 247 recently they have been developed for beef production ( Table 5.5 ) . This is the main breed found on South African ranches and it is well adapted to the warmer regions provided that the climate is not too wet or too dry . A breed society was founded in 1919 and the herdbook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been exported to other countries in Africa , to the United States , the Philippines and to Australia . The Americas Brahman ? synonym : American Brahman ( Plate 5.23 ) Related type . Red Brahman . The only difference between these and other Brahmans is that they possess a red coat . Origin and habitat . The breed was developed in the Gulf area of the southwestern United States between 1854 and 1926 . It is a zebu derived from strains of the Kankrej , Ongole , Gir , Krishna Valley , Hariana and Bhagnari breeds , but as the former Mr Edgar Hudgins , a prominent Brahman breeder , once stated , ' the truth of the Brahman breeding will never he known ' . The foundation Zebu were either imported directly into the United States or indirectly through Brazil and Mexico . The climatic environment of the Gulf coast where the Brahman breed was originally developed could be described as humid and sub248 Cattle tropical , but cattle of this breed are now bred in many regions of the tropical and subtropical world . Physical characteristics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in physical characteristics . It is a large animal with a long body of moderate depth , with long to medium-length legs and a straight back . The colour of the coat is normally a very light grey , but it may be red or black . The mature male is usually darker in colour than the female , with darker areas on the neck , shoulders , lower thighs and flanks . Calves often possess a red coat at birth that quickly turns grey . The skin is loose , soft and pliable , of medium thickness and is usually pigmented . The head is normally long . The ears are pendulous . The horns thinner than those of the male . The hump is large in the male , smaller in the female . The dewlap is large , but the sheath and navel flaps are not very pendulous . The udder in the female is of moderate size , as are the teats . Utility . The Brahman is essentially a beef animal that grows well on poor , dry grazings and also responds to feedlot management . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been widely used for crossbreeding purposes , to produce zebu x temperate-type beef animals that are well acclimatized to tropical or subtropical environment and exhibit hybrid vigour . When the Brahman is continuously handled , it is a docile animal , but if it is gathered only occasionally it can be very wild . It appears to have a long productive life , is not unduly troubled by ticks , biting flies and mosquitoes , exhibits considerable tolerance to pink-eye and cancer-eye and is gregarious and a close herder , not responding well to hand mating . The American Brahman Breeders Association was organized in 1924 and Brahmans have been exported all over the world , in particular to countries in the Caribbean , Central and South America , and to Australia , the Pacific islands and the Philippines . Santa Gertrudis ( Plate 5.24 ) Origin and habitat . The Santa Gertrudis is a crossbred , three-eighths zebu x five-eighths Shorthorn developed on the King Ranch in Texas . The breeding work undertaken in the evolution of the Santa Gertrudis is perhaps one of the best examples of constructive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breed compares with the work of Robert Bakewell who established the Shorthorn breed in Britain in the eighteenth century . The King Ranch was originally stocked with Texas Longhorns and these were upgraded using Shorthorn and Hereford bulls . In 1910 the first crossbred zebu were purchased by the ranch and between this date and 1940 , by means of a well-planned breeding policy , the Santa Gertrudis breed was developed . Types of tropical cattle 249 The original habitat is subtropical and semi-arid , but the breed has now been exported to many different regions of the tropical and subtropical world . Physical characteristics . It is a large symmetrical , deep-bodied , strong-boned animal . The coat colour should be a solid , cherry-red , the hair short and straight and the skin thin , loose and pigmented red . The head is broad and the animal has a slightly convex forehead . The ears arc medium to large and drooping . The horns are usually of the Shorthorn type and polled animals exist . The hump is of medium size in the male but absent in the female @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navel flap are of medium size . The udder of the female is of medium size with well-placed teats . Utility . This is a beef breed that is said to have cold- as well as heat-tolerance characteristics and to be resistant to ticks . Exports of cattle of this type have made a considerable impact on the beef in-dustries in countries in the Caribbean , Central and South America and in Australia . Some doubts have been expressed as to the fertility of the breed , though in general it appears to be as fertile as other new breeds . 250 Cattle Jamaica Red Poll ? synonyms : Good Hope Red , Jamaica Red ( Plate 5.25 ) Origin and habitat . The breed has been developed by the upgrading of indigenous Creole ( Criollo ) and zebu crossbreds using Red Poll bulls . A Jamaica Red Poll Cattle Breeders Society was founded in 1952 and the herdbook was closed in 1960 . The habitat is varied and the climatic environment is tropical and generally humid . Physical characteristics . It is a large animal with a good depth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark to medium red ; the hair sleek and dense ; the skin fine ; and the animal should be polled . Utility . The breed had been developed to produce beef at an early age off pasture and it is particularly well adapted to a humid tropical environment . Cattle of this breed have been exported to Latin American countries and the breed appears to be flourishing , particularly in Venezuela . Jamaica Hope ? synonyms : Montgomery-Jersey , Jersey Zebu ( Plate 5.26 ) Origin and habitat . The breed has been developed from a herd founded at Hope , near Kingston , in Jamaica , in 1910 . The farm was originally stocked with Creole ( Criollo ) and imported grade temperate-type cattle originating from Canada and the United Kingdom . In 1912 two Sahiwal bulls were imported from the Pusa herd in India and one was used for crossbreeding purposes . With the facilities available it was impossible to test all the different types of crossbreds produced so that the Ayrshire , Brown Swiss , Red Poll , Guernsey and Holstein crossbreds were discarded , leaving only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hope cattle have inherited 70 ? 75 per cent of their genes from the Jersey , 20 per cent from the Sahiwal and a small percentage from Creole cattle . In 1952 the herd was closed ' and the Jamaica Hope was established as a new breed , a society being formed in 1953 . The climatic environment is tropical and humid . Physical characteristics . The breed is very similar to the Jersey in conformation although these cattle are usually larger . There is no definite coat colour , it varies from fawn , brown and grey to black . Utility . The breed has been developed for dairying under humid tropical conditions and it is undoubtedly one of the most productive breeds ( Table 5.4 ) found in the tropics today with individual cows producing up to 9,000 kg of milk per lactation . Reproductive efficiency is said to be good . Cattle of this breed have been exported to other Caribbean and to some Central and South American countries . // Criollo cattle Criollo cattle are descendants of the first cattle to be introduced into the Americas from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Americas at the beginning of the last century , being bred and herded from Oregon on the west coast and Florida 252 Cattle on the east coast of North America , through the Caribbean islands and Central America , to Argentina in the south of South America . The most useful attribute of the Criollo was that it appeared to be able to adapt itself to the myriad subclimates of the Americas . Consequently there were many different Criollo sub-breeds or types . Unfortunately , the majority have been replaced by British and European dairy and beef breeds or by zebu breeds or crossbreds . Today only a few purebred Criollo herds remain , the majority in Cuba and Colombia ( Rouse , 1977 ) , and the continued existence of many of these herds depends upon universities , government departments or isolated breeders . Some of the more important isolated groups of Criollo-type cattle are : 1 . Criollo herds in the altiplano of Bolivia and on one holding in the oriente ( Rouse , 1977 ) ; 2 . Llanero cattle in isolated regions of the Ilanos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milking Criollo ) cattle in Venezuela ; 4 . Vallecaucano , Chino-Santandereano , San Martinero , Blanco Orejinegro , Costeno con Cuernos and Romo-Sinuano cattle in Colombia ; 5 . Milking Criollo herds developed by Dr Jorge de Alba in Costa Rica and Mexico ; 6 . Criollo herds in the mountains of Honduras and Guatemala ; 7 . Criollo ( Creole ) cattle on smallholdings in Haiti ; 8 . Cuban Criollo milking cattle on state farms in Cuba . As it is not possible to describe and discuss all Criollo sub-breeds in this introductory volume , one sub-breed , the Romo-Sinuano is briefly described . Romo-Sinuano ? synonyms : Coastal Polled , Morano-Sinuano , Polled Sinu ( Plate 5.27 ) Origin and habitat . This is a Criollo breed found in north Colombia around the Sinn River and in the province of Bolivar . These cattle are believed to have originated from crossbreeding between Red Poll and/or Aberdeen Angus and Horned Sinn at the end of the last century . The habitat is either swampy or slightly undulating . The climatic environment is humid and tropical , the rainfall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a beefy-type animal . The coat colour is red . The skin colour is deeply pigmented . The hair is scanty and short and many older animals possess a top line and rump completely devoid of hair . The breed is polled but scurs occur . Utility . It is a beef breed ( Table 5.5 ) that possesses a tendency to lay down gobs of fat , a characteristic of the meat that is now considered objectionable . Romo-Sinuano are very docile animals and are easily herded . Indu-Brasil ? synonyms : Indu-Brazilian , Hindu-Brazil , Inubereba ( Plate 5.28 ) Origin and habitat . This breed originated from indiscriminate crossbreeding between Indian breeds imported into Brazil ; mainly Gir , Kankrej and Ongole cattle . The habitat is varied and the climatic environment tropical . Physical characteristics . It is somewhat similar to the American Brahman , demonstrating characteristics from the foundation breeds . Utility . It is a beef breed and some of the best herds are now found in the states of Minas Gerais and Bahia in Brazil . Oceania Australian Milking Zebu ( Plate 5.29 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent zebu crossbred . It has been developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Types of tropical cattle 255 Research Organization ( CSIRO ) in Australia from Sahiwal and Red Sindhi cattle imported from Pakistan and Australian Jerseys . The Australian Milking Zebu Society was formed in 1970 . The climatic environment of the area in which they are used varies from warm temperate to tropical . Physical characteristics . Females are somewhat similar in appearance to Jerseys but are larger . The predominant coat colour is a golden to reddish brown . The bulls possess a cervico-thoracic hump . Utility . This is a dairy breed with a good milk production ( Table 5.4 ) but it also produces very acceptable beef carcasses . They are more resistant to ticks than British cattle and possess good foraging abilities . Progeny-tested sires are available . Droughtmaster ( Plate 5.30 ) Origin and habitat . These are crossbred cattle with three-eighths to five-eighths zebu blood , mainly derived from red American Brahman cattle imported from Texas . There is also some infusion of Santa Gertrudis blood . The temperate-type inheritance has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poll breeds , 256 Cattle together with some genes from the Shorthorn inheritance in the Santa Gertrudis . A Droughtmaster Stud Breeders Society was formed in 1962 . The climatic environment of the region in which they are utilized varies from humid tropical on the coast to semi-arid tropical and subtropical in the interior of the continent . Physical characteristics . These cattle are large , long-bodied and well fleshed . The coat is short and sleek and the skin loose and pliable . The coat colour is light or dark red . There are both horned and polled individuals . The dewlap and sheath in the male and the navel flap in the female are moderately developed . The udder of the female is of moderate size , possessing evenly placed teats . Utility . This is a beef breed producing excellent quality meat . Animals of this breed are resistant to tick infestation and appear to be more tolerant to babesiosis than the British breeds . Droughtmaster cattle have been exported to New Guinea and the Solomon Islands . Production systems in the tropics Many suggestions have been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposals by Dittmar ( 1954 ) , de Boer ( 1976 ) in Asia , Payne ( 1976 ) for beef-producing systems only , Ruthenberg ( 1976 ) , de Boer ( 1977 ) for the International Livestock Centre for Africa ( ILCA ) , and Jahnke ( 1977 ) . In the author 's opinion none of these classifications provide a suitable framework for the evaluation of tropical cattle production systems on a world-wide basis . Either the criteria used are regional in concept and scope or the classification is too complex . For world-wide evaluation purposes a classification must be simple and be based on universally recognized criteria . The following classification is proposed . I EXTENSIVE SYSTEMS A Subsistence and/or semi-subsistence ? Pastoralism ? Crop agriculture with extensive cattle production B Commercial ? Ranching II SEMI-INTENSIVE SYSTEMS A Semi-subsistence and/or semi-commercial ? Sedentary crop agriculture with cattle production Production systems 257 III INTENSIVE SYSTEMS B Commercial ? Rotational cattle ? forage crop production ( ley farming ) ? Integrated cattle ? perennial crop production ? Modern sector cattle production The primary criterion used is the spatial characteristic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although the demarcation lines between these are in no way absolute and are to some degree dynamic and continuously changing , as for example , ranching systems becoming more intensive , they are sufficiently well identified with specific environments , economic systems and cultures to justify the divisions proposed . The secondary criterion is the economic objective of the cattle owners . These may be either of a subsistence , semi-subsistence , semi-commercial or entirely commercial nature . The difference between a semi-subsistence and semi-commercial economic objective is obviously arbitrary , but for the purposes of classification it is assumed , as did de Boer ( 1977 ) , that less than 50 per cent of the total production of semi-subsistence producers is sold for cash while semicommercial producers sell more than 50 per cent of their total production . These economic objective demarcation lines are also continuously changing as subsistence cattle owners enter the market system and semi-subsistence cattle owners begin to specialize in response to market forces . An added complication is that most commercial producers , specialize , managing only cattle , while subsistence , semi-subsistence and semi-commercial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon their economic ? cultural system and the environment in which they operate . Despite these problems it is considered that the different economic objectives create such distinct cattle-management systems as to justify the divisions proposed . Although this classification may not be completely satisfactory as a model or entirely logical in concept the author considers that it does provide a basis for a world-wide evaluation of tropical cattle production systems . Details of the present geographical distribution of tropical cattle are provided in Tables 5.1 and 5.2 . Guesstimates can be made of distribution by major managerial systems . These have been made using FAO cattle population information , statistical data from the major tropical countries relating to the internal distribution of cattle , personal knowledge and other relevant data . Using these criteria the approximate distribution of cattle by managerial system as a percentage of the total number of tropical cattle is as follows : Although these guesstimates should only be considered as an ap proximate guide they do indicate the continuing important role of pastoral and ranching systems in tropical cattle production and that almost half of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some 30 per cent of cattle are managed in commercial systems , but only 5 per cent in intensive commercial systems . Extensive systems Pastoralism Pastoralism is difficult to define as a livestock system , as there is a continuum between pastoral nomadism , in which livestock-owning people practise no settled agriculture , and sedentary cultivation in which people practise livestock raising . In a very simplified form this situation is shown diagrammatically in Fig. 5.4 . As a consequence pastoral societies are usually very complex , though on superficial acquaintance they may appear to be very simple . Pastoralists are essentially opportunists , not only seeking on Extensive systems 259 a day-to-day basis the best forage and water resources available , but also reacting rapidly to changes in the ecology and the climatic environment of the rangelands that they utilize . The only too familiar portrait of pastoral communities , propagated by some administrators and development specialists , as innate reactionary and irrational societies , whose members react in a perverse manner to economic incentives , is at best a half-truth . The primary objective of pastoralists is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever-present threat of destruction of their only means of livelihood ? their livestock . Given this premise , the members of most pastoral societies are innovative at the technological level at which they operate and rational in their short-term economic attitudes . According to ODI ( 1976 ) there were in 1974 about 16 million pastoralists in tropical Africa and perhaps 2 million in tropical Asia . The number at the present time is not known , but despite droughts it will certainly be no less than the ODI estimate . The majority of African pastoralists are to be found in the Sahelian zone of West Africa and in Northeast Africa , though there are small numbers scattered throughout the drier areas of the continent . In tropical Asia pastoralists are found only in the Arabian Peninsula and the Indian subcontinent . The relatively small pastoral population controls approximately one-seventh of all cattle in the tropics . Pastoralists breed and manage camels , donkeys , sheep and goats as well as cattle . In a very general manner the importance of cattle in pastoral systems increases as the annual rainfall in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herding increases in drier areas , while in drought periods camel herders penetrate into highrainfall areas . As there is a continuum between systems , they are difficult to classify , but some of the more important types are : ? Those of fully nomadic peoples such as some of the pastoral Fulani ( syn . Fulbe , Fula , Fellata and Peul ) of West Africa ; ? Partially nomadic systems such as those of the Baggara Arabs of the western Sudan who move horizontally ' in an annual circumscribed manner ( Fig. 5.5 ) ; migrating southwards in the dry season to the higher rainfall region around the Bahr el Arab , and retreating northwards during the wet season to escape the biting flies and the mud in order to graze ephemeral forage in the semiarid rangelands ; ? Partially nomadic systems such as that of the Turkana in northern Kenya or the Borana in Ethiopia who move vertically ' into the more humid higher-altitude country during the dry season , returning to the semi-arid lowlands during the wet season ; and ? Truly transhumant peoples such as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their villages during the wet                     