@@773574

txt 200 The Constitution of Tyranny 1884 Constitution provided for a somewhat more significant legislative role , including annual sessions for sixty days . Extraordinary sessions still required convocation by the president . The constitution attempted to limit executive authority , with prohibitions on violations of the garantias , intervention in judicial proceedings , and dissolution of the Congress or suspension of its sessions ( Art . 91 ) . Nevertheless , the Congress or , if not in session , the council of state could still concede vast extraordinary powers to the president in cases of " internal commotion or foreign invasion . " Inclusion of two senators and one deputy from Congress in the council of state implied more control over the concession of such powers to the executive . The president was also prohibited from naming more generals and colonels to the army than authorized by Congress . Officers were again directed not to obey illegal or unconstitutional orders ? a double-edged sword at best ( Arts . 123 , 127 ) . The 1884 Constitution was as close as Ecuador would come in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of constitutional regimes of exception . Three conservative civilian governments followed , including a presidential term for Antonio Flores , son of the country 's first president ( 1888-1892 ) . President Jose Maria Placido Caamano rededicated the country to the Sacred Heart of Jesus and resurrected other policies of Garcia Moreno . From 1883 to 1887 , he faced regional revolts and coup attempts headed by liberal leader General Jose Eloy Alfaro Delgado , who would later serve two terms as president ( 1895-1901 , 1906-1911 ) . The conservative oligarchy that ruled the country , virtually an extended family group of Caamano and Flores kin called la argolla ( the ring ) by its critics , jailed , tortured , exiled , and executed liberal opponents . In 1884 , the council of state conceded President Caamano extraordinary powers to suppress an uprising led by Alfaro . Ignoring the constitutional prohibition on capital punishment for political crimes , liberal opponents and guerrilla fighters ( montoneros ) were executed under military law . In 1886 , Congress extended the death penalty to treason , arson , pillage , and piracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military tribunals.70 The liberal uprisings and invasions from Peru continued into the next presidential term and were met again with concession of extraordinary powers to the president . Although political strife persisted and liberal guerrillas harassed the incumbent administrations into the 1890s , the Constitution of 1884 survived until I897 ? longer than any constitution since the country 's independence in Regimes of Exception in Venezuela , Colombia , and Ecuador 201 1830 . The conservative restoration , like the governments of Flores and Garcia Moreno and also the liberal governments prior to 1895 , little tolerated opposition , made extensive use of extraordinary powers , and relied on the military and police to sustain their rule . On June 5 , 1895 , before the presidential elections could be completed , mob violence and a liberal uprising in Guayaquil ended the domination of conservative governments . In a revolution financed by ascendant cacao interests on the coast , Alfaro returned from Central American exile , unilaterally abrogated the 1884 Constitution , and decreed the restoration of the 1878 charter . Opposition by the church hierarchy to the enemy knocking at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jesus presaged civil war ? a religious , political , and military conflict . Withal , Alfaro 's chaplain blessed the cannons of Alfaro 's artillery and celebrated mass for the soon-to-be president . Alfaro 's liberalism produced attacks on church privilege but did not eschew repression . He formed a corps of garroteros , much like Rosas 's mazorca in Buenos Aires or Diaz 's bravi in Mexico ? thugs operating as secret police to terrorize his opponents . In March 1896 he called for a convention to produce still another constitution that would , of course , legitimize the liberal revolution . Like his conservative enemies , Alfaro sought to pack the convention with supporters , forbid participation of the opposition ( in this case particularly priests and religious ) , and control the elections to follow . Like the conservative military officers who preceded him in the presidency , the liberal General Alfaro needed a constitution to certify the legitimacy of the new regime and a constituent assembly to name him president . One day after the convention approved the 1897 Constitution , it named Eloy Alfaro president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else of significance . Constitutional dictatorship remained the heart of the body politic . Liberal authoritarianism , analogous to that of Mexico , had replaced the Republic of the Sacred Heart of Jesus . Opposition media was attacked and government-supported media subsidized . The government manipulated elections , ramrodded the Congress , and stacked the judiciary with loyalists after purging conservative judges . Ley fuga reigned . Revolts against the government occurred in 1897 and 1898 , partly in response to new legislation adversely affecting the church . After a conservative revolt , the liberal government restored laws permitting confiscation of property belonging to insurgents.71 In 1900 , legislation creating civil registries for recording births , marriages , and deaths further angered the conservatives . 202 The Constitution of Tyranny Despite the conservative opposition , Alfaro successfully orchestrated the election of General Leonidas Plaza Gutierrez as his successor . The government candidate received 65,000 of the 75,000 votes cast . Plaza had served in the armies of El Salvador , Nicaragua , and Costa Rica and participated in the liberal forces that defeated Veintemilla at Guayaquil in 1883 . He served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and had also been governor of Azuay Province . He would again be president from 1912 to 1916.72 Plaza attempted reconciliation and disbanded the secret police ? but he broke with Alfaro , who carried out a coup in 1906 when Plaza 's chosen candidate was selected president . From 1901 to 1916 , insurrections reflecting factionalism within the liberal governments afflicted the country , even as the conservatives gradually accommodated themselves to electoral politics . After the 1906 insurrection , Alfaro again ruled as jefe supremo , interim president , and constitutional president , after first calling for still another constitutional convention . The convention adopted a new charter in 1906 . When Alfaro 's chosen successor , coastal businessman Emilio Estrada , died in 1911 only months after taking office , it took five years of civil war to determine the next president . Liberals confronted each other , Alfaro against Leonidas Plaza and Julio Andrade . Fighting in 1912 left 3,000 dead ; taken prisoner , Alfaro and other rebel leaders were dragged from a jail cell and murdered by a mob.73 An assassin also killed Andrade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 1916 ) . Military garrisons and caudillos still decided who was president ; from 1895 to 1920 , military expenditures accounted for almost 30 percent of national budgets , exceeded only by debt service as the government became seriously indebted to private banks . Political violence was the rule ; extraordinary powers and regimes of exception still legitimated tyranny . Every Ecuadorean constitution in the nineteenth century had provided for ample extraordinary powers , several for suspending enumerated civil liberties and rights , and one ( 1869 ) for a practically unlimited state of siege and martial law . Parallel to the regimes of exception , the constitutional mission of the armed forces compelled military officers to evaluate the constitutionality and legality of orders from civilians or superior officers . The armed forces ' prominent role in politics had been constitutionally guaranteed . Ecuador 's last nineteenth-century constitution , in 1897 , ratified a liberal revolution that secularized the state and reiterated the legal foundations for dictatorship ( Arts . 94 , 95 , 98 , 99 , 125 ? 31 ) . The Regimes of Exception in Venezuela , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Arts . 80 , 81 , 83 , 84 , 97 , 117-23 ) . Succession constitutions in 1925 , 1938 , 1945 ( after the restoration of the 1906 charter ) , and 1946 reconfirmed the tradition , as did Ecuador 's 1978 Constitution ( Art . 78 , Sec. n ) . In the nineteenth century , the juridical foundations of dictatorship were firmly embedded in Ecuadorean constitutional law ? as they would also be in neighboring Peru and Bolivia . They endured into the 1990s , despite further reforms during the twentieth century . As Ecuador entered the last decade of the twentieth century , the president could declare a state of " national emergency " to meet external threats and grave internal commotion or catastrophe . He could suspend all constitutional garantias except the right to life and prohibitions on involuntary exile ( Art . 78 ) . He also had decree powers for economic emergencies that approximated the expansive Venezuelan and Mexican presidential prerogatives . The armed forces remained the guardians of the constitution and the arbiters of national politics ( Art . 128 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundations of constitutional dictatorship legitimated twentieth-century political repression . 6 Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia ALMOST A DECADE AFTER VENEZUELANS PROCLAIMED INDEPENDENCE from Spain and adopted South America 's first republican constitution , an Argentine general heading a predominantly Chilean army and supported by naval forces commanded by a British officer proclaimed independence for Peru . Even then , the center of royal authority and military power remained ambiguously independent until the Argentine , Jose de San Martin , stepped aside ( 1822 ) and permitted the Colombian armies of Simon Bolivar and Jose Antonio de Sucre to invade from the north , defeating Spanish forces in the Andean highlands . At Ayacucho in December 1824 , General Sucre 's combined force of Colombians , Peruvians , freed slaves , and mulattos defeated the army of Peru 's last viceroy , Jose de la Serna . A hopeless last stand by royalists besieged in Callao , Lima 's port , ended with Spanish capitulation in January 1826 . But support for Spain , the king , and the traditional order persisted ; fear of republicanism , liberalism , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the first signs of rebellion in Upper Peru ( later Bolivia ) in 1809 , Peruvian Viceroy Jose Fernando de Abascal began reorganizing administrative jurisdictions and expanding royalist military capabilities . On his own initiative , and at times blatantly resisting the cortes at Cadiz , he reestablished order over the Upper Peruvian provinces in 1810 , though they were formally assigned to officials in Buenos Aires . He then reinforced the army in Guayaquil ( 1812 ) and sent an army against rebels in Chile ( 1813 ) . 204 Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 205 Abascal also eventually defeated the criollo and Indian armies that had sacked cities and slaughtered the garrison at La Paz in 1814 . The " rebellion of Pumacahua , " named for the aged Indian cacique who had fought on the Spanish side against Tiupac Amaru in the 1780s and now joined criollo dissidents opposing royalists policies , left many Peruvian criollos convinced again that Spanish imperialism was preferable to Indian rebellions . ' The restoration of absolute monarchy in Spain and the abrogation of the 1812 Constitution ( 1814 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peru . Abascal retired in 1816 , proud of his contributions to the monarchical cause and still disdainful of liberal principles and demands for reform of the colonial regime . Most Peruvian criollos had no desire for independence . The extension of warfare , banditry , and sedition from the independence struggles of the Rio de la Plata region into Upper Peru caused anxiety among elites who depended primarily upon patronage in the royal bureaucracy , colonial commercial monopolies , stringent export-import controls , and hegemony over Chile and other subordinate jurisdictions . Free trade meant loss of captive markets , increases in prices of food imports required to sustain Lima , and " unfair " competition from northern ports , such as Guayaquil , or southern ports , such as Valparaiso . Added to the decades-long decline of mining and commerce , the short-term economic dilemmas in Lima intensified Peru 's dependence upon the imperial system rather than generating support for the liberal reforms demanded in Buenos Aires , Chile , or Venezuela.3 In short , most Peruvian elites had much to lose and much to fear from independence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Enlightenment seemed to prefer concessions and reforms on the part of Spain ? more jobs , more influence in peninsular affairs , more opportunity for social mobility , and more protection against the so-called dangerous classes ( Indians , blacks , and castas ) ? to independence . The Lima criollo elite shared a desperate fear of social revolution and race war with their Mexican counterparts . Memory of the thousands dead and the widespread devastation and ferocity of the Tupac Amaru revolt of the 1780s made the " Indian danger " a central concern . In Peru , " conserving internal order " meant much more than controlling bandits or rebels ; it was an easily decoded message to " whites " that Indian insurrection always threatened.4 The conscription and arming of black slaves from the countryside 206 The Constitution of Tyranny near Lima by San Martin in his campaign against the royalists from 1821 to 1822 further frightened Peruvian landowners and urban elites . Devastation of rural estates by roving bandits and rebel troops heightened their anxiety . In contrast to Mexico , however , foreign troops would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of a conservative empire such as that forged by Iturbide from 1821 to 1823 ( see chapter 3 ) . In the words of Timothy Anna , " The event was accomplished , the deed was done , the Peruvians still had not decided.s ' In contrast , although the creation and independence of Bolivia was closely connected to that of Peru , rebellions in Upper Peru preceded the movements in Venezuela and Buenos Aires that ultimately separated the southern provinces and northern South American colonies from Spanish rule . The first declaration of independence by an American colony of Spain , albeit in the name of the deposed King Ferdinand VII , was by a junta in La Paz in July 1809 . Suppressed shortly after by troops from Cuzco , this first autonomist movement resulted in the execution of its principal leaders and the exile of more than a hundred " rebels.s6 Officially part of the viceroyalty of Buenos Aires since the administrative reforms of the late eighteenth century , Upper Peru also suffered repression by an army from Rio de la Plata . Into the mid-1820s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peru while guerrilla forces and bandits controlled much of the countryside . As the independence movement in Buenos Aires gained strength and rebels invaded Upper Peru , the highlands served frequently as a battlefield . ' Distributing arms to Indian allies by both royalists and rebels eventually resulted in increased levels of violence and Indian uprisings . After 1816 , however , royalists regained control of most of the region . Both royalists and supporters of independence in Peru and Buenos Aires viewed Upper Peru as potentially part of their administrative jurisdiction or national territory . After 1776 , Upper Peru pertained to the viceroyalty of the Rio de la Plata ; due to war , troops from Peru , the viceroyalty to which the mines of Potosi and the towns of the highlands had belonged through most of the colonial period , had reoccupied the territory . Ironically , the royal commander in Upper Peru , the criollo Pedro Olaneta , precipitated the separation of what became Bolivia from the last bastion of royal authority in Peru . ( ) l meta despised the liberal military officers sent from Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bolivia 207 1823 and opposed the restored Constitution of Cadiz even more than had Viceroy Abascal . In February 1824 , Olaneta proclaimed an absolute monarchy in Chuquisaca in the name of Fernando VII , overthrew the Spanish constitution , and named himself " Commander of the Provinces of the Rio de la Plata . " At Ayacucho in December 1824 , the royalist forces defeated by Sucre vainly waited for reinforcements from Olaneta . Olaneta even engaged in minor battles against his royalist compatriots while reserving his forces to fight against the rebels . General Sucre , the victorious commander at Ayacucho , went after Olaneta in Upper Peru . After convincing many of Olaneta 's troops to mutiny , Sucre defeated the remaining royalist forces . Olaneta , indirectly the founder of Bolivia , died in battle against mutinous troops in early 1825.8 This left Upper Peru in the hands of Sucre , at the orders of Bolivar , and submerged in the chaotic regionalism and personalism that had resulted from more than fifteen years of war and intrigue . Local and regional elites , preferring autonomy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sucre to create an independent nation ; in 1825 , delegates meeting in Chuquisaca declared Upper Peru independent . Dr. Casimiro Olaneta , nephew of the general defeated by Sucre , renounced his royalist ties and became a key Sucre adviser and intermediary between local elites and the Colombian expeditionary force . To assure Bolivar 's support , the constituent assembly named the new republic Bolivar , later changed to Bolivia . What had once been the colonial audiencia of Charcas was now the Republic of Bolivia . This region , first to proclaim independence , would be the most chaotic polity in South America during the remainder of the nineteenth century . Immediately after independence , both Bolivia and Peru experienced short-lived dictatorships by Bolivar followed by more than half a century of political violence , instability , and constitutional experimentation . Attempts by caudillos in Peru and Bolivia to unite these territories , or to append part of Bolivia to Peru , made it difficult to disentangle domestic from international politics into the 1840s . The short-lived Peru-Bolivia Confederation ( 1836 ? 1839 ) of General Andres Santa Cruz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Argentina and Chile , leaving both Peru and Bolivia the worse for Santa Cruz 's South American version of manifest destiny . Always , however , criollo elites and urban dwellers in these two republics lived in fear of Indian rebellion , racial conflicts , and uprisings of the poorer classes . Thus , the debates over federalism ver208 The Constitution of Tyranny sus centralism , legislative versus executive dominance , the role of the church , and other institutional issues were often subordinate to concerns over civil-military relations and struggles to ensure law and order . In these struggles the protagonists were often military officers from the generation of Ayacucho , those who had fought in the independence wars and would dominate Peruvian and Bolivian politics into the 1860s . The geographical isolation of Andean towns , the difficulty of communication and transportation , and the survival of localism made the dispersed garrisons the key political actors and resources in the first sixty years of independence . As in Central America , constitutional debates and reforms were confounded by the immediate politics of presidential succession . Principled debates over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power and control of appointment of military officers and other public officials , could not be separated from the personal antagonisms and passions of the moment . Usually military victories rather than political philosophy or elections determined the outcome . Neither Peru nor Bolivia established effective civilian governments until late in the nineteenth century ; government by , and constitutional provision for , regimes of exception characterized politics in these two republics from the moment of independence . Peru would have the dubious distinction of initiating its independent existence under a regime of exception and suspending its first constitution on adoption . During the first sixteen years of independence , Peru adopted five constitutions : 1823 , 1826 , 1828 , 1834 , and 1839 . Peruvian executives would never be without extraordinary powers to confront emergencies , and the military became the most important political institution in the country . In Bolivia , independence meant a temporary dictatorship under the Bolivarian Constitution of 1826 , followed by recurrent changes of government and constitutions from 1826 to 1880 : 1831 , 1834 , 1839 , 1843 , 1851 , 1861 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national constitution , promulgated by Santa Cruz in 1831 , allowed for " the suspension of any of the formalities of the constitution or the law " when " the security of the Republic requires " ( Art . 132 ) . Extraordinary powers could be conceded to the president to confront invasion or " internal commotion " ( Arts . 74 , 75 ) . No Bolivian government after 1831 would lack this flexibility . Regimes of exception and de facto dictatorships became the rule . Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 209 INDEPENDENCE AND REGIMES OF EXCEPTION IN PERU Constitutional development in Peru began during the wars of independence , with the 1821 proclamations of General San Martin that established temporary military dictatorships . This was followed by the short " Bases de la Constitucion Politica de la Republica Peruana " issued by the Supreme Government Junta in 1822 . San Martin 's Provisional Statute of October 1821 concentrated all power in " the Protector " ( that is , San Martin ) whose authority derived " from the rule of necessity , force , and reason and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . As generalissimo of land and sea forces , " the Protector " had as his primary duty the liberation of all parts of the Peruvian territory and could " increase or decrease the size of the armed forces as deemed necessary " ( Art . 2 ) . This all-powerful executive could also impose taxes , request " voluntary " contributions , and exact forced loans to pay for public expenses . " The Protector " also could appoint and remove all public officials . The Provisional Statute defined as " treason " and " sedition " almost any resistance to government policy ( Art . 3 ) . Formation of any " secret association opposed to the legitimate authority " was outlawed . Freedom of the press was authorized , subject to future regulations ( Arts . 3 , 4 ) . Obviously a wartime effort to legitimate martial law , the Provisional Statute nevertheless provided insight into the authoritarian premises of certain independence leaders and criollo elites . Over time , less severe versions of such constitutional regimes of exception would compete with idealistic liberal principles amid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characterized Peru into the 1880s . San Martin lacked both the predisposition and the will to govern Peru . In failing health , and with Spanish troops still a threat , he traveled to Guayaquil to plan with Bolivar the forthcoming military campaign against the Spanish armies in Peru and Upper Peru . Dissatisfied with his conversations with Bolivar , San Martin arrived in Peru and returned political power to the constituent Congress . He left shortly after for Chile and then , via Argentina , went into selfimposed exile in Europe , which left Peru up for grabs . There would be no lack of potential takers for the next fifty years . The 1822 Bases de la Constitucion Politica de la Republica 1'eruana declared that Peru 's to-be-adopted constitution should 212 The Constitution of Tyranny publications referring to the Holy Writings , religious dogma , religious morality , and discipline of the Church " ( Art . 2 ) . Of even greater long-term political significance , Article 6 listed as " abuses of press freedom " the following : " publication of maxims or doctrines that directly conspire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its political constitution ; publication of doctrines or maxims that tend to incite rebellion or perturbation of public tranquility ; direct incitement to disobey any law or legitimate authority ; promoting such disobedience through invective or satire . " These " abuses of press freedom " were subject to criminal sanctions of varying severity ( Arts . 9-24 ) . For example , an article considered " subversive in the first degree " could lead to a jail sentence of six years , " subversive in the second degree " to four years , and " subversive in the third degree " to two years ( Art . 16 ) . This " organic law , " with later amendments in procedures for a posteriori censorship and penalties for so-called abuses of press freedom , survived subsequent constitutional reforms and adoption of new constitutions . It provided permanent government authority for repressing political adversaries and opposition media into the twentieth century.14 Combined with the provisions for suspension of constitutional garantias and the executive authority required to conserve internal order and repress subversion included in later constitutions , the press law was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictatorship in Peru . The 1823 Constitution provided for a president to be elected for four years ( and forbade immediate reelection ) by Congress from among candidates selected by a body called the Senado Conservador . Composed of representatives of the provinces elected to twelve-year terms , this Senado was also responsible for supervising compliance with the constitution and the laws and , at the request of the president , determining the " responsibility " of the executive power or Supreme Court for " abuses of power " ( Art . 90 ) . The Congress retained budgetary and tax power and authority to create militias and determine the size of the armed forces . Executive authority extended to " all matters related to conservation of internal order and external security , subject to the Constitution and the law " ( Art . 79 ) . As supreme commander of the armed forces , the president could appoint all officers from the rank of colonel and above and command the armed forces in person , but in both cases only with the consent of Congress . The only emergency power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ? hired by Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 213 public security " to arrest or detain persons and put them at the disposition of a judge within twenty-four hours . This clearly represented much more limited extraordinary powers than typically encountered by the mid-1820s in Spanish America . In contrast to the early constitutions of northern South America and Mexico , the first Peruvian constitution included a lengthy description and definition of the role of the armed forces . The constitution eliminated the military fueros in spirited language proclaiming that " every soldier is nothing more than an armed citizen in defense of the Republic " ( Art . 179 ) . However , the constitution established three distinct types of armed forces ? army , civic militia , and police guards ? each with its own constitutional mission . These missions were , respectively , internal security , public security , and " private " security ( ridding the roads of bandits and pursuing delinquents ) . In the case of " declared revolution " or " invasion , " any of these three forces could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or , if in recess , of the Senado Conservador . Even if the liberal constituents failed to recognize the utopian nature of certain aspects of their charter , they accurately anticipated the central challenges of Peruvian politics : ridding the roads from Lima of bandits , conserving internal order , and establishing political stability . In February 1824 the Congress reaffirmed that , due to the exigencies of the war of liberation , supreme power would remain with Bolivar and all constitutional articles , decrees , and legislation incompatible with Bolivar 's military , executive , and legislative authority remained " suspended . " Congress then declared itself in recess . The following February , meeting as scheduled , Congress again extended Bolivar 's temporary dictatorship and authorized him to legislate concerning the organization of the republic.15 The Bolivarian Constitution In 1826 Bolivar proposed a new constitution for Peru , the constitucion vitalicia , or constitution with a lifetime presidency . Bolivar still dreamed of uniting Peru , Bolivia , and Gran Colombia into a vast republic under his direction . By the time the Peruvian Congress reviewed the constitucion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see below ) . Over the objections of Ramon Castilla , later president , the Congress approved Bolivar 's constitution and the council of state decreed it the law of the land on November 30 , 1826 . But on January 27 , 1827 , an uprising in Lima overturned this constitution , reinstituted the 1823 Constitution , and called for a 214 The Constitution of Tyranny constituent assembly . Bolivar had already left Peru . His adversaries in Peru and Colombia made impossible his exercise of executive authority in Peru and , soon , in Colombia as well . The 1826 Bolivarian Constitution incorporated some elements of the Venezuelan Angostura Constitution of 1819 ( see chapter 5 ) and added a much more centralist and authoritarian administrative regime . In Bolivar 's view , this constitution combined the best attributes of monarchy and democracy , guaranteeing civil liberties and rights and also ensuring maintenance of law and order.16 To ensure this order , the 1826 Constitution included a variety of regimes of exception and gave the lifetime executive overwhelming authority . The legislative branch , divided into three chambers ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indirect elections by strictly qualified electors . It was to meet for two months each year and could not convoke itself or legislate without the presence of 50 percent plus one of its members ( Art . 39 ) . Among its general powers , the legislature could " invest the President , in times of war or extraordinary danger , with those powers deemed indispensable for the salvation of the State " ( Art . 30 , Sec. 5 ) . The constitution also gave the president ample authority without congressional delegation of extraordinary powers . This included dismissal of the vice president and all ministers ; adoption of regulations and ordinances for better enforcement of the constitution and the laws ; personal command , in war and peace , of the armed forces ; and deployment of the national militia . The president could also appoint all army and navy officers , establish military schools , grant pensions to the families of retired officers , and suspend any public official for three months ( Art . 83 ) . The constitution did prohibit the president from arresting persons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 84 ) . Bolivar sought order , not tyranny ; constitutional dictatorship , if necessary , not blatant despotism . Thus , the " suspension of the constitution or of the rights corresponding to Peruvians , can only occur in the circumstances stipulated in this Constitution , and only with specification of the time during which such a suspension is to last " ( Art . 50 ) . On the role of the military in Peru or Bolivia , the 1826 Constitution had little to say except that " there will be in the Republic permanent armed forces composed of an army , navy , and , in each province , a corps of national militia " ( Arts . 134-36 ) . The constitution also established a military reserve ( resguardo ) to combat clandestine commerce ( Art . 137 ) . Bolivar 's constitution endured only briefly , but its assertion t hat there would he a permanent armed Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 215 force in the republic proved correct . The armed forces would consistently play a central role in Peruvian politics well into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued leadership in Peru or Bolivia when he left for Colombia in late 1826 . The personal ambitions of Peruvian and Bolivian caudillos , emergent nationalism like that in Ecuador , and the complexity of regional and local conflicts prevented consolidation of centralized authority over northern South America and the central Andes . Bolivar even counseled certain supporters , such as Andres Santa Cruz , in Peru and Bolivia , to " forget plans for America " and to ride the rising tide of nationalism.17 In early 1827 , mutinies among the Colombian troops stationed in Lima and widespread political unrest presaged an end to Bolivar 's influence in Peru . An interim government under General Santa Cruz convened a constituent Congress in extraordinary session , operating theoretically under the provisions of the 1823 Constitution . Santa Cruz ( 1826 ? 1827 ) lost the presidency to General Jose de La Mar ( 1827 ? 1829 ) , appointed by the constituent Congress for a term of four years . General La Mar had been born in Cuenca , Ecuador , and General Santa Cruz in Bolivia . Both had served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power among Santa Cruz , La Mar , and other caudillos continued for the next decade . ' 8 Constitutional Change , 1828 ? 1839 Despite the passionate arguments for federalism , the constituent Congress of 1827 , faced with internal instability , the threats of war with Colombia , Ecuador , and Bolivia , and the shadow of Bolivar , adopted a centralist constitution in 1828 . It included provisions mandating a convention in five years to consider constitutional reform , thereby forcing a constitutional debate in 1833 . It also introduced provincial juntas in the tradition of the 1812 Spanish Constitution , a concession to proponents of federalism and increased local autonomy . Mindful of the dangers of presidential excesses and the recent experience with Bolivar , the constituent assembly provided that " the exercise of the presidency may not be for a life-term nor inherited . " Instead , the president was given a four-year term , with immediate reelection permitted for one additional term ( Art . 84 ) . The charter also required Peruvian birth of the president , so as to exclude caudillos such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de La Mar of Ecuador and Bolivia from the contest for political 216 The Constitution of Tyranny power in Peru ( Art . 85 ) . In this it failed miserably ; these foreignborn military leaders , and others , plotted , warred , and governed from 1828 until the 1860s . Peruvian constitutional scholars frequently note the influence of the U.S. Constitution on the constituent assembly that adopted the 1828 Peruvian document . Bolivar and other more conservative criollos were appalled by the supposed consequences of federal experiments in Mexico , Central America , and Argentina . Writing to his colleague , General O'Leary , Bolivar called federalism " the obligation to fragmentation and the ruin of the State . " He added : " I believe it would be better for our America to adopt the Koran rather than the government of the United States , even if it were the best in the world . " 19 Though concerned with the limits of presidential power , Peruvian elites preferred order to exaggerated liberalism . The 1828 Constitution gave the president authority to command the armed forces and militia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also to ensure internal security , to name military officers from the rank of colonel and above , subject to legislative confirmation , and to review the decisions of military tribunals ( Art . 90 ) . The legislature could confer extraordinary powers upon the president for specified periods , when required by public security ? with a two-thirds vote in both houses of the Congress ( Art . 48 , Sec. 23 ) . This last requirement , along with prohibitions against presidential postponement of elections or suspension of legislative sessions , indicated a particular concern with control over executive authority and emergency powers ( Art . 91 ) . In this respect , the 1828 Constitution reflected an effort by the liberals to strengthen the relative position of the legislature in Peruvian politics . However , the constitution created both the crimes of " sedition " and " attack upon public security " and assigned directly to the armed forces the constitutional mission of assuring internal order and enforcement of the laws of the land ( Arts . 48 , Sec. 23 ; Arts . 145 , 169 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peruvian elite anticipated that the need would arise to invoke emergency powers , to declare regimes of exception , and to use the armed forces to put down seditious movements , guarantee public security , and defend law and order . The assembly that adopted the 1828 Constitution also recognized the fragility of its creation . Article 177 stipulated that in July 1833 a national convention would convene to review and reform the 1828 charter , in part or entirely . In 1833 the Caudillo-president Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 217 of the moment , Agustin Gamarra , who had prevailed against numerous mutinies , rebellions , and conspiracies , 20 summoned an extraordinary session of the Congress parallel to the constitutional convention . This meant that the upcoming presidential elections and the recurrent civil strife overshadowed debates over constitutional principles . Few changes were made to the 1828 Constitution , but the overall thrust was to further restrict presidential authority and to prohibit immediate reelection . Of particular importance , the constitution eliminated the president 's unilateral control over appointments of prefects , subprefects , police commanders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to promote military officers and expand the officer corps . This reform undercut the key props of the political system : patronage , clientelism , and praetorianism . Constitutional reform was complicated by the battle over presidential succession and marred by a pronunciamiento by General Pedro Pablo Bermudez , the government 's candidate to succeed Gamarra . In part , the Bermudez autogolpe , supported by Gamarra , responded to a plot by liberal leader Francisco Javier de Luna Pizarro to arrange a confederation with Bolivia and impose General Santa Cruz as president.21 The inability of the Congress to comply in a timely fashion with the indirect elections of the next president called for by the 1828 Constitution also precipitated the uprising . When Gamarra 's term ended , the national convention designated General Luis Jose de Orbegoso president , rather than Gamarra 's candidate , General Pedro Pablo Bermudez . Questioning the legality of this action , Gamarra reminded the Congress that " public security is the supreme law of states " and that Peru 's public security would vanish the moment that the " legitimate authority left office and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faction and intrigue the Congress . " 22 After unsuccessful efforts to resolve personal and political differences with Orbegoso , Bermudez and Gamarra resorted to force . The attempted military coup led to violent confrontations between troops and civilians in Lima.23 The convention delegated extraordinary powers to Orbegoso to deal with the crisis . Once again routine politics could not produce government succession ; the legislators turned to a regime of exception . Temporarily victorious over Orbegoso , Bermudez decreed deportation of prominent liberal leaders and suspended legislative sessions " until the legal order could be restored . " 24 The coup attempt degenerated into civil war as civilian resistance in Lima and 218 The Constitution of Tyranny support for the government by military opponents to Gamarra and Bermudez restored Orbegoso . Another constitution followed . From the time of its adoption in June 1834 until Peru joined Bolivia in an ill-fated confederation under General Santa Cruz ( 1836-1839 ) , no government was able to control the country . Military coup followed military coup as the personalist ambitions of the caudillos led to frequent uprisings , interim presidents , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as did the expectation that military officers rather than civilians determined the destiny of the nation . Despite the chaotic political situation , the 1834 Constitution provided a certain continuity of basic principles . This included a moderate liberalism , a slightly expanded list of garantias , continued concern with legislative controls over the budget and executive authority , and reliance upon regimes of exception to meet political crises . Article 51 ( Sec. 27 ) iterated , in clearer language , the legislative delegation of facultades extraordinarias to the executive to combat sedition or invasion enunciated in Article 48 ( Sec. 23 ) of the 1828 Constitution . The language regarding the role of the armed forces in maintaining internal order and upholding the laws was identical . So , too , was the ritualistic prescription : " the armed forces are essentially obedient ; they may not deliberate " ( Arts . 139 , 140 ) . One important addition , however , stipulated that " any act of Congress ... or the Executive Power , taken under the influence of military intervention or popular tumult , is null @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not specify who would determine that such an event had occurred , leaving the decision , in practice , to the military caudillo able to secure temporary control of the government . In effect , victorious military commanders could engage in the functional equivalent of judicial review of presidential and congressional acts . In a comparative sense , Peruvian provision for regimes of exception in both the 1828 and 1834 constitutions was more restrictive than in many parts of Spanish America . Executives had no constitutional authority to suspend the constitution , to declare a regime of exception unilaterally , or to suspend operation of the legislature . Whatever the reality of Peruvian politics during this period , a reality hopelessly mired in caudillismo and incessant civilmilitary coup making , the juridical foundations of constitutional dictatorship remained relatively narrow and emphasized legislative control . In contrast , the political role of the armed forces was clearer and more overt in Peru than in most of ' South America . The millRegimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 219 tary caudillos of the " generation of Ayacucho " dominated national politics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative autonomy of the armed forces received more attention than debates on the extent of extraordinary powers of the executive or provisions relating to suspension of constitutional garantias . This would remain true into the 1880's.25 Not until 1872 would Peru have its first civilian president . Significantly , the country 's first major political party called itself civilista . Civil-military relations , intramilitary feuds and personal antagonisms , assassinations of presidents , former presidents , and ministers , and recurrent local uprisings made even the provisions for constitutional exception less important in Peru than was the control of the barracks and armories . Meanwhile , from 1836 to 1839 Peruvian politics became enmeshed again with those of Bolivia . Santa Cruz , now the dictator of Bolivia , constructed the Peru-Bolivia Confederation in collaboration with Orbegoso and other allies of convenience in Peru . This confederation , composed of the State of South Peru , the State of North Peru , and Bolivia , conferred in quasi-constitutions " the exercise of the sum total of all State Power in the hands of His Excellency , Captain General , Supreme Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the title of Supreme Protector . ' " 2s This temporary confederation , destroyed in part by war with Chile and Argentina and in part by opponents within Peru and Bolivia who joined the invading Chilean armies , was an aberration in Peruvian development . The so-called constitutions of this confederation lacked even the formal appearance of Spanish American constitutions since the example of Cadiz in 1812 . They added nothing to Peruvian constitutional evolution , though the comprehensive powers of the Protector were reminiscent of Bolivar 's constitution vitalicia . The Constitution of 1839 With the dissolution of the Peru-Bolivia Confederation , the military victors , headed by former president Agustin Gamarra , attempted to purge Santa Cruz 's supporters from the army and government . They also sought to overcome the perceived weaknesses of the 1823 , 1828 , and 1834 constitutions by imposing a more centralized , authoritarian , and executive-dominated political regime . Having " seen the liberal charters shredded and the nightmare of international and civil wars , the desire for peace and order predominated . " 27 220 The Constitution of Tyranny A constituent Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Ramon Castilla had allied himself with the Chileans against Santa Cruz , the provisional president . The Congress also adopted repressive measures against future revolutionaries and those guilty of " sedition " or " conspiracy . " Sanctions for these crimes included confiscation of property , exile , and loss of citizenship . One of the decrees even stipulated that " those who maintain correspondence with the exiles and those who carry the correspondence and do not deliver it to the prefect of the department , will be considered seditious. " 28 Unlike the yearlong debates preceding adoption of the earlier constitutions , it took the postwar constituent Congress only three months to devise a new charter for Peru . The spirit of the new constitution and its focus on order and pacification were made clear in the provisions for loss of citizenship for " armed rebellion or popular sedition against the government and constituted authorities " ( Art . 10 ) . The constitution also eliminated the right of habeas corpus and the requirement that a judicial order precede deportation . In 1839 , the romantic liberalism of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while legislative dominance succumbed to that of the president . In comparison with earlier constitutions , executive authority was significantly expanded and the presidential term extended to six years ( Art . 78 ) . The Congress could determine that " the Republic was in danger " and concede to the executive the powers necessary to " save it " ( Art . 55 , Sec. 26 ) . In addition to any extraordinary powers conferred when the " Fatherland is in danger , " the president was to maintain internal order and external security , using the armed forces and militia as required in cases of sedition ( Art . 87 , Secs . 1 , 12 , 14 ) . A new council of state , which might include as many as three military officers and three ecclesiastics among its fifteen congressionally appointed members , could also declare when the fatherland was in danger and grant the president " whatever specific powers were necessary to save it " ( Art . 103 , Sec. 4 ) . In times of " political tumult " this council could function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save the Fatherland " ( Art . 109 ) . The president could also suspend or transfer any public official for up to three months when this " serves the public interest " ( Art . 87 , Sec. 10 ) . This clause made the entire public administration a personalist satrapy ; every military officer and bureaucrat chose among fealty , renunciation , and rebellion . Each of these new instruments provided broad , vague , and almost unlimited authority to suspend constitutional guarantees or Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 221 otherwise govern under a comprehensive regime of exception . The 1839 Constitution also dropped any pretense of local government by dividing the country into departments , provinces , and districts whose administrators were named by the president . In each province and district the chief administrative officer acted as police commander ( intendente de policia ) " to maintain order and public safety " and " to enforce the constitution , the laws of congress , and the decrees and orders of the Executive Power " ( Art . 139 , Secs . 1 , 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could delegate extraordinary powers to his administrative subordinates ( for example , in 1843 the prefect of Moquegua , Domingo Nieto , was given these powers in all of southern Peru to deal with rebels ) .29 This meant that constitutional garantias could be suspended by the provincial police commander , who then dealt with " rebels " with " whatever measures were necessary to save the Fatherland . " Even when the fatherland was not in need of salvation , the military prefects exercised the powers of Spanish colonial captains-general , allowing military law and ley fuga to be applied against so-called bandits . Regarding the military , however , the 1839 Constitution moved in a different direction , deleting any constitutionally prescribed mission to conserve internal order or even to uphold the constitution . Article 145 merely indicated that " the armed forces consist of the army , navy and national guard , " and Article 146 added the customary language borrowed from the French revolutionaries of the 1790s prohibiting military political intervention : " the armed forces are essentially obedient ; they may not deliberate . " An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was added in Article 152 : " There are no other means to obtain the Supreme Executive Power than those designated in this Constitution . " This was followed by the declaration that all acts of those who usurp the supreme power , even if in conformity with the constitution , are null ( Art . 153 ) and that any effort to legitimize demands by claiming to represent the " sovereign people " was a criminal attack on " public security " ( Art . 172 ) . As in the past , lack of clear assignment of authority to enforce these provisions left the interpretation of usurpation in the hands of the temporarily victorious garrison commanders . Peru , following to some extent the example of Chile after 1833 , became a more authoritarian and more centralized political regime . ( soups , mutinies , rebellions , and insurrections continued from 1840 to 1845 , but there now existed clearer constitutional foundations for the dictatorships and regimes of ' except ion that followed . Taking 200 The Constitution of Tyranny 1884 Constitution provided for a somewhat more significant legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sessions still required convocation by the president . The constitution attempted to limit executive authority , with prohibitions on violations of the garantias , intervention in judicial proceedings , and dissolution of the Congress or suspension of its sessions ( Art . 91 ) . Nevertheless , the Congress or , if not in session , the council of state could still concede vast extraordinary powers to the president in cases of " internal commotion or foreign invasion . " Inclusion of two senators and one deputy from Congress in the council of state implied more control over the concession of such powers to the executive . The president was also prohibited from naming more generals and colonels to the army than authorized by Congress . Officers were again directed not to obey illegal or unconstitutional orders ? a double-edged sword at best ( Arts . 123 , 127 ) . The 1884 Constitution was as close as Ecuador would come in the nineteenth century to controlling the executive and reducing the scope of constitutional regimes of exception . Three conservative civilian governments followed , including a presidential term for Antonio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1888-1892 ) . President Jose Maria Placido Caamano rededicated the country to the Sacred Heart of Jesus and resurrected other policies of Garcia Moreno . From 1883 to 1887 , he faced regional revolts and coup attempts headed by liberal leader General Jose Eloy Alfaro Delgado , who would later serve two terms as president ( 1895-1901 , 1906-1911 ) . The conservative oligarchy that ruled the country , virtually an extended family group of Caamano and Flores kin called la argolla ( the ring ) by its critics , jailed , tortured , exiled , and executed liberal opponents . In 1884 , the council of state conceded President Caamano extraordinary powers to suppress an uprising led by Alfaro . Ignoring the constitutional prohibition on capital punishment for political crimes , liberal opponents and guerrilla fighters ( montoneros ) were executed under military law . In 1886 , Congress extended the death penalty to treason , arson , pillage , and piracy , thereby legalizing execution of political adversaries without recourse to military tribunals.70 The liberal uprisings and invasions from Peru continued into the next presidential term and were met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although political strife persisted and liberal guerrillas harassed the incumbent administrations into the 1890s , the Constitution of 1884 survived until I897 ? longer than any constitution since the country 's independence in Regimes of Exception in Venezuela , Colombia , and Ecuador 201 1830 . The conservative restoration , like the governments of Flores and Garcia Moreno and also the liberal governments prior to 1895 , little tolerated opposition , made extensive use of extraordinary powers , and relied on the military and police to sustain their rule . On June 5 , 1895 , before the presidential elections could be completed , mob violence and a liberal uprising in Guayaquil ended the domination of conservative governments . In a revolution financed by ascendant cacao interests on the coast , Alfaro returned from Central American exile , unilaterally abrogated the 1884 Constitution , and decreed the restoration of the 1878 charter . Opposition by the church hierarchy to the enemy knocking at the gates of the Republic of the Sacred Heart of Jesus presaged civil war ? a religious , political , and military conflict . Withal , Alfaro 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass for the soon-to-be president . Alfaro 's liberalism produced attacks on church privilege but did not eschew repression . He formed a corps of garroteros , much like Rosas 's mazorca in Buenos Aires or Diaz 's bravi in Mexico ? thugs operating as secret police to terrorize his opponents . In March 1896 he called for a convention to produce still another constitution that would , of course , legitimize the liberal revolution . Like his conservative enemies , Alfaro sought to pack the convention with supporters , forbid participation of the opposition ( in this case particularly priests and religious ) , and control the elections to follow . Like the conservative military officers who preceded him in the presidency , the liberal General Alfaro needed a constitution to certify the legitimacy of the new regime and a constituent assembly to name him president . One day after the convention approved the 1897 Constitution , it named Eloy Alfaro president . The 1897 Constitution changed church-state relations , but little else of significance . Constitutional dictatorship remained the heart of the body politic . Liberal authoritarianism , analogous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sacred Heart of Jesus . Opposition media was attacked and government-supported media subsidized . The government manipulated elections , ramrodded the Congress , and stacked the judiciary with loyalists after purging conservative judges . Ley fuga reigned . Revolts against the government occurred in 1897 and 1898 , partly in response to new legislation adversely affecting the church . After a conservative revolt , the liberal government restored laws permitting confiscation of property belonging to insurgents.71 In 1900 , legislation creating civil registries for recording births , marriages , and deaths further angered the conservatives . 202 The Constitution of Tyranny Despite the conservative opposition , Alfaro successfully orchestrated the election of General Leonidas Plaza Gutierrez as his successor . The government candidate received 65,000 of the 75,000 votes cast . Plaza had served in the armies of El Salvador , Nicaragua , and Costa Rica and participated in the liberal forces that defeated Veintemilla at Guayaquil in 1883 . He served in Alfaro 's national assembly ( 1896 ? 1897 ) and had also been governor of Azuay Province . He would again be president from 1912 to 1916.72 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he broke with Alfaro , who carried out a coup in 1906 when Plaza 's chosen candidate was selected president . From 1901 to 1916 , insurrections reflecting factionalism within the liberal governments afflicted the country , even as the conservatives gradually accommodated themselves to electoral politics . After the 1906 insurrection , Alfaro again ruled as jefe supremo , interim president , and constitutional president , after first calling for still another constitutional convention . The convention adopted a new charter in 1906 . When Alfaro 's chosen successor , coastal businessman Emilio Estrada , died in 1911 only months after taking office , it took five years of civil war to determine the next president . Liberals confronted each other , Alfaro against Leonidas Plaza and Julio Andrade . Fighting in 1912 left 3,000 dead ; taken prisoner , Alfaro and other rebel leaders were dragged from a jail cell and murdered by a mob.73 An assassin also killed Andrade , and Plaza became president for the second time ( 1912 ? 1916 ) . Military garrisons and caudillos still decided who was president ; from 1895 to 1920 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budgets , exceeded only by debt service as the government became seriously indebted to private banks . Political violence was the rule ; extraordinary powers and regimes of exception still legitimated tyranny . Every Ecuadorean constitution in the nineteenth century had provided for ample extraordinary powers , several for suspending enumerated civil liberties and rights , and one ( 1869 ) for a practically unlimited state of siege and martial law . Parallel to the regimes of exception , the constitutional mission of the armed forces compelled military officers to evaluate the constitutionality and legality of orders from civilians or superior officers . The armed forces ' prominent role in politics had been constitutionally guaranteed . Ecuador 's last nineteenth-century constitution , in 1897 , ratified a liberal revolution that secularized the state and reiterated the legal foundations for dictatorship ( Arts . 94 , 95 , 98 , 99 , 125 ? 31 ) . The Regimes of Exception in Venezuela , Colombia , and Ecuador 203 1906 Constitution did the same ( Arts . 80 , 81 , 83 , 84 , 97 , 117-23 ) . Succession constitutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1906 charter ) , and 1946 reconfirmed the tradition , as did Ecuador 's 1978 Constitution ( Art . 78 , Sec. n ) . In the nineteenth century , the juridical foundations of dictatorship were firmly embedded in Ecuadorean constitutional law ? as they would also be in neighboring Peru and Bolivia . They endured into the 1990s , despite further reforms during the twentieth century . As Ecuador entered the last decade of the twentieth century , the president could declare a state of " national emergency " to meet external threats and grave internal commotion or catastrophe . He could suspend all constitutional garantias except the right to life and prohibitions on involuntary exile ( Art . 78 ) . He also had decree powers for economic emergencies that approximated the expansive Venezuelan and Mexican presidential prerogatives . The armed forces remained the guardians of the constitution and the arbiters of national politics ( Art . 128 ) . As elsewhere in Spanish America , Ecuador 's nineteenth-century foundations of constitutional dictatorship legitimated twentieth-century political repression . 6 Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia ALMOST @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South America 's first republican constitution , an Argentine general heading a predominantly Chilean army and supported by naval forces commanded by a British officer proclaimed independence for Peru . Even then , the center of royal authority and military power remained ambiguously independent until the Argentine , Jose de San Martin , stepped aside ( 1822 ) and permitted the Colombian armies of Simon Bolivar and Jose Antonio de Sucre to invade from the north , defeating Spanish forces in the Andean highlands . At Ayacucho in December 1824 , General Sucre 's combined force of Colombians , Peruvians , freed slaves , and mulattos defeated the army of Peru 's last viceroy , Jose de la Serna . A hopeless last stand by royalists besieged in Callao , Lima 's port , ended with Spanish capitulation in January 1826 . But support for Spain , the king , and the traditional order persisted ; fear of republicanism , liberalism , and disorder permeated the upper strata of Peruvian society . ' From the first signs of rebellion in Upper Peru ( later Bolivia ) in 1809 , Peruvian Viceroy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royalist military capabilities . On his own initiative , and at times blatantly resisting the cortes at Cadiz , he reestablished order over the Upper Peruvian provinces in 1810 , though they were formally assigned to officials in Buenos Aires . He then reinforced the army in Guayaquil ( 1812 ) and sent an army against rebels in Chile ( 1813 ) . 204 Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 205 Abascal also eventually defeated the criollo and Indian armies that had sacked cities and slaughtered the garrison at La Paz in 1814 . The " rebellion of Pumacahua , " named for the aged Indian cacique who had fought on the Spanish side against Tiupac Amaru in the 1780s and now joined criollo dissidents opposing royalists policies , left many Peruvian criollos convinced again that Spanish imperialism was preferable to Indian rebellions . ' The restoration of absolute monarchy in Spain and the abrogation of the 1812 Constitution ( 1814 ? 1820 ) coincided with vigorous viceregal repression of rebels in Peru . Abascal retired in 1816 , proud of his contributions to the monarchical cause and still disdainful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime . Most Peruvian criollos had no desire for independence . The extension of warfare , banditry , and sedition from the independence struggles of the Rio de la Plata region into Upper Peru caused anxiety among elites who depended primarily upon patronage in the royal bureaucracy , colonial commercial monopolies , stringent export-import controls , and hegemony over Chile and other subordinate jurisdictions . Free trade meant loss of captive markets , increases in prices of food imports required to sustain Lima , and " unfair " competition from northern ports , such as Guayaquil , or southern ports , such as Valparaiso . Added to the decades-long decline of mining and commerce , the short-term economic dilemmas in Lima intensified Peru 's dependence upon the imperial system rather than generating support for the liberal reforms demanded in Buenos Aires , Chile , or Venezuela.3 In short , most Peruvian elites had much to lose and much to fear from independence . Even those criollos significantly influenced by the liberal principles of the Enlightenment seemed to prefer concessions and reforms on the part of Spain ? more jobs , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and more protection against the so-called dangerous classes ( Indians , blacks , and castas ) ? to independence . The Lima criollo elite shared a desperate fear of social revolution and race war with their Mexican counterparts . Memory of the thousands dead and the widespread devastation and ferocity of the Tupac Amaru revolt of the 1780s made the " Indian danger " a central concern . In Peru , " conserving internal order " meant much more than controlling bandits or rebels ; it was an easily decoded message to " whites " that Indian insurrection always threatened.4 The conscription and arming of black slaves from the countryside 206 The Constitution of Tyranny near Lima by San Martin in his campaign against the royalists from 1821 to 1822 further frightened Peruvian landowners and urban elites . Devastation of rural estates by roving bandits and rebel troops heightened their anxiety . In contrast to Mexico , however , foreign troops would liberate Peru and impose republican regimes instead of allowing the creation of a conservative empire such as that forged by Iturbide from 1821 to 1823 ( see chapter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The event was accomplished , the deed was done , the Peruvians still had not decided.s ' In contrast , although the creation and independence of Bolivia was closely connected to that of Peru , rebellions in Upper Peru preceded the movements in Venezuela and Buenos Aires that ultimately separated the southern provinces and northern South American colonies from Spanish rule . The first declaration of independence by an American colony of Spain , albeit in the name of the deposed King Ferdinand VII , was by a junta in La Paz in July 1809 . Suppressed shortly after by troops from Cuzco , this first autonomist movement resulted in the execution of its principal leaders and the exile of more than a hundred " rebels.s6 Officially part of the viceroyalty of Buenos Aires since the administrative reforms of the late eighteenth century , Upper Peru also suffered repression by an army from Rio de la Plata . Into the mid-1820s , royal armies struggled to control the urban centers of Upper Peru while guerrilla forces and bandits controlled much of the countryside . As the independence movement in Buenos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highlands served frequently as a battlefield . ' Distributing arms to Indian allies by both royalists and rebels eventually resulted in increased levels of violence and Indian uprisings . After 1816 , however , royalists regained control of most of the region . Both royalists and supporters of independence in Peru and Buenos Aires viewed Upper Peru as potentially part of their administrative jurisdiction or national territory . After 1776 , Upper Peru pertained to the viceroyalty of the Rio de la Plata ; due to war , troops from Peru , the viceroyalty to which the mines of Potosi and the towns of the highlands had belonged through most of the colonial period , had reoccupied the territory . Ironically , the royal commander in Upper Peru , the criollo Pedro Olaneta , precipitated the separation of what became Bolivia from the last bastion of royal authority in Peru . ( ) l meta despised the liberal military officers sent from Spain to Peru Irons 1821 to Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 207 1823 and opposed the restored Constitution of Cadiz even more than had Viceroy Abascal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chuquisaca in the name of Fernando VII , overthrew the Spanish constitution , and named himself " Commander of the Provinces of the Rio de la Plata . " At Ayacucho in December 1824 , the royalist forces defeated by Sucre vainly waited for reinforcements from Olaneta . Olaneta even engaged in minor battles against his royalist compatriots while reserving his forces to fight against the rebels . General Sucre , the victorious commander at Ayacucho , went after Olaneta in Upper Peru . After convincing many of Olaneta 's troops to mutiny , Sucre defeated the remaining royalist forces . Olaneta , indirectly the founder of Bolivia , died in battle against mutinous troops in early 1825.8 This left Upper Peru in the hands of Sucre , at the orders of Bolivar , and submerged in the chaotic regionalism and personalism that had resulted from more than fifteen years of war and intrigue . Local and regional elites , preferring autonomy to subordination to either Peru or Buenos Aires , prevailed upon Sucre to create an independent nation ; in 1825 , delegates meeting in Chuquisaca declared Upper Peru independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Sucre , renounced his royalist ties and became a key Sucre adviser and intermediary between local elites and the Colombian expeditionary force . To assure Bolivar 's support , the constituent assembly named the new republic Bolivar , later changed to Bolivia . What had once been the colonial audiencia of Charcas was now the Republic of Bolivia . This region , first to proclaim independence , would be the most chaotic polity in South America during the remainder of the nineteenth century . Immediately after independence , both Bolivia and Peru experienced short-lived dictatorships by Bolivar followed by more than half a century of political violence , instability , and constitutional experimentation . Attempts by caudillos in Peru and Bolivia to unite these territories , or to append part of Bolivia to Peru , made it difficult to disentangle domestic from international politics into the 1840s . The short-lived Peru-Bolivia Confederation ( 1836 ? 1839 ) of General Andres Santa Cruz , the self-styled Napoleon of South America , provoked war with Argentina and Chile , leaving both Peru and Bolivia the worse for Santa Cruz 's South American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elites and urban dwellers in these two republics lived in fear of Indian rebellion , racial conflicts , and uprisings of the poorer classes . Thus , the debates over federalism ver208 The Constitution of Tyranny sus centralism , legislative versus executive dominance , the role of the church , and other institutional issues were often subordinate to concerns over civil-military relations and struggles to ensure law and order . In these struggles the protagonists were often military officers from the generation of Ayacucho , those who had fought in the independence wars and would dominate Peruvian and Bolivian politics into the 1860s . The geographical isolation of Andean towns , the difficulty of communication and transportation , and the survival of localism made the dispersed garrisons the key political actors and resources in the first sixty years of independence . As in Central America , constitutional debates and reforms were confounded by the immediate politics of presidential succession . Principled debates over legislative versus presidential authority , especially over limits on executive power and control of appointment of military officers and other public officials , could not be separated from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military victories rather than political philosophy or elections determined the outcome . Neither Peru nor Bolivia established effective civilian governments until late in the nineteenth century ; government by , and constitutional provision for , regimes of exception characterized politics in these two republics from the moment of independence . Peru would have the dubious distinction of initiating its independent existence under a regime of exception and suspending its first constitution on adoption . During the first sixteen years of independence , Peru adopted five constitutions : 1823 , 1826 , 1828 , 1834 , and 1839 . Peruvian executives would never be without extraordinary powers to confront emergencies , and the military became the most important political institution in the country . In Bolivia , independence meant a temporary dictatorship under the Bolivarian Constitution of 1826 , followed by recurrent changes of government and constitutions from 1826 to 1880 : 1831 , 1834 , 1839 , 1843 , 1851 , 1861 , 1871 , 1878 , and 1880 . Bolivia 's first national constitution , promulgated by Santa Cruz in 1831 , allowed for " the suspension of any of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the security of the Republic requires " ( Art . 132 ) . Extraordinary powers could be conceded to the president to confront invasion or " internal commotion " ( Arts . 74 , 75 ) . No Bolivian government after 1831 would lack this flexibility . Regimes of exception and de facto dictatorships became the rule . Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 209 INDEPENDENCE AND REGIMES OF EXCEPTION IN PERU Constitutional development in Peru began during the wars of independence , with the 1821 proclamations of General San Martin that established temporary military dictatorships . This was followed by the short " Bases de la Constitucion Politica de la Republica Peruana " issued by the Supreme Government Junta in 1822 . San Martin 's Provisional Statute of October 1821 concentrated all power in " the Protector " ( that is , San Martin ) whose authority derived " from the rule of necessity , force , and reason and the requirements of public welfare " ( Art . 1 ) . As generalissimo of land and sea forces , " the Protector " had as his primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and could " increase or decrease the size of the armed forces as deemed necessary " ( Art . 2 ) . This all-powerful executive could also impose taxes , request " voluntary " contributions , and exact forced loans to pay for public expenses . " The Protector " also could appoint and remove all public officials . The Provisional Statute defined as " treason " and " sedition " almost any resistance to government policy ( Art . 3 ) . Formation of any " secret association opposed to the legitimate authority " was outlawed . Freedom of the press was authorized , subject to future regulations ( Arts . 3 , 4 ) . Obviously a wartime effort to legitimate martial law , the Provisional Statute nevertheless provided insight into the authoritarian premises of certain independence leaders and criollo elites . Over time , less severe versions of such constitutional regimes of exception would compete with idealistic liberal principles amid the political violence and rapid-fire constitution making and unmaking that characterized Peru into the 1880s . San Martin lacked both the predisposition and the will to govern Peru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a threat , he traveled to Guayaquil to plan with Bolivar the forthcoming military campaign against the Spanish armies in Peru and Upper Peru . Dissatisfied with his conversations with Bolivar , San Martin arrived in Peru and returned political power to the constituent Congress . He left shortly after for Chile and then , via Argentina , went into selfimposed exile in Europe , which left Peru up for grabs . There would be no lack of potential takers for the next fifty years . The 1822 Bases de la Constitucion Politica de la Republica 1'eruana declared that Peru 's to-be-adopted constitution should 212 The Constitution of Tyranny publications referring to the Holy Writings , religious dogma , religious morality , and discipline of the Church " ( Art . 2 ) . Of even greater long-term political significance , Article 6 listed as " abuses of press freedom " the following : " publication of maxims or doctrines that directly conspire to overturn or destroy the religion of the republic or its political constitution ; publication of doctrines or maxims that tend to incite rebellion or perturbation of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority ; promoting such disobedience through invective or satire . " These " abuses of press freedom " were subject to criminal sanctions of varying severity ( Arts . 9-24 ) . For example , an article considered " subversive in the first degree " could lead to a jail sentence of six years , " subversive in the second degree " to four years , and " subversive in the third degree " to two years ( Art . 16 ) . This " organic law , " with later amendments in procedures for a posteriori censorship and penalties for so-called abuses of press freedom , survived subsequent constitutional reforms and adoption of new constitutions . It provided permanent government authority for repressing political adversaries and opposition media into the twentieth century.14 Combined with the provisions for suspension of constitutional garantias and the executive authority required to conserve internal order and repress subversion included in later constitutions , the press law was an important contribution of the independence era liberals to constitutional dictatorship in Peru . The 1823 Constitution provided for a president to be elected for four years ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected by a body called the Senado Conservador . Composed of representatives of the provinces elected to twelve-year terms , this Senado was also responsible for supervising compliance with the constitution and the laws and , at the request of the president , determining the " responsibility " of the executive power or Supreme Court for " abuses of power " ( Art . 90 ) . The Congress retained budgetary and tax power and authority to create militias and determine the size of the armed forces . Executive authority extended to " all matters related to conservation of internal order and external security , subject to the Constitution and the law " ( Art . 79 ) . As supreme commander of the armed forces , the president could appoint all officers from the rank of colonel and above and command the armed forces in person , but in both cases only with the consent of Congress . The only emergency power afforded the president was the authority " if ' demonstrably it ? hired by Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 213 public security " to arrest or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judge within twenty-four hours . This clearly represented much more limited extraordinary powers than typically encountered by the mid-1820s in Spanish America . In contrast to the early constitutions of northern South America and Mexico , the first Peruvian constitution included a lengthy description and definition of the role of the armed forces . The constitution eliminated the military fueros in spirited language proclaiming that " every soldier is nothing more than an armed citizen in defense of the Republic " ( Art . 179 ) . However , the constitution established three distinct types of armed forces ? army , civic militia , and police guards ? each with its own constitutional mission . These missions were , respectively , internal security , public security , and " private " security ( ridding the roads of bandits and pursuing delinquents ) . In the case of " declared revolution " or " invasion , " any of these three forces could be deployed as needed , with the consent of the Congress or , if in recess , of the Senado Conservador . Even if the liberal constituents failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they accurately anticipated the central challenges of Peruvian politics : ridding the roads from Lima of bandits , conserving internal order , and establishing political stability . In February 1824 the Congress reaffirmed that , due to the exigencies of the war of liberation , supreme power would remain with Bolivar and all constitutional articles , decrees , and legislation incompatible with Bolivar 's military , executive , and legislative authority remained " suspended . " Congress then declared itself in recess . The following February , meeting as scheduled , Congress again extended Bolivar 's temporary dictatorship and authorized him to legislate concerning the organization of the republic.15 The Bolivarian Constitution In 1826 Bolivar proposed a new constitution for Peru , the constitucion vitalicia , or constitution with a lifetime presidency . Bolivar still dreamed of uniting Peru , Bolivia , and Gran Colombia into a vast republic under his direction . By the time the Peruvian Congress reviewed the constitucion vitalicia , it had already received approval in Bolivia ( see below ) . Over the objections of Ramon Castilla , later president , the Congress approved Bolivar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law of the land on November 30 , 1826 . But on January 27 , 1827 , an uprising in Lima overturned this constitution , reinstituted the 1823 Constitution , and called for a 214 The Constitution of Tyranny constituent assembly . Bolivar had already left Peru . His adversaries in Peru and Colombia made impossible his exercise of executive authority in Peru and , soon , in Colombia as well . The 1826 Bolivarian Constitution incorporated some elements of the Venezuelan Angostura Constitution of 1819 ( see chapter 5 ) and added a much more centralist and authoritarian administrative regime . In Bolivar 's view , this constitution combined the best attributes of monarchy and democracy , guaranteeing civil liberties and rights and also ensuring maintenance of law and order.16 To ensure this order , the 1826 Constitution included a variety of regimes of exception and gave the lifetime executive overwhelming authority . The legislative branch , divided into three chambers ? tribunes , senators , and censors ? was created through indirect elections by strictly qualified electors . It was to meet for two months each year and could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent plus one of its members ( Art . 39 ) . Among its general powers , the legislature could " invest the President , in times of war or extraordinary danger , with those powers deemed indispensable for the salvation of the State " ( Art . 30 , Sec. 5 ) . The constitution also gave the president ample authority without congressional delegation of extraordinary powers . This included dismissal of the vice president and all ministers ; adoption of regulations and ordinances for better enforcement of the constitution and the laws ; personal command , in war and peace , of the armed forces ; and deployment of the national militia . The president could also appoint all army and navy officers , establish military schools , grant pensions to the families of retired officers , and suspend any public official for three months ( Art . 83 ) . The constitution did prohibit the president from arresting persons , confiscating property , and interfering with elections ( Art . 84 ) . Bolivar sought order , not tyranny ; constitutional dictatorship , if necessary , not blatant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or of the rights corresponding to Peruvians , can only occur in the circumstances stipulated in this Constitution , and only with specification of the time during which such a suspension is to last " ( Art . 50 ) . On the role of the military in Peru or Bolivia , the 1826 Constitution had little to say except that " there will be in the Republic permanent armed forces composed of an army , navy , and , in each province , a corps of national militia " ( Arts . 134-36 ) . The constitution also established a military reserve ( resguardo ) to combat clandestine commerce ( Art . 137 ) . Bolivar 's constitution endured only briefly , but its assertion t hat there would he a permanent armed Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 215 force in the republic proved correct . The armed forces would consistently play a central role in Peruvian politics well into the twentieth century . Bolivar recognized the futility of his continued leadership in Peru or Bolivia when he left for Colombia in late 1826 . The personal ambitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Ecuador , and the complexity of regional and local conflicts prevented consolidation of centralized authority over northern South America and the central Andes . Bolivar even counseled certain supporters , such as Andres Santa Cruz , in Peru and Bolivia , to " forget plans for America " and to ride the rising tide of nationalism.17 In early 1827 , mutinies among the Colombian troops stationed in Lima and widespread political unrest presaged an end to Bolivar 's influence in Peru . An interim government under General Santa Cruz convened a constituent Congress in extraordinary session , operating theoretically under the provisions of the 1823 Constitution . Santa Cruz ( 1826 ? 1827 ) lost the presidency to General Jose de La Mar ( 1827 ? 1829 ) , appointed by the constituent Congress for a term of four years . General La Mar had been born in Cuenca , Ecuador , and General Santa Cruz in Bolivia . Both had served as officers in the Spanish army . The struggle for power among Santa Cruz , La Mar , and other caudillos continued for the next decade . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arguments for federalism , the constituent Congress of 1827 , faced with internal instability , the threats of war with Colombia , Ecuador , and Bolivia , and the shadow of Bolivar , adopted a centralist constitution in 1828 . It included provisions mandating a convention in five years to consider constitutional reform , thereby forcing a constitutional debate in 1833 . It also introduced provincial juntas in the tradition of the 1812 Spanish Constitution , a concession to proponents of federalism and increased local autonomy . Mindful of the dangers of presidential excesses and the recent experience with Bolivar , the constituent assembly provided that " the exercise of the presidency may not be for a life-term nor inherited . " Instead , the president was given a four-year term , with immediate reelection permitted for one additional term ( Art . 84 ) . The charter also required Peruvian birth of the president , so as to exclude caudillos such as Juan Jose Flores , Andres Santa Cruz , and lose de La Mar of Ecuador and Bolivia from the contest for political 216 The Constitution of Tyranny power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it failed miserably ; these foreignborn military leaders , and others , plotted , warred , and governed from 1828 until the 1860s . Peruvian constitutional scholars frequently note the influence of the U.S. Constitution on the constituent assembly that adopted the 1828 Peruvian document . Bolivar and other more conservative criollos were appalled by the supposed consequences of federal experiments in Mexico , Central America , and Argentina . Writing to his colleague , General O'Leary , Bolivar called federalism " the obligation to fragmentation and the ruin of the State . " He added : " I believe it would be better for our America to adopt the Koran rather than the government of the United States , even if it were the best in the world . " 19 Though concerned with the limits of presidential power , Peruvian elites preferred order to exaggerated liberalism . The 1828 Constitution gave the president authority to command the armed forces and militia in times of international threat or internal subversion . He was also to ensure internal security , to name military officers from the rank of colonel and above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions of military tribunals ( Art . 90 ) . The legislature could confer extraordinary powers upon the president for specified periods , when required by public security ? with a two-thirds vote in both houses of the Congress ( Art . 48 , Sec. 23 ) . This last requirement , along with prohibitions against presidential postponement of elections or suspension of legislative sessions , indicated a particular concern with control over executive authority and emergency powers ( Art . 91 ) . In this respect , the 1828 Constitution reflected an effort by the liberals to strengthen the relative position of the legislature in Peruvian politics . However , the constitution created both the crimes of " sedition " and " attack upon public security " and assigned directly to the armed forces the constitutional mission of assuring internal order and enforcement of the laws of the land ( Arts . 48 , Sec. 23 ; Arts . 145 , 169 ) . Even in its most liberal moment , the Peruvian elite anticipated that the need would arise to invoke emergency powers , to declare regimes of exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seditious movements , guarantee public security , and defend law and order . The assembly that adopted the 1828 Constitution also recognized the fragility of its creation . Article 177 stipulated that in July 1833 a national convention would convene to review and reform the 1828 charter , in part or entirely . In 1833 the Caudillo-president Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 217 of the moment , Agustin Gamarra , who had prevailed against numerous mutinies , rebellions , and conspiracies , 20 summoned an extraordinary session of the Congress parallel to the constitutional convention . This meant that the upcoming presidential elections and the recurrent civil strife overshadowed debates over constitutional principles . Few changes were made to the 1828 Constitution , but the overall thrust was to further restrict presidential authority and to prohibit immediate reelection . Of particular importance , the constitution eliminated the president 's unilateral control over appointments of prefects , subprefects , police commanders , and other public officials , as well as his authority to promote military officers and expand the officer corps . This reform undercut the key props of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitutional reform was complicated by the battle over presidential succession and marred by a pronunciamiento by General Pedro Pablo Bermudez , the government 's candidate to succeed Gamarra . In part , the Bermudez autogolpe , supported by Gamarra , responded to a plot by liberal leader Francisco Javier de Luna Pizarro to arrange a confederation with Bolivia and impose General Santa Cruz as president.21 The inability of the Congress to comply in a timely fashion with the indirect elections of the next president called for by the 1828 Constitution also precipitated the uprising . When Gamarra 's term ended , the national convention designated General Luis Jose de Orbegoso president , rather than Gamarra 's candidate , General Pedro Pablo Bermudez . Questioning the legality of this action , Gamarra reminded the Congress that " public security is the supreme law of states " and that Peru 's public security would vanish the moment that the " legitimate authority left office and was replaced by a usurper installed by the spirit of faction and intrigue the Congress . " 22 After unsuccessful efforts to resolve personal and political differences with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted military coup led to violent confrontations between troops and civilians in Lima.23 The convention delegated extraordinary powers to Orbegoso to deal with the crisis . Once again routine politics could not produce government succession ; the legislators turned to a regime of exception . Temporarily victorious over Orbegoso , Bermudez decreed deportation of prominent liberal leaders and suspended legislative sessions " until the legal order could be restored . " 24 The coup attempt degenerated into civil war as civilian resistance in Lima and 218 The Constitution of Tyranny support for the government by military opponents to Gamarra and Bermudez restored Orbegoso . Another constitution followed . From the time of its adoption in June 1834 until Peru joined Bolivia in an ill-fated confederation under General Santa Cruz ( 1836-1839 ) , no government was able to control the country . Military coup followed military coup as the personalist ambitions of the caudillos led to frequent uprisings , interim presidents , and political chaos . Regimes of exception became the rule , as did the expectation that military officers rather than civilians determined the destiny of the nation . Despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain continuity of basic principles . This included a moderate liberalism , a slightly expanded list of garantias , continued concern with legislative controls over the budget and executive authority , and reliance upon regimes of exception to meet political crises . Article 51 ( Sec. 27 ) iterated , in clearer language , the legislative delegation of facultades extraordinarias to the executive to combat sedition or invasion enunciated in Article 48 ( Sec. 23 ) of the 1828 Constitution . The language regarding the role of the armed forces in maintaining internal order and upholding the laws was identical . So , too , was the ritualistic prescription : " the armed forces are essentially obedient ; they may not deliberate " ( Arts . 139 , 140 ) . One important addition , however , stipulated that " any act of Congress ... or the Executive Power , taken under the influence of military intervention or popular tumult , is null " ( Art . 174 ) . The constitution did not specify who would determine that such an event had occurred , leaving the decision , in practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the government . In effect , victorious military commanders could engage in the functional equivalent of judicial review of presidential and congressional acts . In a comparative sense , Peruvian provision for regimes of exception in both the 1828 and 1834 constitutions was more restrictive than in many parts of Spanish America . Executives had no constitutional authority to suspend the constitution , to declare a regime of exception unilaterally , or to suspend operation of the legislature . Whatever the reality of Peruvian politics during this period , a reality hopelessly mired in caudillismo and incessant civilmilitary coup making , the juridical foundations of constitutional dictatorship remained relatively narrow and emphasized legislative control . In contrast , the political role of the armed forces was clearer and more overt in Peru than in most of ' South America . The millRegimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 219 tary caudillos of the " generation of Ayacucho " dominated national politics , while policy and constitutional debates concerning the role and the relative autonomy of the armed forces received more attention than debates on the extent of extraordinary powers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This would remain true into the 1880's.25 Not until 1872 would Peru have its first civilian president . Significantly , the country 's first major political party called itself civilista . Civil-military relations , intramilitary feuds and personal antagonisms , assassinations of presidents , former presidents , and ministers , and recurrent local uprisings made even the provisions for constitutional exception less important in Peru than was the control of the barracks and armories . Meanwhile , from 1836 to 1839 Peruvian politics became enmeshed again with those of Bolivia . Santa Cruz , now the dictator of Bolivia , constructed the Peru-Bolivia Confederation in collaboration with Orbegoso and other allies of convenience in Peru . This confederation , composed of the State of South Peru , the State of North Peru , and Bolivia , conferred in quasi-constitutions " the exercise of the sum total of all State Power in the hands of His Excellency , Captain General , Supreme Chief of the United Army , Andres Santa Cruz , with the title of Supreme Protector . ' " 2s This temporary confederation , destroyed in part by war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peru and Bolivia who joined the invading Chilean armies , was an aberration in Peruvian development . The so-called constitutions of this confederation lacked even the formal appearance of Spanish American constitutions since the example of Cadiz in 1812 . They added nothing to Peruvian constitutional evolution , though the comprehensive powers of the Protector were reminiscent of Bolivar 's constitution vitalicia . The Constitution of 1839 With the dissolution of the Peru-Bolivia Confederation , the military victors , headed by former president Agustin Gamarra , attempted to purge Santa Cruz 's supporters from the army and government . They also sought to overcome the perceived weaknesses of the 1823 , 1828 , and 1834 constitutions by imposing a more centralized , authoritarian , and executive-dominated political regime . Having " seen the liberal charters shredded and the nightmare of international and civil wars , the desire for peace and order predominated . " 27 220 The Constitution of Tyranny A constituent Congress meeting in Huancayo in August 1839 named Gamarra , who with Ramon Castilla had allied himself with the Chileans against Santa Cruz , the provisional president . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilty of " sedition " or " conspiracy . " Sanctions for these crimes included confiscation of property , exile , and loss of citizenship . One of the decrees even stipulated that " those who maintain correspondence with the exiles and those who carry the correspondence and do not deliver it to the prefect of the department , will be considered seditious. " 28 Unlike the yearlong debates preceding adoption of the earlier constitutions , it took the postwar constituent Congress only three months to devise a new charter for Peru . The spirit of the new constitution and its focus on order and pacification were made clear in the provisions for loss of citizenship for " armed rebellion or popular sedition against the government and constituted authorities " ( Art . 10 ) . The constitution also eliminated the right of habeas corpus and the requirement that a judicial order precede deportation . In 1839 , the romantic liberalism of the independence period gave way to the conservative appeal to order , while legislative dominance succumbed to that of the president . In comparison with earlier constitutions , executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six years ( Art . 78 ) . The Congress could determine that " the Republic was in danger " and concede to the executive the powers necessary to " save it " ( Art . 55 , Sec. 26 ) . In addition to any extraordinary powers conferred when the " Fatherland is in danger , " the president was to maintain internal order and external security , using the armed forces and militia as required in cases of sedition ( Art . 87 , Secs . 1 , 12 , 14 ) . A new council of state , which might include as many as three military officers and three ecclesiastics among its fifteen congressionally appointed members , could also declare when the fatherland was in danger and grant the president " whatever specific powers were necessary to save it " ( Art . 103 , Sec. 4 ) . In times of " political tumult " this council could function with only eight members and " take whatever measures suitable to save the Fatherland " ( Art . 109 ) . The president could also suspend or transfer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " serves the public interest " ( Art . 87 , Sec. 10 ) . This clause made the entire public administration a personalist satrapy ; every military officer and bureaucrat chose among fealty , renunciation , and rebellion . Each of these new instruments provided broad , vague , and almost unlimited authority to suspend constitutional guarantees or Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 221 otherwise govern under a comprehensive regime of exception . The 1839 Constitution also dropped any pretense of local government by dividing the country into departments , provinces , and districts whose administrators were named by the president . In each province and district the chief administrative officer acted as police commander ( intendente de policia ) " to maintain order and public safety " and " to enforce the constitution , the laws of congress , and the decrees and orders of the Executive Power " ( Art . 139 , Secs . 1 , 2 ; Art . 143 ) . Moreover , the president could delegate extraordinary powers to his administrative subordinates ( for example , in 1843 the prefect of Moquegua @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of southern Peru to deal with rebels ) .29 This meant that constitutional garantias could be suspended by the provincial police commander , who then dealt with " rebels " with " whatever measures were necessary to save the Fatherland . " Even when the fatherland was not in need of salvation , the military prefects exercised the powers of Spanish colonial captains-general , allowing military law and ley fuga to be applied against so-called bandits . Regarding the military , however , the 1839 Constitution moved in a different direction , deleting any constitutionally prescribed mission to conserve internal order or even to uphold the constitution . Article 145 merely indicated that " the armed forces consist of the army , navy and national guard , " and Article 146 added the customary language borrowed from the French revolutionaries of the 1790s prohibiting military political intervention : " the armed forces are essentially obedient ; they may not deliberate . " An important formal , if ineffective , discouragement to military coups was added in Article 152 : " There are no other means to obtain the Supreme Executive Power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed by the declaration that all acts of those who usurp the supreme power , even if in conformity with the constitution , are null ( Art . 153 ) and that any effort to legitimize demands by claiming to represent the " sovereign people " was a criminal attack on " public security " ( Art . 172 ) . As in the past , lack of clear assignment of authority to enforce these provisions left the interpretation of usurpation in the hands of the temporarily victorious garrison commanders . Peru , following to some extent the example of Chile after 1833 , became a more authoritarian and more centralized political regime . ( soups , mutinies , rebellions , and insurrections continued from 1840 to 1845 , but there now existed clearer constitutional foundations for the dictatorships and regimes of ' except ion that followed . Taking 222 The Constitution of Tyranny power in 1839 , President Gamarra also had ambitions to unite Peru and Bolivia ? but this time under his own tutelage and Peruvian dominance . Defeat of Gamarra 's troops and his death at Ingavi , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upheaval while confirming the political independence and territorial integrity of Bolivia . The Chilean government mediated the peace settlement signed in Acora , near Puno , in June 1842 . At Gamarra 's funeral in Lima , the officiating priest and Peru 's leading conservative ideologue , Bartolome Herrera , preached that Gamarra 's death , like earthquakes and floods , was God 's punishment for replacing God 's laws with liberalism and for allowing religion , mankind 's consolation and the necessary condition for tranquility and conservation of nations to be ridiculed " : Why have we fallen into the abyss ? Why has this country so rich in resources and talent and valor suffered this humiliation of having its territory profaned ? . . . The reason is that the principle of obedience perished with emancipation . We find ourselves since 1820 in a state of habitual rebellion . . . . Coming down the mountain , we broke the tablets of the law , because the passions we blindly worshiped were not compatible with this gift of heaven.s0 ' The battle over presidential succession among several military officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vidal , resulted in victory for Manuel Ignacio Vivanco , another of the officers who fought at Ayacucho . Vivanco declared himself supreme director of Peru and required that all public officials and military officers swear an oath of personal allegiance . A firm believer in authoritarian government and the need to reestablish the principle of obedience , he suspended the 1839 Constitution . Vivanco was opposed by liberals and by dissident military officers such as Domingo Nieto and Ramon Castilla . The latter formed a " supreme government junta " until the 1839 Constitution could be reinstated . ' In 1844 Castilla finally defeated Vivanco , who fled into exile . He restored the 1839 charter as a practical instrument for his first term of office ( 1845 ? 1851 ) ? a term that was a milestone in Peruvian development . Ramon Castilla provided leadership previously unknown in Peru . Made possible in part by an export boom based on bird dung fertilizer ( guano ) and in part by Castilla 's skillful coalition building , incipient modernization included construction of ' South America 's Regimes of Exception in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a surge of foreign investment , administrative reorganization , and programs of military professionalization . Castilla 's career included service in the royal army and in the independence movements . He had participated in several insurrections and experienced exile and a legendary trek through the Amazon . Castilla combined charisma with professional talents . As a mestizo he symbolized an emergent Peruvian nationalism ; as Gamarra 's minister he had signed the first guano contracts that would bring wealth to a new merchant and financial class , symbolize their dependence on foreign investment and governments , and encourage the modernization of infrastructure into the 1870s . The guano revenues gradually reduced the foreign debt and accounted for some of the changes in public administration , but Castilla 's leadership also permitted a new tone in national politics.32 As a revolutionary leader in 1854 ? 1855 , he decreed an end to slavery and abolition of Indian tribute . Like the Chilean military hero and president , Manuel Bulnes , 1841 ? 1851 ( see chapter 8 ) , Castilla at least encouraged the legislature to function . In 1848 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time . Castilla 's presidency did not end the recurrent plotting and rebellions , but it did mark a turning point in Peruvian socioeconomic and political history . Succeeded in office by General Jose Rufino Echenique and then responsible for Echenique 's 1854 ouster , Castilla returned to power from 1855 to 1862 . During this second period two new constitutions were adopted . The first , in 1856 , sought to legitimate the movement that Castilla led against Echenique . A national convention convoked by the victors named Castilla provisional president , derogated the Constitution of 1839 , and issued a provisional statute in 185533 and a constitution in 1856 . Constitutional Development , 1856 ? 1879 Castilla had allied himself , for the moment , with radical forces in Peru influenced by the romantic liberalism of revolutionary Europe in 1848 . He purged the army of Echenique supporters and sent key opponents into exile . The government decreed abolition of the Indian tribute , which had provided approximately 20 percent of its revenue , while recognizing that " providence had , with the extraordinary gift of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only justification for the tribute 's maintenance . " 34 The 1856 Constitution , to Castilla 's displeasure , was a drastic reversal from that of 1839 . It returned dominant power to the leg224 The Constitution of Tyranny islature and sought to limit the influence of the church and to reduce the size and resources of the armed forces . The liberals maintained constitutional provisions against sedition and attacks on public security and added in Article 5 the crime of high treason ( lesa patria ) . However , they also eliminated the death penalty , added freedom of association and peaceful assembly to the list of garantias , and deleted the loss of citizenship for attacking the constituted authorities . The Congress was now to meet once a year ( Art . 48 ) , not twice , and retained the authority to " declare when the Republic is in danger and adopt , within constitutional limits , measures appropriate to save it " ( Art . 55 , Sec. 20 ) . This was the only regime of exception clause in the 1856 Constitution . No provision was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who now was to serve four years , not six as stipulated in 1839 . Of course , Congress might find it necessary to assign the president extraordinary powers " to save the nation . " The Constitution of 1856 also reaffirmed the internal security mission of the armed forces and insisted that " military obedience be subordinate to the Constitution and the laws " ? a double-edged sword inviting military interpretation of the constitutionality and legality of directives or policies . Combined with the constituent Congress 's efforts to limit the number of general officers and the size of the armed forces ( Arts . 121-22 ) , eliminate military fueros , and control promotions , the constitution challenged the aspirations and corporate interests of the armed forces . The 1856 Constitution was an anomaly in Peruvian institutional development . It was an institutional framework compatible neither with president Castilla 's own powerful personality and charismatic leadership nor with the political power of the new social groups rising from the economic expansion of the 1850s . In some ways a reaffirmation of the liberal principles of 1828 and 1834 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacking public collection of tithes and the military fueros . Castilla objected to a number of the constitution 's provisions , especially those that made Congress rather than the president responsible for military promotions , and to a clause that implied that military officers should judge the legality or constitutionality of policies and directives prior to compliance ( Art . 118 ) . The constituent convention had also decreed that public criticism of the constitution that incited disobedience to its strictures constituted a criminal act.s5 Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 225 A conservative reaction against the 1856 Constitution combined with a personalist struggle against Castilla led by his erstwhile enemy , the former supreme director Manuel Ignacio Vivanco , led to a revolt based in Arequipa . The rebels temporarily occupied the Chincha islands , source of the guano that financed Peru 's public sector and secured the national debt . They also gained a foothold at Callao , which remained under siege from mid-1857 into 1858 . President Castilla first had to defend the constitution to which he objected , suffer the criticisms of the constituent convention ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition . Writing to the minister of war and navy in October 1857 , Castilla made clear his views on the need for extraordinary powers to deal with civil war and rebellion . The state of war is , by its nature , extraordinary and abnormal . It requires , therefore , correspondingly extraordinary measures , beyond routine procedures . The slow working of civilian law can never be appropriate for suppressing rebellions , since the crime is committed in battle , and the perpetrators identify themselves with the clamorous sound of cannon . All later inquiry investigation into the matter is useless.36 When the Callao garrison surrendered in 1858 and Vivanco fled to Chile , Castilla turned his attention to the radical liberals.37 Meanwhile , as the constituent assembly debated guano contracts , national finance , and church-state relations , a military unit commanded by a colonel invaded the assembly and forced its closure . Military anger at congressional interference in promotions , support for Castilla , support for the church against abolition of tithes , and the generalized political strife all contributed to this dramatic termination of the constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later alleged that the convention had perpetuated itself illegally since the constitution had already been promulgated ? and that , in any case , his military fuero made him immune from prosecution . The government decreed that the case would be heard by the next Congress.38 In March 1858 , Castilla 's army occupied Arequipa after a lengthy and bloody siege ; he decreed soon after that elections would be held under the terms of the 1856 Constitution , offering himself as a candidate for the presidency . ( He had served as provisional president from 1855 to 1858 . ) Castilla 's election for a second term and the installation of a new Congress failed to eliminate con226 The Constitution of Tyranny flict between the government and legislature . The new Congress sought to condemn the colonel responsible for invading the convention in 1857 . This and other incidents provoked a crisis ; Congress declared the fatherland in danger but then suspended its sessions until July of 1859 , leaving Castilla in charge . Writing in the liberal El Constitutional in defense of the 1856 Constitution , prominent intellectual , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceived as the bulwarks of Peruvian politics : authoritarian presidents , militarism , bureaucratic servilism , and the church . Unfortunately it is so common for those who find themselves in power to act independently and to command others with despotic pride , that they rarely act as mere administrators , servants of the law . Being in power means for them to be masters of all and arbiters of the destiny of the fatherland . Taking away from the president the vast power to which he is accustomed to appoint at his whim the jefes politicos . . . in order to have subjects blindly obedient to his will , to decentralize the administration of the state and to create departmental juntas with quasi-legislative power , ... to take away the authority of the president to make generals and officers of anyone he pleases , . . . all this is unthinkable for a Peruvian government ... . How can the presidents tolerate loss of the most important resource for dominating the people , taking from them the constitutional authority to name jefes and generals at their pleasure , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obtain the loyalty of the military ? Like the French shall we also suffer the " principle of authority , " the sacred words of the despots and their supporters . . . ? Our mandarins have in their favor the ignorance of the masses , and above all the perverse education bequeathed us by our fathers , the Spanish , born under the yoke of the inquisition , and educated in superstition and fanaticism.39 The liberals ' defense of the 1856 Constitution could neither persuade its detractors nor overcome the political crisis . The very militarism that Laso asserted made presidents masters of Peru likewise made them prisoners of the military garrisons in Arequipa , Ayacucho , Callao , Lima , and other lesser towns . Every barracks , Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 227 every general , every squad of soldiers was a potential threat to any government . Conservatives and liberals alike used the soldiers to suppress opponents , used the press law to stifle critical journalists and political adversaries , and applied extraordinary powers when the " Fatherland was in danger " to banish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bandits , " and " traitors . " To complicate matters , Peru found itself at war with Ecuador , which sought to settle its debts with British creditors by ceding land in territory claimed by Peru ( see chapter 5 ) . After defeating the Ecuadorean forces , Castilla called the Congress into extraordinary session , which the legislators converted , without legal foundation , into a constituent assembly . A failed assassination attempt against Castilla attributed to liberal opponents sparked a purge of political adversaries , followed by debates on a new constitution . President Castilla could influence but not control the Congress . In any case , he was not a liberal ideologue nor a conservative troglodyte . He preferred a flexible , centralist , authoritarian constitution in the spirit of the Chilean charter of 1833 ( see chapter 8 ) . He was willing to sacrifice military and ecclesiastical fueros and government collection of church tithes to liberal supporters in order to obtain a strengthened presidential role in directing modernization and development . He was also willing to mollify conservatives with a subsidy for the church amounting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tithes . For the military , Castilla could offer a program of military rearmament , professionalization , elimination of congressional meddling in promotions , and enhanced status . With these basic compromises , the Congress adopted a new constitution in 1860 . This constitution would endure , with brief interruptions and amendments ( 1867-1868 , 1879-1881 ) , until 1920 . It consolidated the centralist , presidentialist regime but allowed for significant legislative participation in policy making , constitutional reform , and control over executive action . Above all else , however , it provided enough solace to the church and military and sufficient constitutional latitude for the government to implement regimes of exception " when the Fatherland was in danger " and thereby ensure law and order . The 1860 Constitution prohibited the public exercise of any religion but the Roman Catholic Apostolic ( Art . 4 ) and assigned the president the exercise of the patronato , with approval of clerical appointments by the Congress . This was followed , in the section titled garantias nacionales , with a definition of the crime of lesa patria , ( ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A regime of exception 228 The Constitution of Tyranny clause , similar to that in the 1839 charter , conferred on the Congress the authority to " declare when the Fatherland is in danger " and to suspend basic civil liberties and rights , such as freedom of assembly and association , as well as restrictions on arrest without a warrant and on internal relegation , banishment , or exile ( Art . 59 , Sec. 20 ) . The president regained the authority to control the armed forces and police , though he could only command the armed forces personally with the permission of Congress or , when in recess , of the permanent commission of the legislature ( Art . 96 ) . Article 117 stipulated that all officials concerned with security policy and public order " depend immediately upon the Executive , who will appoint and remove them in conformity with the law . " The 1860 Constitution also reaffirmed the constitutional mission of the armed forces to secure internal order and compliance with the law ( Art . 199 ) . However , the issue of military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Article 119 read : " The question of military obedience will be governed by the law and military regulations . " Thus the central political dilemma of the relative autonomy and political responsibility of the Peruvian military had been left to " future legislation " rather than being resolved in the constitutional debates . This outcome distinguished Peru from all its South American neighbors . In Peru it proved easier to agree upon constitutional constraints upon executive authority , to define the relative power of the executive and legislative branches , and to circumscribe regimes of exception than to adopt definitively the common nondeliberation clause that defined the constitutional limits of military action elsewhere in Spanish America . In 1867 , a short-lived constitution adopted to legitimate an insurgent liberal regime solved this problem by readopting earlier language : " military subordination is subject to the constitution and the law . " This clause again made the military formally responsible for assessing the constitutionality of policy directives and orders ( Art . 116 ) . With the restoration of the 1860 Constitution in 1868 , the issue of judicial review with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During the ten years after Castilla left office in 1862 , Peru suffered a series of brief military dictatorships and interim presidencies , with the fatherland frequently " in danger . " Spanish claims on the Chincha islands led to a short but disruptive war that brought Colonel Manuel Prado to power . Former president Castilla led the opposition forces and , when he ( lied in 1867 , his second in coinRegimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 229 mand temporarily gained the presidency . Violence prevailed . It reached its zenith in 1872 with the assassination of imprisoned President-General Jose Balta , the hanging of the deposed military putschists ' bodies from the towers of the Lima cathedral , and their public burning . Politics in Peru remained a dangerous adventure into the 1880s.4 ? Parallel to this period of political violence , technological and economic modernization brought new social and economic groups into Peruvian politics . Railroad construction , financial speculation , and the rise of a more cosmopolitan urban commercial elite gave rise to a civilista movement that ultimately produced the country 's first civilian president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pardo , who sought to counterbalance the army with a national guard , relied heavily on close ties to key military officers and garrisons to fend off rebel movements . His successor , ex-dictator General Manuel Prado , faced numerous conspiracies and an intensifying financial crisis resulting from a chronic budget deficit , inability to pay foreign creditors , and a bloated public payroll . Several presidents and former presidents were assassinated in the 1860s and 1870s , including Manuel Pardo in 1878 . The following year Peru found itself at war with Chile ( 1879-1883 ) . The country lost significant amounts of territory , as well as nitrate deposits in the southern desert that might have replaced guano as a major source of public revenue . In 1879 , President Prado sailed for Europe to obtain financial assistance for the war ; an uprising in Lima led by Nicolas Pierola resulted in a new wartime government , which issued the Provisional Statute of 1879.4 ' By January 1881 , Chilean troops occupied Lima , then sacked and looted the Peruvian capital . Guerrilla resistance continued in the highlands , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peruvian loss of territory . Military officers and patriots blamed defeat on the failure of the government and civilians to support the heroic efforts of Peruvian naval and land forces against difficult odds . The apparent consensus was that Peru required stronger government , better prepared military forces , and an end to the corruption and inefficiency of prewar administrations . Until almost the end of the century the military would reassume control of Peruvian politics . Not until 1920 would the 1860 Constitution be replaced . In the intervening years , the central issue in Peru remained the militarization of politics . The basic provisions in the 1860 Constitution for regimes of except ion allowing suspension of garantias when " the Fatherland is in 230 The Constitution of Tyranny danger " remained in place ( Art . 59 , Sec. 20 ) . The constitution charged the armed forces with assuring internal order and compliance with the laws ( Art . 119 ) . In 1897 , when the Peruvian Congress adopted habeas corpus legislation over the objection of the president , the law provided that habeas corpus would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the garantias in accord with the constitution ( Art . 59 , Sec. 20 ) .42 Civil liberties and rights disappeared in times of " danger " ; constitutional dictatorship prevailed . Until the end of the nineteenth century , the struggle for power and control of the state prevented peaceful regime succession and consolidation of civilian government . Nevertheless , civilistas and military elites , liberals and conservatives alike , had reached at least one fundamental agreement : Peru could not be governed without control over freedom of assembly , freedom of association , freedom of the press , and government authority to suspend the garantias " when the patria is in danger . " The maintenance of internal order required recurrent recourse to regimes of exception or , alternately , to civil-military coups justified " to save the fatherland " 43 This principle was not only the dominant constitutional doctrine , it depicted the essence of Peruvian politics to the end of the twentieth century . Peru alternated between constitutional regimes of exception and coups justified by the supposed need to save the fatherland . Between 1895 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portend a gradual consolidation of the institutions of the 1860 Constitution . A great increase in foreign investment , expansion of mining , and increased coastal export agriculture brought prosperity but also the beginnings of labor strife and Peru 's introduction to the politics of class conflict . Soon regimes of exception would be needed to control opposition political movements and demands for social justice . In 1919 , former president Augusto Leguia carried out a coup d'etat , claiming that he came to office " to liquidate the old order " and to " detain the advance of communism . " 44 Periodic strikes and Indian uprisings to reclaim land appropriated by the haciendas had frightened rural elites , foreign investors , and industrialists . To legitimate the new order , Leguia derogated the 1860 charter and imposed a more liberal constitution in 1920 . For the first time , a Peruvian constitution dealt with workers ' rights and industrial relations , much like the Mexican 1917 Constitution . Article 58 promised government protection and new educational opportunities for Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 231 Indians . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights and liberties ; their suspension was , for the first and last time in Peruvian history , prohibited . In practice , however , Leguia nullified the constitution and ruled as a dictator . Using the army against workers and Indian rebellions in the early 1920s , he then moved against the press , newly organized university students , and political dissidents . During his eleven-year reign ( 1919-1930 ) , he imprisoned and exiled opponents while ignoring the prohibitions against suspending garantias . With the constitution amended to permit presidential reelection , Leguia survived until the 1929 stock market crash ended the orgy of public works and construction projects that prosperity had allowed to soften the dictatorship . The shock of economic collapse and the burden of eleven years of resentment allowed a military coup to depose Leguia in 1930 . After his ouster , a new constitution adopted in 1933 reaffirmed the armed forces constitutional mission to " guarantee the Constitution and laws of the Republic and to maintain public order " ( Art . 213 ) and restored presidential authority to suspend individual rights and liberties during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) .45 This authority was supplemented by several laws designed to repress political dissidents and " antisocial " ideas ( doctrinas disociadoras ) . The most important of these were the 1932 Emergency Law passed by the constituent assembly that adopted the 1933 Constitution , the 1937 Social Defense Law , and the 1937 Law of Social Defense and Internal Security of the Republic . The 1932 law defined crimes against institutional stability and social welfare : incitement of military coups , incitement to disobey the law , the diffusion of alarmist news , among other such crimes . The government was also authorized to suspend meetings that might disrupt public tranquility and to close down locales or organizations that incited actions that threatened public order . The 1937 law added a ban against communist propaganda and organizations seeking to diffuse communist or other antisocial doctrines . Even more draconian , the 1938 law listed a number of crimes against public and social tranquility and assigned to military courts-martial civilians who committed rimes against internal peace . Capital punishment applied " depending on the gravity and circumstances of the crime.s46 Alternating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1933 Constitution and by supplemental national security legislation until 1968 , when a new type of military regime promised to more radically transform the country 232 The Constitution of Tyranny ( 1968-1980 ) . Military coups in 1948 , 1962 , and 1968 were justified by the constitutional mission assigned to the armed forces in the 1933 Constitution.47 When the military governments after 1968 exhausted their energy and left Peru in shambles , the country adopted still another constitution in 1979 . It purportedly restored democracy and civilian government after twelve years of military rule . However , it enhanced the political role of the armed forces and provided for two basic regimes of exception that justified constitutional dictatorship : state of emergency ( in the case of perturbation of peace or internal order , catastrophe , or grave circumstances that affect the life of the nation ) and state of siege ( to confront war , civil war , or imminent danger thereof ) . During a state of emergency , the 1979 Constitution authorized the armed forces to assume control of internal order at the request of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of emergency provisions in the 1979 charter resembled the authority of the president in Article 70 of the 1933 Constitution , though it required that the decree specify which garantias were suspended . In the case of state of siege , the 1979 Constitution suspended all garantias except those specifically exempted by the state of siege decree . Commenting on these provisions , Enrique Chirinos Soto , a delegate to the constitutional assembly and a member of one of Peru 's most important reformist parties in the twentieth century , the Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Americana ( APRA ) , declared : " The first duty of government is to govern . To govern , within the law , it needs regimes of exception like those we have approved : i48 In the 1980s , these provisions of the new constitution were used to put much of Peru under state of siege in the fight against the Sendero Luminoso insurgency.49 From Bolivar in the nineteenth century to the military rulers , their civilian successors under civilian President Fernando Belaunde Terry ( 1980-1985 ) , and then the Apristas ( 1985-1990 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be governed . Born under a regime of exception with the suspension of the 1823 Constitution , Peru continued to rely routinely upon regimes of exception and military force to govern its people into the last decade of the twentieth . Confronted by economic crisis and the intensified revolutionary insurgency of Sendero Luminoso 's guerrillas , Peru 's president , Alberto Fujimori , illegally suspended the 1979 Constitution in April 1992 and instituted rule by decree . He promised an early plebiscite , Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 233 elections , and a new constitution to legitimate his autogolpe . The draconian powers provided in the 1979 Constitution 's regimes of exception did not satisfy President Fujimori ; he faced congressional opposition that impeded implementation of his neoliberal economic reforms , including a massive privatization of public enterprises and assets . Like Peruvian caudillos of the past , Fujimori preferred dictatorship to the annoyance of politics . He dissolved Congress and promised , with his military allies , to carry out the historic mission of Peruvian caudillos and the armed forces : to " save the Fatherland " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antonio Jose de Sucre , commander of the army t hat defeated Assembly of the Representatives of Upper Peru " to determine t heir future . Localism prevailed ; the assembly resisted reunification with Peru or Buenos Aires and declared Bolivia independent in August 1825 . Named for Simon Bolivar , Bolivia consisted of the poor amalgamated provinces of colonial Upper Peru . Site of the most important colonial silver mines , Bolivia 's independence wars further decapitalized the already depressed mining sector . Abandoned and flooded mines littered the territory . The Bolivian rural economy was also devastated.51 Bolivia , with a population of a little over a million , was a collect ion of Indian communities , large rural estates , dispersed villages , and small towns , each with its local caudillos and armies . Most of its people lived in the highlands , several days ' travel from the Pacific Ocean . Transportation by mule trains or carts to the coast was difficult and costly , making most Bolivian products uncompetitive and raising significantly the price of imported goods . The only port available to the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a population of seven hundred . Bolivia never established control over its Pacific desert territory . Eventually , Chilean settlement , foreign investment , ineffective diplomacy , and war would mean the loss of Bolivia 's Pacific region , leaving the nation landlocked.52 Geographical isolation , difficult topography , a predominantly rural population , the majority non-Spanish-speaking Indians , and a primitive economy condemned Bolivia to an extreme version of the difficulties of the new nations of Spanish America . The most Indian of the South American republics , perhaps 70 ? 80 percent , 234 The Constitution of Tyranny Bolivian society remained highly segregated , stratified , and rigid during the nineteenth century . Taxes on Indians and exploitation of their labor contributed disproportionately to public revenues and private wealth until mining recovered late in the nineteenth century . The Indians participated little in " national " life , lacking awareness of , or commitment to , a Bolivian nation . Nineteenth-century governments alternately sought to impose liberal principles on the Indian communities , thereby destroying the communal system and making Indian land a marketable commodity , or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Thus , although excluded from conventional political participation , the indigenous people felt the impact of changing government policies , sometimes resisting violently , sometimes passively , and sometimes succumbing to the inevitable.53 Contestants in national politics were the minority European , Creole , and upwardly mobile cholo ( mestizo ) population who dominated the urban districts . Literacy and property requirements limited the active electorate drastically ; in the 1870s , less than twenty thousand voted in national elections . Elections typically brought violence . Votes were cast in public and voters wishing to oppose official candidates were forced to run the gauntlet of government thugs . Electoral violence and government manipulation of the suffrage exacerbated the regionalism and parochialism characteristic of nineteenth-century Bolivia . The pattern of dispersed urban centers with their local interests and military garrisons combined with the adverse economic and international factors to impede the development of a strong national oligarchy and an effective political system until the 1880s . Yet , like their counterparts elsewhere , Bolivian conservatives and liberals debated constitutional principles and experimented with numerous constitutions from 1826 to 1880 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of executive and legislative branches , control of the military , and the scope of extraordinary powers for the executive in times of " internal commotion " or " threats to the security of the Republic . " Eleven constitutions , assorted constitutional reforms , and abortive constituent assemblies framed a canvas of violence , disdain for the law , and recurrent coups and civil wars.54 Almost continual plotting , uprisings , conspiracies , and barracks revolts confounded the consolidation of a national political system . Legal , peaceful government succession rarely occurred . The list of nineteenth-century presidents includes numerous interim , proviRegimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 235 sional , de facto , and transitory executives , some of whom served only days . Between 1829 and 1850 , one caudillo , General Jose Miguel Velasco , was president five times for terms ranging from several months to slightly more than two years.55 From 1825 to 1899 , every Bolivian president faced uprisings and coup attempts ; several were assassinated in office , others after leaving office , and almost all failed to complete their terms . Nowhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presidents participate personally in assassinations , executions , direct command of barracks revolts , and large-scale insurrections . Into the 1870s , personalism in Bolivian politics extended to dagger thrusts , gunshots at close range , summary executions , and even trampling opponents under the hooves of caudillo steeds . In Bolivia , more than elsewhere in Spanish America , the national treasury , though always impoverished , and the posts of the public administration were war booty for victorious caudillos and their supporters . Bolivian historian Augusto Guzman remarked that the Bolivian president " was not a simple ruler or representative of the people , but rather , most of the time , made himself lord , master , and owner of the nation.s56 As elsewhere , however , even t he most cynical caudillos sought a veneer of respectability and legitimacy for their governments in constitutional conventions , splendid declarations of their love of civil liberties and rights , and rigged elections . This was true despite the comparatively insignificant role in Bolivian politics , at least to the 1870s , of ideological differences concerning basic political principles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Argentina , Central America , Mexico , and even Peru , no serious federalist proposals emerged until the 1870s . Debates over commercial , agricultural , or sectoral policies , conflicts among organized class or occupational interests , and disputes over religious toleration were also less important in Bolivia than elsewhere in Spanish America before 1880.57 Elite agreement to exclude and control Indians restricted their political participation except in instances of local uprisings over national land policies or encroachments on their communities . Liberal economic doctrine did not seriously challenge neomercantilist protective policies until the 1860s . Until at least the 1870s , Bolivian politics centered unambiguously on personal power and control of limited state resources . Typin ally this required a military victory followed by convocation of Congress or a constitutional convention that selected a provisional , 236 The Constitution of Tyranny interim , transitory , or constitutional president . Not until 1855 did a Bolivian president , Manuel Isidoro Belzu , retire from office peacefully rather than suffer assassination or deposition by armed revolt . Even then , he imposed his son-in-law , General Jorge Cordova ( 1855-1857 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political reality . From 1825 , Bolivia would never be without provisions for constitutional regimes of exception , ample presidential powers , and a central political role for the military . Bolivian presidents would have the authority to send adversaries into " internal exile " if they chose not to voluntarily leave the country , to suspend the rights of " subversives , " and to exercise extraordinary powers that were either self-conferred , conceded by Congress , or constitutionally authorized under the state of siege provisions introduced in 1861 ( Art . 11 ) . However , the scope of constitutional dictatorship and the balance of power between the president and Congress became central issues in national politics . When the last nineteenth-century constitution was promulgated in 1880 , Congress had achieved some constitutional and political control over the previously unchecked presidential tyranny that prevailed earlier in the century . Exercise of extraordinary powers depended on the support of the army or , more accurately , of the most important regional garrisons and on maintaining the neutrality of retired , exiled , and pensioned officers . In turn , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50 percent of government revenues . Payments to retirees and pensioners often exceeded by 50 percent the costs of maintaining the standing army.58 While armies were small , perhaps 1,500 ? 5,000 , officers might account for 40 ? 50 percent of all personnel . Even so , these armies were little more than paid retainers of the caudillos officered by " generals " and " colonels " without training in military academies . To meet the costs of these garrisons , governments that theoretically monopolized the silver market though the bancos de rescate resorted to debased currency , forced loans , requisition of supplies , sequestration of property , forced labor , and pillage.59 So extreme was the Bolivian experience that by 1878 the constitution included a separate section on " the conservation of public order , " the basic stipulations of which were retained in constitutional reforms in 1880 ( Arts . 26 , 27 ) , the last nineteenth-century charter , and in the 1938 Constitution ( Arts . 34 ? 38 ) . This concern with internal order as a distinctive constitutional issue prevailed into the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 237 tion of Public Order ( Arts . 111-15 ) , essentially replicated the language of the charters of 1878 , 1880 , 1938 ( Arts . 34-38 ) , 1945 ( Arts . 34-38 ) , and 1947 ( Arts . 34-38 ) . Independence and the Constitution of 1826 From its first constitution , Bolivia would never lack the foundations of constitutional dictatorship . The nation began under the authority of Sucre 's predominantly Colombian Army of Liberation . In a decree on February 9 , 1825 , Sucre asserted his authority over Upper Peru as commander of the revolutionary army , " while an assembly of deputies deliberates the destiny of the provinces denominated Upper Peru . " This decree anticipated Bolivia 's subsequent history of militarism , caudillismo , and civil wars . It prophetically stipulated that " the liberation army shall respect the decision of the assembly , so long as it conserves order , unity and concentration of power to avoid anarchy . " It added that " intervention by the military in the deliberations of the assembly will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives selected by each cabildo , this assembly proclaimed Bolivia an independent nation , separate from Peru and Rio de la Plata , on August 6 , 1825 . Meanwhile , Simon Bolivar had sent the assembly a draft constitution , preceded by a self-effacing disclaimer concerning his own legislative abilities and a reminder of the terrible experiences suffered by other new nations . I have brought all my resources to the fore to give you my opinions on how to organize free men , with the principles adopted by advanced nations pueblos cultos ; though the lessons of experience only demonstrate long periods of disaster , interrupted by lightning flashes of fortune . What guides can we follow in the shadow of such fearful tenebrosos examples ? Legislator ! Your duty is to overcome the conflict between two monstrous enemies . . . both of which will attack simultaneously : tyranny and anarchy from an immense ocean of oppression , that surrounds a small island of liberty , besieged permanently by the violence of the waves and hurricanes.61 Central to Bolivar 's solution to this dilemma was a lifetime president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the universe , central , firm and life-giving . " b2 The assembly adopted a modified version of his proposal , accepting the lifetime president but rejecting his advice to avoid establishing an official church . It gutted his 238 The Constitution of Tyranny proposal to abolish slavery by adding the provisions that the freed slaves " shall not leave the property of their masters , except as shall be determined in a special law " ( Art . 11 ) . In Bolivia , as in Peru , the Bolivarian Constitution was never fully implemented . It did , however , establish constitutional precedents that survived into the twentieth century : centralism , presidential dominance , and a constitutional definition of a political role for the armed forces in maintaining internal security . The constitution also provided authority to protect state security by suspending " constitutional formalities " under " extraordinary circumstances . " Article 128 was the first , if not the most comprehensive , of Bolivia 's constitutional regimes of exception : If in extraordinary circumstances , the security of the Republic requires the suspension of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration of justice and certain civil liberties and rights , the legislative chambers may so decree ; if these are not in session , the Executive may do so , informing the legislature of his actions in the next session , and assuming responsibility for any abuses committed . Article 157 added that , in suspending the rights conferred in the constitution , the government " must specify the period during which the suspension will prevail . " From 1825 to 1828 , Sucre and the Army of Liberation dominated Bolivia . Despite personal reservations about the lifetime presidency and the wisdom of assuming executive power in Bolivia , Sucre accepted the presidency from the constituent assembly . Efforts to effect tax and administrative reforms , including abolition of the Indian tribute , to attract foreign investment in the depressed mining sector , to reactivate the royal mint , and otherwise to stimulate the economy , failed . Sucre did successfully confiscate church lands , close small monasteries , and take control of collecting tithes . As Bolivar 's closest lieutenant , Sucre was the target of antiBolivarian sentiment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urban taxpayers , while abolition of the Indian tribute eliminated the most important source of government revenue . This , combined with resentment against the Army of Liberation and the costs of its maintenance , encouraged attacks on Sucre by local caudillos . Bolivar 's departure from Peru in 1827 , threats of war between Gran Colombia and Peru that potentially involved Bolivia , and an eventual assassination attempt led in 1828 to Sucre 's Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 239 resignation . This was accompanied by an agreement , the Treaty of Piquiza , to remove foreign troops from the country and adopt a new constitution.63 With his departure , a series of temporary presidents and caudillos jockeyed for power . The assembly named Marshall Andres Santa Cruz as president . He had served briefly as Peruvian president and would , during his entire lifetime , intrigue to unite Peru and Bolivia . He shared this objective with Peruvian leaders , including President Agustin Gamarra , who had stated clearly an intent to consolidate Peruvian control over Bolivia : " Bolivia and Peru will come to terms and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bolivian . Peru has never been Bolivian . Bolivia has always belonged to Peru . " 64 Santa Cruz 's government ( 1829 ? 1839 ) would be dominated by the issue of Peruvian-Bolivian federation or unification . Constitutional Development Under Santa Cruz ' Liking office in May 1829 , Santa Cruz derogated the 1826 Constit cation and decreed an anticonspiracy law ( Ley de Conato ) . The law afforded him ample authority to exile , imprison , and otherwise repress political opponents . Fancying himself the Napoleon of South America , he adopted imperfect versions of Napoleonic civil and penal codes for Bolivia . He also established new colleges and medical and military schools . He devoted himself to equipping and controlling the army and to preparing a new constitution that legalized his dictatorship . Treated as a reform of the 1826 charter , the 1831 Constitution provided that Bolivar 's powerful president would now be elected indirectly by parish juntas for a four-year term , instead of a lifetime , but could be reelected indefinitely . Presidential authority was virtually omnipotent , ranging from control over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national guard and police to the ability to dissolve the Congress and rule by decree , with assent by the council of state . The constitution established the armed forces as a permanent government institution , and this would never hinge in Bolivian constitutional history ( Arts . 141 ? 42 ) . Typical of nineteenth-century Spanish American constitutions , it added the language of the French revolutionary proscription of military participation ( deliberaci6n ) in politics that would be contradicted thereafter by Bolivian reality : " the armed forces are essentially obedient , in no case may they deliberate " ( Art . 143 ) . The fundamental regime of exception clause also departed little born the 1826 Bolivarian scheme . Article 132 stated : 240 The Constitution of Tyranny If in extraordinary circumstances , the security of the Republic requires suspension of any of the formalities prescribed by this Constitution and the law , the legislature may so decree . If the legislature is not in session , the Executive , with the assent of the Council of State , may do so as a provisional measure , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any abuses committed . In the case of " sudden invasion " or " internal commotion " the president could be invested with extraordinary powers by the council of state , thereby suspending enumerated civil rights and liberties ( Arts . 74-75 ) . When in session , the legislature could also give the president " whatever authority is deemed necessary for the salvation of the State " in times of war or " extraordinary danger " ( Art . 19 ) . In short , the constitution made the president a virtual dictator ; in times of war , internal commotion , " extraordinary danger , " or threats to the security of the state he had unlimited power . This made the presidency invaluable but also meant that it would be bitterly and permanently contested . From 1831 until the end of the century , with the exception of the 1839 , 1878 , and 1880 constitutions ( see below ) , caudillos used constitutional reforms to legitimate new governments and sought to enhance further the routine and extraordinary power of the presidency in times of " danger , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intermittent efforts to strengthen the legislature , limit presidential authority , shorten presidential terms , and forbid immediate reelection were finally institutionalized in the 1880s . Delayed economic development , lack of an integrated agrarian elite , and regional isolation militated against the evolution of effective national legislative and judicial counterweights to the president . In the 1831 Constitution , congressional sessions were limited to three months a year and could be suspended by the president . In 1834 , under Santa Cruz 's direction , a reformed constitution limited congressional sessions to once every two years . The 1831 Constitution served as the basic foundation for executive dictatorship . Its 1834 successor further weakened the legislature and limited presidential accountability to acts of treason , illegally " staying " in office , and usurpation of the constitutional authority of other branches of government ( Art . 73 ) . Otherwise , the president could not be held legally accountable for official acts , an important departure from the 1831 charter that had made him " responsible for all administrative acts according to the Constitution " Regimes of Exception in Peru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1834 reforms also retained the unique clause of 1831 that prohibited Congress from confirming a new president if a military uprising ousted the previous president ? that is , Santa Cruz ? unless the outgoing president had violated the constitution and was legally deposed . Santa Cruz ruled Bolivia from 1831 to 1839 , perennially involved in plots with caudillos and presidents in neighboring Peru . Sharing with some Peruvians the dream of a united Peru-Bolivia ( under his own direction , of course ) , he was often granted extraordinary powers to protect Bolivia against invasions or to quell internal uprisings . In 1833 , for example , the Congress invested him with authority to " take measures to protect the integrity of the country 's institutions and public order.s65 To this end , Santa Cruz allied himself with Peruvian president Orbegoso against the rebellious forces of outgoing President Gamarra . Authorized by the Peruvian Congress in 1834 to ask for Santa Cruz 's military assistance to end the civil war in Peru , Orbegoso eventually agreed to Peruvian financing of a Bolivian army commanded by a designee of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peru , and Orbegoso transferred the extraordinary powers delegated to him by the Peruvian Congress to the Bolivian president , an unusual occurrence even for the magical realism of Spanish American politics in the nineteenth century . In Peru , former adversaries Gamarra and Felipe Salaverry ( another of Sucre 's lieutenants at Ayacucho ) united to fight " the second war of Peruvian independence " against Santa Cruz and his Peruvian supporters . Salaverry declared " war to the death " against Santa Cruz , promising tax exemptions for those who killed Bolivians . After several ragged engagements , Salaverry 's forces were defeated and he was executed following a trial by a consejo de guerra.66 These events left Santa Cruz dominant in Peru and Bolivia , whereupon he created the Peru-Bolivia Confederation . Unable to consolidate control of the confederation 's internal adversaries , he was ultimately defeated in 1839 by a Chilean army , assisted by Peruvian , Bolivian , and Argentine opponents of the confederation . So ended Santa Cruz 's dream ; he spent the rest of his life in exile conspiring to return to power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " 1839 ? 1851 The defeat of Santa Cruz and the dissolution of the confederation in 1839 necessitated reorganization of the political system and , naturally , a new constitution . General Jose Miguel Velasco , turncoat 242 The Constitution of Tyranny commander of Santa Cruz 's southern army , assumed the presidency provisionally , supported by the victorious Chilean General ( soon to be President ) Manuel Bulnes . Meanwhile , a constituent assembly worked on a new constitution and a rebellious caudillo , General Jose Ballivian , proclaimed himself " Provisional Supreme Chief of the Republic , " adding that " any Bolivian who did not submit to his authority within thirty days will be considered an enemy of Bolivia and treated as such . " The assembly proclaimed Ballivian a " traitor and outlaw " to be captured " dead or alive . " Promotions were promised to any soldier or officer who " brought him in.s67 Santa Cruz 's defeat and the influence of the Chilean occupation resulted in the first Bolivian constitution to reduce executive authority and enhance that of the legislature . In its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bolivia " and invalidated the 1834 charter , the assembly delegates made clear that the 1839 Constitution was a reaction to Santa Cruz 's tenyear ( 1829 ? 1839 ) reign and to the plans of Peruvian and Bolivian caudillos to unify the two territories . The new constitution made the president legally accountable for administrative acts , reduced his appointment power , prohibited executive dissolution of the Congress and dismissal of judges , forbade immediate presidential reelection , and eliminated the vice presidency . Congress was prohibited from investing the executive with extraordinary powers beyond those enumerated in the constitution . This was an important effort to end the delegation of " whatever power is deemed essential " to meet threats of external invasion or internal commotion . It restricted presidential authority to expel , exile , deprive of property or liberty , or punish citizens , to interfere in court proceedings , and to impede elections called for by the constitution ( Art . 78 ) . It also forbade the president to prevent those elected from taking office or to dissolve Congress or suspend its sessions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created by Bolivar and perfected by Santa Cruz would have ended . The framers of the 1839 charter also sought to redefine the military mission ? " to defend the freedom and independence of the Nation " ( Art . 139 ) , to create militia ( guardia national ) in each department subject to civilian authority , to prohibit military courts or " special commissions " from trying civilians ( Art . 163 ) , and to secure military subordination to civilian authority . Article 142 stated : " All military officers of the Republic are subject to the orders of the person who , according to this Constitution , should succeed as PresiRegimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 243 dent , the day on which , according to the Constitution the constitutional term ends . Whoever violates this article commits the crime of treason against the fatherland . " Despite these efforts to curtail militarism and depart from the presidentialism of Bolivar and Santa Cruz , the 1839 Constitution remained strongly centralist , with the prefect of each department and district the " immediate constitutional agent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their jurisdictions , prefects exercised supreme military and civil authority over order , security , politics , and the economy . This included applying decrees issued by the president under still ample , though delimited , emergency powers . The constitution sought explicitly to reduce the scope of presidential extraordinary powers . The new regime of exception provisions ( Arts . 79 ? 81 ) were more restrictive than in most of Spanish America . Bolivia would never have more constitutional constraint on its presidents than in 1839 : ? Article 79 : " In the case of grave danger which threatens the security of the Republic , caused by internal commotion or external invasion , the Executive shall apply to the Congress . . . requesting concession of the following powers : ( I ) increase in the size of the permanent army and call to active service of the national guard ; ( 2 ) financing of the military effort ; ( 3 ) . . . arrest of those who conspire against the tranquility of the Republic , putting them at the disposition of a judge within 72 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battlefield ; ( 5 ) to concede amnesties and pardons for political crimes . " ? Article 80 : " If the threat occurs while Congress is not in session the Council of Ministers may invest the president with the authority specified in the previous article . " ? Article 81 : " The authority in articles 79 and 80 shall be limited to the time indispensable to reestablish the tranquility and security of the Republic , and the executive shall report to congress on the use made of such authority in the next legislative session . " President Velasco ( 1839 ? 1841 ) was unable to implement the I K39 Constitution or to consolidate his government . Continued intrigue by Gamarra and other Peruvians and by Santa Cruz in exile , Balivian , and assorted Bolivian caudillos , ignited new uprisings . Supporters of Santa Cruz ousted Velasco in 1841 . Gamarra invaded Bolivia in another effort to unite the two territories , or at least to annex a part of Bolivia , and to prevent the return of Santa Cruz I : out his Ecuadorean exile . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution of Tyranny loyal southern troops to Ballivian before departing for Argentine exile . At Ingavi in November 1841 , President Gamarra died leading his defeated army . Despite his earlier intrigues , support for Gamarra , and frequent failed coup attempts , Ballivian 's victory made him a hero of Bolivian nationalists instead of the " outlaw and traitor " he had been labeled by Congress in 1839 . He led his army into Peru : Puno , Tacna , Moquegua , Arica , Tarapaca . Further military encounters and guerrilla resistance in Peru against his forces resulted in a peace treaty in June 1842 . Ballivian returned to Bolivia , repressed conspiracies by remaining Santa Cruz supporters , symbolically delivered power to the Congress he convoked in Sucre , and dutifully accepted appointment as provisional president . A new constitution was now necessary to replace the 1839 charter and to legitimate Ballivian 's forthcoming election as constitutional president ( 1843-1847 ) . He had come to power as a military hero . His constitution restored the all-powerful presidency , lengthened the presidential term to eight years , augmented presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the rank of colonel ) , and allowed the executive to dissolve the Congress " if it exceeded its constitutional authority " ( Art . 43 ) and again limited its sessions to alternate years . Legislative authority shrank significantly , while that of the executive expanded to include even issuing the ordenanzas for the army and national guard . Ballivian 's critics called his constitution the ordenanza militar , reflecting their perception that it was essentially a charter for military dictatorship . In contrast to the 1839 Constitution , the president was now authorized " in cases of external danger or internal commotion " to " take whatever security measures he deems convenient , reporting the measures taken to the congress , or if it is not in session to the National Council " ( an advisory body made up of legislators , judges , a military officer , a religious official , and a minister of finance ) ( Arts . 45-46 ) . The president could take " whatever security measures he deems convenient " without limitation , without congressional review , and without reference to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do this whenever there existed " internal commotion " or " external danger " : in the Bolivia of the 1840s that meant always . Ballivian had thus surpassed Bolivar and Santa Cruz ; unilateral presidential determination of the existence of external danger or internal commotion suspended all civil liberties and rights , including the long list of garantias commencing with liberty , security , property , and equality before the law ( Arts . 86-98 ) . Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 245 Ballivian fully used these provisions , creating a primitive network of secret police and paid informers to control political opponents . Though no more repressive than his predecessors and successors , his constitution derailed the 1839 movement toward more protection for civil rights and liberties and a more significant role for Congress . While Bolivia would never again have such unlimited provisions for constitutional dictatorship as those adopted in the 1843 Constitution , it would also never again so limit presidential emergency powers and the scope of regimes of exception as it had in 1839 . Ballivian survived numerous barracks revolts and conspiracies , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom he had taken prisoner and offended at Ingavi . He could not , however , survive the mercurial rise of rival caudillo Manuel Isidoro Belzu , who gained control of the La Paz garrison in 1847 . Defeated , Ballivian delegated power to General Eusebio Guilarte , president of the council of ministers . Guilarte clung to office for ten days before Belzu 's forces prevailed . A year later he was assassinated in Cobija as Belzu persecuted his adversaries . Belzu feigned support for General and expresident Velasco . Abandoning Ballivian 's 1843 charter , a new Congress was convened to confirm Velasco and to reform the 1839 Constitution . The proposed reforms included limitations on the scope of extraordinary powers and reductions in the personnel and budget of the armed forces.68 This provoked an uprising at the Oruro garrison that sparked antigovernment movements in several northern towns . Belzu decided to end the charade of support for Velasco . He took t Barge of the rebellious garrisons and in appeals to urban cholos and Indians encouraged the pillage of cities where Velasco 's supporters resisted , including La @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president . He imposed himself on most of Bolivia with direct appeals to the underclasses and attacks on the urban elite . Revisionist historians have seen his support from artisans and the urban poor as the first overt clash between neomercantilists and a rising group of miners , foreign investors , merchants , and " liberals " favoring " free trade " and relaxation of state controls on the economy.69 Whatever the real commitment of Belzu to defend the plebes and colonial monopolists against a supposed liberal threat , a new Congress convened in Sucre and obsequiously designated the victorious caudillo provisional president . After a botched assassination attempt against Bel/it by Colonel ( later the president , 1871 ? 1872 ) Agustin Morales , whose home had been looted , Congress sus246 The Constitution of Tyranny pended the constitution and invested Belzu with extraordinary powers . All of Belzu 's administrative subordinates were likewise given such powers to conserve public order and confront the threat to internal security . In September 1851 a new constitution was promulgated , providing for the direct election of the president for a shortened ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it also buttressed the tradition of constitutional regimes of exception . Indeed , in some respects the 1851 Constitution more clearly restricted the exercise of civil liberties and rights than previous constitutions . First , Article 23 stated : the enjoyment of garantias and rights that this constitution concedes to all men . . . is subordinated to compliance with this obligation : respect ( for and obedience to the law and the constituted authorities ( italics in the constitution ) . Second , the Congress could declare the fatherland in danger as a result of internal commotion or external war and invest the executive with extraordinary powers to reestablish order and peace . This declaration suspended the constitutional regime until the Congress declared the " end of extraordinary powers " ( Art . 50 , Secs . 12 , 13 ) . Third , the president might invest himself with these same powers , with the assent of the council of ministers ( appointed by the president ) , under the same conditions . The president was to report to Congress on the use made of this authority , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such powers ( Art . 76 , Secs . 26-28 ) . Although the president and ministers were legally responsible for violations of the law , unlike in earlier charters , Article 76 provided a blank check for the chief executive . His authority was unlimited if he and his ministers decided that the " fatherland was in danger . " The president retained the traditional authority to conserve internal security , name military officers to the rank of colonel , organize and direct the militia ( guardia national ) , exercise the patronato ( naming religious officials ) , staff the public administration , and convoke the Congress and electoral colleges . The 1851 charter thus further reinforced the institutions of constitutional dictatorship established by Bolivar and Santa Cruz . Constitutional Development , 1851 ? 1880 Belzu was the first Bolivian president to complete his constitutional term , overcoming assassination attempts , mutinies , uprisings , and internal wars . In 1855 he surprised Congress , meeting in Oruro , with a farewell speech that included the following lament : " RevoRegimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 247 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution fomented by my enemies , by my friends , ... My God ! They have condemned me to a state of permanent warfare . . . . Bolivia has made itself ungovernable . " ' " Despite his apparent exasperation , Belzu used the electoral process and the government-controlled press to secure congressional selection of his son-in-law , General Jorge Cordova , as his successor . He was appointed minister plenipotentiary in Europe , given a fitting salary , and then left the country . Like Santa Cruz , he spent much of the rest of his life unsuccessfully plotting a return to power . In 1865 he was killed in a coup attempt against Mariano Melgarejo.72 Santa Cruz and Jose Maria Linares , inveterate golpista , former congressman , minister , prefect of Potosi , and former interim president , had opposed Cordova in the presidential elections and , since his investiture , both sought to oust him . Shortly after taking office , Cordova faced his first serious revolt from northern garrisons who ostensibly supported Linares 's claims against irregularities in the recent elections . Declaring " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the president and suspended its sessions.73 Cordova annulled the amnesty decrees with which he had attempted to mollify the opposition , suppressed the rebellions ruthlessly , and imprisoned opponents . New revolts followed.74 In the August 1856 congressional sessions a cabinet minister , seeking to impress the Congress with the government 's achievements and to flatter the president , revealed the pathetic political situation : " Five conspiracies suppressed in less than fifteen months , not a single victim on the gallows , a few temporary incarcerations , I we amnesty decrees ... prove the moderation of the government In using the extraordinary powers conferred by Congress.75 In September 1857 , an artillery unit at Oruro proclaimed Linares provisional president . The aristocratic , moralistic Linares had dedicated decades to achieving the presidency ; once again he challenged an incumbent caudillo . The Congress responded predictably , investing Cordova with extraordinary powers and suspending its sessions until the revolt had been suppressed . Bolivian historian Alcides Arguedas relates the following speech by Cordova to his troops : My sons , it is time to save the fatherland . I need your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ booty of the city . I declare you owners of lives and property vidas y haciendas .... Kill without mercy the burghers hombres de levita .... If you die in 248 The Constitution of Tyranny the fray your families will receive pensions . If the poor cholos leave their trenches , disarm and denude them , the same for old women : the young girls are yours.76 It is not clear whether these instructions properly fell within the extraordinary powers with which Congress had invested the president . In any case , unable to obtain victory after three days of skirmishing , Cordova fled to Oruro . Learning that garrisons in La Paz and Sucre had pledged support for Linares , Cordova took refuge in Peru , and Linares , Bolivia 's first civilian chief executive ( 1857-1861 ) , became de facto president , proclaiming " my only mission is to moralize the country . " 77 Personally austere , disdainful of Belzu 's and Cordova 's populism , and committed to putting the government 's affairs in order , Linares made severe budget cuts . This included eliminating sinecures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of paid soldiers was reduced from 6,000 to 1,200 , and the customary government subsidies to what passed for newspapers were abolished . Opposition to Linares surfaced quickly from those disappointed not to share in the booty of the ascendant dictator and also from the garrisons . Linares openly adopted a dictatorial regime in 1858 , declaring martial law on March 31 , 1858 : Considering that the battle between revolution and reaction demands intrepidity so that weakness does not compromise the great interests of the fatherland ; toleration of the press ' licentiousness has opened a bottomless abyss ; that the material order is threatened . . . . The government therefore decrees that all crimes against the security of the State will be removed from the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts and that the government , confirming summarily the veracity of the charges , in each case will submit the accused to the discretional measures it decides to take.78 Linares chose not to wrap his dictatorship in the cloak of the constitution , nor to adopt a new one ? a rare patrician , even colonial , resort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretenses of the Congress , the press , and the postcolonial constitutional order . Like Diego Portales in Chile ( see chapter 8 ) , Linares viewed militarism as the key obstacle to political stability in Bolivia . He sought : Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 249 to destroy the domination of the saber , so lamentable for the Hispanic American Republics , to make the military understand they are the friends and protectors of civilians , not their executioners ; that to require respect for the institutions , the privileges fueros , and independence of the fatherland is their first duty ; . . . that the sword of honor is converted into the dagger of the assassin when it determines the fortune of a country.79 Linares 's most prominent supporters would be known in the 114 ' 70s as constitutionalists and antimilitarists , seeking to end the reurrent coups , enhance the role of Congress , and constrain executive authority . However , Linares 's own disdain for constitutional solutions , his preference for dictatorship , his personal crusade against corruption , and his severe repression of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and office seekers . After an unsuccessful assassination attempt that killed lookalike General Juan Jose Prudencio , Linares created a consejo de guerra to investigate and punish the perpetrators . Draconian sentences followed , including the execution of a priest involved in the conspiracy . Supported by Peruvian President Castilla , supporters of Belzu and Cordova made new efforts to depose Linares . In response , Linares decreed that the press " should not discuss administrative acts , political questions , and must refrain from all publications that compromise the public order.s80 Besieged by enemies , Inoken by poor health , and betrayed by his closest civilian and military advisers ? Ruperto Fernandez , Manuel Antonio Sanchez ( prefect ) , and General Jose Maria Acha ? Linares was removed from office.8t His three former collaborators established a triumvirate and called for congressional elections and the meeting of a constituent Asamblea Nacional . They sent Linares into exile in Chile and . it rested his loyal ministers . He died a few months later . The elections for the Asamblea Nacional were more open than customary , giving rise to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tomas Frias , Mariano Baptista , and Adolfo Ballivian among the most notable ( all future presidents ) ? and the Azules in opposition . After some debate , the Asamblea Nacional selected General Acha as provisional president , adopted a new constitution ( 1861 ) , and approved a reformed press law . The 1861 Constitution endured only briefly ; then anarchy engulfed the country . However , the possibility of more genuine legislative debate 250 The Constitution of Tyranny in the 1861 Asamblea did reflect the diffusion into Bolivia of midcentury Spanish American liberalism . This included efforts to limit presidential prerogatives , to shorten the presidential term ( to three years in 1861 ) , and to make the president and his ministers legally accountable for all official acts ( Arts . 44 , 52 ) . A directly elected unicameral legislature , with greatly expanded budgetary power and control over military promotions , would meet annually . The constitution forbade legislative concession of extraordinary powers or " supreme power " to the executive ( Art . 10 ) . This apparent limitation on the most frequently used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of war and also the first state of siege clause in Bolivia 's constitutional history . In the case of war , the legislature could " invest the president with the power necessary to save the State " ( Art . 26 , Sec. 13 ) . Article 11 , the new state of siege clause , read as follows : In the case of internal commotion that puts in danger the Constitution or the authorities created by it , a state of siege will be declared in the department or province where order is perturbed , all constitutional rights and liberties garantias thereby being suspended . During this suspension the Executive Power will limit itself to arresting or removing persons from the territory affected to other places in the Nation , if they do not prefer voluntarily to leave the country . Under no circumstance is torture permitted . . . . Likewise , persons are not to be transferred to unhealthy places nor a distance of more than fifty leagues . As soon as order is reestablished , they will be permitted to return to their homes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , all the garantias ( Arts . 3 ? 9 ) could be suspended if internal commotion put the constitution or the government " in danger . " Faced with continued uprisings , the government invoked the state of siege provisions for the city of La Paz , leaving Colonel Placido Yanez , prefect of the city , in command of the garrison . Yanez imprisoned leading Belzu supporters , including expresident Cordova . On October 23 , 1861 , on the pretext of a belcista plot to overthrow the government , Yanez ordered the murder of Cordova and sixty-nine others in their jail cells . Two days after his death , Cordova was " sentenced " to death by a consejo de guerra . Acha then proposed calling elections for a special Congress in 1862 to approve constitutional reforms that would allow the executive to take preRegimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 251 ventive and repressive measures against sedition . The opposition ( Rojos ) protested . Attempting to quell them , Acha revoked the decree convoking the convention but could not assuage his enemies.82 The tension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1825 letter to the first constitutional convention , was clear in the 1861 Constitution . The solution was the prohibition on the concession of extraordinary powers , the adoption of a state of siege provision , limitations on the presidential term and appointment power , and new pressures for a still stronger executive . As Acha 's three-year term neared its end , he vacillated in choosing a successor before settling on General Sebastian Agreda , one of several contenders , including former president Bela ' ' , Adolfo Ballivian ( son of the former president and leader of the Rojos ) , and General Mariano Melgarejo . Acha attempted to isolate Melgarejo , who was serving as prefect of Cochabamba , reassigning him to the same post in Santa Cruz . Melgarejo feigned compliance but delayed his departure from Cochabamba . Finally , Belzu 's intrigues , the Rolos 's maneuvers , and Melgarejo 's ambition produced a coup in the last days of 1864 , prior to the scheduled presidential elections.83 Mariano Melgarejo ruled Bolivia from 1864 to 1871 . His surname became a synonym for brutal , unrestrained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements with Brazil and Chile alienating Bolivian territory and natural resources , and ruled with capricious violence . Despoliation of the Indian communities through the sale and theft of communal lands rewarded the caudillo 's civilian and military adherents . Melgarejo lacked the popular support of Belzti or the aristocratic support of Linares . He relied on his army ( the Colorado regiment ) , which was left to pillage , confiscate property , exact " loans " from the towns , and terrorize opponents . He dissolved the municipal councils and rent ralized all revenues in the national treasury " which became synonymous with his person . " He " canceled " the 1861 Constitution and proclaimed " I will rule Bolivia as long as I please ; whoever It.tllenges me I shall hang in the center of the plaza . " 85 Challenged initially by former president Belzu , Melgarejo killed hull at the presidential palace in La Paz in 1865 after Belzu 's forces had apparently achieved military victory.86 He then suppressed revolts in Potosi , Cochabamba , and Santa Cruz . Melgarejo had participated in army revolts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ *a a general . His rise coincided with new guano and mineral finds ( silver and nitrate ) in the southwest and with an increase in commercial relations with Britain , Chile , Brazil , and Argentina . Accom252 The Constitution of Tyranny modating the incipient mining oligarchy , Melgarejo bypassed the government monopoly on silver purchases for favored entrepreneurs , relied on tax revenues from guano and nitrate exports , and dismantled the neomercantilist policies that had dominated Bolivia into the 1860s.87 He bestowed valuable business concessions on foreign capitalists for a pittance , though it must be noted that encouraging investment in Bolivia required a plentitude of generosity . Melgarejo also loved to entertain foreign dignitaries and to receive the plaudits ? and in the case of Chile , even a military commission ? from European and South American governments . Constitutions inspired no respect in Melgarejo , but even he ordered his advisers to devise a new one and his Congress to approve it . An oft-repeated anecdote reports the following from a drunken Melgarejo at a state banquet celebrating the promulgation of the 1868 charter : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and all the honorable congressmen also , that the 1861 Constitution , which was a good one , I stuck in this left pocket and that of 1868 , which is even better according to these doctores , I stuck in this other pocket , and that no one but me rules Bolivia . X88 Such candor raises a question concerning the significance of nineteenth-century constitutions , not only in Bolivia but elsewhere in Spanish America . Why be concerned with constitutional clauses when government by rifle , sword , lance , and dagger was the rule ? Indeed , Melgarejo promulgated the 1868 Constitution , on a whim , on October 1 , 1868 ? a month earlier than stipulated in the constitution 's Transitory Article 1 . Melgarejo desired congressional approval of boundary and commercial treaties with Chile and Brazil , at the insistence of these two nations . The treaty with Brazil recognized Brazilian sovereignty over more than one hundred thousand square kilometers , including valuable rubber lands . In exchange , Melgarejo obtained access to several Brazilian rivers but abrogated Bolivian claims to much of the Amazon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Imperio.89 The Chilean treaty ( 1866 ) provided for the common ownership of nitrate resources between latitudes twenty-three and twenty-five and promised Chilean companies tax relief . In recognition for his peaceful resolution of Chilean-Bolivian disputes , the Chilean minister in Bolivia made Melgarejo a general in the Chilean army.90 These agreements angered Bolivian nationalists . It required almost two years of terror , intimidation , and persuasion to obtain approval of the treaties even by a legislature that Melgarejo had convened . From this " constituent legislature " Melgarejo also extruded the 1868 Constitution , " a suit made to order , a dress coat Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 253 tailored for a tyrant , s9 ' for not even Melgarejo wished to rule naked : the vestments of the constitution civilized barbarity and legalized dictatorship . They also satisfied the Chileans and Brazilians , who refused to rely on agreements with other than constitutionally legitimate authorities . Only constitutional governments could redraw boundaries , extend long-term mineral concessions , and promise not to increase export taxes . A treaty with a de facto president was feeble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require compliance . Melgarejo 's 1866 agreement with Chile , abrogated by a Bolivian government in the mid-1870s , would lead to war . Nevertheless , it is revealing that even Melgarejo required a constitution for international legitimacy as well as internal convenience , and that the 1868 Constitution , precipitated by Chilean and Brazilian insistence on ongressional ratification of their treaties with the Melgarejo government , followed precedent . In many ways Melgarejo 's constitution simply reflected the traditional debates in Bolivia over the relative authority of the legislature and the president , the length of presidential terms , the possibility of immediate reelection , and the extent of presidential control in staffing the public administration , the judiciary , and in military promotions . The aberrant unicameral legislature of 1861 was replaced by the conventional bicameral Congress . Deputies and senators would be chosen by direct election , but Congress would meet only every two years . As with Santa Cruz 's 1831 and 1834 Constitutions , the president could be reelected indefinitely for fouryear terms . Congressmen enjoyed immunity from arrest for opinions expressed and for any other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convoke the Congress as stipulated in the constitution , the legislators " shall meet without such convocation on the date and in the place Sucre specified " ( Art . 32 ) . Catholicism remained the state religion , and public exercise of other religions was prohibited ( Art . 4 ) . Centralism , presidential dominance , and a clear constitutional mission for the armed forces also prevailed . The armed forces were charged with " conservation 01 order , respect for social garantias , and defense of the independence and integrity of the nation " ( Art . 87 ) . The 1868 Constitution also promised Bolivians the gamut of civil rights and liberties now expected : property , liberty , freedom of movement and of the press , mid immunity from trial by " special commissions " or military tribunals . It even " guaranteed " respect for " intellectual property " and inventions . Even if Melgarejo never read his constitution , as some claim , it 254 The Constitution of Tyranny epitomized Spanish American Iiberalism.92 That meant that provisions were also made for emergencies , internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictatorship . This had become part of Bolivian constitutional practice . Melgarejo and his advisers , like their predecessors , wished to rule as constitutional authorities , to dignify the abominable with constitutional principles and a presidential sash . Any armed force , or group of persons that claimed to exercise the sovereign rights of the people , committed sedition ( Art . 27 ) . Such sedition might require the president " to take the measures necessary " to suppress it . However , civil liberties and rights could be suspended in the case of " internal commotion " only by decree of the council of ministers ( appointed by the president ) . This allowed the president to " act as circumstances demand , with the sole and exclusive object of taking the necessary measures to put down the insurrection " ( Art . 20 ) . The president could transfer persons within the national territory or arrest them if they refused voluntary exile . They could not be sent to " unhealthy places " or more than fifty leagues from their residence ( Art . 21 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the imperio of the Constitution again prevails " ( Art . 22 ) . In these respects , Melgarejo 's constitution afforded more latitude for constitutional dictatorship than the constitutions of 1839 and 1861 but less than earlier and later documents . It failed to address the issue of extraordinary powers , neither authorizing nor prohibiting legislative concession of such authority to the president . Likewise , the state of siege provision of the 1861 Constitution was dropped . Perhaps the president 's duty to " conserve and defend internal and external security of the State , according to the Constitution " was deemed sufficient . Melgarejo 's pathetic international initiatives , the minting of debased coinage ( popularly labeled Melgarejos ) , his brutality , drunken orgies , and eccentric love life along with the routine uprisings faced by all Bolivian presidents finally brought an end to his government . On November 25 , 1870 , General Agustin Morales marched his troops into La Paz and was proclaimed " Supreme Chief of the Revolution . " Discarding Melgarejo 's constitution , the new authorities relied on the 1861 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of siege . Morales called upon the Indian population to support the new government , promising restoration of the lands appropriated by foreign investors , friends , family , and supporters of Melgarejo . Only after a bloody all-day battle in La Paz in January 1871 did Melgarejo flee . Exiled in lima without financial resources Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 255 except a small military pension from Chile , Melgarejo was killed by a relative of his lover , Juanita Sanchez , in November 1871 . Ills successor , Agustin Morales ( 1870-1872 ) , had been an active anti-belcista since his house was sacked in the 1849 uprising in Cochmba . After his failed assassination attempt against Belzu , he the country , returning to serve in the Linares government 1857-1861 ) , then leading uprisings against Linares and Acha . Melgarejo made him a general in reward for suppressing a revolt , then condemned him to death for conspiracy , then commuted the sense to internal exile . Morales escaped to Peru ? from whence he urned to oust Melgarejo . Morales nicely fit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him president with 10,473 votes of the 14,186 cast . " Morales sought to reverse Melgarejo 's land policies , returning land to Indian communities and ceasing the minting of the debased coins . He mistakenly proclaimed that " no more tyrants would rule Bolivia . " 94 However , his brief administration witnessed the opening of new silver mines at Caracoles in the southern ( later Chilean ) desert , the expansion of nitrate production in the Atacama desert , and the first contracts for railroads ( 1872 ) needed to carry nitrate from the Mejillones fields and the silver mines to Antofagasta . Elimination of the government silver monopoly and an end Its protective tariffs continued the liberal economic policies of the Mrlgarejo administration.95 Before his assassination in 1872 , President Morales also promulgated a new constitution . Approved on October 9 , 1871 , by the National Constituent Assembly meeting in Sucre , it was treated as a reform of the 1861 Constitution . The assembly had declared null the decrees of the Melgarejo government , including the agreements with the Anglo-Chilean Nitrate and Railway Company in Antofagasta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the War of the Pacific ( 1879-1883 ) .96 In addition , the assembly witnessed the first serious debates on federalism in a Bolivian constitutional convention . As a result , the 1871 Constitution defined the country as a " representative , democratic republic " instead of a " republic , one and indivisible " ( Art . 1 ) . Overall , after debating several draft constitutions , few significant t flanges were made in the 1861 document . Presidential dominance and the broad responsibility for " conserving and defending the internal and external security of the State " and the " rank of Captain General of the armed forces inherent in the Presidency " reaffirmed the patterns of Bolivian politics 256 The Constitution of Tyranny since 1825 . The centralist administrative system was retained , with the prefect of each department the immediate agent of the president , exercising direct authority in regard to order and security , administration , and the economy ( Art . 91 ) . The most vocal advocate of federalism , Lucas Mendoza de la Tapia , pointed to this **26;807;TOOLONG tradition as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and insurrections have infected desmoralizado politics . . . . Political morality is impossible under the centralist system , in which men are everything and principles nothing . Sinecure-mania is the natural product of this system.s97 Some delegates attacked federalism as the abandonment of Bolivar 's dream ; others noted that arguments for federalism were overreactions to Melgarejo 's tyranny . The delegates eventually rejected federalism but , in a departure from the past , the constitution allowed public exercise of religions other than Catholicism in immigrant colonias . This was an effort to join other Spanish American nations in attracting European settlers and investment , rather than evidence of increased religious toleration for Bolivians . Success in this regard proved disastrous in the next decade as Chilean and British firms gobbled up the Pacific coast mineral wealth that had enriched the Bolivian government with tax revenues in the 1870s and then was lost in the War of the Pacific ( 1879-1883 ) . Melgarejo 's arbitrary dictatorship also made the state of siege provisions in the 1861 charter and the broader issue of extraordinary powers important subjects at the 1871 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instability and caudillismo , seeking institutional and policy responses for the future . Intent on limiting executive authority and reducing legislative obsequiousness , the delegates decided to return more closely to the circumscribed regime of exception provisions in the 1839 Constitution . Article 19 stipulated : Neither Congress , nor any association , nor any popular assembly can concede extraordinary powers to the Executive , nor the sum of public power la suma del poder priblico nor extend him supremacies supremacias by which the lives , honor , or property of Bolivians are put at the mercy of the Government ... . Deputies who promote , stimulate , or effect such acts are unworthy of public trust confianza national . In the case of " threats to the security of the Republic " in which " internal commotion or external war causes grave danger , " the presiRegimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 257 dent could request from Congress the following authority : expansion of the armed forces and activation of the militia , special measures to finance the actions taken to meet the threat , and internal exile or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Republic " if those involved refuse voluntary exile ( Art . 21 ) . If Congress were not in session , these powers could be conferred by the council of state or , if this were not possible , by the council of ministers . The president and his ministers were legally liable for any abuses committed in the exercise of this authority . Moreover , all acts that exceeded the constitutional authority of offit ials were , ipso facto , null ( Art . 33 ) . These provisions resembled earlier efforts to control executive authority and enhance legislative control . Restricting the presidential term to four years without possibility of immediate reelection ( Art . 69 ) further indicated the intent of the 1871 delegates to deter presidential caudillismo and continismo and to narrow the legal foundations for constitutional tatorship . Congress attempted to assert itself from 1871 to 1872 , reducing thr administration 's discretionary budget ( gastos extraordinarios ) and tin eatening military expenditures . Vociferous debates over tax contessions to foreign investors and Morales 's public and private exs exacerbated legislative-executive tensions.99 Morales reacted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an empty congressional session with vehement slurs on the legislations ' honor and patriotism : My People . As the chief magistrate of Bolivia I come here today lo close this assembly , whose seats , today deserted , have been occupied by a pack of traitors , despicable , corrupt vendidos men , who far from fulfilling their mission , have abused their power and authority to perturb and block the work of the government , accusing me of having violated the laws . ... What could be expected of men without work , who can only live off the sweat of the poor ... . Do you know they accused me of being a thief . Me ! Accused by these worthless ones who have tried to usurp your rights . ... Gentlemen , I close this Assembly and I declare to the country that the congressmen of ' 72 have been corrupt traitors . oo Seeing conspirators everywhere , Morales offended a number of supporters with accusations of disloyalty . After an exchange of in258 The Constitution of Tyranny suits with a colonel whom he accused of plotting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Morales 's death ( 1872 ) allowed the civilian Rojos to temporarily assume control of the government . First , Tomas Frias , president of the council of state , assumed the interim presidency according to the 1871 Constitution . Elections followed , making Adolfo Ballivian the chief executive . Upon his death , Tomas Frias ( 1874 ? 1876 ) again assumed the presidency , facing new garrison uprisings.10 ' Frias signed a treaty with Chile in 1874 confirming the basics of Melgarejo 's agreements of 1866 . His efforts to govern in accord with the constitution and complete Ballivian 's presidential term failed . When he requested that his minister of defense , HilariOn Daza , defend the government against new uprisings , Daza decided that Frias 's neutrality in the upcoming elections would prevent him from becoming president . Daza 's public rationale for the coup he effected had a very modern sound to it : " The government had betrayed republican principles by favoring one of the candidates in the presidential elections ; public order was threatened , the economic situation was difficult and the treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best elements ' from assuming public positions . " 102 Like military officers in Chile , Uruguay , Brazil , Bolivia , El Salvador , and Guatemala in the 1960s and 1970s , Daza effected a coup to " defend the constitution and republican institutions . " He promised to " create a strictly constitutional government . " 103 Instead , he relied on the Colorado regiment , angered the legislature , and even saw his ministers resign in protest over his crude methods of government . A small landowning and mining elite had finally formed a permanent oligarchy to challenge absolute presidential dominance . Making the Chilean-Bolivian territorial disputes and the contracts with the Antofagasta Nitrate and Railroad Company a nationalist crusade , Daza rejected the Melgarejo and Frias agreements . This pushed Bolivia ( and due to a secret treaty signed in 1873 , also Peru ) toward war with Chile . Relations were broken in early 1878 after Daza imposed a new tax on the nitrate and railroad interests , contrary to the 1866 and 1874 agreements.1O4 Meanwhile , following routine practice , Daza called a constituent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A new constitution followed in 1878 ; it would be , with minor reforms in 1880 , the constitutional framework for Bolivia until 1938 . The 1878 Constitution was the culmination of ' Bolivian Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 259 constitutional development after 1826 . It represented a limited victory for the forces seeking to prevent continuismo for the president and to delimit , if not eliminate , the extent of extraordinary powers under states of siege . The president was to serve four years without the possibility of immediate reelection . He would be elected directly by voters or , if no candidate received an absolute majority , by ConKress , from among the three candidates with the highest vote totals ( Art . 85 ) . This made control of legislative elections and the ConKress a target for those seeking power . Congress would meet each ear for sixty to ninety days , with the possibility of special sessions by agreement of both chambers or convocation by the executive ( Arts . 39-42 ) . Despite the growing importance of the legislative branch , presidential dominance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the military , and the patronato were reaffirmed ( Art . 89 ) . The office of president included the " inherent rank " of.captain-general of the army ( Art . 90 ) , and the president was responsible for " conserving and defending internal order and external security , in accord with the Constitution " ( Art . 89 , Sec. 23 ) . This had become standard language in Bolivia 's constitutions . A special section of the constitution was dedicated to " the Conservation of Public Order " ( Arts . 26-30 ) . The language of this secn was barely altered from 1878 until the 1960s : ? Article 26 : " In the case of grave danger resulting from internal commotion or external war , that threatens the security of the Republic , the chief executive , with the approval of the Council of Ministers , may declare a state of siege , in that part of the country when it is necessary , and for the time thought indispensable . " ? Article 27 : " The declaration of the state of siege has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the army , make financial arrangements to pay for the measures taken , from internal or external sources , reduce the public payroll , municipal budgets , etc. ( ; arantias may be suspended for individuals who plot against public tranquility of the Republic lists all the measures that may I taken against such persons , including internal exile , arrest , or voluntary external exile , censor mail , restrict travel , etc . . " I terse basic provisions served Bolivian governments from 1878 Into the 1990s . Despite prohibitions on applying these restrictions to conngressmen , in the 1880s and 1890s civilian governments even 260 The Constitution of Tyranny violated this provision in order to remove opponents from Congress during the presidential selection process . With the 1878 Constitution promulgated , Bolivia went to war with Chile . President Daza 's ineptitude , cowardice , and unwillingness to risk the Colorado regiment in battle effectively took Bolivia out of the war by 1880.105 Daza 's military failure , corruption , and inability to maintain the loyalty of the army meant deposition . Ousted by a coup in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to the Chileans . When he returned to face these charges under military escort in 1894 , he was assassinated on his way to the capital . Daza was succeeded by General Nicolas Campero , one of Bolivia 's few European-trained military officers . Campero called a constitutional convention , which named him president and ratified the 1878 Constitution with minor changes . This constitution ( 1880 ) would be Bolivia 's last in the nineteenth century . Campero , playing a role similar to that of General Manuel Bulnes in Chile in the 1840s , committed himself to a more effective role for the legislature , to constitutional government , and to consolidating a national political system . He also sought peace with Chile . Serving his full four-year term , he abided by a promise to refrain from interfering in the 1884 presidential elections , despite his preference for fellow officer and founder of the Liberal party , General Eliodoro Camacho . These elections were a turning point in Bolivian politics , bringing the first of Bolivia 's civilian Conservative party presidents to power . Mining magnates replaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country until the end of the century , monopolizing the presidency and dominating the legislature through orchestrated elections , periodic repression of opponents , and liberal use of the state of siege provisions in the 1880 Constitution . Vote buying , railroad construction ( making possible more effective movement of troops ) , and incipient professionalization of the army reduced the power of local caudillos . A more prosperous national treasury ensured the salaries of public officials and the military , as rubber and tin gradually replaced silver exports as the major source of private and public revenue . Presidents now completed their four-year terms , influenced the choice of their successors , and were forced to negotiate with opponents in the legislature . A fragile political party system was developing . ' 06 Always , however , temporary constitutional dictatorship was necessary to deal with adversaries . Presidents Gregorio Pacheco ( 1884-1888 ) , Aniceto Arce ( 1888-1892 ) , Mariano Baptista ( 1892-1896 ) , Regimes of Exception in Peru and Bolivia 261 and Severo Fernandez Alonso ( 1896 ? 1899 ) all used the state of siege @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ siege to suppress a major Liberal uprising led by Colonel Jose Manuel Pando in 1890 and to ensure Baptista 's election . Baptista left it in place as " a preventive measure . " Fernandez Alonso used the state of siege in efforts to control the " federal revolution " in which Pando 's " Liberal " army ousted him , ending Conservative rule . " 107 When Liberals replaced Conservatives in the first decades of the twentieth century , they followed the practices of their predcessors . The Liberals dropped their support for federalism and buttressed the **26;835;TOOLONG system . The state of siege provisions remained an often-used instrument to control the opposition . In 1914 , for example , Ismael Montes 's Liberal government declared a state of siege to repress the Republican party opposition through arrests , internal exile and deportation , and closure of opposition newspapers . ' ' " The Republican party platform included proposals to further restrict executive powers under the state of siege clause , to . strengthen constitutional garantias , and to increase legislative and judicial autonomy . When they finally gained power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reforms . Rather , Republican presidents relied on the state of siege provisions to sustain their governments . In 1923 , President Bautista Saavedra declared a state of siege to confront a miners ' strike at Uncia . Union leaders were arrested and several dozen miners and family members killed when troops fired into a crowd.109 The government also closed opposition newspapers to prevent dissemination of information on the spike . Later in 1923 , Saavedra exiled opposition leaders . His successor , Hernando Siles ( 1924 ? 1928 ) , also used the state of siege to control political opponents , strikes by public employees and teachIts , and student demonstrations . The Siles government also accused the Soviet Union of inciting rebels and Indian uprisings , which were ruthlessly suppressed . " I ? After more than half a century of coups , militarism , and constitutional instability ( 1826-1884 ) , Bolivia experienced a quarter-century of oligarchic rule by mine owners , financiers , exporters , and han'ndados . These civilian governments , Conservative , Liberal , sold Republican , relied on the juridical foundations for constitutional dictatorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' more than another century of socioeconomic change and a so " t el t evolution initiated in 1952 , Bolivia would be subject to virtually the , . use constitutional bases for state of siege and with the same 262 The Constitution of Tyranny constitutional mission of the armed forces : to maintain internal order and act as saviors of the fatherland . Constitutional dictatorship and the militarization of politics " to save the nation " was the legacy of Bolivia 's nineteenth-century development . This legacy of the nineteenth century would survive new constitutions and reforms in 1938 , 1945 , 1947 , 1961 , and 1967 . It would not be eliminated with the 1952 Revolution and would be reinforced by the challenges of the decades after the 1959 Cuban Revolution . Twelve years after the social revolution of 1952 began , the commander of the armed forces , General Alfredo Ovando Candia , reportedly told President Victor Paz Estenssoro that he would " take him either to the airport or the cemetery " ? as the military once again sought to rescue the patria from chaos . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bolivian state of siege clauses , including presidential authority to suspend the garantias of selected persons , impose taxes , make expenditures necessary to meet the crisis , and increase the size of the armed forces . When elections once again were permitted , in 1978 , they occurred under a state of emergency , with police and the military on full alert . The use of state of siege and executive decree powers persisted after the restoration of civilian presidents in the 1980s . For example , Paz Estenssoro 's return to power and his implementation of a neoliberal economic program brought a hunger strike by miners in 1985 . Labeling this strike a conmocion interna , the president declared a state of siege . He claimed this was necessary to confront a movement that " seeks to supplant the authority of the State , exercising for these ends arbitrary pressures and public incitement to disobedience to the constituted authorities . " 12 Into the 1990s , Bolivians sustained the institutions of constitutional dictatorship bequeathed by Bolivar , Belzu , Acha , Melgarejo , Daza , and Campero . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , against public tranquility , and against government officials in the exercise of their legitimate authority . Sedition ( Art . 121 ) and conspiracy ( Art . 123 ) were also defined in a manner reminiscent of the nineteenth century . And of course the armed forces remained the guardians of internal security , public tranquility , and the institutions of the fatherland . 7 Regimes of Exception in Argentina , Uruguay , and Paraguay Created AS AN ADMINISTRATIVE UNIT IN 1776 , THE TERRITORY OF the viceroyalty of the Rio de la Plata stretched from Tierra del Furgo to Upper Peru and from the Andes to the Atlantic . During the Independence wars , Upper Peru gained autonomy as Bolivia . The province of Paraguay separated from the viceroyalty in 1811 and the legion across the Rio de la Plata north of Buenos Aires became the new nation of Uruguay in 1828 . After almost half a century of Internal and international wars , the remaining provinces of the Rio Ile la Plata formed the Argentine Republic . ( : onstitutional development in the Rio de la Plata region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Argentina involved fewer constitutions and ended earlier than in most of Spanish America . Uruguay adopted its first and only nineteenthcentury constitution in 1830 . Though numerous provisional stats interprovincial treaties , and two abortive constitutions ( 1819 , 26 ) expressed a commitment to nationhood among the provinces the Rio de la Plata , no accepted federal constitution existed in A , rgentina until 1860 , no national president until 1862 , and no national capital until 1880.1 After 1860 , however , only minor reforms modified the national charter.2 Paraguay failed to enact a true constitution until 1870 . Despite the limited number of constitutional experiments , firm foundations for constitutional dictatorships similar to those developed elsewhere in Spanish America were constructed in Uruguay 264 The Constitution of Tyranny and Argentina by midcentury . In Paraguay , after sixty years of personalist rule , constitutional dictatorship took form in the 1870 charter and remained integral to Paraguayan constitutions into the 1990s . ARGENTINA From the 1780s , expansion of the cattle economy and establishment of meat processing enterprises ( saladeros ) had shaped the structure of economic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commercial and livestock interests in Buenos Aires favored dismantling the Spanish mercantile system and opening the economy to international trade . They were opposed by artisans of the interior provinces who had relied on Spanish protectionism and links to the Upper Peruvian mining centers for their limited prosperity . Leaders of the interior resisted Buenos Aires 's control of the rivers connecting them to the coast and of the customs revenues , and they resisted its presumed political hegemony over the rest of the viceroyalty . In Buenos Aires , merchants and bureaucrats associated with colonial monopolies also opposed relaxation of trade restrictions and the growing influence of European liberalism but shared porteno feelings of superiority over the provinces . Perhaps nowhere else in Spanish America did Spanish colonial commercial policy make as little sense and engender as much hostility as in Buenos Aires . The arrival of an expanded Spanish administrative contingent after 1776 intensified this hostility by curtailing the power of the cabildo and downgrading the status of the criollo socioeconomic elites Intermittent periods of direct trade with Europe and Brazil , associated with wartime exigencies from the 1790s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and produced corps of political activists in the port city . In late 1804 Spain again found itself at war with Britain . When the British destroyed the Spanish fleet at Trafalgar in 1805 , naval interdiction by the British fleet made normal communications with Buenos Aires virtually impossible . A British invasion in 1806 reinforced the criollos ' disdain for the Spanish elite and encouraged pride in local political and military initiative . The Spanish viceroy fled to the interior ; multiracial porteno and provincial militia ( patricios , aribenos ) led by Santiago Liniers , a French army officer in t he royal service , defeated the British . A subsequent British attack in 1807 also failed , after which the audiencia deposed and arrested the ? viceroy and replaced him with Liniers , the interim military govt. : - Regimes of Exception in Argentina , Uruguay , and Paraguay 265 nor . Liniers decreed freer trade , thereby buttressing the localist forces and angering the monopoly merchants and colonial bureauVats . With Spanish authority undermined and the criollo militia the ime power in the port , news of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain encouraged radical parationists . Some portenos initially accepted the authority of the central in Spain ; others urged immediate independence . Across the river in Montevideo , Governor Francisco Javier Elio as distrusted by Liniers and his criollo supporters . Liniers attempted to replace Elio with a less adamantly royalist officer . He resisted and the local cabildo established a governing junta composed entirely of peninsulares . Until 1814 ? 1815 , Montevideo would be a Iry royalist base in the Rio de la Plata . Like-thinking Spaniards sought to emulate this decision in Buenos Aires in 1809 , which in effect was an attempted coup , but criollo troops led by Cornelio vedra prevented the golpe.4 Appointed by the Seville junta that resisted the French occupan of Spain , a new viceroy , Viscount Balthazar de Cisneros , ard in Buenos Aires in 1809 . Cisneros symbolized the weak but portant thread connecting the deposed king , the Spanish resistance , and the colonies . Caught in the conflict between free traders ' id the mercantilist faction , and unsuccessful in efforts to restore power of the Spanish garrison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cabildo abierto he convoked on May 25 , 1810. ( ) ugh Argentine independence came formally in 1816 , this coup eked the effective end of Spanish rule . From 1810 to 1819 , when the first short-lived constitution was accepted for the provinces of the Rio de la Plata , extensive debates tiered over the legitimate source and exercise of sovereignty aft Ile collapse of Spanish authority . These debates , and the political conflicts of which they were part , generated a number of tt'itory governments in some ways reminiscent of France in the Ix . These governments faced the dual challenge of pursuing the dependence war against Spain as far away as Upper Peru and Ile while attempting to establish and sustain political authority the Rio de la Plata region.5 Politics and Constitutional Experiments , 1811 ? 1820 the first half century of independence , the political and economic differences between the coast and interior provinces and belt localist and nationalist sentiment in Buenos Aires were translated into battles of centralists ( unitarios ) and federalists , be266 The Constitution of Tyranny tween those in Buenos Aires who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenues and those who proposed making the port a national capital of an Argentine republic . In the words of James Scobie , this was truly the history of " a city and a nation . " 6 It was also the history of regionalist caudillo militarism and constitutional dictatorship . Constituent assemblies , congresses , triumvirates , supreme directors , governors , and provisional governments in Buenos Aires and the interior provinces promulgated a series of proto-constitutions and constitutional decrees from 1811 to 1820 . Each of these decrees included a bill of rights ( decreto de seguridad individual ) and a separate guarantee of press freedom . Each also made provision for suspension of these rights by invocation of a regime of exception , often through investing the executive with full authority ( " Ileno de facultades " ) , with extraordinary powers , or with the power to suspend the bill of rights . From 1811 to 1860 , as army officers , militia commanders , caudillos , and their civilian allies toppled juntas , governors , and presidents , Argentine national and provincial charters included provisions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1810 , Cornelio Saavedra ordered Cisneros 's arrest and assumed the presidency of a new junta that initially pledged its loyalty to Spain . Despite the eventual conflict between Saavedra and the most liberal intellectuals , such as Mariano Moreno , the junta represented the proindependence merchants and political radicals . Thus , more clearly than elsewhere in Spanish America , the origins of independence in Buenos Aires were found in a military coup . Armies of the caudillos of Buenos Aires and the interior would dominate the region for most of the nineteenth century , establishing a central role for violence and military power in the politics of the Rio de la Plata ! ' The Saavedra junta and the confusing succession of juntas , congresses , triumvirates , and directorates that followed from 1810 to 1829 wanted to establish control over the old viceroyalty . They failed dismally , as royalists and separatists in Montevideo , Asuncion , and Upper Peru rejected porteno leadership and defeated military units sent to secure compliance with the porteno junta 's decrees . ' ' In Cordoba , initial resistance was led by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Spain . When the Buenos Aires militia defeated Liniers 's forces , Mariano Moreno , secretary of the junta , ordered the execution of Liniers and his officers . His justification of this order anticipated the spirit of ' ArgenRegimes of Exception in Argentina , Uruguay , and Paraguay 267 titra 's future constitutional provisions for regimes of exception , extraordinary powers for executives , and merciless repression of political opponents . His Rousseauistic liberalism melded state terrorism with insincere appeals to popular sovereignty and to constitutionalism , while his adherence to intolerant Hispanic Catholicism led him to recommend a secret police force to denounce all enemies of the government . Enemies were those not fully committed to oreno 's version of the patriot cause . This view would become an important element of Argentine political culture , making adversaries into heretics , critics into crimals , and political opponents into enemies of the state and threats t he security of the fatherland . It was shared by Argentine liberals t ( 1 conservatives . It would justify murder , savagery , and mayhem much of the nineteenth century and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of " subversives " would perish or " disappear " from 1976 to 1983.10 To defend the rights of the people and legitimate provisional government against treason , as Moreno t it , " we have decreed the sacrifice of these victims , to protect the of thousands of innocents . Only the terror of this punishment tl serve as warning to their accomplices.s11 Insisting on an immediate declaration of independence and centralized control by sr Buenos Aires junta over the viceregal territory , Moreno 's inquisitorial Jacobinism proved unsustainable . An effort by Moreno and e supporters to wrest control of the militia from Saavedra failed . t resigned from the junta and died at sea on his way into European exile . With Moreno 's departure , the junta was reconstituted a junta grande that included representatives of the interior winces . The junta conceded extraordinary powers to Saavedra , Is ( ( treated a new " court of public security " and gave ample police actions to the local garrisons . He also authorized the creation of s provinciales. 12 Successive military defeats in Paraguay , Upper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control to a triumvir , which dissolved the junta grande and the juntas provinciales . Isis triumvirate represented the extreme centralists and economic of Buenos Aires , dominated by the secretary of the junta , Bernadino Rivadavia . Rivadavia 's design to unify the provinces un-porteno direction would be the focus of the most important political conflicts in the Rio de la Plata region for the next half century . I he triumvirate toyed with a plan for constitutional monarchy , led with the British for support by promising direct access to the es-nos Aires market , and adopted Argentina 's first bill of rights , 268 The Constitution of Tyranny accompanied by its first formal provisions for a regime of exception . A press law issued in April 1811,13 and amended by the triumvirate government , ended a priori censorship and allowed for " freedom of the press " ? so long as publications did not " compromise public tranquility , the conservation of the Catholic religion , or the constitution of the State , with such criminal abuses to be punished as provided by law.s14 The triumvirate also issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ articles of which captured Spanish American liberalism 's essential conception of human rights and their limitations . Most of this decree would eventually find its way into the Constitution of 1853 : Every citizen has the sacred right of protection of life , honor , liberty and property . The possession of this right , the basis for civil liberty , and foundation of social institutions , is what is called " personal security " seguridad individual . To this end the following decree guarantees the following : due process , inviolability of domicile without proper warrant , no period of incomunicado beyond ten days , abolition of torture and humiliation in the jails , freedom of travel , no involuntary exile , freedom of press , etc . Art . 9 . Only in the remote and extraordinary case of threats to public tranquility or security of the fatherland may the government suspend this decree , while the threat endures , reporting to the Assembly , justifying its decision , and assuming responsibility for any abuses comrnitted.15 Thus Argentina 's first bill of rights and guarantees of press freedom were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitted suspension of these rights to conserve public tranquility or security of the fatherland . From this time ( 1811 ) , Argentina would never be without constitutional foundations for dictatorship . For the moment , the exigencies of civil war directly threatened " public tranquility and security of the fatherland . " Royalists supported by Ferdinand VII 's sister , Princess Carlota of Brazil , attempted a new restoration in Buenos Aires in July 1812 . Martin Alzaga , hero of the defense of Buenos Aires against the British invasions ( 1806-1807 ) , and other leaders of the unsuccessful coup were executed and their bodies hung in the main plaza of Buenos Aires . Numerous unsuccessful rebels and deposed governors would follow in their path over the next fifty years . Regimes of Exception in Argentina , Uruguay , and Paraguay 269 The recently founded Patriotic Society ( Sociedad Patriotica ) , led by Jose de San Martin , Carlos Alvear , and Bernardo de Monteagudo under the slogan " Independence , Constitution , and Democracy , " took advantage of the 1812 uprising to oust the first triumvirate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority of an October 8 , 1812 , decree that created a " provisional government " for an entity called United Provinces of tin . Rio de la Plata , San Martin reorganized the militia that was created in 1806 and imposed new revenue measures discriminating against Spaniards to finance the war against Spain . Article 5 of the decree recognized the " bill of rights " and regime of exception provisions issued by the first triumvirate.16 The new government , a second triumvirate , acting as the Supremo Poder Ejecutivo under the terms of a decree published March 6 , 1813 , survived until 1814 . The assembly assigned to the ( Mural executive most of the powers associated with presidents in Spanish America , including authority " to suspend the decree of personal security 1811 in the case of invasion or threat of invasion , rebellion or other grave threat to the security of the state , advising the constituent Assembly of the action taken within 24 hours . X17 In early 1814 , the assembly replaced the plural executive with a " supreme director , " who inherited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ director , Gervasio Antonio de Posadas , resigned in January 1815 . He was followed by Carlos Alvear for three months , and then by several forgettable successors.Posadas sought to oust the Spanish from Montevideo but had also tic ( tared Jose Artigas , the Uruguayan caudillo and proponent of federalism , to be an " outlaw ... enemy of the fatherland " and offered six thousand pesos ' reward for the federalist leader " dead or Altve. " 9 I n his tenure as supreme director , Alvear captured Montevideo and decreed ( March 28 , 1815 ) capital punishment for those who " attacked the government , invented or spread false information , encouraged desertion by the soldiers , those who conspired , or who knowing of conspiracies failed to inform the authorities . " A special commission would try these cases in Buenos Aires , no matter where the rime occurred . Those judged guilty of attacking the established government , directly or indirectly , would be executed within twenty-four hours.20 The army sent against Artigas mutinied at Fontezuelas in April 1815 . Alvear resigned the supreme directorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution of Tyranny This crisis resulted in the dissolution of the assembly and the reassumption of sovereignty by the cabildo . A military commission named by the mutinous officers brought several assembly delegates to trial , imposing exile or prison sentences in some cases . Artigas gained further support among the littoral provinces , advancing the federalist cause against the pretensions of Buenos Aires . In response to the creation of " provinces duly dependent upon the authority suprema of the State , " local caudillos in Entre Rios and Corrientes aligned themselves more closely with Artigas and the Provincia Oriental del Rio de la Plata , created in 1814 . Meanwhile , Ferdinand VII had returned to Spain , and royalist victories in Upper Peru and Chile threatened the independence movement . Reassuming popular sovereignty in April 1815 , the cabildo directed the election of a provisional government to exercise the " supreme executive authority " until a Congress representing all the provinces could meet and devise a constitution for the United Provinces . The cabildo named a Junta de Observacion composed of " virtuous citizens " to enact a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Jose Rondeau director of state ; in his absence , Colonel Ignacio Alvarez Thomas , leader of the Fontezuela mutiny , took military command and the cabildo political control . On May 5 , 1815 , the junta de Observacion issued the " Provisional Statute for the Direction and Administration of the State . " 22 Alvarez Thomas remained in office as director of state until a garrison uprising forced his resignation on April 16 , 1816 , and Brigadier General Antonio Gonzalez Balcarce replaced him.23 Departing little from the liberal underpinnings of earlier protoconstitutions , the 1815 Provisional Statute commenced with a declaration of the rights of man in society ? the liberal menu of life , liberty , equality , and security , spiced with the Spanish " right " of honor ( Art . 1 ) .24 A separate section reaffirmed the decrees of personal security and the press law of 1811 , followed by slightly more restrictive language than that in force from 1811 to 1815 providing for a regime of exception . The " bill of rights " ( the 1811 decree on personal security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a very remote and extraordinary case , that compromises public tranquility or the security of the Fatherland , it is not possible to respect them no pueda observarse quanto en el se previene , the authorities who find themselves in this difficult fatal situation shall report the reason for their conduct to the                     