@@773435

txt Turkey . Rather the arts served to set off and glorify the several great regional societies . In the Safavid empire architecture was represented most perfectly in the magnificence of the imperial city of Isfahan with its garden boulevards and open , landscaped palaces and impressive use of columns . The floral type of decoration was enriched with every sort of form , including motifs borrowed ad hoc from Europe and China . A high level of elegance was maintained till the end of the seventeenth century , after which political catastrophes put an end to the great age of building , which was linked to the fate of the dynasty and the capital . In the Ottoman empire Iranian elements , such as the use of blue tiles , continued important ; but in the sixteenth century in the cardinal field of mosque architecture the Turks perfected a fully new type . Already the domed prayer hall had been developed in west-Turkish lands ; it was now perfected practically under the shadow of the Hagia Sophia ( but with a totally different effect from the Byzantine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than of monumental bulk ) . This development was led by the military engineer Sinan , who turned his hand to baths , palaces , fountains , tombs , and every sort of building as well as mosques , each time creating a masterpiece . The new type of mosque was built throughout the empire , in the Arab as well as in the TurkishEuropean areas , and the peculiar pointed minarets that usually went with it are like an emblem of the empire . Finally , in the Mogul empire of northern India the Indo-Muslim style of architecture was brought to fulfillment in the mighty works of Fatehpur-Sikri and the gleaming Taj Mahal , together with a host of other gems large and small . Architecture has for Islam always been the supreme form of visual art , and it continued so everywhere in this period also . But painting , both mural and miniature , was cultivated in all three empires and very highly developed in the Safavi and Mogul empires . The important school of Tabriz , the first Safavi capital , followed the lead of Bihzad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the later capital , found its most outstanding master in Riza Abbasi , who excelled in portraits and in genre scenes , in which he shows a subtle sense of humor . He was not without Western influence . In the Ottoman empire the miniaturists , though they attempted with much success to follow the Persian example , did not achieve quite such high distinction , perhaps because painting was frowned on by the ulama who played so important a role in the structure of the empire . In the Mogul empire , on the contrary , the art , at first imported from Iran , took on a vigorous independent form . Portraiture was very highly developed as well as the depiction of every sort of legendary and Indian theme . The art was cultivated not only by the Muslims but among the Hindus , particularly among the Rajputs . It must be added that almost every fine art and craft was practiced with great skill in all the empires . Calligraphy was regarded ? as before ? as one of the highest arts , and its masters much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and instrumental music ( and , of course , of dancing ) was crossed with Hindu taste to give birth to the subtle northern school of all-Indian music , prized by Muslims and Hindus alike . As Arnold has pointed out , the visual arts , and especially painting , were not only extremely sophisticated at this time , but had gradually come to be accorded unprecedented respect by such representatives of the public as historians and biographers.36 The artist , or among the Ottomans , at least , the architect , 37 sometimes had , if not the standing of one of the ulama , at least something like that accorded to the poet and the singer . But these arts were courtly , or at least associated with great established houses . Outside the three empires , whether in the Arabic or in the Persian sphere of influence , they were far less cultivated . Poetry also came to be an expression of the regional cultures at least as much as of an international Sufism . In Iran itself , though poets stately and sweet continued to produce profusely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the greatest of Persian poets were more appreciated in India and Turkey than at home ( and indeed many of them went to live at the Mogul court ) . In northern India the main vehicle of Islamic verse long continued to be Persian ; but in the Deccan there flourished , by the sixteenth century , a Sufi poetry in Urdu , the common language of Muslims in northern and central India ; this poetry developed not only traditional Persian themes but also themes taken from the Hindu background . By the eighteenth century Urdu had come to be used in the north as well , and produced classical masters who were greatly appreciated by certain groups of Hindus as well as by Muslims . In the Ottoman empire it was Turkish that was most cultivated . For Arabic , though dialects of it were spoken in much of the empire , played a distinctly secondary role in cultivated life , being treated almost as a dead classical tongue . With the advent of the Uzbeks in Turkestan , the Chaghatai Turkish that had led the field in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was still used throughout the north . But Fuzuli of Baghdad in the sixteenth century , who also composed in Persian and Arabic , did his best work in the Turkish of Azerbaijan , and has been called the greatest Turkish poet of all times.38 Finally , modeling itself on the master poet Baqi of the sixteenth century , the western or Ottoman literature became the most important of the three forms of Turkish . Each tariqa had its own poetic tradition , and the Turkish work is generally regarded as more valuable than the contemporary Persian poetry . Outside the great empires new Islamic literary languages also sprang up . On the east African coast Swahili , which had been developed as the language of the Muslim Bantu , came to possess a sophisticated poetic tradition which could rival Arabic within the region . At the other end of the Indian Ocean a Malay literature grew up under the influence of Persian , and consisting in large part of renderings from Persian and from Urdu . It also took over much from the earlier Malaysian heritage , particularly in poetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I literatures ? Arabic , Persian , Turkish ( in three forms ) , Urdu , Swahili , Malay ? as well as some lesser Muslim languages which began to be cultivated in this period , used the Arabic alphabet , were infiltrated with Arabic and ( in most cases ) Persian words , and treated traditional Arabic and Persian themes in their poetry . But of the literature then being produced , it was Persian alone that had an audience among most of the other peoples ; and even it was little read in the Arabic zone except so far as Turkish rule imported it . The intellectual life of the three empires likewise built on a common heritage , but served to meet the special problems which arose in each empire . Throughout the Dar al-Islam history was written , usually of the local or regional Muslim community , its learned men and its rulers . The Turkish historians of Ottoman times are especially noteworthy , the most celebrated being Ali Chelebi of the late sixteenth century who , like many other scholars , could write prose without overaffectation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Travel literature and other sorts of descriptive prose were of course also at a high level . Iran was an influential center of philosophical thought , which , however , developed themes broached before , particularly in Sufi circles . In the seventeenth century arose a school of mystical theologians , teachers and students of Mulla Sabra , in whose system monism was pushed to a subtle extreme in exploring the relation of personal consciousness to cosmic structure . The philosophical thought was often tied up with special Shi'ite problems ? notably at last in the case of the Shaykhi ? as was suitable in Shi'ite Iran . In fact , with the Shia a majority , the whole basis // of religious life had to be rethought in Shi'i terms . Gradually there emerged a corps of mujtahids which maintained a vigorous intellectual independence within the new orthodox limits . Mogul India produced a series of thinkers who devoted themselves to the problems of coexistence with Hinduism , sometimes under a favorable impression of Hinduism , as in the case of prince Dara Shikoh ; more often in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the superior social value of a dominant Islam , as in the tradition leading up to Shah Wali-Allah . Among theme they helped to forge the cultural and intellectual tradition which bound Muslims together as an Islamic community in the Indic subcontinent ; a tradition without which the geographical monstrosity of Pakistan would be incomprehensible , and the passionate advocacy by many Pakistani leaders of Urdu as a preeminently Muslim language would seem absurd.39 It must be added that natural science was for the most part a mere tradition , the effective standards of which probably declined everywhere . It is a rare example of escape from this tradition when Ottoman geographers , who in the fifteenth century had made use of Arab empirical studies of the Indian Ocean to improve their scholarly learning , in the sixteenth century made similar use of the Western explorations . In all three empires scholarly life was many-sided and often very sound , if not usually highly creative . Outside of them Islamic intellectual life was sometimes rather rudimentary . In the Turkish north the excellent memoirs of Babur , who himself came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked a high point in the prose tradition , though an orthodox Muslim learning was maintained . Within the Ottoman empire some Arab talent was drawn into the general Ottoman life : but neither within the Ottoman empire nor in the several Arab lands outside it was there more than routine achievement in the Arabic tradition . A figure like Sharani , a mystical thinker of the sixteenth century who brought a warm personal touch to the older patterns , was exceptional . In the countries of the Sudan the sacred law was taught , and history composed , in Arabic ; no local language being able , during this period , to // replace it . In Malaysia there were controversies , largely secondhand but applied to situations arising from local habits of mind , over the nature of Sufi monism . Though there were intellectual problems in the several regions common to all the participants in the Islamic tradition , there seem to have been no all-Islamic intellectual movements . The decline after 1700 The two centuries from 1500 to 1700 were by and large a time of relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above all of imposing esthetic creation . By 1700 the social and institutional structure of each of the three empires was weakened , and soon after 1700 all were giving clear evidence of decline . The Ottoman empire came to be dependent for its territorial integrity on the disunity of its European enemies . The Safavi empire was destroyed in a rising of Afghan tribes , and only inadequately restored under less polished rulers . The Mogul empire was broken up entirely , and not only Muslim but Hindu powers fought for its fragments , even while recognizing the suzerainty of its titular head . It seems likely that the increasing activities of Western Europe in the eighteenth century , by upsetting the established patterns of interregional trade , helped to undermine the economy in some areas.4 ? But the internal dialectic of Islam itself can not be held blameless . In this century of disaster , the trend to independent regional evolution became still more marked , while by and large the cultural vigor of all the Islamic peoples declined . It is at this time that Urdu effectively replaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Ottoman Turkish broke away most effectively from the Persian tradition , in the Tulip Age ; yet by the end of the century ( or the early part of the next ) both Turkish and Urdu poetry are conceded to have been at a low point . In Iran itself the whole century represented a literary trough . The Iranian art of the miniature also declined in the eighteenth century , and imitations of Western art as well as of Indo-Muslim art failed to revive it . Iranian architecture was not renewed after the taking of Isfahan by the Afghans ; while in European and Anatolian Turkey an Italianate style , modeled without too much inspiration on the Western Renaissance architecture , came into favor for palaces and homes . Despite some fine poetry , it was perhaps the least creative century in the history of Islam . It was then that the tendency to purist religious reform that had been apparent throughout the period took radical form among the Wahhabis in the center of Arabia . Later Islamic society and the rise of the West Islamic history in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as world history ; at least , it represents the more normal part of world history . In the northwest were the lands of Christian Europe , relatively restricted in area , to which we shall return ; in the northeast were the relatively isolated Confucian empires ; most of the highly populated or highly cultured lands between were at least within the orbit of Islam . Beyond , in southern Africa , in Australasia , in the Americas , in Arctic Siberia , were thinly populated lands as yet of little apparent importance . Islam , having absorbed so much territory , and seeming to be on the way to absorbing the rest ( for this was its conscious program ) , might seem to be articulating itself in regional societies after a pattern which could be applied to the whole world , in which Muslim solidarity and a common heritage would make for mutual intelligibility without requir- III ing closer association . In fact , whatever the Islamic societies might have in common , there was a tendency for their historical interrelations to be only to a degree closer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern hemisphere . Each empire used the Chinese invention of cannon , together with European or Turkish improvements thereon . The wealthy of Mogul India imported not only Persian luxuries , but European and Chinese specialties . A lagging Persian art turned both to India and to Europe for a like sort of shallow stimulus . The world of Islam ? and with it the various lands of the Far East ( and together these made up most of the human world ) ? was living at a historical tempo approximately as rapid as had prevailed in civilized history for five thousand years ; and at this tempo civilization continued gradually adding to its cultural resources while building up sophisticated societies in loose interconnection with each other . These interconnections were somewhat intensified at this time by the world-wide activities of European traders . In this period , however , the role of Europe was for the most part limited to ocean trade , though by the eighteenth century Europeans came to have more and more noticeable influence . The Western Europeans were long weak on land ? till the eighteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where even the islands whose interior they controlled were few , but also in Europe , where the Ottomans continued on the offensive till the end of the seventeenth century . They played a minor and rather indirect role in the changes which make us contrast the world position of Islam in the Late Middle Ages on the one hand and on the other its dominant trends in the period of the three empires . These Islamic developments , on the contrary , did not play a major role in preparing the way for the Western expansion . The wide activity of Muslim merchants had played a major part , for instance , in opening up the trade-routes which the Europeans then took over ready made , and in weakening the traditional Hindu and Buddhist powers in such places as Sumatra and Java . Above all , it was the internal weakness of Islam which left a cultural and economic vacuum into which the West could pour . For behind the seemingly unimportant activities of the Westerners lay all-important transformations going on within Europe itself , which immensely speeded up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ momentous superiority in social and economic organization on the part of the West , which must reveal itself explosively sooner or later . In the generation about i800 occurred the French Revolution and critical phases of the Industrial Revolution in England . In the same one generation the British seized hegemony in India ( where late in the eighteenth century they still controlled only a province or so ) ; the French landed in Egypt and awoke the Arabs ; the British and Dutch reorganized Indonesia ; the Turks learned to put through Westernizing reforms ; and almost all Muslim peoples found they must adjust themselves to an economic , if not a political domination by a West which was no longer merely an unusually strong trading people , but was a carrier of unexplored but dynamic new ways of living . In an essay ranging over the history of half humanity in periods at least as complex historically as most periods in history , I have been forced to leave out whole aspects of culture and do ridiculously scant justice to others . My excuse has been my attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have tried to suggest some lines along which to analyze the unfolding of Islamic civilization in its later periods as a dynamic cultural heritage , notably inquiring in what consists the unity of its history . At the same time I have tried to underline the important place the course of that civilization must hold in any history of mankind as a whole . 10 Modernity and the Islamic heritage What can historical processes mean for the moral individual ? 1 In particular , what are the moral implications of the acceleration of the pace of historical change in modern times ? Here I shall tackle only a few aspects of such questions ; I shall deal with the acceleration of history as it confronts concerned Muslims in particular . But I refer to Muslims and not just as believers in a given creed , but rather as participants in a great cultural heritage prevalent in a wide part of the modern world . What I have to say about the case of the Muslims , will , I think , have some relevance for all moral individuals in our times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who consciously attempts to bring to bear high cultural ideas , not only in the private life but in the society he is a part of . History sometimes seems to proceed almost independently of the hopes and the anguish of such people . ' Yet they are , after all , the only ones worth discussing history seriously with ; for they at least are paying attention to it in a morally responsible way . For that reason alone , their plight would be important to the historian . But in fact such people supply much of the flexibility of imagination and the richness of spirit which make possible such positive development as does come at points of challenge or of crisis , where otherwise there is too often mere blind floundering . Accordingly , their place in the historical process can be , on occasion , determinative . Their spiritual and cultural problems , their concern with the need for roots in a coherent heritage , their attempts to give ideal form to the diverse demands of their age , have palpable , sometimes tragic and sometimes magnificent effects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceleration of history as a world-wide event Before I enter into the moral problems raised , I shall have to sketch the nature of the modern acceleration of history as it appears on the world scale . For on the level of world history this acceleration , this speeding up of events which we are all so excitedly or so desperately aware of , is too commonly misinterpreted . Sometimes it is made merely a common stage in a sequence through which all peoples pass , each in its own time . ' As we shall see , this is to oversimplify badly . Sometimes it is made merely a feature of Occidental history , having only secondary effects elsewhere.This approach is often more sophisticated than the first and must therefore be paid special attention . But in the end it is , perhaps , even more misleading . For our purposes , it is important that the reader see how far the advent of the Modern historical impulse has been a single , unparallelable , world-wide event . Unfortunately , the misconceptions I refer to are not restricted to Westerners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have adopted both their geographical and their historical conceptual frameworks largely from Western writers ; on the whole , they have modified the Western historical image only superficially , giving Islam , as far as possible , a share in the heroic role otherwise ascribed to the West . As the Western historical image is ethnocentric in its very categories and terminology , not just in its conclusions , the Muslims have not escaped its effects.4 When the acceleration of history is thought of from a strictly Occiden- // tal point of view , the relative rapidity of historical change in our times is traced back , almost without intermission , to early Medieval times within Western Europe . It is noticed that almost from the time of Charlemagne on ? from the very origins of a distinctively West-European society ? the pace of cultural change , of innovation , and particularly of increase in technical and cognitive power , gradually became more and more rapid , till in recent centuries it has become ever more exhilarating ? or frightening . In the nineteenth century , Europe saw more change than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the twentieth century a single decade seems to see almost as much increase in the sheer bulk of technical knowledge as the whole of the nineteenth century . All this is seen as essentially characteristic of the West-European civilization down to the present . That is , it is thought of as a key feature which specially distinguishes the society which produced Charlemagne , Richard Lion-Heart , Charles V , Napoleon , and Churchill from all other societies , which are thought of as essentially unchanging . A British poet speaks of preferring " fifty years of Europe " to " a cycle of Cathay . " Accordingly , the problems the process poses ? economic , social , and above all moral ? are thought of as the problems of " Western Civilization , " and the future many are troubled about is the future of " Western Civilization . " The problems of other societies are thought of as essentially different , to be interpreted primarily in terms of their own past traditions , which would be more static or more spiritual , depending on the point of view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopting modern practices ( called " Western " ways ) , the other societies are thought of as being at least superficially " Westernized , " absorbed into the long heritage of the Occident ; in this case , they are thought of as sharing in the problems posed by the acceleration of history essentially on the same terms as the Occident itself ? with a time lag and perhaps minor local variations , and only to the extent that they do become effectively an extension of the Occident . Accepting such an analysis , but interpreting the special Western traits negatively rather than positively , some Muslims persuade themselves that if they can avoid both Westernization and Western control , they can escape the modern " Western " problems . But this point of view generally rests on the conceptions of world history found in those Western high school texts which trace the whole human story primarily from Babylonia and Egypt , through classical Greece and then Rome , to Medieval Western Europe and thence to the Modern Occident , bringing in other areas only parenthetically and by way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traditional Western ethnocentric division of the civilized world into the " West " ( itself ) and the " East " ( all the other societies ) , in which the West may be smaller , but is considered at least the equivalent of all the rest together in importance . ( It is an indication of how blindly some Muslims have accepted the Western conceptual framework , that they have accepted this dichotomy also . ) Seen in a wider setting , the historical career of the West-Europeans was eccentric but not remarkably outstanding until quite modern times . Above all , it was integral with the whole wider Afro-Eurasian historical life . There was a continual accumulation of technique and of knowledge , a continual expansion of the geographical limits of urban , literate society in most parts of the zone of Afro-Eurasian civilizations for some several millenniums.5 This was not peculiar to Western Europe ? in fact , until recently the main centers of this growth were elsewhere : in China , in India , in the Middle East , in Eastern Europe . Moreover , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : in the later millenniums the rate of historical changes for the Afro-Eurasian civilized zone as a whole , in particular the rate of accumulation of technique and knowledge , was distinctly more rapid than in the earlier millenniums . It must be added that , partly as a result of continuous interchange and interaction , the level of growth remained approximately constant throughout the civilized zone . Give or take five hundred years , the various civilizations kept roughly abreast : the Medieval Chinese and the Medieval Byzantines were about equidistant from the ancient Sumerians . In these respects , Western Europe simply formed part of a wider historical complex and shared its most generalized characteristics . There were two ways in which Western Europe , before about i600 , appears as atypical . Cultural and territorial growth was more rapid than in the more central areas ; and notably in the Italian Renaissance , there were outbursts of high cultural creativity of an excellence unusual in Afro-Eurasian history . But on investigation it can be shown that these two traits do not , of themselves separate Western Europe from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Afro-Eurasian historical complex . On the one hand , the relatively rapid growth was in large part that of a frontier ? for Western Europe formed , in effect , one of the zones of frontier growth of the Afro-Eurasian complex . It can be compared in certain key points to the rapid growth of civilized culture in the Sudanic lands or in Malaysia in the same period ; or , in even more interesting ways , to that in Korea and Japan . In each case there was a relatively late and relatively // rapid increase in urbanization , along with a rapid rise in the sophistication of cultural activity ; in each case , the new cultural ideas were largely borrowed from earlier centers , and creativity was often a matter of adaptation to local conditions and assimilation with older local traditions , rather than a major contribution to human life as such . ( It is unfortunately not within the scope of this paper to document all this at present ; the degree in which Medieval West-European growth borrowed from Arabic and Greek centers , and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the most intriguing fields of recent research ' ; less has been done with the cases of Sudan and Malaysia . ) On the other hand , though the bursts of cultural creativity of late Medieval and Renaissance Western Europe were unusual , they also were by no means unparalleled in Afro-Eurasian history . Even apart from the great classical flowerings of the ages of Confucius , Buddha , Isaiah , and Socrates , there appear other major cultural renovations from time to time , such as those of Gupta India , with its distant repercussions , and that of classical Islam , which ultimately transformed the face of half mankind . Even the sixteenth-century West-European domination of the ocean traderoutes , replacing in part an Islamic domination , was scarcely a more astonishing achievement than the late Medieval expansion of the Dar-alIslam over half Europe and most of India and throughout the Southern Seas . In the sixteenth century the West-Europeans still dealt on essentially equal terms with the other peoples of the Afro-Eurasian historical complex . These atypical traits in West-European history do indeed bear closely on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West-European area . But , taken in themselves , they are insufficient grounds for making the pre-Modern acceleration of the pace of history a peculiarly West-European or Occidental trait . The acceleration within Western Europe was clearly a part of a much wider picture , and can not soundly be understood except in that wider context . It is in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries ? from about i600 to about i800 ? that the transformation occurred in Western Europe which put the Occidental peoples on a fundamentally different historical basis from their neighbors with whom they had till then shared the broad , slow movements of Afro-Eurasian development . By i800 , the Europeans and their overseas settlers found themselves in a position to dominate , almost without question , the rest of the world . Only two hundred years before , they had dealt on equal terms ? sometimes getting the worst of the encounter , as often with Ottoman Turkey , sometimes getting the better , but with no greater differential in social power than already had long existed here and there among other Afro-Eurasian cultures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called the Great Modern Transformation . For it was something that at the same time had happened to the whole world , too , as we shall see . As soon as it was essentially completed within Europe , its effects were worldwide and began to be felt drastically not only in Europe but in all other civilized lands as well . The distinctly Modern acceleration of historical processes , in contrast to the gradual increase of speed which had been taking place already in pre-Modern times , has been one aspect of this great Modern Transformation . It has moreover , as we shall see , been a central and essential aspect of it , distinctive of it both within the Occident and throughout the world . There is more truth than some non-Westerners , avid of progress , would like to admit in the case of those who make this Modern Transformation a function of a distinctive Occidental genius . But if we look at the Modern acceleration of history from the point of view of world history at large , rather than merely from that of local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least , can no longer appear chiefly as the trait of one regional society among others . Whatever the shift of pace may have meant locally , it has also been , from the start , an interregional event . It could be no more localized than was the previous , slower acceleration of history . For at least three thousand years , Afro-Eurasian history had formed a single vast historical complex , in which all regions constantly interacted and shared common historical presuppositions were introduced . This disruption extended as widely as had the AfroEurasian historical life into which it burst . From a world point of view it is this total event which forms Modernity , and not merely the face it bore within Europe ; nowhere is this clearer than precisely in the shift of historical pace itself . The problems it poses must correspondingly be seen in a more comprehensive way than the pure Occidentalists have seen them . But it is not enough to see the acceleration as a universal " stage " all go through . First , we shall see that the Modern acceleration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral implications in other parts of the world from what it does within the Occident . But then , I believe , we must go further and recognize that it bears a world-wide aspect distinct from either the Occidental or any other local aspects ; and that from this point of view , the problems posed by the historical acceleration are ultimately common to the Occident and to all others after all , but on a basis far wider than that of merely " Western " civilization . To see this we must study the whole Transformation more closely . The nuclear , evolutional aspect of the Modern Transformation The Transformation is sometimes regarded , by those who do not make it an inherent peculiarity of the Occidental genius , as a particular stage of social development which Western peoples had reached and in which all others might later be expected to follow them as their own development led them to the same stage . This hits closer home than the purely Occidentalist approach ; but its exponents too often overlook on the one hand the peculiar role played by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historical character of the Transformation as a total world event . Such studies do , however , help to bring out one side of the Transformation , that which it displays where it formed institutions from within : where it introduced a distinctive new spirit , and not merely , as it often did , a new situation . Such an evolution within parts of Western Europe formed the nucleus of the whole event . A key aspect of this Transformation was the institutionalizing of technical innovation . We may conveniently use this as an index of the presence of the Transformation on what may be called its " evolutional " side , marked by the presence of its distinctive spirit . This took many forms . It involved , for one thing , a new sense of quantitative measurement , as Professor Nef has pointed out , 7 men came to count the minutes of the hours in their daily intercourse , they calculated the rates of economic increase over spans of years , they computed infinitesimal increments in their scientific calculations . More generally , all the technical aspects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unprecedented primacy . All other considerations ? esthetic , traditional , supernatural , personal ? were relatively muted . This was above all a matter of attitude . Men expected each other to put technical calculations foremost in science ? even at the expense of beautiful philosophical vision ( the keynote was struck when ellipses replaced the cosmic circles as a result of appeal to minute instrumental measurements ) ; to put technical calculations foremost in economic decisions ? at the expense of traditional lore about markets or about craft standards ; to put similar considerations first even 7 // in social organization , at the expense of personal ties and traditional sanctions . Moreover , the expectation that such technical calculations would lead to continuous change , at least to technical improvement , was given institutional form . During the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries , the idea became dominant that scholarship meant changing past ideas , and adding to them , more than it meant preserving them ; the new learned societies were intended to embody precisely such constant innovation . Men learned to expect that wealth would depend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on cleverly exploiting old ones ; they offered prizes for the best inventions and came to plan their investments on these assumptions . And in political life instances were to be found where the " laws " ( as distinct for merely administrative measures ) , which had been regarded as the constituent and ideally permanent trait of a given people , were put into the hands of a continuing special institution , a legislature , to make and unmake according to current need . By the time of the generation which flourished about i800 , in certain spots in Western Europe at least , and in certain aspects of science and economic production and ( from 1789 especially ) of social order , these new principles were already fully established . These nuclear , " evolutional " aspects of the Transformation , as embodying a new spirit , were then limited to Europeans . But they had unexpected effects forthwith in the whole world . The Modern Transformation in its irruptive and interactive aspects Another aspect can be called " interactive , " resulting directly , both in Europe and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspect , it introduced a new situation into the course of interacting historical events , without necessarily carrying its distinctive spirit . ( The new situations evoked changes of spirit of their own . ) It is this aspect which first confronted the Islamic peoples . From the point of view of the relations of Western Europe with the other civilizations , three crucial innovations were in effect by the generation of i800 . To begin with , the new European societies had come to possess a much higher degree of social power than any others ? those in control of a given social unit were in a position to control far more economic , military , or intellectual force . This had the effect of creating a radical , political , and social gulf between the // Europeans and all others , who were in effect at the mercy of any concerted effort the Europeans might make . ( This gulf corresponded in some ways , in fact , to that between even the earliest urban societies and primitive tribes ? in the introduction of civilization , likewise , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Secondly , this gulf became the most important single fact of life for the non-European societies because of a natural trait of the great technical transformations : the exploitation of ever-new technical possibilities almost by definition drew no boundary lines - in the search for goods , resources and markets , the Europeans rapidly became intimately dependent upon conditions at the farthest corners of the globe . In consequence , the Europeans came to have a vital interest in affairs everywhere and , having both interest and power , moved , during the generation around 1800 ( and almost unwillingly ) into effective domination of the greater part of the civilized world ? India and Malaysia being conquered outright ( before then , Europeans had controlled chiefly port towns at most ) , and the rulers of the Middle East being forced to hinge all their policies on the presence and character of the new West . Soon , closing the gulf between the West and others became the preoccupying goal everywhere . Finally , the new European societies were changing , and increasing this crucial social power , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies of the Afro-Eurasian zone had been accustomed to change and were still changing . The gulf kept widening . This had the effect , for the world at large , of laying down sharp conditions under which alone the political gulf might possibly be closed . Development must no longer proceed at the old pace ; that is , any independent local transformation of the kind , which might have been in the offing given another five hundred years , could not be awaited . The Transformation must be taken up in the form in which it had appeared in Europe , and it must , moreover , be taken up with far greater rapidity , and , therefore , in some drastically different manner , if the ever-increasing gulf in social power were to be closed . This was the initial meaning of the Modern acceleration of history for most of the world : a terrible pressure of time in the face of the transformed West . While the interpretation of the Great Western Transformation , and with it of the Modern acceleration of history , as a natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a purely Occidentalist interpretation , it is still radically deficient . One can think of the Transformation as a natural destiny , awaiting its proper time as the various peoples evolve into readiness for it , only if one limits it to its " evolu216 II Islam in a global context tional " aspects . But in the historical reality ? and not only for the nonWestern parts of the world , but even for the West itself ? it is possible to segregate out the " evolutional " and " interactive " aspects only very artificially in the actual historical impact , they are most inextricably interwoven . The " interactive " relationship of Bengal and Lancashire , for instance , was crucial for both from the start of the Industrial Revolution . The invention of a steam engine was an event not merely in certain industrial towns , but in London far to the south ? and in the Scots highlands ( which lost population ) and in Denmark ( whose agriculture was finally transformed ) ? and ( at the same time ) in Bengal or Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major subsequent invention ; in whatever town it was located , it was an event everywhere . The Great Transformation was not simply a stage but precisely an event ( if one may use that term of something which took two centuries to happen ) , happening once for all , of which all the world felt the impact even if in some cases with some delay . And its effects were very different according to the historical relationship of a given society to the event . Though the Transformation , particularly in the generation of i800 , wrought tremendous destruction in the West , this was eased at the time , and soon largely compensated for , by constructive results which were largely missing elsewhere at first . Whereas among the Occidental people the net effects of the Transformation were at least technically advantageous , the reverse was often its effect elsewhere . Whereas in the Occident there commonly resulted an increased degree of political freedom , the same events tended to produce an unprecedented despotism elsewhere , even when there was no direct military occupation from the West . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural creativity , elsewhere it was long , for the most part , simply culturally destructive , again whether there was Western conquest or not . The world-wide character of the advent of Modernity ( and of the shift of pace that came with it ) about i800 is illustrated in the fact that the Modern world " population explosion " reaches , in a great many nonWestern areas , back approximately to that date . This is no doubt because in all other areas open to interregional trade ? that is , all " civilized " areas ? the control of warfare , pestilence , and later famine by Western direct or indirect intervention was beginning then . The population increase , moreover , began having serious effects very early ; it seems to have helped rigidify the Hindu castes , for instance , and elsewhere to have made for intensification and diminishing flexibility in agriculture . And typically , where in the Occident the effects of population growth , // absorbed into industry , were in many ways favorable , elsewhere they commonly were not . I can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radical character of the Transformation of i600 ? i800 , as a worldwide event contrasting with all previous Afro-Eurasian history . But some of the implications must be listed . When we see that the pace of Modernity is not simply a phase in Occidental life , we see that it is misleading to speak of " stagnation " as a primary trait of the latter-day non-Western societies before a recent " reawakening . " Centuries of relatively slow , normal development or even of some degree of decadence were punctuated everywhere , in Western Europe also , with rarer bursts of outstanding creativity . It is the condition of the non-Western societies which was normal in early modern times ; it was Western Europe which was departing from the common pattern of five millenniums . The appropriate question is not , " Why did the Muslims lag behind ? " but " Why did the Occident suddenly become so different ? " But by the same token , the misfortunes of others can not be laid to the colonialist malice of certain Western powers ; it arose from a universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was secondary and derivative , responding to needs which arose independently ( and was perhaps often more constructive , in the circumstances , than we are inclined to admit ) . We are not dealing with difference among peoples as such , but between two historical conditions . The Modern Western expansion can not be made analogous , except very partially , to earlier regional expansions ? those of the Medieval Crusaders or of the ancient Greeks or those of the early Arabs or of the later Muslims . Those earlier movements took place within a common hemisphere-wide historical context ; they represented temporary shifts of power , but the overall pace of historical change and the long-range level of social power were approximately the same on each side ; fortune reversed itself readily enough . Indeed , it is even misleading to date the Modern Western position from the exploits of Columbus and Vasco da Gama , which could still be interpreted in terms simply of one people displacing another , at least within the Eastern Hemisphere . The first oceanic expansion was spectacular enough but did not in itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showing signs of being reversed in the crucial Indian Ocean where the true Modern expansion began from northwestern Europe . Those who like to trace the rise and fall of Persians and Romans and Arabs and British and Americans and then perhaps Chinese are overlooking the crucial point . // Again , if the Transformation , or at least a key aspect of it , is regarded precisely as a departure from the patterns of Afro-Eurasian historical process in which Medieval Western Europe formed an integral part , the older Occidental tradition is unlikely to hold all or even most of all answers to the problems raised by Modernity . It is of enormous importance in understanding historically the precise course of events . But fundamentally , Modern historical conditions represent a sharp discontinuity with all pre-Modern historical forms , Western and non-Western alike . ( It is one of the weaknesses of the orthodox Marxist analysis that it generalizes too freely from special Occidental experience. $ ) Accordingly , it is dangerous for non-Westerners to expect to model their hopes of development too closely on earlier stages of the Occidental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrowly to the capitalist developments of the late Occidental Middle Ages , which in themselves were not really unprecedented in Afro-Eurasian history . Similarly , I would suggest that the common Muslim thought that Islam requires a Luther and a Reformation of its own is likely to be misleading unless it is taken only in the most rarefied allusive sense . Luther does not yet represent the Christian confrontation with Modernity in its essential features . The fifteenth- and sixteenth-century Protestant movements can well be compared , for the extent of their historical impact in their own time , to the fifteenth- and sixteenth-century Shi'i movements , which transformed the religious configuration of Iran . If the Protestant movement has more relevance to Modern conditions , this is in part through the accident of historical association ; it can not be said that Modernity arose less readily in Catholic lands . But both Protestant and Catholic Christianity have indeed ( as have Judaism ) passed through intense renovation under the impact of " evolutional " spirit of Modernity from the time of Pascal through that of Kierkegaard to that of Buber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is to such figures they must turn.9 B // Finally , it is too early to trace a single general course of development within Modern times , to be expected , with modifications , in all lands . Abd al-Hamidian despotism and British liberalism , modern democracy and totalitarianism , modern capitalism and socialism all have in common features which make any of them inconceivable in any previous age . All are responses to the great Transformation of 1600 ? 1800 and we surely have not yet seen the ultimate response to the new pace of history . For the first couple of centuries , at least , the non-Western peoples , as we shall see , must face the event all of it , not merely its latest chapters ? in a different way from the West . But finally , even the West has been so radically altered by Modernity that the change it has faced has been on a like order with that of the other regions . I hence ultimately all regions , the West among the others ; are facing the same order of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all alike ; it is open before us . It is concerned individuals who will make some of the most crucial decisions about it . How the initial " interactive " effects of the Transformation limited the development of its " evolutional " effects We must take up certain of these points in more detail . It is fashionable to speak of the current world crises in terms of a " revolution of rising expectations " which is dated by some as World War II or ( in the U.S.A. ) even blamed on latter-day American indiscreet activities in far places . The particular expectations referred to are real enough , and their current form is in some ways quite recent . But policies based on awareness of this alone would remain dangerously shallow . The difficulty arises when , as too often , Westerners set the current " revolution " against an imagined background of " traditional " or " dormant " centuries . As we have noted , Western ethnocentrism has imagined a world history in which the Far-Western corner of civilized mankind has figured as half the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and as the " active " half to boot ; the primary role of the West in the world can then readily be felt as something of long standing ? dating in principle from at least the time of Caesar and in practice from around the time of Columbus . ( Unfortunately , many Muslims also have accepted something of these presuppositions . Thus Muslim apologists have spent much breath proving how superior Medieval Islam was in this or that respect to the Medieval Occident , and then drawing the wholly unwarranted conclusion that thereby Islam was superior to all the world ) ! It is , then , hard to link in our minds the supposed beginning of Western world domination with its current phase ? they seem separated by a long , quiet interval in which that mythical dragon , the " Orient , " simply slumbered . In fact , however Western world domination , in the serious sense which is to be associated with the Modern acceleration of history , dates from not much longer ago than a century and a half ; and the century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it reached . The current so-called " revolution " is merely the latest phase of a process which began ? in Egypt , in Turkey , in Gujarat , in Bengal , in Java ? with the French Revolution itself . The case of Egypt is both exemplary and relatively well-studied . ' ? While for about three centuries before Napoleon 's landing in 1798 it had not been one of the most culturally active of the Islamic lands ? it was something of a backwater in that period compared to Turkey , Iran , and northern India ? yet it was in its own way an important intellectual center , with a university which drew students from all over the Arab and African lands , and was possessed of a quietly productive economic life . Life there had perhaps been less disturbed than in the more active Islamic centers by the new Western economic , political , and intellectual activity , which had become increasingly obtrusive in the course of the eighteenth century . But in the climax of the eighteenth century , in the generation of the French and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Modernity as keenly as any other land . Napoleon stayed in Egypt only briefly ( in contrast to a good many other conquering Western armies of those decades ) , but his very presence had destroyed the prestige of the old order , most notably of its military leaders , and had put the land into unresolved turmoil . In the confusion , an Albanian officer of the Ottoman army , Mehmet Ali , was enabled to seize power , destroy outright the old military ruling class , and set about building himself a state on the magnetic model of Napoleon 's own mighty empire . But while the confusion resulting from the world-circling skirmishes of the new Western powers was sufficient to enable him to destroy much , he found that the background of two centuries of steady social and intellectual transformation , which Western Europe had known , was totally lacking , and this lack restricted his ability to build certain narrow limits ? limits then unfamiliar , but which were to become commonplace . He was able to destroy the old army and build a new one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and trained by Europeans , which in fact allowed him to create a large " independent " empire in Arabia , in Syria , in the Sudan ? until the Europeans agreed at a conference that he must withdraw , which he then had to do immediately . I ie was able to do something else , rather more basic : he destroyed the old rural economy , confiscating properties and replacing the traditional landlord relationships with direct interference from the state ; and in the place of the old economy he put a large-scale dependence on the single crop of cotton to feed the new European factories . The new cotton crop made great incomes for some , except when financial panic in European capitals reached out and took away their profits , and also the livelihood of the transformed Egyptian peasantry . That is , Mehmet Ali was able to develop a military rule which , while it could not defy the West , could effectively break down all local traditions , reaching with its new efficiency into every humble home'and tyrannizing there . And he was able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market , reaping wealth for a new and rootless class which had ousted the older families from their privileges ; but only as a dependent economy , a producer of raw materials , at the mercy of Western capital . Mehmet Ali tried to do several other things as well . He tried to introduce mechanized industry , but ( lacking any technical resources for this ) was reducing to trying to run machines by the power of oxen , and soon gave up . Instead , the local market was soon overrun with Western machine-produced goods , which put the skilled craftsmen out of work , disrupted the social cohesive force of guild-life in the towns , and , for want of any constructive substitute , left chiefly both economic and social degradation . This degradation was increased when , with his new-found tyrannical powers , he seized the old pious foundations , on which the amenities and even necessities of much of the social and intellectual life of the land depended . The schools were made directly dependent on the state and ? as his schemes called for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impoverished , restricted to the narrower theological interests which it retained during the nineteenth century . " He tried , indeed , to build a new intellectual life , modeled on the West ; but here also his successes were at best ambiguous . He opened many schools , but the students who went there to study had been prepared in the methods of a medieval scholasticism and were at a loss when asked to . learn modern chemistry or engineering . Eventually these schools were consolidated , and after wasting much of the time and intellectual powers of a generation , the new schools began to produce men who at least could read modern works with some intelligence , though they were too busy trying to keep up to contribute anything yet of their own . But this success , in turn , had its destructive aspect . The students of the new Western schools had no serious knowledge of the Islamic past of Egypt , and found little sympathy for ? or from ? the masses of their families . Yet the best students were drawn into the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to have been reserved for the traditional schools , which lost both range and intellectual quality , though they alone were left to support the cultural continuity of the land . There resulted two educated classes : one group possessed of much modern book learning which alienated them from their own people and who knew almost nothing of the very religion they professed ; another group , increasingly incompetent custodians of that religion , who knew nothing of the intellectual springs of modern life . The contrast with what had happened when Napoleon invaded Germany is obvious . Historical change was no less rapid in Egypt than in Germany ; but while in Germany it made for a more vigorous economic , social , and intellectual life , the same world-historical events had largely contrary results in Egypt . For in Germany the innovations in administrative technique , in machine production , and the rest , if not quite so far advanced as in France or in England , nevertheless had been prepared by the gradual training of generations of former medieval clerks and craftsmen in more and more technically-advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France themselves ; for fundamentally Germany was part of the same general society as were England and France . In Egypt , on the contrary , the same events tended to destroy what craftsmen 's skill and what intellectual soundness had in fact existed there in the eighteenth century . When subsequently it was time to rebuild , to industrialize and democratize , in such lands as Egypt , the human resources were even less sufficient than what they might have been a century before . So those that had were given , and from those that had not was taken away even what they had . The Islamic peoples soon found it of supreme importance to try to develop the " evolutional " aspects of the Transformation . These , they found , were the prosperous aspects ? even in point of sheer power . But it was not now a question of adopting them de novo ? of sheer diffusion , in the anthropological sense . Modernity had already , in a real sense , arrived . The attempt had to be to alter a less advantageous outcome of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was a much harder task . It might even involve a change in the nature of Modernity itself within Europe , to the extent that European Modernity presupposed the division of the world between metropolitan and more or less ( economically ) colonial areas . At the least , it involved reversing one of the chief historical decisions of Modern times ; worse , it involved changing a self-perpetuating relationship of power . Thus when the Egyptians , after two generations of experience , tried to control the extravagant tyranny of Mehmet Ali 's dynasty through constitutional forms , the British landed gunboats and settled the problem in their own way ? imposing foreign tutelage instead of a constitution , and curing extravagance by cutting down on education so as to maintain payments on foreign debts . But the case of other lands makes it dubious whether the British occupation was really needed to ensure such an outcome . Economic and intellectual force alone could have comparable results in , say , the Turkey of Abd al-Hamid . The story of Egypt was repeated ? usually rather less neatly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the lands of urban and literate civilization of the Eastern Hemisphere . " Colonial " rule was almost incidental to what was a historical development largely outside the control of any given Europeans themselves . Eastern Europe ? that is , Russia , the Balkans , and Turkey ? had in varying degrees been associated relatively closely with West-European culture , both in original institutions and in continuing intercourse ; the process of adopting Modern ways began earlier there and often proceeded with less drastic discontinuity than in the rest of the world , where the cultural background was more decisively different . Japan , almost uniquely , deliberately insulated itself at the very beginning of the Western Transformation , ( long before there was serious danger of direct conquest or interference ) ; meanwhile it built within its own islands institutions ? and intellectual awareness ? which enabled it to escape some of the more destructive aspects of the impact when it had finally to give up its insulation . Elsewhere , the nineteenth century saw the humiliation and degradation of most of those societies which did not happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times after i600 . A large proportion of those societies was more or less Islamic during the two crucial centuries of the Great Transformation . This fact contributed to magnify the humiliation still further . The original territory of Islam , as established in the Arab conquests of the seventh century , had been restricted to the Semitic-Iranian Middle East and some outlying lands , notably in the Western Mediterranean . But after about woo , the Islamic society began a vast and enduring expansion which gradually // carried into it large parts of Africa , of Eastern Europe , of Central Eurasia , of India , and of Malaysia , approximately tripling the area where Islam provided the dominant cultural stratum . This fact was not unobserved by Muslims , who traditionally took a keen interest in history . It was felt to be the divinely guided destiny of a community which saw itself as the historical embodiment of the Creator 's will for all human society . For Islam interpreted the religious calling in a uniquely social and historical sense , considering men 's role , as believers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Earth , ordering all life in justice . Islam was to be the final and most complete religion in a long series of more parochial faiths , and its mission was to create a universal godly society . A major effect of the Great Transformation on Muslims was to contradict this historical conception and to undermine seriously the Muslim self-image . Not Muslims but the despised Christians of the far northwest , long since written off as too cold and fog-bound to produce anything more intelligent than the unpolished Crusaders that had already come from there , now suddenly had the mastery in the world 's affairs . The Western world domination was even more shattering for Muslims than , say , for Hindus ? who had been long used to semi-submersion in a Muslim-dominated world . Accordingly , the devastating effects of the Great Western Transmutation were compounded , in the case of the Muslims , by a sense of radical spiritual defeat , the exact obverse of the European historical self-confidence which characterized the nineteenth century . It is obvious , then , that the problems posed to Muslims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those posed to the Western peoples . This is so in part precisely because the Transformation had from the first a world-wide aspect aand was not merely a phrase in an Occidental sequence ; and because nevertheless it was not merely a " stage " parallel within all peoples but a single pervasive event . But before our consideration of the Muslim predicament , we must again deal with those problems in more general terms and with some special reference to the Western experience of them . The individual in historical acceleration Over my desk is a 1947 cartoon which shows a group of complacent turtles , one of whom delightedly exclaims , " Just think , we now are part of the speed-mad atomic age ! " It is sometimes hard to believe that individuals can become in any way different just because historic events face them : we remain the same slow turtles . Yet there is an undeniable differ10 // ence between an inhabitant of New York and an old Mayan villager , and some of the difference derives from a different relation to history . However small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in any case , for the concerned individual , the potential difference must be morally crucial . Ultimately the meaning of any historical acceleration for the moral individual presumably lies in the changed relation of the individual 's life-span to the pace of historical events . We may posit that human history is a matter of that action which alters the presuppositions of everyday life ? whether in the political or any other sphere . At the beginning of urban civilization , history in this sense became effectively conscious . The then rapid increase in the pace of history lifted some individuals from an almost unhistorical existence into palpable historical life . The effect of an individual 's actions in modifying the basic context of Primitive tribal decisions had been normally imperceptible ? tribal history was scarcely distinguishable from family biography . In civilization , the basic social and cultural context changed more and more perceptibly each generation . In ancient and medieval times the social and cultural presuppositions of a later generation were fatefully altered by the actions of a philosopher , a conqueror , a prophet , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible to human beings was changed . But only a few were in such a position , and the results of their acts were generally slow in being worked out . With the Great Modern Transformation , many more individuals , in an increasingly wide range of activities , have been in a position to make moves which will result in altering the context of normal decisions , that is , will " make history . " And , on account of the continuing acceleration of history it has been not merely the presuppositions of a later generation that may be affected but those of one 's own time . Increasingly , every twenty years , every decade , almost every year requires each concerned individual to re-evaluate his conceptions of the total situation within which serious decisions must be made , even as it increases the frequency with which he must make such fateful decisions . The " evolutional " developments of the Great Transformation served to underline the role of the individual which the very pace of history gave such a potential importance to . It is not simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ways of life open to individual choice has greatly increased , though this fact is fundamental . The primacy of technical innovation in economic production made immediately for a wonderful diversity in specialities and in inventive imagination . But it could proceed very far only in terms of mass production for mass consumption . Accordingly , one feature of the transformation was mass // involvement in the economic and eventually the social and intellectual process . The masses ceased to be illiterate peasants on the margin of the urban culture which was at the heart of the civilizations ; increasingly the daily life of even the lowest classes came to be determined by an active and complex participation in the economic , political , and intellectual life of the cities , as consumers , producers , voters , school-goers , readers . The peasantry of the French Revolution already played a decisive role no jacquerie could have hoped for . This mass action is in some ways the enemy of individuality ; yet it has of course enormously multiplied the numbers who find the wide range of Modern diversity open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all aspects of cultural activity came a heightened level of expectations of the individual 's performance , at least in certain directions . Initially , to be sure , the worker was required to learn a precision and a sedentary discipline which , though it differed in kind , scarcely differed in degree from what certain craftsmen , for instance , had already mastered . The individual must also achieve an adaptability to a constantly changing set of rules of the game of living which in some ways went beyond anything in earlier city life ? and the difficulty of the process is witnessed to by the number of social work , legal aid , and other agencies which have latterly had to spring up to help individuals make sense of the times . But with mass participation in culture came an increasing demand for a high level of social responsibility ? for the democratic virtues . A man must not only learn a high level of abstract and rather impersonal honesty ? and in some Western countries this has been remarkably well learned ? he must become a paragon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not domineer over his wife ? who may get a divorce , but is expected more properly to join him " saving the marriage " by deepening the psychological awarenesses of both ; nor must he settle his children 's fate in advance , but must raise them to be capable of making their own wise decisions on marriage , moral standards , and even religion . He must learn to suppress his natural feeling of ethnic exclusiveness and be ready to " integrate " with all members of his society . And if he makes mistakes , he must not be let off with merely being punished for his sins but must try to " rehabilitate his personality . " He must even cultivate the art of group decisions , of compromise and committee life , without recourse to an ultimate arbiter . He must , in the end , if all this is to succeed , do away with his neuroses and with all blockages to his perceptions and his objectivity , and emerge an intelligent , responsible citizen : to which goal the educators and psychiatrists of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would vary relatively little in principle as between the United States n d t III . Soviet Union . ) The whole of this , to be sure , is as yet far away ; but enough of it has become a reality since the days of Rousseau and Pestalozzi to have altered the whole tone of moral discourse in the West . The mass dimensions of life , with their inevitable stresses , and the demands for the democratic virtues , replacing the older codes , might be enough already . They have been aggravated by the sheer rapidity of change in the nature of the everyday questions of choice facing a man ; the result is an acknowledged moral unsettlement of the individual . He can no longer have a self-image in terms of a fixed norm of social tradition in a given community . But for the concerned thinking man , this moral uncertainty is multiplied by the increased historical responsibility of the individual . An individual who chooses to act in any one of the many channels open to him has a historical leverage unheard of in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , the one thing sure is that old ways will not long persist ? or not long by older standards ; every new suggestion has a chance of being taken up . What is more , in the rush of innovation , viable new ways will beget a progeny of further changes in a short time merely by their presence . Before a scholar has put out the second edition of a pregnant work , his findings have become the basis for a spate of useful new articles by others . It was a handful of obscure young pacifists in Chicago a few years ago who launched the resistance techniques now being used by a whole generation of Southern Negroes in the United States . This situation carries with it a number of implications for the nature of the responsible individual . With the number of intelligent and literate persons rapidly increasing , and with the number of historically significant acts of each one of them increasing if possible yet more rapidly , the notion of human greatness , for instance , is put in question . If greatness can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may yet become , if not a commonplace then at least something divorced from our traditional associations with the notion . ( Biologically , there seems no reason to rule out the possibility of every town of 50,000 being a fifthcentury Athens ; till now , it has been only historical reasons which have made this notion absurd . ) Already every artist seems to think he must personally create a new departure in style if he is to rank as an artist at all . But more immediate to our present purpose is an implication with regard to the nature of morality . In certain extreme instances , indeed , a pressing sense of the actuality of history has led devoted men to conduct their whole lives on principles which were formerly associated only with the raisons d'etat of princes and their ministers . But even persons who do not become dedicated revolutionaries may be sufficiently concerned with their role in determining the very pattern of the social order to find that morality , for them , is no longer a matter of purely interpersonal virtue , but is almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the social gospel , the historically oriented Existentialist , the Gandhist of India ? and the socially conscious Muslim , all quite as much as the Communist , come to test the moral adequacy of M their lives very often almost as much by the degree to which they exercise a positive influence on their corner of the historical process as by the degree to which they carry out certain standards of person-to-person relationships or adhere to certain group loyalties . Modern individuality in Islamic lands The individual responsibility of the Muslim has been affected by the advent of Modernity in a specially complex way . As in all other aspects of Modern times , the first results have been those least constructive , and these have in turn stood in the way of the development of more constructive aspects of the Modern impact . As in the West , the individual lifespan came to embrace enormous , even shattering , historical changes , which a person had somehow to confront . But the changes did not at first carry with them the same richness and diversity of opportunity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processes as peasants or as conscripts was for them largely simply destructive . Their old skills often became useless , their work became dependent on new unknown variables of the world market in addition to the old natural variables ; but they did not receive a wide range of new skills or of new channels for rising in life . Their old moral relationships were gradually undermined . But an expectation of the more inward " democratic " virtues was one of the last and most difficult to develop . This situation is reflected in the subtle barometer of literature . Before the time of Freud , at least , the new sense of interpersonal relations in the West was largely the work of the novelists , who taught their readers to perceive individuals not as black and white figures of one or another standard type , but as infinitely varied personalities with weaknesses rather than sins , strengths which were unique to each , and lives which were less strings of happy or unhappy events than growths in maturity , disintegrations , or the like . If this sort of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a moral force , the evolution of the novel in Islamic lands moves from the periphery inwards . It begins in the nineteenth century with historical novels , often melodramatic in psychologi- 10 Modernity and the Islamic heritage 229 cal content , at any rate romantic ; and then develops above all novels of social criticism and satire . Only later and with less force have come more intimate portrayals of personality.12 In short , the uprooting of the individual , putting into question his moral responsibility , came early with full force and in increasingly broad circles , while the correspondingly wide individual openings and moral sophistication were delayed and distorted . In the first phase , before the " evolutional " aspects of Modernity were far developed , effective historical responsibility was limited to much narrower circles than those which felt the impact of the new pace of change ? to the few who found their way to top political power , for the most part . Their range of opportunities was still more limited , lying as it did largely in mere responses to the situations with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when a major emphasis came to be placed on developing locally " evolutional " aspects of the Transformation , the same frustration tended to rise out of the same juxtaposition of rapid historical change with limited historical opportunity . What was to be done was rarely a matter of creating something fresh and new in the world ; too often all that could be hoped for was to maintain a still precarious military independence and a brave up-to-date front office . Instead of real creation there must be adaptation , even imitation . There was scarcely time for much personal novelty ; unless in finding new ways to imitate more successfully ; a chemist , for instance , typically was busy trying to introduce into his own culture , perhaps to translate , the continuing flood of information already known and to persuade bureaucrats of its relevance ; he had no time for discovering new chemical principles . The sense of personal responsibility that was developed was formed in this atmosphere to a large extent . To Westerners this sense of responsibility often appears on the one hand heroic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacking in concreteness ? the individual is dedicated to freedom and progress more often than to various special causes to which he could devote his particular talents.13 It is under the aegis of this frustrated nationalism of the " intelligentsia " ? overtrained and underemployed ? that the long-delayed active involvement of the masses has finally come . The Modern sense of historical morality grows as insistently among concerned Muslims as it has in the West . But among the Muslims the background is not the rational enthusiasm of the eighteenth century and the pious dreams of Horatio Alger success stories ; it is rather a frustrating intensity of feeling to which the form Modernity first took there has inexorably led . The dilemma of discontinuity between the Islamic heritage and Modernity Now all this has obviously important implications for such fields as politics , religion , education , or art . But I must limit myself to one point , though that is a fairly large one : the relation of the individual to the cultural heritage of the classical civilization he is supposed to be heir to . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the basis from which he must work . But the point is historically crucial also . If the Great Modern Transformation was a massive event , a change of historical pace and of the historical presuppositions of five thousand years , to which we are all still responding in our various ways , there is no reason to suppose that any pattern of response yet developed must be the final one . The future is still open . And crucial to any response must be its attitude to the pre-Modern heritages which the Transformation has put in question . It is evident that the faster the pace of historical change , the more problematical the survival of any particular concrete heritage ? it becomes increasingly dependent on school-curriculum planning , on conscious radio-planning , and the like . But the full potential scope of the problem has , I think , been masked in the West by the fact that technical Modernity grew up within Occidental cultural forms ; there has never been any one given sharp break ? not even , really , at the French Revolution ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Medieval Western lifeways . When the problem is analyzed in the Muslim case , these modifications of it fall away , and it takes on a sharper air . It has been questioned whether the Islamic heritage can survive at all , unless in the form of a certain local color ? rudimentary sets of superstitions , children 's games ( the child 's imagination seems to reproduce past points of his society 's development anyway ) , and , at the least , special holiday gala to attract tourists . This is not to say that currently there is not still much that is distinctive of Islamic societies as such , even apart from religious ritual ; in many areas the peasantry , while in some ways their lives have been sadly disarrayed by the economic advent of Moderio // pity , have adopted little of the more positive , " evolutional " aspects of the Transformation save travel by bus and an interest in the movies . But these two things which they have adopted ? even apart from the fact of the disruption of more satisfactory traditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ films may stress the glories of the ancient Arabs or of the Moghul emperors , but at best they stress them in the same mood as does Hollywood in dealing with scenes from the Bible or the Crusades ; inwardly they do little to preserve a genuine cultural continuity . Again , even where the older ways have disappeared , often there are newer ways ? a part , undeniably , of the Modern spirit ? which have grown up as distinctive of this or that Islamic people ; the way CocaCola is served in an Egyptian office , for instance , is unmistakably both Modern and Egyptian . Yet these do not amount to a real continuity with the great Islamic civilizational heritage . The real point in question for the concerned individual , is not whether significant national peculiarities will persist despite all the change of our times , but whether the " high cultural " tradition , that of fine arts , letters , religion , legal institutions , and the like , can survive : whether any form , however evolved , of the Islamic high culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survive as a genuinely creative force alongside other comparable cultural heritages in the world . It is said that all the world is being " Westernized , " and that only the West-European heritage will in the end prove truly viable ? if we , any of us , survive at all . Are the Muslims becoming Westerners , even if slightly second-hand ones ? Is is true , at any rate , that the Islamic society is fatally wounded and is dying under the impact of Modernity ? Or , to be more relevant , what sort of relationship with the Islamic past is possible and relevant for the realistic Muslim to cultivate ? How can this compare with his relationship with the Western past ? If history would stand still , or at least move no faster than in the Middle Ages , the answers would be simpler and more positive , for all the strangeness of modern technology . But in the heart of Modernity lies a principle of movement which in itself rejects any past except as it survives an ever-renewed scrutiny from a viewpoint in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break with his past has indeed been radical in a way that has not been true for the modern European . This is not merely a matter of the suddenness of the break with former institutions - a suddenness far greater than was necessary in Europe even in the French Revolution and the Umsturz ; a suddenness ; moreover , which must be repeated again and again , as Modernity itself moves on its way . ( One recalls the classical case of the Turkish headgear : Mahmud at the start of the nine- teenth century imposed the fez as a modern headgear to identify all Ottoman subjects regardless of creed , and met with bitter opposition ; a century later , Ataturk raised even greater resistance when , to assure the triumph of a latter-day republicanism , he replaced the now-accustomed fez with the brimmed hat ) . It is further a matter of the cultural tendency of the new ways . Often the change has meant not strictly Modernization , that is , change of the same sort as that which transformed the West itself , but actual Westernization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a matter of mere convenience , though it by no means always does . The adoption of Latin letters ( rather than a reform of Arabic ones ) as a means of streamlining the press , the use of the men 's suit-coat ? certainly no product of a time-and-motion-study mentality ? as a means of toning down personal display , these things handily reflect Modern ways of operating ; but they make use of old Western elements , which originally were only accidentally associated with primacy of technical considerations or any other aspect of Modernity proper . With care , such superficial Westernization can be avoided . But even more subtly , an old-Western element enters into most basic efforts at Modernization , however zealously kept free of direct affiliation with Occidental communities . For , naturally enough , the main institutions of Modernity are colored deeply by the cultural forms of the society in which they were first produced . With an effort of the imagination , one can guess what the institutions of Modernity might have been like if it had developed , for instance , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , instead of in the West-European . For one thing , industrial society would probably not have been cast in the form of the nationstate . The nation-state , with its constitutionalism , its particularist charters of rights and responsibilities , stems from the corporate conceptions of Medieval Western society . From the very different legal conceptions of Medieval Islamic society , with their abstract egalitarian universalism , there might well have developed , instead of the nation-state , some international corps of super-ulama , regulating an industrial society on the basis of some super-sharia code . Such institutions , while demanding a break for Islam as radical as that which the West went through in modernizing , would yet have preserved some continuity of basic presuppositions . In fact , it has instead been the Western form of Modernity into which the Islamic peoples have had to enter , articulating themselves into nation-states which , however Modern , also inescapably do embody old Occidental attitudes . The presuppositions of an industrial nation-state , as against our imaginary industrial super-sharia order , reach deep into the Medieval Occident . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made concrete in the demand that he assimilates at least the essential basic Modern thought of the West . It can be persuasively argued that to enter inwardly into Modernity , he must enter into the thinking of the great masters of the time of the Transformation itself ? at least from Descartes and Kepler to Kant and Goethe . But to understand these , he must know the earlier Occidental background ; indeed , he must be able to operate in terms of it . Though it may be maintained that in theory each cultural background should be expected to be producing its own masters in its transition to Modernity , in practice this is hardly clear . A truly comparable creativity has been almost ruled out by the conditions we have noted . The attempt to develop the Islamic heritage in terms of Modernity Nevertheless , most concerned Muslims are not ready to become Occidentals , to adopt the Latin masters for their classics , to accept West-European history as their history , to identify with Caesar and Cicero , Charlemagne and Columbus and Leonardo da Vinci as their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Protestant . During the middle of the nineteenth century , after the first shock of the new order had worn off , some forward-looking Muslims looked to a hearty collaboration with the West as the best road to a renewed and prosperous future . Such hopes became increasingly tenuous in many areas , particularly throughout the old Ottoman dominions , under the political disappointments of the last third of the century , and became positively unpopular with progressive minded men after the disillusionments at the time of the First World War . Since then , educated Muslims have been more and more intensely , even bitterly , aware of the threat of sheer Westernization and of their own passionate desire to avoid it . Nationalism has been the most obvious ideological tool for breaking down parochial barriers and making possible that " evolutional " transformation of social life required for meeting the Modern challenges ; the attempt to maintain or in many cases rather to revive their earlier , nonOccidental heritages is an important component of that nationalism . But it is not mere nationalism , but a search for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have into their Cairo clubroom one of the lingering itinerant puppeteers to display for them his rather crude version of an art that once delighted all classes , but now has almost disappeared except in remoter areas where the radio and cinema are not yet common . They were not much interested by his offering , but some of them had hoped to tap something . Accordingly , though continuity with the Islamic past is seriously disrupted , there are equally serious obstacles in the way of adopting the Occidental past . One of these is the matter of sheer bitterness , which in some cases must not be underestimated . The bitterness in the discontinuity with the Islamic past results from all the elements that make it so frustrating : that when the break is made , the results are more shattering than for Europeans ; that even so , they are less satisfying , being at best so rarely a matter of getting ahead , but merely of avoiding falling too far behind . But in some ways still worse has been the necessity of chronic imitation . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom a Muslim of intense faith must feel are impious distorters of the godly order in the world , and in any case must feel are the source of the alien domination which it is precisely his aim to be rid of . Even more basic than his bitterness is a persistent alienness in the Occidental tradition . For the Arab youth , say , to learn English and French ? as keys to modern technique and modern literary form ? is obviously useful . To learn Latin too , even the most concerned youth has no time , for he has his own classical Arabic to learn . He can see no advantage in preferring the puzzling Christian myth to the straightforward Muslim declarations of faith . It is always the most modern features of Western ways , not those of even a century since , that are to be adopted ? not only in technology and science but in art and letters . And the most recent is with every decade removed further from the Occidental past , in both form and spirit . It is , after all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The pre-Modern Occident his ancestors had long ago learned to despise , and with some reason . For this and other reasons , a major preoccupation of modern Muslim peoples has been the maintenance of their cultural roots . This has been attempted in diverse ways . Those ways which face the problems most probingly have naturally been those which attempted to revivify the Muslim religion in terms of modern life . Since Islam had always emphasized so strongly the ideals and even the details of social order , a seriously religious man must be concerned , more than in the case of many other faiths , with the institutional structure of the society . Hence a religious revival was almost bound to be more than a personal realignment and to come to grips with the whole range of changes produced by // Modernity . But each such attempt has proved , in facing the acceleration of history , to have its own difficulties , which so far have left the outcome unclear . A sober and obvious solution was that represented by Muhammad Abduh of Egypt . He tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern science and all modern methods on the level of natural knowledge , as supportive of the faith ? on the assumption that an enlightened and reorganized Islam could continue to be fundamentally the same Islam , but purer and stronger . He introduced important reforms , in this spirit , into the Azhar theological university against much resistance ; his work has had great and permanent influence . But the rapidity of historical change did not merely require a constant effort of further adjustment . It upset the very balance of forces involved . Areas of life which had been important became secondary . With no new basic principle to introduce other than that of Modernity itself , Islam remained in effect a body of achieved points of view and practices . Increasingly it has seemed that with each change , many more were implied ; till the host of the new far outweighed , in scope and perhaps in the fundamentality of their further implications , the old which was properly Islamic . It became harder and harder to see whether what had resulted from his work was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of a new way of life . It seemed as if it were not the continuing , but reformed , Islam which served as framework for the new science , but the ways associated with the new science which allowed an increasingly limited place to a continuing , but reformed , Islam . ' 4 Eventually , as the bulk of important questions shifted into the new , secular sphere , Muhammad Abduh 's work , despite his intentions , might logically issue in a relegation of Islam to an essentially private nicety . It would be denatured as a form of social organization , and attenuated even in personal life to a general moral sanction supporting the virtues fostered by Modernity . This seems to be nearly the official form of Islam in Turkey , where it is said Christian missionaries can be consulted in reviewing the adequacy of ethical teachings in Muslim textbooks . Such an Islam is widely prevalent elsewhere , too . In Pakistan schools , I understand , Islam has been reduced , on occasion , to " brotherhood , tolerance , and justice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misunderstood it could sanction utter vagueness . Not only does it not set Islam off clearly from other faiths , it does not set it off from many purely secular philosophical aspirations . Many persons may not care about the difference . For the culturally concerned , it can mean jettisoning any effective continuity with the heritage . It threatens to reduce him to a hand-to-mouth existence in the moral sphere which may effectively sterilize his efforts at understanding events in a long-range perspective . This is not to deprecate moral interpretations of a faith , or common understanding across religious lines . I intend only to point up a cultural dilemma . Perhaps more profound , and certainly more radical in conception , than Muhammad Abduh 's efforts were those of Muhammad Iqbal of Pakistan . Taking advantage of the researches of modern Islamists , he developed a theory of world history in which historical Islam had a pivotal role precisely from the point of view of the possible outcome of the Modern Transformation . He hoped that therefore the positive heritage of Islam could be worked into a dynamic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' 5 He divided civilized history into two periods . One was that of the religious revelations , starting with very primitive mankind and becoming ever more sophisticated to the time of Jesus and Paul . Human thought in this period was gradually developed out of the realm of magic and symbol into the rationalism of Plato and Aristotle ; but even in such rationalism , thought was not yet scientific in the modern sense ; in its abstractness it was unable to control the concreteness of evolutionary and historical reality . Revelation was still needed to supplement rationalist thought and provide ultimate symbolic norms , adequate authority for actual social and practical life as it unfolded from stage to stage . To fill this need came the numerous irrationalist religions , each better than its predecessors , but still imperfect . After the peak of non-concrete , symbolical rationalism had been reached in Plato and Aristotle , however , the human mind was finally ready to make the great leap to a fully adequate , scientific way of thinking . But this it could not do in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new historical impetus ? which must , in that time , still be a revelation . It came as the final revelation , that of Muhammad . For in Muhammad 's revelation , Iqbal thought , was introduced the very principle which dispensed with the limitations imposed by the old sort of rationalism ; that is , the attitude of positive and open-ended yet // still logical and systematic observation which made possible inductive science . Hence the finality of his prophecy , for now the human mind was able to mature to the point where further revelation would no longer be necessary to help it along in its historical growth . Iqbal tried to show this partly in terms of the Quran itself , with its appeals to the observation of nature and its relative freedom from myth , ritual , and supernaturalism ; but chiefly in terms of novel forms of thinking which he thought he saw in various Muslim philosophers and scientists , forms which would account for the marked difference in tone between the scientific thought of the ancient Greeks and that which the Latin West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed modern science . The scientific implications of the new principle inherent in Muhammad 's revelation took time to be developed in human minds ; hence the Muslims themselves came to see it only gradually . They had , however , worked out its essential features , on the level both of theology and of practical science , when the Occident , after its fertilization by translations from the Arabic , took over the task from them and moved ahead with spectacular rapidity . The whole of Modernity , with its sense of technical rationality , has been its fruit . But it was no accident , Iqbal could maintain , that it was non-Muslims who most rapidly developed this germinal principle of Islam . For another aspect of Muhammad 's revelation ? which the Occident did not however , accept ? had been equally important . This was the principle of historical continuity in the new divinely-founded and world-embracing community ? a community which had not only produced the first intimations of modern science but had spread itself unprecedentedly over the eastern hemisphere , creating a trans-national network of social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The finality of prophecy would itself endure as the permanent foundation , grounded in historical actuality , of all aspects of future human life . That is , Islam contained both a principle of movement ? which , detached by the West , had produced Modern science ? and also a principle of continuity ; the two principles must ideally be in balance with each other . At one stage of the development of the principle of movement , it may have required a community less perfectly rooted in the divine ultimate to develop this one principle with full rapidity , unchecked by the other . Eventually , however , the community that is more truly divinely rooted must take over again and restore balance in the development . He could hope this would come just in time ( he was writing after the First World War ) , before the one-sidedly materialistic and rootless West destroyed itself and the whole world too . // For Iqbal , then , Islam was not simply a code of ever-dwindling range of relevance , but the enduring resource of an evolving historical community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet retaining its integrity in richly historical terms . This community must in the end , after the moral bankruptcy of the West , inherit the whole world , including the Modernity which it had initiated . This was a beautiful and even persuasive theory , and no more false to history than the major theories which have inspired the broader-visioned historical actions of modern Western peoples . Yet it is after all false to history , as are so many Western theories . It is not merely that Iqbal , being western-trained , sees history ( as do the Western theorists ) chiefly in terms of the Mediterranean regions ( though emphasizing the Middle East rather than Western Europe ) and ignores the other major cultural centers and the broader historical processes that embrace them all . Decisive is the fact that his evaluation of the historical role of Islam ( and therefore of its potentialities vis-a-vis the " rootlessness " of the West will not stand up under detailed factual criticism . He does not in fact show that Islam carries a more durable historical moral tradition than does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have mattered overmuch . But a creative cultural revival can not now be founded on intellectual speciousness . The very speed of historical change must make out of date the unexpressed conventions and barely balanced compromises on which any such scheme is based . Accordingly , Iqbal 's attempted formulation of the solution falls before the too rapid surge of history by the same test as in the case of Muhammad Abduh . Despite themselves , his followers must end up , most of them , carving a niche for Islam within a world formed by Modernity , rather than integrating Modernity into a more fundamental Islam . In time , as more and more details associated with the Islamic tradition must give way , this threatens to again reduce Islam to a vague emblem of goodness . Some groups have taken the approach outlined by Iqbal more seriously than is common , notably the followers of Mawdudi in India and Pakistan . They have tried to work out a system of modern industrial life as perhaps it might have been if informed by a Medieval Muslim morality rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital investment without exploitative interest by taking as their point of departure the Medieval waqf , the pious foundation , or the Medieval partnership rules ; they wish to take advantage of the intricacies of a modern legal structure without the biased pleading of hired // lawyers , by taking as their point of departure the Medieval mufti , the impartial legal adviser to the judge . It is the increased awareness of the individual 's historical potentialities that encourages Mawdudi to propound his reforms in such radical terms . In Indian Islam he has a long line of predecessors , of whom he is fully conscious , who have worked to establish the Islamic social ideals in the place of a strikingly unideal reality . Ahmad Sirhindi for instance , was stirred especially by the spectacle of a Muslim monarch , Akbar , refusing to give even lip-service to the ideal of an Islamic state ; but ? like other Sufis ( many of whom refused to be tainted by any dealings with any Muslim ruler ) ? his basic concern was with the drastic departure of all Muslim military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Muslims ' sharia inculcates . Shah Wali Allah , while concerned in particular at the decline of even outward signs of Muslim power in India at the end of the eighteenth century , was more fundamentally concerned to see established ? by means of Muslim rule ? the healthy social order which he felt Islam was ideally designed to bring about . In each case , their idea of perfect justice was extremely remote from the reality they saw around them ? on the whole , perhaps as remote as in the time of Mawdudi . But the concrete reforms they offered were in each case much less trenchant and less ambitious than Mawdudi 's proposals . The most they could look to in practice was the restoration of the Muslim law in those aspects of life traditionally reserved for it , and a greater purity of the ruler 's application of his still arbitrary power . Mawdudi 's movement has called for a genuinely fundamental reappraisal of all the institutions of society , including the constitution of the state . For in Mawdudi 's time the pace of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new entity of Pakistan has moved from basic law to basic law ; the concerned individual has an obvious leverage in attempting to make even drastic changes . Because of the acceleration of history , Mawdudi can ? and must ? aim much higher than his predecessors . Yet , at the same time , Mawdudi 's concrete results have so far been still less adequate than what was accomplished by Ahmad Sirhindi and Shah Wali Allah . The very pressure of historical change which makes it relevant to propose a new sort of state constitution may make it futile to try to base it on Islam . Mawdudi and his friends ? well trained in Islam as they are ? have shown typically little sophisticated awareness of the actualities of the modern world . Perhaps their inventions might show some organic continuity with the Muslim law ; but they have yet , I be- lieve , to show how they may be developed in practice out of the worldwide network of Modern institutions . More precisely , one can not picture an attempt to impose them seriously without inducing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communism ) any historical continuity with older Islam , shattering it even more completely than continuity with what the modern West created . For the Medieval Islamic morality is not , in such matters , so fundamentally different from the Medieval Christian morality which was in fact explicitly rejected in the evolution of Modern institutions ; how should it prove more viable than did the Christian morality ? As yet , the most evident practical consequence of Mawdudi 's efforts had appeared in riots against alleged heretics . This is surely not so much Mawdudi 's fault as the fault of the same historical tensions which made possible his high aims . The frustration of the concerned Muslim Islam , meanwhile , without discovering a clearly viable basis for providing full spiritual roots for the rapidly evolving societies of the future , continues to remain vigorous as the one focus for imaginative selfidentification in the perspective of the past . It is strong , even violently strong , as a principle of social allegiance and as rallying point of historical consciousness . It serves as a rationale for moral doctrine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of controversies over such matters as sexual segregation , birth-control ? or the status of infidels . " Islamic civilization " remains highly problematical , but at any rate Western civilization is not taking its place . In most Islamic lands , Islam and its associated cultural heritage must remain the point of departure for the concerned individual , if he has any such at all . Yet the tensions between the Islamic heritage and the demands and hopes of Modernity remain unresolved . As compared with the West , the tension between cultural orientations ( going back as far as the time of Mehmet Ali ) , between the older Islamic one often stagnant or fanatical in tendency , and the Modern one too often imitative and insecure , sometimes seems starkly unbearable and in any case not conducive to much hope . The more historical change presses ( and such pressure is worldwide once it occurs at all ) , the more explosive the result ? unless , perhaps , there may be evolving a new sort of cultural norm . Sometimes , indeed , it seems as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-identification , that now serves will serve the concerned individual most readily is one without a heritage at all in the older sense . Such a standard would not be closely tied to any of the Medieval civilizations and religions ; instead , its watchword would be Progress , and for it the pace of technical innovation would provide its own norms . This may amount to the " Brave New World " ? that appalling and all too possible vision of Aldous Huxley 's ; it may be fulfilled in the communist tendency to turn all civilizational background into valuable but lifeless museum pieces ; or it may hold quite other premises , yet to be fully explored . The acceleration of history , then , has had a double effect among consciously concerned Muslims . It has placed them in a historical situation at once highly demanding and diversely frustrating , where they have suffered an uprooting even more severe than that of concerned Westerners , but with far less of the compensating sense of historical experiment and achievement . This has underlined the need for them to reassert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heritage as a means of present self-identification without which they can not creatively envisage a future . But the same historical situation has severely handicapped any such development of the Islamic heritage on a Modern basis . With its insistent primacy of technical considerations , the general tendency of Modernity continually to shift and blur the relevance of any given aspect of life tends to downgrade all bodies of tradition ; but for the Muslims , the effort to counteract this tendency is frustrated by additional elements of discontinuity , resulting from the initially destructive impact of Modernity and from the continuing gulf between the West and themselves which the pace of events reinforces . The possibility of maintaining the values associated with deep nurture in a rich tradition seems slim . The similarity between Islamic and Western problems in maintaining the heritage Some still like to suppose that Modern life ( or at least what is good in it ) necessarily presupposes the long Occidental , even perhaps the Christian cultural heritage . They would like to see other peoples ( and perhaps the Western Jews also ) join in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a suggestion raises fundamental questions . It is not merely the alienness , the enemy-role of the West that has made so many Muslims consciously try to avoid any Westernization in a regional-cultural sense . At least as great a barrier has been the ambiguous relevance of the Occidental past to Modernity , even within the West . Actually , the cultural discontinuity in the West is in practical ways very like that in Islam . It becomes a question whether any of the older civilizations is showing signs of surviving as a living force ( rather than merely as a part of the contributing background , like ancient Sumeria ) . i6 Many have felt that the repeatedly expressed concern with , above all , the " future of Western civilization " was arrogant , but it must be considered whether it is not , rather , delusive . Here we can not discuss such questions at any length , but they must be touched on , lest what has been said about the Muslims be left in a false light . Increasingly numerous are the concrete problems which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islamic lands . This comes in part from the working out of the Great Transformation as a world-wide event , notably in the major threat to survival posed to all alike by the great gulf which it created . The more it is emphasized the more the nonWestern lands succeed in adopting the more " evolutional , " the more ( at least seemingly ) advantageous aspects of the Transformation . In the schools , for instance , the problem becomes remarkably alike in Egypt and the United States : how can a serious heritage ? the great Classics in either case , above all ? be transmitted to a mass clientele with full responsibilities of citizenship , while at the same time meet the needs of a technical age ? For even the technical need is not merely for enough mathematics and natural science ; it is for an ability to assimilate evernew information over a very wide range . It requires an ability to judge among claimants to authority in enormously varied fields , in addition to a knowledge of some one set of facts . Such education is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will strain the educator 's resources . Everywhere , many educators find no room left in it for any set of ancient classics . In art , again , it is a question in each area how we are to retain the reality of a sense of style . The twentieth-century geometric and abstract styles bear almost equally little relation to each of the older traditions , and are used with equal facility as bases for " nationalistic " reminiscences everywhere . How should an American child learn to know as " his own " the Italian Renaissance prints and as " alien " the Japanese Tokugawa prints which have an equal place of honor on the living room wall ? In the churches , Christians wonder how to transcend a threatening polarization between religion as a technique for " peace of mind " in an age where all formulable dependabilities are undermined , and religion as a sectarian refuge from submersion in the anonymity of two billion television sets . But Islam faces much the same dilemma between those for whom it is a vaguely defined assurance of righteousness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the encroachments of Modernity and the West . It has been suggested for some time that the several religions should join force in " combating materialism and atheism . " This might prove premature . Each of them has a more basic problem in learning how to make the inherited religious lore speak with greater creativity to modern men ; even here to a degree , at least , they must all use like methods . It can be questioned whether , in concretely facing these questions , concerned men of a West-European cultural background , Catholic , or Protestant , or Jewish , who hope to prevail over the relentless technical rationalizing which comes at an accelerating pace in all aspects of life , can claim to have found principles much more sound than those found by Muhammad Abduh or Iqbal in Islam . It is for this reason that it can be suggested that the relative ease of the transition , in the West , has masked our problem of continuity , making it relatively painless rather than eliminating it ; and that Westerners can see their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truer form when we look at the problem of continuity in Islam . The faster history moves , the more Westerners are likely to become aware of the problems themselves . In the end we must no doubt recognize that the breach with our several pasts is a common problem not to be solved in isolation by any of the peoples ? not even by the Western peoples . it is clear to us now that this is the case with the problem of armaments and of the risk they carry with them of undue militarization within each land . Some are suspecting it will prove to be the case with such questions also as juvenile delinquency and the problem of developing a sense of responsibility in a mass society ; it may eventually prove to be equally the case on the level even of theology . If it is true that we must come to solve all such questions cooperatively , Europeans , Muslim , Hindus , Chinese together , then concerned Westerners will have to learn to see the problem of the great gulf created by the Modern Transformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach across it , envisaging our common problems in terms that allow for the divergent effects of Modernity on both sides of it . And the concerned representatives of other traditions likewise will have to forgive the West its guilt and accept it as a partner in solving the common dilemmas . For Modernity is neither the outcome of purely Occidental traits nor a stage through which each land can pass in its own way . It is an event in our common world history which we must face together . 11 The objectivity of large-scale historical inquiry Its peculiar limits and requirements To this point , we have been analyzing various relatively particular historical movements from a world-historical point of view . But this sort of search has led us repeatedly into problems touching the nature of historical inquiry generally . It is not , in fact , surprising that the introduction of a genuinely world-historical viewpoint is likely to have repercussions in almost all aspects of historical thinking . In this final section we shall see that interregional history does indeed require its own types of historical thinking ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the types of thinking required for it are not merely a special case of historical research . They are central to the historical disciplines as an autonomous field of public inquiry . From one important point of view , world history , interpreted as interregional history , must form the core of the intellectual organization of the historical profession . Despite the enormous amount of research already accomplished , our historical knowledge is still far from meeting the demands we make on it as we try to form and criticize our vision of mankind . It is already a large order , that we want to know our own immediate background and how it has formed us , and to know the past of greatly differing peoples so as to expand our sympathies . These piecemeal interests already carry us round the world and back ; and it has so far taxed historical ingenuity and imagination , how to provide insight which is at once so wideranging in scope and yet humanly meaningful in detail ? as against the typical textbook or survey . In addition , every alert individual , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or political , tries to have its own sense of history as a whole , giving its own orientation a perspective in depth across space and time . To understand or criticize these senses of history as a whole , we must look to substantial historical study ; for the function of such study is precisely to discipline our ideas of the course of history ? at the least so as to reduce the number of errors we will entertain . But much of the groundwork for this , both factual and theoretical , 247 is not yet laid . The inadequacy of our knowledge becomes increasingly painful year by year in our present world where peoples of traditionally different historical backgrounds ? Europeans and Indians , Muslims and Chinese ? must live together and forge a sense of common humanity . We scarcely know one another , and must hope that historical scholarship will be able increasingly to do its part in giving us the necessary perspective on ourselves and our neighbors . It is a commonplace , therefore , that the study of history is still in its infancy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholarship merely by a slight extension of past methods . The responsibility upon historians is farreaching and is not to be met without exploring a great many broad and refractory subjects and working out the tools for dealing soundly with them . Such tasks are admittedly not easy , but they must be undertaken . The universal relevance of historical inquiry In a sense , some conception , however vague , of world history as a whole has always formed the core of historical science , at least implicitly . Recognition that Universalgeschichte must somehow or other be tackled if historical research were to hang together as an intellectual whole has been persistent among such historians as Ranke . Certainly , at least the common Western image has underlain and oriented most of the routine modern Occidental historical work , so far as it was at all independent and wide-ranging ? not a matter of refinements on someone else 's work . Without such a world image , in its various interpretations , historians might have possessed a series of curious questions , but could not have related them to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the centrality of Universalgeschichte has been eagerly attacked ; and , in fact , it has never become an accepted and well-articulated basis of historical scholarship . Some attacks upon it have been essentially negative . The type of " philosophy of history " symbolized by Hegel has led many to a healthy distrust of anything going close to the " big questions . " They have rightly wanted to avoid fanciful constructs into which actual data have had to be tortured to form a system of overall historical development . Along this line , some have insisted that there can be no universal history because mankind has not formed a whole except biologically ; there must be no Weltgeschichte , but only Weltengeschichte ? the Occident is one world , India another , and so on . This approach is sometimes in fact a result of a recognition of the importance of other regions than the Western . It is a rebellion against a world history that was a history only of the " Western world " ; and , for want of more positive orientation , it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen , there are no such closed worlds , at least within the Oikoumene ; an attempt to construct a series of separate historical fields in such terms leaves too many and too crucial loose ends . The answer is not to erect a series of " world histories " on the model of our earlier Western one , but to reject that model , and its very methods , altogether , to construct a new sort of world history on new lines . If Oikoumenic history begins to be rightly understood , and also the place of the Oikoumene in world history at large , it is evidently possible to develop world history which shall be genuinely worldwide , but yet free of the a priori system-formation associated with the improper sort of " philosophy of history . " A second line of attack on Universalgeschichte has arisen from the demand for historians to develop general rules about the dynamics of historical processes . What causes ? not this or that revolution , but ? revolutions in general ? What causes the rise and fall of dynasties , states , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but as such ? What causes the expansion of a people , the contraction of an economy , the florescence of an art or a literature ? It has been felt that for history to be scientific , it must not merely ( as has been the orthodox position since the nineteenth century ) use exactingly objective methods in determining particular facts ; it must produce generalities as universal and undated as those of physics . It must be a " social science " ? like sociology and anthropology , but with a different starting point , if an almost equally universal final domain . For those who have been consistent in this concern , " philosophy of history " in the Hegelian sense has been as much anathema as for the more orthodox detail-historians ; though perhaps for a different reason . Though a man like Toynbee seems to combine the two approaches , scientism and a priori universal pattern building , this is chiefly because of his utter lack of methodological clarity . Actually , the traditional " philosophy of history " has always been sufficiently historically-minded to look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unique way in which they combine into a whole ? it has not produced general laws , in fact , but the analysis of a single unrepeatable sequence . ( Even the more consistent cyclists , from Vico on , for all their admission of a sort of repetition of type , offer little to those who want a host of general rules ; for they , far from abstracting various types of historical dynamics from the particular context of a given total historical development , anchor their whole analysis more undetachably than ever to such overall developments . ) This interest in historical dynamics as such is a worthy concern . It is obvious that , moreover , without a proper interregional historical back250 III The discipline of world history ground , as we have been developing it , it can not be adequately worked through . That is , a genuine world history should be as much an aid to such concerns as a false type of world-historical theorizing , based on a false historical image of the world , has been a handicap . However , an abstractive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not history in the proper sense . Interregional history must establish itself as history proper before it can serve the interest of the study of historical dynamics . And it is in history proper that it is one of the ? if not the chief of ? the keystones . Its lack ? or rather , the presence of inadequate and only semi-articulated substitutes in the form of unconsciously assumed world images ? has had a pernicious effect on all historical research , and has gone far to give reason for the innumerable complaints against historians for not becoming " a science , " as it is somewhat naively put . What is wanted is not best expressed , perhaps , by the term " a science . " To divide scholarly inquiry into mutually exclusive " sciences " can carry overtones of denying the unity of knowledge ? the ultimate interdependence of questions about all kinds of existence . Yet it is true that we expect from historians , as from any other recognized scientific discipline , a body of knowledge which is a permanent and cumulative public possession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of local interest . In this sense , no amount of detailed " scientific " objectivity can give to history the dignity that has been associated with the term - science . As contrasted to mere private antiquarianism , historical scholarship , as an activity appropriate to general support by the human public over the generations , must be concerned with answering questions of a universal human relevance . Historical study does indeed consider its data in their aspect as particular events . It is concerned with " who " not " what sort . " That is , whatever its level of abstraction ? one man 's execution on a given day , or the disruption of a whole life pattern in a movement lasting over centuries ? it is concerned with its subject for itself , and not as an example of some wider generality . ( We shall come back shortly to this fundamental and persistent but sometimes rather elusive distinction between the attitudes of a historian and a social scientist . ) But questions about particular events may take on a universal relevance . All men have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of events wherein the human species was differentiated out from its animal background , as in the general rule that water , wherever found , is always compounded of hydrogen and oxygen . Though the first is a unique event , irreversible , and the second an ever-recurrent type , each bears universal human significance . History is a public discipline then in virtue of the questions it studies possessing a permanent public interest . But how shall such an interest be determined ? In contrast to a limited realm of disciplines wherein the criterion of public interest can be cast in the form of a seemingly absolute distinction , the criterion in the historical field must be discovered through historical study itself . In pure physics and chemistry , most clearly , but also in one aspect of all physical , biological , and even social studies , a distinction may be made between rules that may be formulated to hold regardless of particular moment or place ; and generalizations valid only in a given context of time and space , and hence not really absolutely general . A generalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it holds . Future potentialities are certainly of relevance to all faced with choices . A generalization of unlimited context ( it is philosophically discussible whether , in the ultimate evolution of the universe , there really can be such ; for practical purpose certainly there are ) of necessity defines future potentialities for ( in principle ) every man . Hence such generalizations are commonly held to be of universal relevance ipso facto . This incontrovertible point of assurance has helped give such disciplines as can afford to restrict themselves to such questions ( in my wide-ranging sense , only those disciplines subsumed under physics and chemistry ) a popular and even a philosophical prestige which other scholars , and even historians , have sometimes been tempted to envy . The criterion for legitimate public interest in the historical field ( to leave other cases aside ) is not so simple ? and , in fact , has been little agreed upon ( though in practice sometimes it seems as if the human demand for such a criterion had implicitly settled on " the affairs of church and state " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between antiquarianism and history ; just as the exact line , in the geological and astronomical field of physical sciences , is unclear between a matter like enumerating the pebbles on a particular beach ( clearly at best of private interest , in itself ) and enumerating the mountains on the moon ( granted as of public interest ) . As the old criteria of the successions of church and state becomes less convincing , it might be left up to the not entirely unjustified rule of thumb , which however is philosophically not adequate , that any questions a given reading public happens in fact to be interested in , or that will bear on such questions , are to be pursued in the profession as being of legitimate enduring public interest . But to the extent that historians do concern themselves with distinguishing what is genuinely of public interest , of legitimate relevance to the profession , it is this properly in close association with that which // makes history a single public discipline . It is this in virtue of the questions it studies being interdependent ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the answers to others ? so that fully developing one corner of the historical field involves other neighboring corners ? which in turn involve further corners ? of decreasingly direct , but of sustainedly indirect , relevance to the first . This is , of course , what gives any intellectual discipline its coherence . " A science is an organized body of knowledge " does not mean knowledge organized administratively by departmental subspecialties . Dynamically formulated , it means precisely that any discipline of intellectual inquiry is the pursuit of a body of interrelated questions , such that a success in one question carries implications for the group as a whole . To be sure , all serious inquiry is so related in some degree ; all definable fields are ultimately merely specialties and subspecialties , and sub-sub-specialties ; but it does help to distinguish out significant levels where the grouping of questions is at least relatively self-sufficient . Human social history is such a recognizable field , even though when Western historians have tried to delineate their recognition of it , they have commonly been betrayed by a false @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may be necessary , in some quarters , to point out that to make the nature of the historical field depend only upon " common methods " of inquiry is misleading . Those who make the " scientific " character of historical study to reside in its detailed objectivity often correspondingly make its unity as a field lie in its distinctive method . But , just as chemical methods can be used for particular applied tasks which form no part of chemical science as an ongoing human inquiry , so historical methods can be used quite meticulously in antiquarian pursuits . Historians need each other not to share new methods , but because of the substantive interrelations of the fields they are exploring . It is this that makes them a profession still , even though the original expectation that one man should know all of history has yielded to proliferating subdivisions as in all other disciplines . It is the interrelation of the questions pursued that makes the discipline . To vest it in the nature of the methods involved ? as is done more often unconsciously than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely misleading . It is , in effect , to give up the search for a legitimate basis as a public discipline , for methods in themselves are but tools and can give no particular assurance of the interest or significance of their results . Human social history ( to which we give the title " history " par excellence ) is to be distinguished from other disciplines studying human society , not fundamentally by its methods ( historians have learned much // from the methods of others , in fact ) , but by the sort of questions asked . ( Human ) history and the several ( human ) social sciences study into li the same phenomena . Empirically , they are set apart indeed by d i f f ere n t methods and by different traditional viewpoints as well . Historians have worked out from chronicles of official acts , and prize the documents of public archives ; sociologists began with theories about stages of modern progress , and exalt statistics ; anthropologists started wanting to know what the original nature of men was and their hallmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in their own ways , have come to claim a universal domain over human society , and use whatever methods seem most appropriate to a given theme . What gives the historians , at least , a distinct common interest is a special attitude which is unmistakable when recognized . A sociologist will study a revolution in Mexico as a sample of a type ? revolutions anywhere . A historian will study that same revolution as a particular combination of human achievement and failure at a given point in time and space . Even if both the sociologist and the historian happen to be studying a given man 's career as a sample of a type of career important in that revolution , to elucidate the latter , the difference of aim persists . All historical statements , even about individuals , are in a sense generalizations from a range of particulars . But the generalization the historian is looking for about the revolution , is sought not for its generality as such but for its immediacy to the particular revolution . And the thorough historian will soon find himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguishing out so far as possible the unique and irreplaceable , as well as the typical , in his contribution to the revolution as a whole ; something which , ex hypothesi , is not supposed to interest the sociologist save as it may subserve other , complementary generalizations about the course of revolutions generally . The historian will study the American Revolution for its meaning in defining the nature of the American soul , or at least its tradition ; he will study the Crucifixion for its unique place in Christian experience . The questions historians study are certainly closely related to those studied in the various social sciences ; in a sense , the whole field of human society is an indivisible field of inquiry , and any distinction among the several disciplines within it is likely to form a barrier to full understanding . A distinction between social " science " on the one hand and history on the other , particularly , is likely to be untoward . Yet human history will continue to have its own autonomy , at any rate , because the type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own terms . This is partly a matter of the ultimately moral character of historical judgments ; and this point we shall have occasion to pursue further later . It is also a matter of the immediate interrelation of the actions which may be called historical . Again , just as the field of history overlaps in data , but is distinguished in type of question asked , from the non-historical aspects of the social sciences ; so it overlaps in its data , but is distinguished in the type of question it asks , from the non-historical aspect of the " humanities , " that is from the systematic and the critical aspects . To be sure , there can be a difference in approach as between a general historian dealing with the history of an economic institution , and an economist delving into economic history ; and a corresponding difference between a general historian discussing the art of the Renaissance , and the work of an art critic turned art historian . But these differences are those of special qualifications and backgrounds ; art history and economic history remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and art criticism ) . There remains another sphere , as in the social studies , so in the humanities , which stands apart from the specifically historical approach , and whose questions are less directly the concern of the historian as such . The historical sphere in turn ? in all its ramifications , humanistic or sociologistic ? has its own unity . This is based in the fact that historians study first of all great deeds as such . Herodotus touched the true note from the start , but we must drastically redefine such greatness . The historical dimension of human life , that in which human actions can take on a historical significance , is that in which men , no longer limited by nature in the immediate sense , can by their action alter the conditions of their routine life ? alter the natural framework ( both of physical and of social nature ) within which they live . Perhaps each man , in his highest spiritual potentialities , can do this for himself . Human social history studies men 's doing this socially , for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not to judge the historical relevance of any action only by its outcome in the end ? least of all , in our own time . Genuine historical action may well change the conditions of life of a community which subsequently dies out , without directly affecting any other . It retains its moral validity as historical action nonetheless . But it has been true that human history has been sufficiently interrelated so that , in fact , most significant historical action has had a significant part of its significance in terms of even relatively remote consequences ; changing the local conditions of routine life has had its repercussions throughout the Oikoumene ; and in terms of the historic role of the Oikoumene , in the world at large , as we have seen . It is precisely in terms of the effect of changes in one place and time // upon changes elsewhere , that historical questions became so fatefully interrelated , and it becomes impossible to answer adequately any one historical question without answering all . Basic position of large-scale questions Accordingly , we come to the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discipline , what must distinguish the legitimacy of its research under public sponsorship , in contrast to mere antiquarianism , are the large-scale questions . These questions are often such as historians are hesitant of facing . They can not necessarily be answered with a completely firsthand control of all the documents involved . Yet they are the questions for whose sakes the historical profession exists . Large-scale questions deal with the characteristics of ethnic bodies , of states , of religions , of nations , of civilizations ; with the characteristics of periods and epochs ; with questions of progress and of decadence ; with questions of the significance and mutual indebtedness of art schools , religious movements , scientific discoveries , economic systems ; with what is Modern , Western , Oriental , Medieval , Classical , backward , conservative , liberal . . . with the " Oriental conception of monarchy , " with the " modern attitude to business , " with " Christian morality , " with " Western traditions of art . " All these involve comparison of many diverse particulars in very broad contexts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historical context of given events , particularly from the point of view of awareness of where comparisons are legitimate and where not . Almost always they involve , at a relatively small remove , men 's conceptions of history as a whole ? of underlying concepts like Europe , Asia , Africa , ancient , medieval , modern ? that is , implicit world images . They are , in a sense , impossible questions ; yet they are the most important sorts of questions to which a sense of history is commonly applied . Without sound large-scale historical concepts , such questions are left without responsible professional disciplining . It is the implicit task of historians to discuss and rediscuss them with ever-renewed critical sifting . Hence historians must come to some way of weighing the propriety and relevance of various total ways of looking at the historical scene : what parts are to be seen in what connections on what levels . For such pictures of historical development determine the very questions asked in basic research , as well as the way questions and concepts will be // framed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the answer : what questions we ask set the range within which we can even look for data , and ? in just that degree to which the question is univalent ? sets the answer that objective and persistent inquiry will come to . The difference between most serious historical studies of what seems to be the same subject matter lies in the different questions posed . But sometimes it is forgotten that the categories used have a great deal to do with what questions will be asked . If our category is sovereign states , we will come to quite different pictures of inter-area commerce , because we will be asking different questions , than if we use climatic regions as our categories . If we are studying the history of the United States , Great Plains political movements take on a very different curve , and seem to bear a very different relation to educational and economic factors , than if we are studying the history of North America , including the Canadian Prairie provinces . The problem of the ( too often unconsciously adopted ) presumptive categories is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it becomes a most pressing problem , if only because traditional units of thought are even less adequately developed in the common language ( which historians tend to take as final in such matters ) . Large-scale history can not be discussed in terms always even of states or of inter-state institutions . In its more fundamental reaches , it is commonly handled in terms of regional cultural traditions or of civilizations . Even this , as we have seen in our study of the Oikoumene , is not enough . Large-scale history must be handled in a variety of sorts of historical complexes , including all these . I use the term " historical complex " advisedly , as neutral and flexible , not tied to any given type of historical interpretation . Anthropologists may be relatively at home in this way of thinking ; historians by trade may object to speaking of " historical complexes " ? as too far from the concrete event . Yet , for placing the event properly , they are unavoidable . If we are not to be limited to a few types , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seek a variety of types perhaps previously unnamed . Whenever we find sequences of historical events interrelated in such a way that significant questions of substance ( not , normally , abstract comparisons of categories ) in regard to one of the sequences involve answers about all of them , we may regard what we have as a historical complex , whether it is a region with diverse cultural elements which closely interact ( for instance , Buddhist-HinduMuslim Southeast Eurasia ) , or a single cultural tradition spread widely // ( for instance , Islamic culture From Java to the Niger ) , or a set of developments in a single tradition across many culture lines ( for instance , The **35;0;TOOLONG mathematical tradition ) . It may be a religious whole , a period with its own Zeitgeist , a trade network . The term certainly is not inappropriate for less extensive complexes of events : the discussion of slavery in the United States implies discussion of the Frontier , of oceans , of industrialization , of Canadian freedom , of Quakers , etc. ? indicating that North American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this in turn is composed of lesser , and enters into wider , such complexes . We need the term to be wide enough to cover not only persisting cultural patterns , but persisting interrelations among historical elements even when the cultural content of those interrelations changes drastically ? as is the case of the Oikoumene itself . This allows us to see the diversity of form which large-scale historical processes can take ? and in terms of which we must be prepared to integrate our studies . Once we come to see the crucial character of large-scale conceptualizations in its own terms , it is evident how crucial these are to all historical study . The study of any given historical complex is important in two ways . On the one hand , it is important to understand the nature of the given historical complex as a whole , on its own level ? for only in terms of it do the full consequences , conscious and unconscious , of human acts come alive . On the other hand , study of the wider complex is essential for proper placement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a full sense of the Oikoumenic configuration allows us to see the later periods of Islamic history in their unity and variety ; and allows us to correct basic distortions which falsified Occidental history . But it must be kept in mind that any given event or set of events is not either a matter of interregional , large-complex significance or of local ; it is more often a question of distinguishing in what respects a given event is relevant to more or less broad-gauge historical complexes of events . Thus such a locally technologically significant advance as the development of mold-board plows in Northwest Europe does not have its significance as a technological advance as such ( as we have seen ) , but rather only as it helps give , ultimately , the Europeans a different role in the Oikoumene as a whole . It is essential to put all inquiries about originality , all searches for filiations , in such perspectives ; so that these inquiries , with their overt or tacit presuppositions of certain attitudes to race , to national culture , to Zeitgeist , can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Disciplinability of large-scale questions and of the categories they presuppose But how valid can the answers to any large-scale historical inquiry be ? However crucial they are , they will not serve to construct a learned discipline unless they can be answered objectively . That is , they must be subject to serious intellectual discipline which will overcome any tendency to subjective speculation in matters of such obvious personal relevance to all . The attempt to study large-scale history is plagued with many problems , but we can set aside at least some that have been supposed to plague a universal history . We need not be deterred , of course , by the sheer quantity of past events in so wide an area . We are not concerned , after all , with each of the events that have happened in each nation , but only with those which have involved major segments of mankind , and so set a framework to all our historical experience . Those , while very important , can be presumed to be relatively few . For purposes of perspective ( these need not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are important ) , a slim volume may be of more value than a fat one . Further , we can at least postpone the insuperable problem of finding a universal scheme into which all history will fit ? whether in terms of progress or of cycles , of a master-race or of a revelation . History is so rich that almost at the first touch it yields an overabundance of suggestions of pattern . We will find this true even for so broad a zone as we are concerned with . The historian need not fix upon a pattern for his whole field of inquiry before beginning his detailed work of criticism and exploration . If a world history is philosophically possible , it will in any case be subject to two important limitations . It will not only be unlikely to deal with all or even most of the events that have troubled mankind from the beginning ; further , it is unlikely to bear the type of human meaning which a sensitive history of a particular community can have . For it will deal with only such themes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handled within the limits of nations and cultural regions . Such themes are unavoidably somewhat impersonal . Even with this much acknowledged , large-scale history retains its pivotal character ; and this fact poses a crucial dilemma for the whole profession . We have noted above that , however unsatisfactory the pursuit of large-scale questions in wide historical complexes may be , it is inescapable for the serious historian . The scholar in any field must at the very // least do whatever is necessary to eliminate as many errors as possible . But the whole point of historical thinking , for ordinary persons , lies precisely in the big questions . As a human being , unwilling to confine his moral horizon to the present moment as perhaps he pragmatically ought to , the ordinary person willy-nilly has his historical outlook ; the historian must discipline it . History , and all science and scholarship , is a matter of disciplining men 's thinking ? not of finding ultimate systems , but of improving point by point upon what the human public is crudely thinking at . Even if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on universal history ? we can and must show whatever can be demonstrated that is relevant to these questions . This much we can not shirk . But if history itself is to maintain its worthy place among the scholarly disciplines , it must weave its very organization out of these larger questions , which remain its raison-d'etre , or else grant the claims of some non-historically minded philosophers that it is at best but a secondary instrument of criticism , being essentially subjective where it counts . It is not by being scientific in details ? demonstrating conclusively any number of points of minute documentation ? that history can become a " science " ? any more than the solution of any given private murder mystery is a " science " in the intended sense , no matter how " scientific " is the sleuth . But I believe it will indeed be found to be susceptible of such disciplined integration , and in a sense not basically different from any other type of study . There is a line crossing through all types of historians , dividing those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not , cutting across all other types . It may be granted that what is important in Europe , as compared with China , is vast matters like Christianity , technical rationality , and the origin of our current world problems . But those who believe they can be answered only conjecturally or by inspiration and are not a serious scholarly concern , can not well care for what " subjective " perspective is put into a " world " or " Western " history so long as the facts which happen to be in it are in detail correct ; the title is rather an ornament than anything else . They can not well care what periodization is used , or what the terms of any interregional comparisons they may happen to make by way of adornment ; a fair comparison giving justice morally to each party will seem quite outside the pale of historical concern as such . Neither evaluative judgments , nor even the remoter sources of general conditions , so far as they do not enter into detail studied ad hoc , will seem relevant . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discipline of world history sion about the Oikoumenic configuration is fanciful and can not bear upon actual work they are doing . Among those humanistically inclined , they may concentrate on the exploits of individuals , but they will hesitate to admit the glories of nations as determinable by scholarship , let alone venture beyond the range compassed by explicit historical consciousness in their subjects . Among those scientifically inclined , they will be concerned with points immediately present to their problems , but leave broader perspectives to " philosophers of history . " This orientation against the Big Problems is explicitly expressed only among those of a particular temperament , but no means universal , though found in all types of studies . Yet the tendency is so prevalent that the ordinary historical study often appears as negligent of such perspectives as if there were an explicit rejection of them . But once the necessity of dealing with the large-scale questions is accepted , it will be found that they are subject to disciplinability in a scholarly sense ; it is not necessary to have recourse to " philosophy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long since been established in what lies the disciplinability of historical detail . Just as the chemical experiment is a cumulation of evidence ? in repeated experiments of various sorts ? regarding the objects of study , themselves inaccessible ( in this case , the abstract " laws " ) , to the point where further doubt must presume an untenable degree of coincidence ? so historical study at best works with evidence ( not , of course , the events themselves ? which are as inaccessible as the chemical " laws , " though for a different reason ) , to a like point of cumulative indubitableness , independent of the work of any one observer . Coincidences of various sorts in the evidence must accumulate to the point that , though any one of them might be due to chance , together they point to a single hypothesis that any independent investigator must accept . The recognition of these matters , indeed , may involve a wide knowledge of the habits of an age , of details of dating and language , of the remotest circumstances of a train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the matter at issue , which enter into the accumulated chain of coincidences . It is in regard to the objectivity of larger historical treatments that a more serious question arises . Here the complexity of the inquiry , the breadth of the questions it asks , is such that it can no longer be a question of marshaling all evidence bearing upon a single occasion , but of selecting and arranging the evidence bearing on the wider questions at issue . In these more elaborate interpretations , accordingly , historians must vary according to their principles of arrangement and selection ; // and appear willful and capricious . Nevertheless , the principles of objectivity applicable to the details still apply to the syntheses , only on a more subtle basis . In particular , any one elaboration can yield answers only to those questions which it poses ? not only to those general questions it starts out with , but to those particular questions in terms of which it is built up ; that is , its range of relevance is limited by its particular structure . Since any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall see , any one inquiry is limited in the account it can give of the general field it treats with . Accordingly , a large number of complementary studies is necessary to a balanced view of a given age or time , or even a given personality ; yet each of them can be criticized with regard to its objectivity within the framework it has adopted ? so that though there may be an indefinite number of different but complementary objective studies in a particular field , there may be an infinitely larger number of unsatisfactory studies in the same field that must be excluded . Besides selection and ordering , categorizing also limits one 's possibilities : periodization , grouping of people , or lines of activity ? the choice of landmarks , the subordination of events , the coordination of conditions for purposes of comparison ? the very grouping of materials into concepts , and the weighting of these concepts in ordering one 's interpretation ? all can vary , yet remain valid for one or another purpose . A study which averages out the reactions of peasants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differently ? answering different questions ? from one which makes the distinction at the expense of clarity with regard to their common responses ; a study arranging political events by reigns will legitimately read differently from one ordering them by cycles of prosperity . It is thus unlikely that any one elaboration can even at best represent all viewpoints , assuming that would be desirable . Accordingly , historical writings will vary not only through the error and exploratory unsoundness at the frontiers of research , but in the most established areas , where many works must complement each other . As the perfect roundness of a circle can only be approximated to , in our measuring , by the infinite sides of a polygon , so in history ? and perhaps in other fields as well , as they become more complex ? a balanced view of a field will only be multiply achieved . Bury 's notes , superseding details of Gibbon 's Rome , corrects errors in view of better research , but it is otherwise with the difference between a modern historian who sees in Byzantium the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort , and on the other hand Gibbon 's triumph of barbarism and religion ? an orientation which continues to have its own validity . This situation imposes on historians , however , the obligation not only of looking to the accuracy of their details , but of recognizing the limitations on the relevance of their treatments imposed by the limitations of their particular formulations . This is an obligation reviewers seem to have to point out too often , for too often a historian writes as if his particular presentation were a total and ultimate one , and makes false deductions as a result , at points where his work is inherently not relevant . Of sound works , it is said that one treatment supplements another ; only in textbooks , where not so much an insight as a sort of commentary on hoped-for future reading is often desired , is there an attempt at least to mention all the major points of view in a field of inquiry , as throwing diverse but equally valid light on the matter . Relevance of what is historically negative to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide and subtle sense of perspective is a crucial intellectual virtue in the study of large-scale questions . This has a somewhat dangerous corollary : we must be as closely aware of " stagnant " cultural life as of florescent ; we must study decline equally with progress . If we are aware of the spiritual danger in what is done , this need not be harmful . But there is sufficient tendency to do just that without such awareness to occasion a caveat . Our historical consciousness , formed by Renaissance standards , has divided civilization ( with increasing hesitancy ) into classical ages and dark ages . The dichotomy was extended when we came to study not only Europe but Islam , India , China ; we concentrated on the formative florescences , on the great and glorious innovators . That we now are running after all sorts of exotic growths , in art or in history either one , may well reflect a faltering of our taste ? which indeed will have first appeared as early as the time when the Romantics discovered the European Middle Ages . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a study of Oikoumenic history , requiring as it does attention to the details of every sort of age . Nevertheless , the study has its justification , even for the understanding of the " classical ages " itself , and for the purest taste . The historical significance of an unconscious whole But large-scale history , however important , has its theoretical obstacles even when its validity on the level of inquiry has been granted . If history is // to be regarded as the study of human action in the historical dimension , is not the study of much that must go to make up large-scale history a matter not of history , but of social science , or even of biology ? to be drawn upon by the historian ? ad hoc , when it comes to his attention , but forming no essential part of his work ? In large-scale historical processes , three levels of movement are at work , all of which ought at best to be taken into account in evaluating what happens . In most of these areas , we are grossly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without holding such movements in mind , we can scarcely hope to pose appropriately the problem presented by such phenomena as florescences , declines , and the like . Aware of them , we can at least see the dimensions of the problems . On the first level are what may be called extra-historical events ? matters purely of climate , of disease mutations , of mutations among hominids , and the like . On a semi-historical level , unforeseen and unseen results of human actions , are such matters as changes in climate and resources resulting from human activity ; diseases whose course is changed by human adjustments and wanderings ; the demographic results of long-term migrations ; effects on popular attitudes of drug uses among large sections of some populations ; effects on health of food patterns resulting from economic organization ; family ( and hence educational ) patterns ; and of course the cumulation of technological invention . On a more strictly historical level , in that it is a question of conscious human action even though the results are here also commonly unforeseen , may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or social institutions ; intellectual and spiritual openings and unfoldings of new implications ; economic expansions and alterations in types of activity , at least where this is a local matter . Now all of these sorts of development are partly blind , many of them quite unconscious ; and no lines can very strictly be drawn among them . They all contribute to the development of history ; no large-scale development can be properly understood without them . Certainly , if our history is to be centered on human achievement and failure , all these movements must be analyzed in connection with the primary questions which stir the historian : with the questions , who are we , we men , and what have we done . But in pursuing these questions , all these less immediate problems will be found to be strictly interdependent on the historical level . A human historical act is , after all , not merely the conscious aspects thereof . It is the whole of the act , including the dumb matter acted upon and the conditions which make the act turn to something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to be most under control . // It is , then , in the perspective of interregional historical studies that the historical discipline can find its principles of integration . And the central feature of interregional history is the Oikoumenic configuration ; for there is no real stopping point between essentially parochial studies and the Oikoumene itself . A pure presentation of the development of the interregional configuration would not be , in the best sense , properly a history , though it might possess the dramatic interest of a panorama . It is rather a tool for historical investigation , making possible certain sorts of perspective . ( A young economic geographer was lately complaining of the difficulty of escaping national limitations even in presenting European history , and cited in support the results of a demographic study of the Ruhr-Belgian-North French coal belt in the nineteenth century which brought out interesting material unavailable on the basis of conventional division by nations . Means of insuring international perspective are required for European history still , despite the presence there of a common set of institutions , and the existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult , and wanting , are means for insuring interregional perspective ! ) There is needed a palpable basis for interregional outlook and orientation , a concrete picture to which a scholar can turn ; this the study of the Oikoumenic interregional configuration can provide . Even though the ' Oikoumene as such does not form a regular historical specialty in the sense that the study of a particular linguistically marked complex of higher culture forms a full-fledged historical field , it is a distinct subject , the elaboration of which must require the special attention of interested scholars . Awareness of such an interregional configuration will offer in any historical study ? whether locally regional , or quite general ? both direct and indirect advantages . On the one hand it will allow evaluation of the effect of the total interregional situation in limiting and in evoking local possibilities of development . This applies especially in the case of events and developments ? e.g. , in military , commercial , and even scientific and other cases , of a directly interregional character ( for instance , the Mongol conquests ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guidance as to the interregional ramifications of a particular development , and generally its interregional character as ramification of developments elsewhere ? e.g. , in the study of the causes and conditions ( both why 's and why not 's ) of interregional " influences " ( supplementing the study of the conditions of those influences found within the affected cultures themselves ) . When it comes to this second type of advantage , it is not necessarily // obvious that the separate working out in many areas of a common historical impulse , and even the contrasting responses or lack of them to a common historical situation , have serious historical meaningfulness ; that it is important to be aware of the ramifications and unconscious convergences of particular developments outside a specified social framework . The tracing of the Hellenistic ( via Buddhist ) impulse in Chinese are , for instance , seems to have little organic relation any more to the Hellenistic culture itself , and it may seem futile to treat all the ramifications of that art as a single " interregional development . " But to understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart of history ? the point at which the human spirit enters into its processes ? in the unfolding historical dimensions of life , one must seek out the relevance and fate of these visions in the concrete historical development in which they were involved . One of the beauties of history , more than in biography proper , is that it illuminates the condition humaine by bringing out the priorly unknowable implications of a purpose which result from its being worked out on the same stage with contrasting purposes ? to the effect that each vision means something other in its full historical context at last from what it could mean taken biographically . In history played on an interregional stage , these long-range unknowns enter in to humble even the largest of social visions ? thus , what Islam has ultimately meant humanly , in its vast career , is very different , above all in Oikoumenic perspective , from what its most far-sighted creators expected . The importance of this sort of significance to ordinary historians is evident in the little " onlies " and " remarkables " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come under their pen , and which so often look parochial from a wider viewpoint . And surely a philosophic historian may be glad for information which helps him to trace the unfolding of an idea , the essence of a situation , beyond the limits imposed by the consciousness of contemporary actors . The history of Western Europe ought especially to profit from an interregional perspective , not only in the direct sense , in that the Oikoumeneic interregional situation as a whole has constantly had its effect on what was possible in Europe ; not only in the sense that Western history as such has been particularly distorted in its sequence and character through the Westward distortion described in chapter one of this book , but more generally , because the peculiarly eccentric character of the West ? it was so long a dependent frontier , so suddenly a center of world transformation , but almost never developed in and for itself alone ? has meant that the human significance of Western history is more than usually tied in with a wider setting . Though for want of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history tive disposition of that wider world the need has never been met in terms much more concrete than Hegel 's , one would suppose a primary interest in a history of the West would be precisely to trace our weird role in the world at large . 12 Conditions of historical comparison among ages and regions The limitations of their validity Large-scale history must find a great deal of its moral significance , in contrast to a sociological study of historical dynamics , in disciplining moral comparisons . As we have seen , it is in large measure the human need to make comparisons that make historical study of the big questions ? which are directly or indirectly commonly matters of comparison ? inescapable . This is not necessarily a matter of invidious comparisons . All moral evaluation , positive or negative , is a tissue of comparisons ; we build our very self-identity upon comparison with what is not ourselves . To deal with the individual is to deal with the individual in a moral sense ? individuality has ultimately no inherent significance save on that level ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ norms of some sort ; and comparison with norms is but one aspect of a wider process of mutual comparison of diverse individuals . We know Leonardo is great by comparing his work with that of other painters . It has not been a false instinct , but the very mission of history , which has led historians to regard moral judgment of their heroes as a primary duty ; and though the old-style explicit summing-up be no longer in vogue , the implicit judgment in terms of which our modern narratives are constructed is ? as is the case with the novel , from which our new way was learned ( not from natural science ! ) ? more , and not less , rich in its moral analysis , if done well at all . Accordingly , one of the major tasks of large-scale history is to develop the grounds for criticizing historical comparisons . It must criticize above all the units valid for various sorts of historical comparison , and the contexts in terms of which comparison can be relevant . But ? for comparison always implies some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such valid elements of unity in history as may exist . In what ways does the historical field form a legitimate common context for the purposes of wide-ranging comparisons ? 267 // The unity of history as ground of comparisons In my experiences teaching Islamic civilization to non-specialist students , I tried to get them to appreciate the cultural monuments of all kinds ( literature , art , institutions , etc. ) ? a major object of historical study ; but what they had to depend on as guides in approaching new material were such generalizations as they came across ( for they could not remember many detailed facts long ) . To be sure , they remembered the simplest and most in accord with the prejudices of the environment ; yet there were so many of these amateurish generalizations in what I had to have them read ! It is precisely the " asides " ( from the viewpoint of a detail-historian ) , the comparisons ? that were crucial in the course : e.g. , Meyerhof , " Arabian science like moon and stars between two European days " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning . Scholars dare not leave such matters ? the whole point of their work ? to undisciplined " asides " based on uncriticized world images . Proper comparison is the foundation of historical judgment . The very selection of historically significant subjects is a matter of comparisons , of course ? it is pointless to spend labor ascertaining the circumstances surrounding Michelangelo 's various works unless we are assured he is a greater painter than Aunt Suzie . More relevantly to our present purposes , it is essential to compare the right sort of units ; that they be on a single scale . For most purposes , it would be misleading to compare on the one hand the painting of the high Renaissance in Italy , and on the other hand every kind of French visual art , in all periods from the medieval to the modern . Moreover , even when one has the right units of comparison , their treatment , the framing of questions about them , is equally a matter of sound comparison . In a discussion of Michelangelo in Italian Renaissance art , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in itself call for much comment , for in this point he does not differ from other Renaissance artists . On the other hand , if more recent painters are involved in the discussion , his stress on the human form becomes more important , Here soundness of comparison calls for more than a sense of proportion in the items immediately under discussion ; it calls for an understanding of a wider context . One must not compare Michelangelo with some modern seascape painter , say , simply in point of their choice of the human and natural forms without being aware that their choices were shared with others in their respective times , lest the comparison be irrelevant to any significant questions about the two painters them selves . The process of comparison must be disciplined so that by choic= of comparable units of comparison and by awareness of relevant contex // we can know what are the significant questions ? what is and what is not a problem . So soon as one or both of the members of a comparison are involved in or influenced by such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken into account . In a comparison , for instance , between Viking and Polynesian explorations , the much closer association of the Vikings with the technology , trade , and even politics of the wider Oikoumenic zone can not be ignored in evaluating both the naval problems involved and the final results . Being part of the Oikoumenic zone meant initially a constant contact with a wider society of relatively rapidly changing cultural level : during the centuries of exploration , home conditions changed significantly . The rise of kingdoms in the Scandinavian states , and their Christianization , affected both the motives for expansion , and the types of relationship retained with the original centers . Norse trade with the Middle East and with Europe provided a changing basis for alternative estimation of the gains of exploration . And finally , the Viking colonies were either absorbed into their corner of the Oikoumene or lost ; that there was no dispersal into persisting isolated communities was partly the result of geography , but partly the result of the high degree of far-flung interdependence that Viking life was involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several degrees . A comparison between West-Europeans and Mexicans at the time of Columbus which left out of account the wide non-European background of Europe would be obviously unfair if used , as it has been used , to deprecate the native abilities of the Mexicans . In the case of peoples only marginally associated with the Oikoumene , where one is more closely involved than another , there may be equal unfairness involved in a straight comparison , or unsoundness in evaluating influences , potentialities , or courses of development . In any such case , it may be necessary to recognize the particular conditions of the Oikoumenic configuration at the time of the comparison , and how they relate to the member that is more closely linked to the Oikoumene : whether interregional trade by literate peoples is a serious factor or not , whether an atmosphere of receptivity for a universal religion is to be expected or not etc . Thus a comparison of some remoter people with the pagan Arabians in Hellenistic times ? when under unusual circumstances they might produce a Zenobia , and the civic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same as a comparison with the likewise pagan Arabians in Christian times , when under unusual circumstances they might produce Muhammad and the other prophets of his time ; for quite apart from any // internal differences in the Arabians ' life at the two times , the allOikoumeneic influences they were subjected to differed , and differed in decisive ways . To be sure , in such cases one can take into account the broader historical environment piecemeal , noting the European environment of the Vikings , or the Middle Eastern environment of the Arabians . The Vikings to be sure were in some touch directly with the Middle East , and the Arabians with India . But such further contacts can be likewise taken into account ad hoc , without any attention being paid to the Oikoumene as a whole . The reasons for bearing in mind the Oikoumenic configuration at large are in part to assure a full view of possibly relevant elements , and in part to assure a proper sense of proportion . These reasons are especially weighty in the case of comparisons between situations both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history is above all interdependence , in ages and regions , in terms of the problems posed ( ultimately , indeed , the problems posed to the historian as inquirer ? though this depends in part on problems posed to the men in the past ) , rather than of the human action taken to solve them ? the materialist historian 's unity from below rather than the idealist 's unity from above ( a higher unity ) ; but ultimately the two unities are two faces of one coin , since the problems are problems only by virtue of their being the objects of action ; while action from above has a moral obligation to follow the unity of its problems even when this is not fulfilled ? even where it is not fulfilled in our own times . It is the awareness of irreversible progression in nature and history that has made the question of the unity of history a matter no longer of negative relevance the ruling out of something elsewhere of importance prior to that of what one is here involved in ? but a matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Its effects on the bases of comparison I have sketched the ways in which the Westward distortion , as one effect of the want of interregional perspective , has distorted our several received interpretations of history . It will be suggestive to classify five types of interregional motif , considering briefly some of the problems arising in using them . There are , in the first place , common events . The Indo-European migr- , r tions of the " Renovation " and " Subversion " periods , the Mongol Empire , the Black Plague are obvious examples of this type of motif , and here the interregional effects , and often the interregional causes , of the events are clear . Inevitably in such cases even regional histories delve into broader fields . In connection with such motifs , however , it is useful to include " accidental " material ? that is , events outside the pattern of that motif itself , though of course it may share common causes with it in common circumstances . Such are the Turkish conquests in the Middle East previously to , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as are in the same way the Crusades . Each movement has a bearing on all the others , in this case in terms of strength of various states ; moreover , in any common results of the main event , they will have modifying and supplementing effects ? Turks did for India what Tungus started in China and Mongols finished ; and both Turks and Tungus can then usefully be associated with the Mongol conquest , though in themselves not events common to many regions . This kind of accidental relation among otherwise local motifs only serves to bring out that any one motif is an abstraction from a far more complicated network ; that some elements in the network must be treated as relatively accidental is purely a matter of convenience . It is to be noted further that many things can be treated from the point of view of being a common event . The Near Eastern Imperial Tradition , for instance , from Sargon to Alexander , both as a developer of administrative methods , and as a recurrent center of cultural mixing , serves as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the whole IndoMediterranean area . In a different way the development of the pseudosciences , alchemy , geomancy , astrology , can , to the extent that they share ideas interregionally , be considered under the form of a common event , detrimental perhaps to the pure sciences , and in their progressive development having a distinct impact on the cultures . In these latter cases , however , it would be only as an incidental way of throwing light on them that they might be considered as common interregional events ; they will be more easily handled as other types of motif . Another evident type of interregional motif is that of paralled developments : the flowering of individual thought in the " Liberation Period , " the evolution of scriptural religions , the development of supra-governmental law . Cases of simple comparison come in here , as that of India and China in the " Liberation Period " : we can compare Ch'in with the Punjab , Ch'u with Magadha both in point of philosophy and political role , and then compare the victory of Ch'in with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the resultant empires . But such amusing speculations are not the gist of interregional study under this head . If we compare the intellectual traditions of Greek , Sanskrit , and presumably Magian peoples in the " Consolidation Period , " for instance , there is probably a common Indo-European background , and almost cer- tainly an interrelated local background against which to compare them . Here we have presumably common conditions and circumstances involved ; treating the events as parallel and comparable is simply the easiest way to get at a difficult problem , when the common conditions are hard to study by themselves . It is probably ineffective to consider such parallel developments in terms of a predetermined stage that cultures must go through , which will be arrived at independently at a fixed time . Clearly , for instance , there is not an inherent urge which sets off the development of supragovernmental law at a certain point ? Roman law , the laws of Mani grow perhaps roughly at the same centuries , but only roughly ; Muslim , Christian , and developed Hindu codes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the middle of the first millennium ; but there is no fixed point at which they do so , or any fixed manner . However , the development of scriptural religion and of the large-scale state , of critical philosophy and of economic modes is similar among them all , and , especially in economic matters , more or less constantly interacting and forced to a mutual accommodation , it is to be expected that in such can be found grounds for a roughly contemporaneous development of stable law . Such mutual accommodation over a long period of time does not make for immediate and personal relations among participants in a movement , and so for strict contemporaneity of generation , any more than it does for an originally harmonized pattern . Yet it is likely to be of fundamental importance in determining the course of any broadly significant movements . I t is unlikely that any major type of development in one area will fail eventually to be felt among its neighbors in some form or other , and to be accommodated to at last throughout the interlinking Oikoumeneic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noticed supports such a supposition . A consequence of this , incidentally , is that in studying interregional comparabilities it is not necessarily the outstanding galaxies in each culture that must be compared , but to gain a true picture often lesser but comparable figures in one with greater in another . If science is at certain times of special preeminence in Persia , and less so in the Punjab ? or if mysticism develops greater names in the Punjab than in Persia ? nevertheless in each case Punjabi science and Persian mysticism will be fruitfully studied to discover interregional relationships here at work . A third classification of interregional motifs can be called supraregional : they are those developments which by affecting the conditions of the whole affect incidentally each region . The most obvious instance // of such a supra-regional motif is the expansion of the Oikoumeneic civilizations . As civilizations gradually extended their sway , they brought about changes in the " balance of power " between barbarism and the cities , so that by neither a common event , nor by direct interrelations , a common effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days of Attila differ from those of Genghis Khan in that in the latter 's day Central Asia was swamped with civilization : an added feeling of nomadic vengeance combined with an immediate use of the full techniques of civilization to make the Mongol conquest quite different from the Hunnic , and productive of entirely different subsequent results . Chinese , Europeans , and Iranians , even Indian Buddhists , had combined quite unconsciously to make the whole continent a changed place , with changed results . Similarly , by the time the Western Metamorphosis was under way it was only the more isolated regions of the Hemisphere that had not been explored by Arabs or Chinese or Indians , and to which the basic trade routes and means of exploitation had been already opened up ; one might hazard the guess that only in the second half of the Second Millennium , when this was done , was the European world conquest possible . Similarly possessed of a supraregional quality is the cumulative progress that continues through thick and thin . In such times as the " Revision Period , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be little of a spectacular nature , yet the introduction of silk , the Diophantine mathematics , and the continuous itemic improvements in law , medicine , and administration , religion and art , add up at last to the body of material , possessed ultimately interregionally , on which such a movement as the Islamic florescence , or the Western Metamorphosis , appear . Indeed , many developments have an aspect that could be looked at in this way . The rise of coinage throughout the zone in the first millennium B.C. , apparently in independence , changes the conditions of interregional trade to a degree , at least indirectly , by its affects on internal trade , at last directly ; again , the problem of centralization faced and met by so many separate governments at different times has its bearing on the total course at last of interregional movements . A convenient fourth type of motif is the activity motif ; cases where a particular activity involves interregional relationships . Good examples here are the course of science , and the development of monastic ideals insofar as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one another ( even their pious emulation had its interfaith aspects ) : whether monasticism begins in India or not , it is an activity common to many areas , with its particular and often intermingling carriers . Especially interesting as an interregional activity is the commercial exploitation of the Indian Ocean basin . From Zanzibar to Malacca , religious , commercial , and philosophical strains from many cultures and areas interweave to form by the " Reconstruction Period " an area quite distinctive and almost unified in respect simply to these interregional activities . As a fifth type of interregional motif I suggest the regional focus . Very frequently a region serves a particular interregional role , its very position and inner condition becoming a continuing motif of more general history . Thus Gupta India , in " Revision " times , gathers into it impulses from around it , and retransmits them in all directions , a focus for many trends , as well as productive of its own . In comparatively recent times Africa beyond the Sahara has served as a meeting ground for Muslim and Christian missionaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its exploitable condition have played an interregional role . On the contrary , the gradual civilization of Central Asia made it the more powerful as a center of conquest of surrounding areas , perhaps ; at any rate , its position and military quality have made it a conquering center since earliest times , and as a region it has that interregional role . An eccentric case of a region playing a role as such in interregional history is that of the early Occident , which through Rome became the seat of the Mediterranean Empire , and influenced the Middle East and indirectly farther parts of the Oikoumenic Zone in its nouveau-riche manner . Indeed , every new region has an interregional role of some importance , like that of Russia as it gradually developed to the point of quite transforming the fronter problems of both the Latins and the Byzantines ; or that of the Far South East , with its focal role in commerce . Throughout Oikoumenic times the geographical position of the Middle East , at the very least , made it a central focus for the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the southeast , the sea routes to the Indies and the land routes to the Far East , Africa on the south and Russia and Central Asia on the north . Even Buddhism seems to have spread from India to China first through Iran , so that it was Parthians who first translated from Sanskrit to Chinese . The place of developments in the Middle East , and of the Middle East in developments , is a theme carrying consistently through Oikoumenic history ; tha t region is not only literally a Mecca of civilization . These five types of motif , of course , are anything but mutually exclusive or categorically exhaustive . They are rather alternative ways of con sidering interregional phenomena . They serve to point out , at any rate , the variety and complexity of interregional factors . Thus , a specific interregional history will want to give in general each region and each // period its due . It will inevitably emphasize perspective and context , rather than the specific origin of institutions , perhaps best left to more local histories . For the interpretation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can give which will determine the treatment of motifs . Whatever one 's general orientation to world history , however , the monographic problems will be similar . These world-historical problems require treatment independently , over and beyond the treatment they may incidentally receive by specialists in this or that region . Interregional history deserves attention upon its own merits . There must be more studies of " influences , " of course , and generally of relationships among cultures . But these will not fully serve the purpose so long as they are limited in outlook to only one region ? e.g. , how has India influenced Europe ? Yet , regarded from a world viewpoint , even these limited studies will have a place among the innumerable studies of every sort that must arise in tracing interregional affairs . For many of all these will be pursued within a very local field ; only the purpose which informs the inquiry will be world-historical . What matters is that this purpose emerge with clarity . To this end , scholarship in interregional history must become more aware of its special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overlap the regional cultures , but within a region cultural elements are frequently too intermingled to allow of treatment solely in terms of mutually exclusive regions . It will limit our view of the time to treat the various aspects of Gupta India as intelligible only within the limits of that society , or as matters of incidental impingement of that society on others ; for India in Gupta times is a center of cultural activity whose full meaning and results can be seen only in connection with the condition of the rest of the world at the time . A study of Hellenistic art will cut right across Gupta India , linking it on the one hand with earlier times to the west , and on the other hand with its own times to the northeast and southeast , which it is influencing . The same could be said of Hellenistic science , and here the influences leading out of Gupta India and of the succeeding centuries are westward as well as northward and southward . For commerce the India of early centuries A.D. was center for influences out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and north . The Buddhist and Hindu religions came out of India itself , Hinduism spreading particularly east , and Buddhism in Gupta times especially north and west . Colonization and commercial development from south India influenced the Indies and Indochina even more than their trade influenced lands // further west and north . In many instances , as in the case of the colonization and of the intense Buddhist activity of north India , the effects were ultimately felt much more in other areas , the Far East and the far South East , than in India itself . In short , India in Gupta times acted as a focusing and redistributing center for many trends and movements , almost like a hub of the whole Oikoumenic Zone for a time . To deal with India in that period as essentially a self-contained cultural region would be to miss a wealth of significance in what was going on . A different type of circumstance , though even more obvious , in which a regional approach is insufficient , is that of the " marginal " regions which , while having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also exhibit a bewildering confusion of regional cultures within themselves . The interaction of cultural elements from the Far East , from India , from the Middle East , and from the modern West , combined with distinctive developments of its own , have made the far South East a remarkable region to challenge handling in terms of the exclusive culture patterns . As in the case of its growth into an imperial preserve of modern seapowers , so in most other ways the development of Indochina and Malaysia can be viewed only in terms of the interactions of many cultures , themselves not behaving in fully distinct ways . The various religions that have passed over the area are recalled by Hindu Bali , last remnant of the earliest doctrine ; the Hinayana Buddhist mainland ; Mahayana Buddhist sculptures in the islands it once so painfully won from Hinduism only to lose again ; the Loyal Islam of the archipelago ; and the Christianity of the Philippines , which were imperfectly covered by the older faiths , and left for the late corner . In literature , art , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deserved the name Indo-China ; while under it all Toynbee at least can see an independent Hinayana culture surviving through the ages . It seems absurd to try to reduce the kaleidoscopic changes in the most characteristic elements of culture to incidental relations of larger regions ; for it is evident that a continuity of cultural development is forced on the area by time and space . Java and Sumatra , when fighting for and against Buddhism , were not in completely different circles of intelligibility ; and when Java adopted the Sumatran faith , Javanese culture did not change its basic position in the world overnight . Malacca and Singapore have long been crossroads of mankind , whatever their faith or tongue , and can be understood only in terms of Oikoumenic and now global development . A composite region like that ? another example is Central Asia , where Buddhism , Christianity , and Islam have all prevailed , and many region .. have been joined with politically and socially ? will manifestly present .1 minimum of advantage to a regional study , and a maximum of light will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems . An ambiguous case like Russia requires interregional light in a different manner . Russian history does not fit into the categories for the most part of the Latin West , but in recent centuries has been so bound up with it as to be inseparable , in certain respects , at least between the times of Peter the Great and Lenin . On the other hand , Russia had not been intelligible simply as an outpost of Byzantium . Yet it can never be divorced intelligibly either , from South or from West . As in the case of the far South East , the only solution is to develop a more general framework within which Russia can find a place ; but , whereas in Indonesia interregional trade and other such interactions will be of major importance as factors in terms of which the region develops its particular forms , in Russia , no doubt , greater scope can be allowed for internal cultural development , and interregional relations in the form of geographic balance or of common events and developments impinging on Russia will be instead a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the problem of relative spheres of a regional approach and of an interregional approach in understanding the relations of the various regions . It is sometimes suggested that whatever may be said of the objective correlations and regularities , the " causal " development of cultures , their human significance is to be sought , if anywhere , only within a particular culture , whose forms are to be interpreted as a common whole ; that any relations among these , while they may have profound causal effect on the various cultures , have no significance except in terms of the particular worlds of meaning identified exclusively with each culture . This point must be accorded due respect , as it is an important part of a general recognition among us that without immediate value , the indirect knowledge of science is dead ; that no consensus gentium pragmaticorum , no evaluation by a congress of general semantics is adequate in human affairs . Nevertheless , the ordinary formulation of it in terms of exclusive cultures leaves much of human history in the lurch ? the Far South East , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture which are not highly " integrated " in Sorokin 's sense . It concentrates on finding meaning for men only in the general cultural configurations , noting only in passing that of course life has meaning for people in all sorts of connections , whether their individual personalities or their cultural backgrounds are highly integrated or not . // The units of historical comparison Several sorts of historical complexes The historical complexes peculiarly relevant to world history are the largest units of historical activity isolable short of the world taken as a whole ( world history defined as those historical processes which involve so much the greater part of mankind that their study from the perspective of any localized area , such as Europe or the Far East , must remain fragmentary ) . Some examples of the several sorts of concepts of historical complex follow , with appropriate roles of each . ( a ) The Oikoumene ? the civilized zone of Eurasia and northern Africa , which gradually expands during the millennia from ca. 3000 B.C. to recently ? is a major historical complex ; but for good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Oikoumene must be dealt with : ( b ) A " civilization " is the commonest unit generally used ? a matter of common backgrounds and current interrelation , a common social-cultural context in which art is created , institutions modified , and so forth , cultural matters outside of which are not as such much present to the consciousness . ( Two common limiting features are : common religion or common classical and/or polite languages . ) " Civilizations " are appropriate units to use from the point of view of internal spiritual and intellectual evolution and its dialectic ? art , institutional economy , religion , philosophy , even in this respect science . ( c ) A " region " is a geographical area ( in which historical considerations determine its delimitations ) of common interactions , relatively free of major physical barriers to communication or interactions ? which may include strongly contrasting cultures in juxtaposition ( e.g. , IndochinaMalaysia or the coexistence of Chinese and the Yunnan Thais ) . " Regions , " including the Oikoumene , are useful units from the point of view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively external to the cultural development proper . ( d ) A " cultural area , " for " area-studies , " has less historical than cross-sectional considerations delimiting it , including those of physical geography and geology perhaps ( e.g. , the geographers ' Middle East ) . A " culture-area " is useful for coordination of various disciplines , especially for planning . ( without necessarily constant contact among different parts ( e.g. , Japan and China ) ; two : " India-Middle East-Europe " and " Far East " ; for four , Fa r East , India , Middle East , Europe . This concept may be useful from the point of view of underlying institutions and their transformations , anthropology , comparative studies , and so forth . // Regionality Every cultural complex of wide enough scope to be reckoned a " civilization " is prevalent over what may be called a " region . " But there are many other regions that can not readily be defined in terms of a given civilization . For instance , much can be said about the Middle East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and if one can , indeed , speak of " Middle Eastern civilization " ( for instance , in the seventh century when civilization in that area is being transformed into what will then be called Islamic ) , it is because we are aware of the region first , as an area of identifiable cultural traditions ; and so can be led to refer to a " civilization " characteristic of that region at any given time , though from first to last such a civilization may vary enormously . Again , India is a clear region which can be discussed in Indo-Muslim times despite that fact that it is only a part of the " Hindu civilization " ? indeed , the very question , " is there a common and distinctive civilization in India then ? " presupposes that there is a common historical complex ? a region of historical interactions . For a region in our particular discussion is merely an area of historical interrelations and interactions , closely-knit enough so that many questions can be dealt with in its terms without spreading out to a still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Oikoumene . Hence a hodge-podge like the Far South East still forms a region , because Hindus , Buddhists , Muslims , and Confucians , and finally even Christians , lived out their history so much in each others ' hair that however different their cultural patterns they formed a common region . The proto-Thai of Yunnan , though not Chinese , formed for a while a part of the region of China , not because they participated in its culture , but because they were drawn into its history . The Oikoumene is the largest region . But smaller regions than it are what one is referring to when one says " interregional " ? and , so far as this is contrasted to " local , " the regions are the largest complexes usually isolable before one comes to the level of the Oikoumene , or at least of , say , the Indo-Mediterranean historical complex . Regions are more flexible to deal with than " cultures " because , while including them , they allow for many other sorts of cases . In designating usable regions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same traditional difficulty as in the case of the West . However , there is a problem , indicated for one thing by a lack of regional terminology . The only standard regional method we have in use now goes by continents , the only concession to cultural regionalism being to divide off Europe from the rest of Eurasia . This results in a concept , " Asia , " the miscellaneous remainder , which has no geographical , ethnographical , or political function , except to exalt the status of Europe as homologous to its vast self , and to confuse well-meaning professors who talk hopefully about wedding the " ideals of Asia " to the " skills of Europe . " 1 But these " continents , " not even useful for geological purposes , are hopeless for studying man . At least four-fifths of humankind live on the one continent Eurasia ; and to divide Eurasia into two as we have does not solve the problem , for though " Europe " is almost a reasonable region , the lumping all the rest together as " Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need we have evolved terms like " Near East , " " Middle East , " " Far East , " which are the best available yet ; but they are not clear even so , for all these terms have different meanings attached to them by different people . While for some the Near East is the area of the old Ottoman Empire , for others it is restricted to the Balkan Peninsula , and for others it expands to include Iran , since Iranian history is inevitably bound in with the general course of the Ottoman area . It is probably in this latter sense that it refers to an area most frequently useful for interregional purposes , though each of its meanings of courses has its uses . In this same expanded sense " Middle East " is now used by the British military , a term usually restricted in America to lands well east of the Mediterranean , and often extended even to include India . The Far East as a term is equally difficult , sometimes referring to the old Chinese and Japanese empires , sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to include , with India , half the human race , and so to become completely unwieldy . The term " West " is of course similarly ambiguous , being sometimes used in the sense of the nations of old Latin heritage , being sometimes expanded to include Russia and the Balkans , and sometimes contracted to refer to Britain , France , and Germany as against the " Central " German powers . But besides their ambiguity it is the common fault of these terms to preserve , in their form , the old division into " West " and " East , " for " Near East " and " Far East " inevitably suggest a correspondence to similar divisions within the " West . " The inadequacy of terms , of course , merely cloaks an inadequate regional equipment for use in interregional study . If interregional his- // tory is the study of those phenomena too wide to fit conveniently into any particular region , it is necessary for economy 's sake to know what regions hang well enough together to be dealt with on the regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regions , like the Far East and the Latin West , which form relatively constant parts of the Oikoumenic Configuration , are of particular use in orienting ourselves in the infinitely complex network of relations across the Zone . Perhaps the most significant of such regions are the Confucian Far East , the peninsula and island of the far South East , India and nearby areas , and vast reaches of Central Asia , the Middle East from the Nile and the Aegean through Iran , the Russian area , and the Occident . Certainly in addition to these are likely to be helpful at various times overlapping regions , the Sudan , the Mediterranean Basin , the Levant , for instance ; and for relatively many purposes certain subdivisions can be noted ? within Western Europe , the south around the Mediterranean , and the north on the Atlantic ; within India , the Deccan and the north ; within China , again , the south and the north , the Hoang-Ho Valley . It is still necessary to an understanding of the role of Oikoumenic conditions in interregional history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to each other . One can hardly , of course , think of the various regions as fixed entities ; nevertheless it is helpful to abstract fairly constant regions within the Oikoumenic Zone , within which regions there is a degree of cultural integration ? a common religion , during much of the time , a common literary heritage , and a common political framework . To a large extent the Zone divides itself up very conveniently into such regions , and there is a regular configuration which they form over many centuries , which while constantly growing and changing remains recognizable from the time of its formation in the first millennium s . C. till the Western Metamorphosis upsets it . For instance , the Confucian Far East forms from Chou times a distinct region in such a sense ? as it expands , new countries like Japan are not always incorporated directly under the imperial rule , but , recognizing common political standards , and often enough having a common reverence for Chinese imperial authority , Japan and China , as well as the lesser nations in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a literary and religious one . Moreover , in the Oikoumenic Configuration this Far Eastern region has for millennia the same general relations with other regions : overland immediately with Central Asia , and beyond the Middle East ; by several routes , but also by religious ties , with India ; by sea with the far South East , and thence with other seafaring regions . // For use in an interregional study in such a sense , it is likewise useful to define a region in the far west that is also fairly constant in these senses ; and in the Latin-using area such a region is ready waiting for us . In origin the term Occident applied to the western half of the Roman Empire , essentially Italy , Africa , Spain , and Gaul . The Greeks never considered themselves Westerners ; for them Delphi was the center of the world ; but the consciousness of cultural dependence drove the Latins to count themselves as west of center . ' In this western Mediterranean area with its hinterland to the north we have for the duration afterwards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studied as a cultural whole ; for in the main there has been a continuous Latin tradition over it all , except Punic Africa , though its center of gravity shifted northward as it grew . From the time when the various naval colonists , Phoenicians , Etruscans , or Greeks , were brought into the Latin empire , through the time when " Romania " of the west was divided into Germanic Christian kingdoms , through the rise of Carolingian and Papal power which brought uncertain hegemonies to the area , up till the time when the Concert of Europe was still recognized , the area maintained its cultural and to some degree or other its political unity against the rest of the world , be it Orthodox , Muslim , or further afield . To be sure , just what shall be considered regions for purposes of interregionality will be largely a matter of convenience . A study of the relations between northern Italy and southern France is likely to be considered a matter of general European interest , while the relations between northern Italy and southern are classed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the Latins and the Byzantines be considered either as local or as interregional . Conceivably a region inclusive of Africa and Europe could be set off from other regions , and its students study the several matters that such a region would have in common ; but this would probably not be convenient , and such study would probably be more fruitful if it were associated with other interregional study , as the lines of connection it would trace are scarcely more close than those among any other great areas . The regions themselves , and consequently the interregional field , are fairly well marked // out by the regional studies already done . Moreover , variable as the regions are , their function for the purposes of study persists . One can not assign Tibet to either the Far East or India or Central Asia at all times , or for all purposes at any one time . Nevertheless it is as part of one or another of such regions that we study Tibet when it enters into the broad movements that have covered the hemisphere . As being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alphabet , along with Italy and with Bengal ; as part of the Far East it is covered with Buddhist missionaries along with Parthia and with Japan ; as part of Central Asia it fights for control of the trade routes along with the Huns and with the Arabs . Periodiza t ion The different sorts of historical complexes bear different relations to time and periodization . " Regions " would have minimal time-delimitation ( though they are meaningless apart from human settlement patterns ) . " Culture-areas " would be present-oriented . " Civilized traditions " would be seen as persistent through the period of civilization , at least provisionally . " Civilizations " are the briefest and most fractionable sorts of worldscale historical complexes ; they , above all , can be regarded as having limits in space as well as in time ( points of relative discontinuity with regard to central features in terms of which the cultural context must be defined ) , e.g. , Islamic civilization , despite its continuity with the Sassanid , definitely is new in the 8th century ; or , to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one can fractionize down to a " civilization of the Renaissance in Italy and environs . " Just as the Oikoumenic Configuration needs to be clarified spatially , in the finding of suitable regions in terms of which to study it , it also must be clarified in time , so that a usable periodization is available to deal with its development as a whole . Of course , any overall periodization will have to be arbitrary , particularly in earlier periods , while the Configuration was only in process of formation . However , the only general periodizations at present in use are the Ancient-Medieval-Modern ages , and the centuries . The former slice off periods too big for use , even were they possessed of any natural significance for interregional affairs . The latter do not take advantage of what integration there is in the development of the Configuration , and so fail to be either suggestive or useful in marking off units that can be satisfactorily dealt with . The value of periodization consists in its abstracting lengths of time during which it is useful to deal with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the time of the flowering of individual thought , before referred // to , covered several centuries usefully compared together ; the same is true of the expansive and nationalistic movements of early modern times . Another useful element in periodization would be to have ages fairly uniform in length , even if not in creative content ; there is an advantage in recognizing a barren period as such ( if it be barren really ) , as we inevitably do , for instance , in a century periodization ; for barrenness needs to be explained and evaluated , too . Historical complexes in modern history For characterizing modern history , consciously appropriate kinds of historical complex must be selected according to the problem dealt with ; old categories are often misleading . Among those problems about the nature of modern culture history in which choice of sorts of historical complexes is relevant are the following : ( A ) those involving the selection of units of comparison , when modern phenomena are involved ; thus the comparison of " Western " and " Islamic " patterns , or " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , or ( better ) modern ( in the West or elsewhere ) and medieval ( Western or , e.g. , Islamic ) ; ( B ) those involving the envisaging of contexts of inquiry ; thus the interpretation of modern art within WestEuropean art since the Italian Renaissance , or within European art since the Archaic Greeks , or within the world-wide setting ( and various backgrounds ) of the modern transformation , since the 18th century ; and ( C ) hence in particular , problems of the explanation of what is distinctive in modern society , which involve defining what is modern , and defining what other units are comparable thereto and involve at the same time the setting of the context , intra-European or otherwise . Such problems can commonly not be envisaged in terms of the historical complexes generally used , since these commonly do not offer proper comparability with the modern situation : the Oikoumene itself has in effect ceased to exist as a continuing historical complex ? but it is useful for comparisons across time . " Regions " have come to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication having been transformed ; they are more local in importance ? having been replaced in effect by " culture-areas , " of limited usefulness in analyzing the past , as noted . " Civilized traditions " institutional study and comparison is adequately relevant only within a period ( between the advent of civilization and the modern transformations ) when the type of institution they presented had basic continuity ; hence not in the modern setting except in a limited degree . As to " civilizations , " for most such purposes it will be necessary to regard the several historical civilizations ( including // the West ) as having come to an end with the advent of the great " Western " or " Modern " transformations . They have been superseded by a new type of historical complex , world-wide , and not necessarily comparable with any of the old civilizations ? which must be compared as a historical complex with any that are of use , according to the requirements of a particular question ? with the Oikoumene , or with any of the pre-modern civilizations . Orators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are accordingly for the most part dangerously misformulated ! Creativity and decadence Cultural creativity and cultural decadence both happen all the time , but are usually neither of them predominant ? for cultural conservatism is . ( We must distinguish between decline of creativity from an efflorescence and actual regression . This is especially easy in science and scholarship generally , but also holds in art and perhaps even in politics . ) The question is , when does one or the other , by exception , become predominant , in an epoch of flowering ( which is afterwards looked on as classical ) , or in an epoch of decay ( as distinct from epigonism ? Either flowering or decay may take place in individual fields ; the civilization as such is characterizable so only when key fields ( key for that civilization or for purposes of a specific inquiry ) decay or flower , and the civilization as a whole reflects this ? and here decay may happen with or without a corresponding flowering of something new . A civilization may be defined as the cultural pattern formed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? hence such flowering periods are of special importance ; but also , a civilization may be defined in societal terms , in which case the above becomes merely a special case ? but an important one , and perhaps a type-case . The cultural creativity of modern times is a special case ? only partly matched by the Classical flowerings ( and lesser ones throughout Oikoumenic history ) or even by the original settings up of civilizations ? in that to a greater degree than before cultural creativity has become institutionalized ? measuring cultural creativity and regression by level of taste , knowledge , and skill , and by the structure of institutions supporting these ( including for these purposes justice as one cultural activity measurable in these terms ) . Cultural florescence ( with special rules in addition for art and science ) will happen when the persistent forces of disruption become strong enough to overcome the powers of authority without being so overwhelming as to // suppress in their turn the equally persistent forces of creation , while cultural decadence is of two main types . The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state structure or art form or whatever , by the law of Exhaustion ? the stalemate whereby one would have to descend to a lower level ( anarchy , of government or art ) to break a deadlock created by an overworked form ( of taste , of authority , etc . ) . This is so alike in point of ( a ) art forms like the baroque where art can not persist in the classic form because new generations ' taste demands something fresh , but can not be crude as would be demanded by a truly fresh start on a line for which taste is not yet developed ; and in ( b ) point of politics , where a constitution has become out-of-date but so entrenched that its modification without recourse to crude political forms is impossible ? e.g. , the alienation of lands for monks and lay lords in late Byzantium ; or even ( c ) in science , where a theoretical structure is more readily heavily and at last stranglingly amended rather than dangerously overthrown ? e.g. , the Ptolemaic system , for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Exhaustion can mean mere conservatism , or can contribute to actual regression , e.g. , by barring the path of better minds and turning them elsewhere . The second type is decadence which occurs by a persistently effective dominance of the forces either of disruption or , in certain cases at least , of cultural suppression , e.g. , puritanism . ( Decadence and creativity in science is a special case ; for science is especially dangerous to the status quo ; hence most intellectual orientations , whether religious or as in the case of Confucianism esthetic , are anti-scientific . Hence science can flourish only when the power of the intellectual status quo is somehow in abeyance . Art also is a special case from the point of view of flourishing and decline , for apart from iconoclasms which hit only certain media it is always in demand and hence has a way of chronically being at high levels , subject only to internal developments of particular tastes coming gradually to climax and then becoming overripe . Hence to judge general decadence or flowering by either science or art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at best is decadence ; where growth does not make up for loss is decline . What is called decadent includes : ( a ) in art and religion , the corruption of taste by accustomment to specialized highly developed standards , features whereof will be falsely exaggerated to produce a seeming freshness ; ( b ) in political institutions , corruption of judgment by dependence on established patterns of power rather than the inherent sources of it ; ( c ) in economic life , decline of enterprise in favor of security , but on an enterprise level ( as versus primitive ) ; ( d ) in intellectual life , dependence on past masters rather // than on one 's own initiative . Decadence is the normal state ot , 11 1 . 1 1 i n human culture once a high level has been reached ? correlated on the subjective side with a systematization of the universal feeling that the younger generation is going to the dogs . The question is always : whit makes a culture escape this in one or more aspects ? To what degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What sorts of correlations are there between decadence as defined above ( which almost equals conservatism ) and decline in a more absolute sense ( e.g. , actual loss of knowledge ) , other than the fact that since loss is continuous , then if it is not balanced by growth it causes outright decline . 13 Interregional studies as integrating the historical disciplines The practical implications of an interregional orientation for scholars and for the public It will have become evident in the course of this whole study that an interregional historical outlook is long overdue and must have farreaching effects . If it is true that interregional history lies at the heart of the mission of the historical profession as a whole , its pursuit will be important not only for itself , but for all branches of historical study . In any case , a better orientation in it has implications for a still wider circle ? that of the lay public ( for whom in any case historians labor ) . It will not be amiss to stress certain aspects of the practical implications of the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then to suggest means of introducing a truer interregional perspective into the profession and thence to the public at large . The want of an adequate basis for interregional perspective can not be completely filled through tracing the development of the Oikoumenic configuration . Nevertheless , this can contribute to making it easier to gain that perspective in general , and so to an improvement in all the many cases where that want makes itself felt . I hope that the sheer massing of examples in which such a perspective is wanting will have underlined its urgency ? examples both old and new , for though some of the blatancy of the old is no longer in fashion , it serves to remind us of the attitudes underlying much thinking that we still take for granted , and which must be consciously uprooted if it is not to continue subtly affecting us . The task must be done ever again till it sticks . Further , various false approaches to an interregional perspective must be avoided . In regard to Western distortion of history , for example , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply to decide to give the Orient a still larger share in our histories than it now receives ; for to decide so is to leave in our minds the conception of " East and West " ? and indeed unconsciously to exalt the West as ever . For to gather all the other civilizations under one heading is to correlate them as a complementary 288 // entity with our West , as a grouping of nations complementary with the groupings of our little Western nations , and so quite to distort their significance while exalting our own . Under such circumstances , where commerce between India and China is treated as if comparable to that between Italy and Germany , a sane interregional history is out of the question . If only because the " East " is so overwhelmingly important , this would be true : up till the last several centuries the West has figured so little in the Oikoumenic Zone at large that a history of " the Orient " of all the Zone except the Latin West , would amount very nearly to a history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interregional history is the distortion of conditions in the Zone as a whole . There is a pair of maps in Shepherd 's Historical Atlas , on " Medieval Commerce in Europe " and " Medieval Commerce in Asia . " They are designed to present commerce in homologous halves of the hemisphere ; but actually while the former is a purely regional study , the latter is a study of interregional trade routes : for instance , trade in Europe is indicated just as fully on it as is trade in India . ' Asia , " for practical purposes , here included Europe as much as it does India , or any other area . But unfortunately we do not have here an interregional study under a regional name ; for only the routes of interest to Europeans are indicated ? the significant route , for instance , between Yunnan and Burma is ignored , as are even the most important across India . What we have instead is only the usual extension of Western history . By lumping the rest of the Oikoumenic Zone together as " Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disguised , and interregional history put quite out of the question . One sort of apparent " cosmopolitanism " ? which might be mistaken for actually reflecting an interregional perspective ? in fact falls into the trap of regarding the past development of others as being of significance only as it has entered into the Western Metamorphosis ; that is , others ' pasts must be evaluated only in terms of their effect upon Western history . Such a view delights to show how great was the contribution of the present Arabic-speaking countries to world progress ? before 500 B.C. It traces broadmindedly the contributions of Sanskrit thought to Schopenhauer and Emerson ; it points out that paper and gunpowder came from China . But no matter how justly expanded such tracings might be , even if they came to include all the vast and more recent contributions of other lands to the peripheral West , still their fundamental fault would remain : they assume that the modern West is the only significant end-point of progress ; that developments leading to present conditions in other lands have no meaning . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own is clearly an irresponsible action , and can not // hide under the fact that the great modern Metamorphosis centered in the West . That Metamorphosis has had a profound effect ; but it has of course had as profound an effect on the West as on anywhere else . Therefore insofar as earlier conditions in the West are still of importance , so will earlier conditions of other lands also be of importance . Neo-Thomists in our universities will be quick to point out that Medieval scholasticism has not ceased to have importance in Western countries . But in the centuries after 800 A.D. the same type of scholasticism was flowering everywhere , and Sankara , al-Ghazali , and Chu Hsi are equally living forces with St. Thomas . The scriptural religions had all about the same time everywhere to come to terms with the earlier philosophies of individual wisdom ; it was ? considering the similar imperial and philosophical backgrounds , as well as the direct interrelations which we know were a factor influencing at least the Western scholasticism ? a development in itself of interregional significance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its effect on Europe alone . We must force ourselves to realize what it means to say that the West is not the modern world , gradually assimilating backward areas to itself ; but is rather a catalyst , creating new conditions for other forces to work under ( though in this case , to be sure , the West itself is also thoroughly transformed ) . The feasibility of the problems set in interregional perspective The work is ready to our hand , though it is clear that as yet interregional history is not highly developed . We have information , we have the beginnings of a criticism of it in detail , and we have a number of systems in terms of which to begin the analysis . Simple lack of information may in itself seem a hopeless obstacle , for a moment . We are ignorant ; but rather through a lack of consideration of the materials available , than through the lack of materials . Confucian lands are at least as excellently documented for more than 2000 years as Mediterranean and European lands . Since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India have been well covered . Less favored areas and earlier times are by no means out of reach , either through occasional literature or through archeology . We spare no pains at ferreting out material on the darkest corners of European history , and there is no real reason why the same can not be done at all the points of significance to interregional studies . To be sure , with the multiplication of languages an individual student // will find it harder to get at the source material , even where the actual material needing to be covered might be less than within a regional history . Even where adequate editing has been done , this remains a problem . It is possible that a significant development in interregional history must wait upon the working out of more successful methods of cooperative scholarship . Indeed , it might seem that interregional history was in this respect in the same boat with all the other sciences , integration among which is so longingly called for by those who realize the meaninglessness of extreme specialization . However , in this case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extended Western history , world history ; and to take care not to make broad interpretations of history on its basis . Meanwhile , any monographic material that can be achieved will be of potentially great significance ; and indeed much has already been done ? particularly in relations between the West and other areas , especially the Middle East ; and to a degree in other relationships , as between Iran and China . Already , however , there seems to be enough material extant to support flourishing hypotheses more or less in the interregional field . There are a number of types of approaches to interregional history or its periphery already developed . In particular there are various one-factor analyses ; the group of analyses that have followed Spengler more or less distantly ; and the anthropologists . The anthropological tradition can not be expected to suffice for the handling of interregional history in the Oikoumenic Configuration and still less in the present . Intercultural diffusion among " primitives " has only the broadest relation to interregional relations in the Oikoumenic Zone . It can be suggestive and very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interregional history in terms of its own problems . Using the aid of the three approaches being made to the problem , we must consciously develop it for its own sake and in its own terms . It would seem that , in spite of the considerable theorizing already done and the several monographs in various aspects of interregional problems that are already available , the field still really awaits recognition and a clarification of its scope and problems . The suggestions here made , of course , are not intended to present a theory of history , except as some idea of what has happened is minimally necessary to an effort to go about finding more . The " Oikoumenic Zone " is not suggested as an entity to be characterized , but as a methodological conception linking together a group of civilizations which , being in contact with each other , involve special problems of study . Similarly , with the biographic-historical commitments . History and philosophy would then be the two immediate moral-cognitive disciplines , cognitive in a sense that art is not , though it too is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but quite different because esthetic rather than moral in immediate form . In what way are questions about the exceptional interdependent ; how do they form a field ? ( a ) As to method , of course ; a few useful caveats may be said about all such questions ; but on this level , only , not enough to provide much far-reaching discipline of historical questions as such ; if historical questions had only this in common , they ought better be integrated with other types ad hoc , for purposes of serious disciplining. ( b ) On the moral level : the reasons for making inquiries about human commitments are moral ; rest ultimately on the proposition that maximal human responsiveness requires respect of others ; that respect of others requires respect of what they hold precious ; and that such respect requires understanding of it in a context common to oneself and the others ( since there is no understanding except in context ) ; hence the moral requirement of inquiry into , at once , one 's own and others ' commitments : into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commitments are morally related , not in the sense of being all morally equivalent ( respect does not involve admiration as such ) , but of involving moral commensurateness ; the meaning of one moral commitment is modified by the coexistence of other moral commitments and by the possibility of mutual interaction among them . ( c ) On the substantive level of interactive events : history is a single field so far as the human commitments have in fact been interrelated through common contexts and commonly acting events ( not , of course , necessarily events with common outcomes ! ) , interrelated both negatively and positively . For the context , the typical , must be understood if the exceptional is to be understood . ( Hence the intimate involvement of historical with generalizing-cultural questions ; even though to inverse ends , they deal , at least potentially , with the same questions ) . So far as both the mora I and the substantive contexts of the exceptional , i.e. , of the great human commitments , are one , the historical field is one , and will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions are interrelated on those levels . Hence , to hierarchize and interrelate the value of questions , so that any particular question will be most likely to be studied in terms of its fullest potential meanings in any given direction , we need sophistication in the recognition of points of relevance ; i.e. , of the terms on which comparisons ( the heart of all inquiry ) , implicit or explicit , can be most revealing . One of the most symptomatic indices of this will be terminology : the way in which categories of comparison are ordered . Not that any particular set of terms , however multiple , is to be required in historical studies ( though we could use a much more adequately differentiated number of stock terms ) , but that a sophisticated handling of them be expected . E.g. , to take a most obvious case , geography . The first step is to avoid using geographical terms , and hence units , defined by political boundaries at the time of writing . But to accept terms defined politically as of the time written about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : one needs to have terms for various regions of various orders of complexity ( and size ) , which will allow comparison not only in one area over time , but among different areas with some degree of true comparability . Finally , one needs to develop a way of handling terms which will maximize awareness of their implications : hence the advantage of phrases like " from Nile to Oxus , " even though intentionally left vague , and perhaps even if eventually stereotyped into NiloOxian , over black terms like " Middle East , " however exactly defined in the given work , so far as the former phrase exacts awareness of just what all is covered , so that if a comment applies only to a part of the whole , the part will be mentioned rather than the whole unless there is a specific reason for mentioning the whole . Other terminological niceties of the same order : learning to differentiate between what pertains to a dynasty as such , and what pertains to a general culture under the dynasty 's rule ; between government and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between a subject matter as practically used , and its theoretical studies . ( All Islamic studies and in particular art history in the Islamic field are rich with bad examples ; but , with less radical obviousness , so also are Westernist studies . ) For the choice of terms determines what categories one uses ; the categories determine the form and limits of the questions posed ; and the questions posed determine the answers that can be expected . But since comparison must be over the whole field , categorization must form a complete system : perceiving the relations and discontinuities over all mankind in time and space . That is ( and the more so , the more substantive interrelations can be shown to prevail ; but even without them ) , world history is the only adequate foundation for the proper interrelation of historical questions . All kinds of world history will be of help as serving as foundation for it the disciplining of historical inquiry ; but some elements will be of more import than others . The commonest approach to interregional questions has been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fruitful ; precisely insofar as the exceptional , and the points of commitment to be more exact , resides rather in creation against a background , than in borrowing on a level . Functions of world history books and criteria for evaluating them There are a number of different functions a book of world history can perform . In each case the book must be designed with its particular function or combination of functions in mind , and the role of the Oikoumentic configuration in the narrative will vary accordingly . In alI cases the Oikoumenic pattern should at least be made clear , for awareness of it is an essential element even in regional history . But in some cases the Oikoumenic configuration will at best provide merely essential background , more or less referred to in the book 's structure ; in some cases it can provide one of the main principles of organization ; and only in particular circumstances can it logically provide the only major principle of organization . The first and most immediately essential function of a world history book is to provide overall perspective and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more local history is presupposed . Speaking of this function , Bossuet likened such a history to a world-map , in which all the countries can be seen at once and the place of each in relation to the others becomes clear . Such a history must almost necessarily be fairly brief , its treatment of any given subject being highly condensed ; otherwise the reader can not keep the whole canvas in mind at once , but gets lost in the detail . Since it must stress relationships among different parts of the world , rather than the local history which is presumed known through special treatises , interregional history and particularly the development of the Oikoumenic configuration should determine the outline and even a good deal of the substance of the book . In a book having exclusively this function there should be no more place for concentration on favored times and places than there should be in a world map . It is unfortunate that just as our traditional world-maps , those on Mercator 's projection , have violated this basic rule , so our traditional world histories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perspective , have violated the same rule in the same way . Writers of world histories , however , unlike makers of world maps , can // appeal to the fact that affording perspective and showing interrelationships are not necessarily the exclusive functions of a world history . A perfectly respectable function , if function limited in philosophic scope , is to bring together in one place a certain minimum of information about all the various fields of history in which the reader may be interested . Such a work is like a world atlas ? in contrast to a world map , it can legitimately show any given area in as much detail as required , provided that all areas are covered in some degree or other . Such a work may be a onevolume school text , where it is desired to be done with " history " in only two courses , one on the national history and one on all the rest . In a textbook for the second course it is presumably necessary to make up for the lack of a course in regional history by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the national history has been specially connected . Or such a work may be a many-volume collection designed for the customer who wants to have the world on one shelf . In this case the salesman will have an easier time ? and rightly so ? if the fields about which the customer has the most prior knowledge , and will have the most curiosity about details in , are covered with special thoroughness . These catch-all works may of necessity , then , be badly out of porportion from the point of view of fulfilling the first function , that of affording overall orientation . The disproportion in such works has often been far more extreme than necessary ; but some disproportion is bound to remain . Often in such works there is no internal organizing principle to make up for the effects of a catch-all type of selection ; but presumably , if the history of the Oikoumenic configuration could serve as a guide in arranging the works , the worst results of their disproportion could be avoided . The reader could at least be made aware of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very plan of the work , as well as through repeated references to the wider background against which local developments are taking place . Subtitles , if not the main headings themselves , could remind him of the point he had reached in the overall story . Then subsections could be multiplied almost indefinitely for favored areas and times , yet the reader would at least realize that these areas were being favored , and that the scale of their treatment was enlarged . Reference to Oikoumenic history in such compilations , then , has potentially a peculiarly significant role to play , in spite of their apparent resistance to its outlook . A more scholarly function for a many-volume world-history is to provide an up-to-date compendium of the current results of research in all historical fields . Such a history is likewise of the " world atlas " type , and its organizing principles will not be basically different , usually , from // those of the " catch-all " popular world histories . At least to a degree , in addition , it must give most space to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this highly honorable but still not philosophic function which the scholar most frequently has in mind when he contributes to a " cooperative " world history ; and often the editor is hard put to it to preserve any semblance of guiding ideas . Here , obviously , interregional studies should find their place like any other studies , and the Oikoumenic configuration through them . It is possible , however , for a world history to be written neither on the model of a world-map , designed for orientation , nor on the model of a world-atlas , with encyclopedic purposes , whther popular or scholarly . It may be essentially an interpretive essay , with an insight into the nature of mankind to expound . Such books must necessarily be organized in terms of the insights being expounded . For some it can be supposed that Oikoumenic history will take on supreme importance ; for others it will become a dry and external matter . For all the development of the Oikoumenic configuration must have the place at least of an essential limiting condition in their speculations and interpretations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for educational purposes find a reasonable balance among these functions . They should certainly provide overall historical orientation ? a truly proportional world-map . They should also , if possible , bring forward at least a modest degree of insight into the historical side of human life , taken as a whole , and their organization must depend somewhat on the particular insights they happen to be stressing . And they need not refuse to meet the interests of teacher and student half-way , at least to the extent of dwelling upon developments of unusual human significance . In their " world-atlas " aspect , they dare not dwell only on the familiar , nearby scenes ; but selection there can be . There are , of course , many ways in which some such balance can be achieved ( and it is to be hoped that all of them will be fully explored as soon as possible ) . It would be good to have a book which would go out of its way to counterbalance conventional preoccupation with our Western regional background by centering the whole story on interregional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the path of other regions ? in terms of these relationships . Or it is an attractive thought , to emphasize the growth of science and scholarship and the widening of esthetic and perhaps even religious sensitivity , as far as possible on an all-human level , with social and political elements in the story strictly subordinated ; the refinements of art and to a lesser degree of scholarship are in principle of a universal appeal . In each such approach the Oikoumenic configuration would provide an essential backbone , safeguarding the first from oversimplification or irrelevant proliferation by defining levels of significance in interregional relations , and the second from an unchecked diffuseness of appreciation by suggesting lines of interrelation . A third such blended approach to an educational world history book would be to concentrate on the major regional cultures at key periods , thus widening and balancing out the cultural horizon and yet keeping a limited number of fields in focus . If a limited , but judiciously selected number of regions are seen at their best , the human value will be obvious , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though always it is to be hoped that a world history course need not double for a Western history course , yet if it must do so then at least some portions of the book can give a coherent picture of the West in itself . In such a book , an Oikoumenic orientation is essential to prevent its degenerating into a group of unrelated vignettes . The orientation would show up less by constant reference than by the very selection and juxtaposition of the civilizations studies , as well as by the context into which they would be set . Conclusion : Islamic history as world history Marshall G. S. Hodgson and The Venture of Islam Edmund Burke , III At a time when orientalism is under attack both from within and without the profession , the publication of Marshall G. S. Hodgson 's threevolume work , The Venture of Islam : Conscience and History in a World Civilization , l is an event of major importance . So rich is its subject , so complex and ambitious its analytic scheme and serious its moral purpose that it is difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the following pages , I discuss those aspects of the work that seem to me most important for an understanding of its achievement and significance . In the end , I shall argue , The Venture of Islam must be seen as the most ambitious and successful effort to salvage the orientalist tradition to date . Having said this , I should add that The Venture of Islam is also a controversial work , one likely to generate continuing debate both on points of detail and on its overall vision of the history of Islamic civilization.2 Already , it has been criticized as a highly personal and partisan account . Such charges , it must be said , are true , but they are also beside the point . Indeed , the very greatness of the book stems from Hodgson 's own personality , his cranky obsession with terminology and presuppositions , his insistence on seeing Islamic civilization in a world historical context , and his stubborn Quaker moral conscience . The rest is scholarly monographs . There is much about Hodgson 's spirit that recalls the youthful impatience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lucien Febvre , the founders of the Annales school ) Perhaps it is not 301 too much to hope that a new generation of scholars , nourished by the example of Hodgson , will follow in the path that he has traced out . The Venture of Islam is both an original scholarly synthesis and a major new textbook for undergraduate survey courses on Islamic civilization . Toward the end of this essay , I shall have more to say on the difficulties of trying to read it both ways at once . Here , I should like to stress that the work is first and foremost a textbook , whose purpose is to seek an understanding of the human achievement of Islamic civilization on its own terms . At its most general , by tracing the history of Islamic civilization , it seeks to inform the reader about the nature of civilization . I t examines Islamic civilization as a part of the human heritage and seeks to demonstrate its importance in world history . More specifically , through the study of societies and cultures that provided the context @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain why they behaved as they did . Islam in the mirror of Marshall G. S. Hodgson By all accounts , Marshall Hodgson was an unusual person . Even in the rather Bohemian atmosphere of The University of Chicago in the late 195os , he stood out for his ascetic temperament , militant vegetarianism , and leftish political beliefs . His prickly obsession with details , his vaulting ambition , and his inability to suffer fools made him often a difficult colleague . One senses from accounts like the rather uncharitable one of Saul Bellow4 that he was an elusive figure ? fascinating , frequently insufferable , always brilliant . No doubt his personality had much to do with the fact that he left few followers and no school to carry on his work . His death in 1968 , at the age of 47 , left The Venture of Islam ( on which he had been working for over a decade ) two-thirds finished . In the end , The Venture of Islam became as much his personal venture as Islam 's . A very great debt is owed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who selflessly saw the manuscript through to publication.5 // The Venture of Islam is as much the product of a particular time and place as it is of a particular man . Its pages are suffused with the atmosphere of The University of Chicago in the late 195os and early 196os during the latter phase of the remarkable Hutchins experiment . In particular , the book owes much to its origins as the text for the undergraduate survey of Islamic civilization , a course taught by Marshall Hodgson from its inception in 1958 . The book went through several early editions , and was accompanied by a three-volume Introduction of Islamic Civilization , a series of selected readings from the Islamic classics in English translation.6 A notable part of the undergraduate program at The University of Chicago was the study of world civilizations through their classical writings . Originally , the program had been limited to the study of Western civilization , but was broadened in the late 19505 to include surveys of the civilizations of India , China , and Islam . Inevitably , Hodgson 's approach to Islamic civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the college curriculum . It was also influenced by the conception of civilization developed by the younger Robert Redfield and Milton Singer , which provided the overarching framework for the sequence of courses . In still other ways , The Venture of Islam owes much to Hodgson 's membership on the Committee on Social Thought , in the 1950s and early 196os a unique interdisciplinary graduate program of broad and eclectic scope . ( At the time of his death , Hodgson was chairman of the committee . ) Here , the influence of John U. Nef and Mircea Eliade seems to have been most important , together with that of Edward Shils . The book also reveals the influence of Hodgson 's colleagues in Islamic studies : Gustave von Grunebaum ( to whom it is jointly dedicated with John U. Nef ) , Muhsin Mandi , Robert McC . Adams , Wilfred Madelung , Clifford Geertz , Lloyd Fallers , and of course Reuben Smith . Finally , mention must be made of William McNeill , whose Rise of the West7 played a significant role both as model and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of world history . Simply to list the names reminds one of how remarkable an intellectual environment The University of Chicago was in those days . As Albert Hourani has said , it is difficult to imagine The Venture of Islam having been written anywhere else.8 I have argued that I consider The Venture of Islam to be as much Hod ) ; son 's venture as Islam 's . To an extraordinary degree , the work is shaped and informed by the personal beliefs and ethical concerns of its author . In just what ways is this the case ? One way to approach this subject is 4 through the two persons who seem most to be the touchstones to Hodgson 's thought : Louis Massignon and John Woolman . Their spirit sot fuses virtually every page of the work . From a consideration of these men and their meaning for Marshall Hodgson , it is possible to derive the chief characteristics of the work . A striking feature of The Venture of Islam is the tone of empathy and respect which it adopts toward Islam . This characteristic serves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " objective " studies . Hodgson has taken pains " to remove his shoes before entering the mosque " ( iii the words of Mahmoud Ayyub ) , and in the process he encourages his reader to enter fully into the spirit of the civilization . Here the talisman is the work of Louis Massignon ( especially articles like his " Salman Pak et les premices spirituelles de 1'Islam iranien " ) 9 and the latter 's efforts to achieve an understanding of Islam from within . From Massignon , Hodgson has borrowed the psychosociological " science of compassion . " It is the constant effort of the scholar to " never be satisfied to cease asking ' but why ? ' " until he had driven his understanding to the point when he has an immediate grasp of what a given position meant , such that every nuance of the data is accounted for and withal , given a total of presuppositions and circumstances , he could feel himself doing the same . " 1O Ultimately , it is to Wilhelm Dilthey and Carl Jung that Hodgson looks for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Char acteristically , where with Massignon this method often resulted in a murky mysticism , Hodgson makes of it a controlled effort of the historical imagination . John Woolman , an eighteenth-century American Quaker , is the other major guide to understanding Hodgson 's intent . Scarcely known today outside of the Society of Friends , Woolman in his own time was a pacifist , an opponent of slavery , and a sharp critic of the mercantile values of colonial Pennsylvania . His Journal has continued to exert an enormous influence among Quakers . " It is with an epigram from Woolman that the work begins : " To consider mankind otherwise than brethren , to // think favors are peculiar to one nation and to exclude others , plainly supposes a darkness in the understanding . " The citation is clearly intended as an implicit judgment upon the smug Eurocentrism that has informed most of the writing on Islam by Western scholars . With this device emblazoned on his escutcheon , Hodgson sets forth to combat the many errors and presuppositions of previous studies . A central purpose of The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new kind of Islamic history , methodologically self-conscious and guided by a more adequate framework of world history . Hodgson argues his case at length in the text and in the numerous footnotes sprinkled throughout the work . It is for this reason that the work begins with a lengthy methodological section entitled " Introduction to the Study of Islamic Civilization . " In this syllabus of errors , we see Hodgson at his most polemical , as well as his most teacherly . The central concepts and epistemological assumptions of orientalism and of civilizational studies are submitted to scathing examination . Nothing is exempt , not even the venerable Mercator projection map , which Hodgson argues is a " Jim-Crow projection " that has seriously warped our image of the world . In a more general sense , the citation of Woolman serves to focus attention on Hodgson 's Quaker beliefs . In ways both great and small , The Venture of Islam is marked by the impress of Hodgson 's Quaker conscience . It is axiomatic for Hodgson that " the individual sensibility , focused in a point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " A major theme of the three volumes is the capacity of the Quranic message repeatedly to inspire men of conscience to confront the dilemmas of their age in response to the challenge of its ideals . Thus the work proceeds by a series of meditations on the styles of piety of selected Muslim moral epigones : Hasan al-Basri , Ahmad Ibn Hanbal , Abu Hamid al-Ghazali , Jalaluddin Rumi , and Mughal sultan Akbar , and the modernists Muhammad Abduh and Muhammad Iqbal . What interests Hodgson about these men is their effort to work out anew the implications of the act of Islam in their own age . In such an approach to Islamic history , it is almost as if Hodgson had somehow reinvented the Muslim biographical dictionary , albeit one in Quaker disguise . This represents a sharp break with the conventional political/dynastic way of presenting Islamic history in which the heroes are the great generals , statesmen , and builders of empires . It also constitutes one of the most effective means of encouraging the reader to momentarily suspend disbelief and enter into the mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in still other ways . One is his scandalized response to the fact that the initial spread of Islam owed much                     