@@773573

txt THE THREE QUESTIONS will not succeed in reversing the trend . State policies may help to assuage or slow down the adjustment . They will not stop the need for it . And the ? 50 economic system , as before , will probably benefit . More new producers of wealth means more new consumers . The additional demand will stimulate further investment and more employment , though not always in the same places or for the same people as in the past.2 Think of the general array of economic solutions popular among interventionists in the past and , even the present : tariff barriers , strategies of import substitution , purchasing power solutions to create domestic industries ( think of the " Ontario computer for education " in brief vogue in the 1970s and 1980s ) , designated " national products " to replace imports ( like " national cars " ) , non-tariff barriers designed to increase local production and force companies to do business locally in exchange for access to domestic markets . These will all dwindle , although there will always be those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obligations make them unenforceable and even unlawful . Larger countries , like the U.S. and China , will have greater success in imposing them ( like the " Buy America " laws passed by the U.S. Congress which require mass-transit manufacturers to establish facilities in the United States if they want to sell to the U.S. cities receiving a federal subsidy for their subways ) . Smaller The End of Government ? countries like Canada will find it harder to impose similar patterns . The picture in our heads of trade is still of an activity taking place between sovereign countries.51 This is misleading . Trade happens within companies and between companies . Governments can encourage it , and promote it . If they own Crown corporations , they of course do it themselves , but they do this in their role as market actors . Trade missions like " Team Canada " can help to make a case before other governments that Canadian companies should be given fair access to local markets , but it is a stretch for governments to claim that they make the deals happen , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada " and " China . " It will more and more be between companies in Canada and companies in China . What , then , is left of sovereignty and the state ? Is politics made irrelevant by the triumph of technology and the market ? Is this all just an argument for business and the " corporate agenda " ? Francis Fukuyama , the American social scientist , has written two books on this very subject , The End of History and Trust.3 In the first he argues that while Marx 's view that history would " end " with the transition to communism became a destructive illusion , there is merit in an historical approach to human and technological evolution . Liberal democracy , in his view , is about as good as it gets , and it is difficult even to imagine a society which , given our knowledge of THE THREE QUESTIONS alternatives and human nature , would be better . In this sense , he argues , liberal democracy represents the end of history . There is nothing better to which ? 52 ? we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe that , allowing for some terrible steps backwards and sideways , other societies will eventually evolve to this condition as well . The appeal of free markets and new technologies , together with the rising standards of living with which they are associated , will become irresistible to all people and all cultures . The difference with Marx is that there is no reason to aspire further to socialism or communism . These have been tried and have failed . They may be tried again , writes Fukuyama , but they will not succeed , because they are too fundamentally flawed . In his next book , Trust , Fukuyama points out that liberal democratic capitalism can take a variety of forms in a number of different cultures , and that civil societies depend as much on a high level of trust as on a body of law . By civil societies , Fukuyama means those based on a respect for the rights of the individual , including the rights of property . They recognize that open markets , effectively scrutinized , have proven to be the most efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Countries where governments intrude too far into the economy , by owning too much and by seeking to regulate too much , fall behind economically . Yet the market can not , and should not , do everything . Civil societies , therefore , The End of Government ? value the role of government and understand that the size of the public sector will naturally depend on shifting public needs and demands . In this context , civil societies depend on bureaucracies that are free of 53 corruption , are open , and are noted for their professional efficiency . Civil societies are plural societies in the sense that there are many centres of power and authority , not just one . Corporations , both for-profit and nonprofit , have an independent role and are respected as such . Institutions of higher learning are free of political interference , and education and the growth of knowledge are seen as good things in themselves . Voluntary associations of all kinds are encouraged , as are trade unions and other organizations whose purpose is the improvement of the condition of the people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judiciary and a legal system with a transparent ability to maintain order and protect rights are essential . Civil societies must include a free press that is subject to laws of libel , but is free from political repression or censorship . We know that a free and independent press is vital to the functioning of economic as well as political markets . Civil societies , as their name implies , are based on a respect for public order , as well as a civility of discourse . In this sense , civil societies are based on a high level of social trust and mutual confidence . Fukuyama is right that the collapse of the Berlin THE THREE QUESTIONS Wall ended 140 years of the Marxist illusion . But there has been a profound debate about how capitalism can evolve , and the politics that this requires , ? 54 ? quite outside the Marxist paradigm . History has only ended for those caught inside the Marxist hothouse . For the rest of us the argument is just getting interesting . People may work in the market , and we certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sum total of our existence . We live in families , and we define an important part of our lives as children , parents , husbands , wives , lovers , and friends . We also live in communities and countries where we think of ourselves as citizens . It is absurd to deny the validity or worth of any of these senses of who we are . It is perverse to ask that we pursue one or other exclusively at the expense of all others . They are all important . Each also informs the other . No sphere is entirely self-contained or exclusive . Our sense of who we are as parents informs our views about politics , just as does the role we play in the economy . We are recovering from a century where politics has promised too much . It would be an equal mistake to enter the next with the public sphere offering too little . The economy and the corporate agenda are not the only things that are global . So are our sense of human rights and dignity . So is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have it yet , and building the necessary democratic The End of Government ? countervails to the global reach of the economy will take much effort . Hillel 's first question , then , points to the permanence of self-interest : but that self-interest can take ? 55 many forms . It can be the self-interest of the company in the market . It can speak to the collective self-interest of the trade unionist or country faced with the power of international institutions . The globalized , high technology world is the product of the culture of self-interest , and in turn fuels the politics and economics of self-interest in every part of the world . It is fashionable in some quarters to speak of the end of government , of its complete irrelevance in the face of these global forces . This simplistic view ignores some basic facts . First , government and the public sector remain huge facts in our lives . Second , globalization is not just a corporate event . Bill Clinton can go to China and engage in a debate about human rights precisely because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last twenty years have not just changed the Chinese economy . They have created a very different human dynamic that no leadership can ignore . The clear thrust of the decisions taken in China , for example , is that the relationship between the market and the state is going to be tipped farther in favour of the market , but the state will need to be reformed and strengthened as well . The central lesson of European THE THREE QUESTIONS social democracy of the fifties and sixties ? that the state does not need to , and indeed in the interest of efficiency should not , own goods-and-services pro . // a wider scale than ever before . The momentousness of this decision is made greater because the state-owned enterprises have played the dominant role in delivering social services to their employees . The Chinese public sector will be reducing its role as an owner and producer . At the same time , it will have to strengthen its role as a provider of the social safety net . In other words , industry will be increasingly privatized and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evolve toward a modern welfare state . This transition will , of course , be an enormous challenge . A great many of the state-owned enterprises in the old closed economy have been losing money , and have depended on state banks to fund their losses . The transition to competitive enterprise will be painful , and China will experience high levels of unemployment and under-employment that have previously been masked by the old regime . These are not philosophical or ideological issues . They are matters of practical judgement . The institutions of the public sector ? effective regulation , efficient public services , dramatic improvements in education , training , health care and social security , strong markets , and the enhancement of the rule of The End of Government ? law ? are just as important as creating modern companies capable of competing internationally without the benefit of subsidies . It is not a matter of more or // of government and civil society refocusing . Strong 6j markets require an effective state . Countries that have benefited greatly from foreign investment ? and that includes every major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logic of greater openness , transparency , better regulation , and a better mix of public and private policy . At the same time , the institutions of the world economy have to be as strongly committed to stability as Franklin Roosevelt was in the age of the national economy . This is the true logic of globalization : an international willingness to prevent excess and temporary crisis from becoming a disaster . This collective will and sense of calm and confidence require leadership . The strengthening of all the institutions of civil society and the appreciation of the importance of good governance of modern economies will contribute to the expansion of human and civil rights . Citizenship , with all its rights and responsibilities , will become as important as consumerism . There are signs of that everywhere ? and nowhere more strongly than in Hong Kong . The rule of law , the respect for family and the individual , the commitment to education : these are all key values in the development of civil societies everywhere . In Hong Kong they have been accompanied by a growing commitment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard to see how the advantages of freedom and civil order will not spread to China itself , recognizing at the same time the preoc ? 58 cupation of the leadership with the question of stability . There is an irresistible logic to democracy which can not be ignored . The debates about governance and its importance can not be confined to developing economies . Governmental bureaucracies are being forced to change in every part of the world . It is hard to see why corporate structures should not change as well . Corporate boards are , for the most part , unreflective of the broader public and have difficulty responding to the power of an entrenched management . Employees themselves are rarely represented as legitimate stakeholders within the company 's corporate structure , partly because many unions prefer the comfortable pew of permanent opposition , but mainly because management is more comfortable with relatively safe appointees from the same club . This attitude will have to change , partly because the shareholding structure of a more democratic economy should no longer permit such hidebound exclusiveness . Company presidents with huge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chosen company at the top of some vast tower are not an inevitable feature of a market economy . They are an outmoded expression of privilege . A less deferential , The End of Government ? more open , and more democratic economy is not synonymous with radicalism , let alone socialism . Even monarchies have different styles ? the corporate world can reform itself if it chooses . If it does not , the 59 pressure for change and accountability can only grow AS EVEN The Economist , THAT CLARION VOICE OF nineteenth-century political economy , has pointed out , the state and politics are hardly dead . ' The public sector accounts for anywhere between 30 and 50 per cent of economic activity in the industrialized countries of the world , which can hardly be called insignificant . Even after nearly twenty years of the Reagan-Thatcher ascendancy , tax-takes of more than 40 per cent are common in most countries . There has certainly been a rhetorical shift in many countries towards the market , and away from politics . But , like Mark Twain 's , reports of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatly exaggerated . Governments remain responsible for setting policy , and in most cases for providing the necessary services , THE THREE QUESTIONS for law and order , defence , health care , education and training , welfare , help to the disabled , social housing , pensions and support for the elderly , cultural institu ? 64 ? tions , and a myriad of other policy areas from trade and international human rights to environmental policy and natural resource management . To suggest that in the global market-place of the twenty-first century there will be no role for the state and the public sector is clearly nonsense . What is at issue is the national economy 's and public 's willingness and ability to pay for the cost of continuing to provide these services in an age of diminishing borders . At times this has been presented as a simple issue of " making the rich pay . " Statistics are trotted out showing that corporations paid a lot more tax in the 1940s and 1950s , and pay less now , and that if we could only put the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be solved " hey presto . " Would that life were that easy . There are two issues to consider here . One is globalization itself , the end of capital controls , and the fact that virtually all industrial economies are more or less open . The second is the end of inflation . Both combine to create the phenomenon of what has been described as " the disappearing taxpayer . " 2 When " American " corporations earn 50 per cent or more of their earnings outside the country , a pattern that can be matched by any transnational companies , the question of comparative corporate tax rates can be a crucial factor in retaining Self-Interest and the Public Interest and attracting new investment . Companies will gauge their profits and pricing according to the most beneficial tax effect , which is hardly surprising . The shift to the personal income tax becomes 65 equally problematic . Local tax rates for individuals become a significant factor for executive and managerial recruitment . Equally , as self-employment increases and the number of full-time employees declines , it becomes easier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenses pay less tax than employees with very few such benefits . This is all before the expansion of activities on the Internet , which will involve an area of commerce that is exceedingly hard to tax . One approach suggested is an international tax on financial transactions , the so-called " Tobin tax , " which is attractive theoretically , but hard to administer . It would be readily avoided by creating tax-free havens that would naturally expand as the focus for financial activity . This is another example where the absence of coherent international governance makes such tax regimes difficult in practice , however desirable in the best of all possible worlds . After all , it is really just an extension of the VAT principle to another level of transaction and service that is transborder in scope . Taxes on wealth and corporate activity have to take into account of the increased mobility of capital . This means that there will continue to be pressure on the ordinary middle- and low-income person , particularly since the demand for decent public services will 1r THE THREE QUESTIONS hardly decline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 to 30 per cent annual tribute that must be paid to the public debt . ? 66 If capital flight is one issue for tax policy , low inflation is certainly another . Inflation has always allowed tax increases to be concealed in the apparently never-ending spiral of higher prices and higher incomes . Higher consumption taxes , like a gasoline tax , for example , were less visible when prices were increasing steadily anyway . Higher income taxes could be concealed by a nominal pay increase on the first of January of any year . It is no coincidence that the period of the greatest increase in the size of the public sector and of the public debt in recent times coincided with a period of high inflation . This is not necessarily to argue economic cause and effect . My point is different . Higher taxes were politically possible because their impact on the public was concealed , or at least buffered , by inflation . It is equally no accident that the period of sustained tax fatigue in a number of countries has coincided with a dramatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and flat and even declining incomes , a tax increase of any kind is impossible to conceal . The pay cheque on January 15 is lower than the one on December 31 . Speaking from brutal experience , politicians who ca n't figure this out , or who appeal to a general sense of generosity in the population , will be appropriately thanked and then dismissed by the electorate . Some social democrats like Tony Blair and Self-Interest and the Public Interest Roy Romanow have understood this . Those that have n't are either in opposition or writing books . The conservative writer and contemporary historian Lord Robert Skidelsky has written in After Communism that governments should be reducing their tax take to no more than 30 per cent of the GDP of any economy . That would be a dramatic reduction from where we are today . In Canada it would require a further reduction in public expenditure of about a quarter , which is substantial by any stretch . There can be no doubt that the right will continue to define itself by its commitment to lower taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Lord Skidelsky . One might well ask why not 20 or 25 per cent as the golden target ? 3 A numerical target such as that suggested by the good lord is just a gimmick unless combined with a clear way of getting there . Everyone has to understand the implications of a dramatic reduction in taxes : public services will inevitably become less public . No country can long afford what might be called a European level of social and health service and an American level of taxes . Indeed , one way of looking at the thirty years post 1967 is to see them as the time in which we systematically borrowed more than we were taking in , in order to sustain a standard of living and growth to which we had become accustomed , and to which we believed we were entitled . The neo-conservative strategy set out by Ronald Reagan after 1980 was to cut taxes and increase TFIE THREE QUESTIONS defence spending , and then slowly and steadily wait for the pressure to build on the rest of the public sector as the deficit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of good cheer , he left the mop-up work to George Bush and Bill Clinton . The truth is that if American taxes on gasoline , liquor , and cigarettes had matched Canada 's , the U.S. would not have had a deficit problem . If they had matched the Europeans , the story would have been even more dramatic . The right has now gone further and suggested for some time that national governments should be prevented by law from running deficits at all . This would mean that while ordinary citizens could continue to borrow money to buy a house or a car , and companies could borrow money to make investments , the public sector would be prevented from similar access to debt as a method of financing any expenditures . Let me quote Galbraith again : There are times in modern history and experience when the enunciation of even the most elementary common sense has an aspect of eccentricity , irrationality , even mild insanity . Such is the risk that is run by anyone in the United States who challenges the current commitment to reducing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of expenditure over income in the current accounts . ' To establish a legal requirement that the budget of a government be completely balanced in every given Self-Interest and the Public Interest year is a bad idea . This is not to say that deficit and debt are unimportant or irrelevant ; only that they have to be analyzed in a practical manner . No company or individual would accept the notion that , by 69 law , their expenditure has to be matched by income in every year . This would prevent almost everyone , certainly everyone except the very rich , from doing the things many people associate with ordinary life , like buying a house and a car . It would stop almost every company from making any investments . The test for public indebtedness should be very similar to the one we apply to our own affairs , and which company directors apply to management 's request for approval for bonds and debentures as a method of financing an acquisition or any other investment . Is money being borrowed for a long-term purpose of investment , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt without crowding out spending on necessary current needs ? We all know from our visits to the bank manager that this is what she wants to know . A mortgage is not evil , nor is it a sign of profligacy . We only get into trouble when we 've borrowed too much , and when our cash flow ca n't meet the payments . That 's when we get into the spiral of borrowing from MasterCard to pay our Visa , and increasing the mortgage to finance a holiday or pay for our children 's braces . Most states in the United States have a legal requirement to balance the budget every year , but they are permitted to make capital expenditures with THE THREE QUESTIONS bonds set aside for this purpose . In some jurisdictions they have to seek a special approval by way of referendum for such long-term bonds . American munici ? 70 palities work in the same financial context , with stricter external controls on their ability to tap the bond markets , but with the additional advantage that these municipal bonds are tax deductible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the distinction between current expenses and longer-term investments . This is at least in part because these distinctions are not easily made . We commonly speak of education as an investment . Does this include all education expenditure , or just part of it ? The Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants , hardly a revolutionary body , has recently published new guidelines for governments on what they call " tangible capital assets , " which include such things as roads , buildings , and vehicles , but do not apply to " intangibles " like natural resources and Crown lands which have not been purchased by government . This is still a step in the right direction , since it will force governments to prepare a better inventory of public assets , to account for them , and to get some appreciation of the fact that a good part of the mortgage or public debt we have built up over the years has been used to improve the quality of life or the common good . For several years now we have been hearing the incantation that we ca n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the phrase , we realize how Self=lnterest and the Public Interest rhetorical and exaggerated it is . It is not unreasonable , on the face of it , to leave our children with an affordable public mortgage , provided it meets the tests set out earlier . If a portion of their taxes is spent 71 to finance the debt , there is nothing wrong and everything right with that , assuming , of course , that in addition to the mortgage we have left them schools , teachers , hospitals , doctors , nurses , roads , subways , museums , forests , parks , libraries , and a sense that we owe each other something . Equally important , however , is to face up to why we have had a problem with debts and deficits in Canada . It was a premise of Keynesian economics that governments should be cutting interest rates and taxes and raising public expenditure when the economy was less than fully employed ? in other words , when people were " saving too much " with the resultant unemployment and idle resources . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and was more widely applied in the 1970s , resulting in Richard Nixon 's famous remark " we 're all Keynesians now . " Keynes 's approach was rejected by the Labour government in Britain after 1929 as too radical . Roosevelt met Keynes , and had many advisers who considered themselves followers , but it would be hard to ascribe the incredible twists and turns of his policy to any particular theory . The world was still in deep recession at the beginning of World War II . It was war itself which put Keynes to the test . Governments of all countries borrowed massively to ? 72 , ' THE THREE QUESTIONS meet the cot of fighting Hitler , and increased taxes as well . What is interesting is to note what virtually all Western countries did after the war : they ran surpluses to begin paying down the debt and reducing the burden on the fisc . They did this in concert , and they did it b3 ' maintaining tax levels for both individuals and Corporations . The strongest sustained economic growth in the century did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period from a financial point of view in three parts : the period 1945-1970 , which was a time of low inflation , low unemployment , and sound public finances ; the period from 1970 to about 1992 , which was characterized by slow growth ( three major recessions ) , high inflation , high unemployment , and large public-sector deficits ; and the period from 1992 on , which has seen slightly improved rowth , low inflation , persistent unemployment , and reduced public spending and deficits . Globalization has played its part here as well . Writing fifty years ago , Keynes certainly understood the impact that international decisions could have on domestic policy . Indeed his greatest polemical tract , The Economic Consequences of the Peace , written c. 1920 , was art argument that extracting too much out of Germany would end up causing problems everywhere , whirl ' turned out to be true . He was also an architect of the postwar reconstruction of international finance at Bretton Woods . But despite this , the key fact for Keynes 's policies was the existence of significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Public Interest his ssumption was that the stimulus he wanted could be managed within the boundaries of the nation-state . This is definitely not as true today , and is certainly 73 less true of smaller , trade-based economies than larger , more self-sufficient economies . Canada can stimulate demand by lowering interest rates , cutting taxes , and raising spending , but this may have only a marginal impact on jobs and employment . Many jobs in manufacturing depend not so much on Canadian demand as on international conditions . We 're just not as self-enclosed and sovereign as our public rhetoric would like us to believe . France learned this lesson the hard way in 1980 , just as Ontario did after 1991 . If everyone else is cutting back , the local attempt to stimulate will simply not be effective . There have to be broader , common strategies . They will not succeed at the level of the nation-state alone , let alone the region . This is not to say that Keynes 's insights are now without value ; only that they have to be applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 1970 to 1992 came with a price . General levels of indebtedness increased throughout society . This was a personal phenomenon as much as a corporate or political one . The baby boom generation , looking back with confidence at how far their parents had come , wanted the good things in life more quickly , and were prepared to go into debt to get them . Companies have THE THREE QUESTIONS borrowed at unprecedented levels , assuming future cash flows would justify the leverage . Sometimes they have been proven right , sometimes wrong , with occa ? 74 ? sionally destructive effects . Conservative commentators often refer to the debts and deficits of the public sector as if they fall from the skies , as if they can somehow be separated from the habits and desires of the public , or from what is happening in the rest of the economy . Deficits rose too quickly in a number of countries and regions from the mid-1970s on , but for reasons that are entirely understandable . In the U.S. the trend was related to the determined strategy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deal with the impact of the three recessions , one in each decade . Governments then discovered the simple truth that it is easier to get into debt than to get out of it . Periods of growth were marked by a reduction in deficits but never a reduction in the mortgage itself . The result was that each recession left an even bigger mortgage , just as it left an even larger number of unemployed . It was possible to continue the pattern as long as inflation enabled governments to raise taxes , and thus finance the debt . This mould was broken when inflation ended in the early 1990s . At that point most governments in Canada , of a variety of stripes , concluded that the party could n't continue . Some did so with ideological enthusiasm ; others with greater reluctance . But the broad consensus to change course was well established by 1992 . Self-Interest and the Public Interest The conclusion of the postwar boom brought with it the most progressive period in Canadian government in generations , the Pearson welfare state reforms of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1940s , armed with the experience of the Depression and World War II , as well as the return to managed prosperity in the 1950s , confidently turned its attention to the need to complete the basic elements of a welfare state : support for those in need , health care , training , and pensions . There was no doubt in the minds of this generation that the leadership for these reforms would come from the federal government in Ottawa , no doubt that it could be paid for , and no doubt that once they saw the transfer money involved , the provinces would fall into line . The resultant legislation , the Canada Assistance Plan , the Canada Pension Plan , and the laws establishing universal health insurance in all the provinces and territories , established the principle that the federal government would set national standards for welfare , health care , and pensions , and in turn would provide the provinces with an assured 50 per cent of the cost of the programmes , which would in turn be governed by provincial legislation . The Canada Pension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to let Quebec opt out of the plan and establish its own , parallel plan with similar rules for vesting and portability compatible with the principle that people would move around and needed to be able to maintain a consistent level THE THREE QUESTIONS of contribution and benefit . As a result , Quebec was able to create a fund , the Caisse de Depot , that has been a key ingredient in the industrial and economic 76 transformation of Quebec society . No other province has sought to opt out of the national plan , although there are provisions that would allow for just such an eventuality . At the end of the 1970s , after the post-oil-crisis slowdown , the federal government decided that the .50 per cent deal was off . It was to be replaced by block transfers of money , as well as the transfer of certain tax points . The writing was on the wall . The federal government had created federal-provincial programmes under a generous umbrella born of the confidence of another time , and the provinces had bought into full participation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of the partnership were being changed , unilaterally , by the federal government . From budget to budget the federal government would announce new reductions in transfers , always unilaterally . The Mulroney government announced that the three " wealthy " provinces of Alberta , British Columbia , and Ontario would be capped in their transfers for provincial welfare . This came right at the beginning of the 1990 recession in Ontario , with serious financial consequences . A court challenge brought the judgement from'the Supreme Court of Canada that since the original legislation was an act of the federal parliament , the federal government could act unilaterally if it chose to do so . Self-Interest and the Public Interest The Chretien government went one better , repealing the Canada Assistance Act altogether . The result is that the range of programmes associated with the welfare state , namely welfare itself , help for 77 the disabled and distressed , and health care of all kinds , are increasingly the sole financial responsibility of the provinces . The federal government likes to wave its flag and insist on its role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial partner . The signs of deterioration are everywhere , and date back a full generation . The federal government has achieved its unproved financial situation by cutting hard and deep at the basic fabric of the welfare state . In so doing it has become less of a national government . The regions and provinces have grown in importance by force of circumstance . The principle of " he who pays the piper calls the tune " clearly applies . " National standards " can only be the result of a strong financial presence . As this diminishes , the standards will increasingly be set at local levels . The economic logic of devolution does not stop there . At the provincial level , the depth of the federal cuts could only be met by increased borrowing for so long , particularly when combined with the reduced revenues of a deep recession . The Harris Tories have run hard with the Big Lie that Ontario was facing bankruptcy after the " ten lost years " of profligate waste by Liberals and the NDP . Like Reagan before him , Harris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda machine , as well as from an economy that has been growing . But the Tories have been misleading the public systematically about public finances ? 78 ? and the choices they have faced since 1995 . They needed to create the illusion of a crisis to justify the authoritarian nature of their solutions . There is confusion about what they have devolved and what has been recentralized . Welfare payments were cut by more than 20 per cent , which meant that the incomes of the most vulnerable were cut more drastically and more quickly than any other " transfer agency . " The municipalities will continue to foot part of the welfare bill . Social housing has been forced down to the local level , which means that neither the federal nor the provincial government is involved in affordable housing . This is precisely where we were during the Depression , when the Bruce Report on housing was commissioned in 1934 by the Ontario provincial government of the day . It established beyond any reasonable doubt that the market , left to itself , would never deal with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borne out by the experience of every modern industrial country . Local governments do not , at this point , have the means to address the problem , which means it will get worse . Educational policy has been completely centralized . That is what the teachers ' dispute was all about . Bargaining between teachers and school boards will continue to be local , but will not deal with the pension ? 79 Self-Interest and the Public Interest issue , which is provincial . School boards and property taxpayers will continue to pay for about 40 per cent of school budgets , which will no doubt add to the confusion . The principle of devolution , what the Europeans call " subsidiarity " can be a good one , if it is matched by a transfer of resources , and if provincial and federal governments use tax policy wisely . The advantage of downloading is that municipal governments become accountable for spending money and providing services . For certain services , like transportation , municipal governments must have the means to pay for the service over and above what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes , or tolls , or fees , these are not done on a progressive basis , but with cost recovery in mind . That in turn means that there is even more reason for governments with responsibility for income tax to make it even more progressive , i.e. to ensure a larger break for lower- and middle-income people , rather than the biggest breaks for people at the top . This is not being done at the moment . The largest tax breaks will go to those who are best off . This means that the way downloading is being done further increases the trend to inequality , and ensures that the most vulnerable and marginal people will become even more so . The cost of the Harris tax cut for its first two years was $5.6 billion . Now it is running at about $5 billion per year . Fifty per cent of tax filers earn less than $33,000 per year , and they will receive on average THE THREE QUESTIONS about $350 each . Tax filers earning more than $250,000 will receive more than $15,000 each . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 80 even stranger when one calculates that in an economy that will have had good growth for five years , the Harris government will have increased the provincial debt by about $30 billion on the expiry of its first term . It is interesting to note that in a recent publication , The Ontario Alternative Budget Papers , a coalition of social activists brought together by the Ontario Federation of Labour had this to say about debts and deficits : Debt levels that are this high , relative to the size of the provincial economy , are clearly not sustainable . A growing debt-to-GDP requires that an increasing proportion of the provincial budget be devoted to public debt interest payments . When interest rates exceed the rate of economic growth , as they have for most of the past ten years , the problem becomes even worse . At $8.7 billion , Ontario 's public debt interest payment is the province 's third largest budget item . Budgets need to be in balance on average over the business cycle to prevent the public sector from becoming totally mortgaged to banks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ontario 's huge annual interest payments . The increasing share of the provincial budget that goes to interest payments causes a Self-Interest and the Public Interest number of serious problems . It makes it harder to pay for public programs . It forces taxes up even when program spending is not increasing . It reduces the flexibility of the government to fund new social and 81 economic programs in times of recession or dislocation . It transfers wealth from taxpayers to moneylenders . ' I could n't have put it better myself , although I did try , in a number of speeches after 1992 . It is gratifying that six years later the arguments are now generally accepted . The exposure of every level of government to the penetrating tests of the international market-place will not diminish . Canadian governments tried hard after 1975 ( like many others ) to buy time and protection . The federal government began borrowing , taxing , and off-loading ; so , in turn , did the provinces and many local governments . The buck has finally stopped . The first reaction is for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ push political hot-buttons . We lash out at governments , politicians . In ugly moods we lash out at immigrants and people on social assistance . Canadians are subject to these moods like all others . We compound it with particular regional resentments . Canadians were surprised when even Ontario joined the ranks of the regionally aggrieved . No one should be surprised . Treat us like a region , as began to happen most emphatically after 1975 , and that is THE THREE QUESTIONS how we shall respond . This political fact has been bottled up by the vast Liberal majority in Ontario since 1993 , but it will inevitably re-emerge. ? 82 The challenge is to find the institutional ways across the country of ensuring that some limits are placed on exaggerated regional or sectional feeling . In the case of Quebec , this has always been unusually difficult , since we are dealing here not with local grievance alone but with a persistent ethnic nationalism which since the 1960s has insisted on the breakup of the country as a prelude to an undefined " association " or " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a myth that there is a single English-speaking Canada ? against which it is fashionable in Quebec to rail and complain . What regionalism in the midst of globalization really means is that there is no " there " there : English-speaking Canada exists much less clearly than it did even twenty or thirty years ago . Canada , contrary to the mythology of Mr. Bouchard , is not some external force apart from Quebec . Canada exists because , as a founding partner , Quebec made it happen . There are other ways in which our world has very clearly changed . It was a central premise of the postRoosevelt era that a period of expansive growth would benefit everyone , most particularly those with the lowest incomes . The political assumption was that broad social insurance was necessary to protect everyone , because everyone was equally vulnerable . If most people feel they are one pay-cheque away from Self-Interest and the Public Interest poverty , they will be looking for the greatest amount of protection . Solidarity is of greater value , because the commitment to social spending is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done out of a sense of self- ? 83 interest . It is the natural , highly personal response to Hillel 's first question : " If I am not for myself , who is for me ? " In what I have called the first chapter of the postwar period , this solidarity was reflected in both the economy and the social programmes of the Lester Pearson era . This was the reality best described in the memorable phrase of President John Kennedy : " the rising tide lifts all boats . " A largely male , white , industrial workforce saw its incomes rise steadily from 1945 to 1970 . The business cycle was not abolished , but even allowing for downturns and recessions , there was an undeniable steadiness to the improvement in pay , fringe benefits , and job security . It was the confidence in the permanence of this improvement in the standard of living of ordinary people that made the Pearson reforms possible . We have now seen how fragile these reforms in fact were , and some of the reasons for the changing role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a more affluent society than we were in 1970 . But we are also a more unequal one . And , as we have seen , this inequality has in recent years been exacerbated by the deliberate decisions of governments . This inequality is felt in a number of ways . Everyone by now should be familiar with the basic THE THREE QUESTIONS statistics : the top fifth has moved farther ahead ; the bottom fifth has fallen farther behind . More importantly , the top 60 per cent of the population is mov ? // most important political consequences . Well-paid industrial jobs are declining in importance . They are being replaced by a myriad of positions in the service sector , which covers a very broad range . Some are low-paid , part-time , the " McJobs " that have helped to define the so-called " generation X " in our collective minds . The most marginal of these are the greatest part-timers of them all , the " squeegee kids " who will wash your car windshield at every traffic stop in our cities in exchange for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyer and investment banker knows , not every service job is marginal or low-paid . More seriously , the information economy depends on millions of skilled workers for its growth . People who fail to understand the essential dynamism of the technology around us ask questions like " What will be the jobs of the future ? " The answer is a simple " No one really knows , " because the pace of change is such that neither technologies nor the companies that will create them are permanent or predictable . The global economy has brought with it great advantages for some and massive insecurity for others . The rising tide lifts many yachts , and strong cruising boats even more so . Other , smaller craft are swamped . Older workers tend to do better than Self-Interest and the Public Interest younger ; whites better than non-whites ; men better than women ; above all , the educated and skilled do much better than those with less formal schooling . The growing inequality is even expressed in the ? 85 statistics around working time : people with good work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result . The growth in part-time work since the 1970s has been explosive . Some of it is voluntary , and expresses the changing nature of family and other commitments . But much of it is involuntary , and reflects the imbalance between the haves and the have-nots . The basis of most populism is that someone else , some evil external force , is to blame for this phenomenon . Life is more complex . We have already seen that it is technological change itself which is at the core of the drive to globalization , and that the organization and control of this technology lies outside the hands of the nation-state . Similarly , more open economies , the absence of capital controls , and the increasingly international strategies of companies all set limits on what governments can do , and how they can tax and regulate . The causes of the growing inequality are many . They partly reflect the impact of new technologies and globalization . They also have to do with changing working conditions , and dramatic shifts in the workforce itself . When we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see that it is not as easy as it first appears to craft answers . THE THREE QUESTIONS But it is not true that we are powerless to effect some solutions . Whether dealing with the growing inequality we see around us every day , with all its ? 86 potential for civil unease , and even unrest , or corning to terms with a world that may be a village in some senses but most definitely is not in terms of the vast differences between us , we face choices that are both moral and political . And so we come to the second of Hillel 's questions : " But if I am only for myself , what am I ? " Self-interest is a necessary but hardly a sufficient basis for a decent society . We live in more than a market-place , and so it is to this second question , the call of solidarity , that we must now turn . THE KEY ASSUMPTION OF CLASSICAL LIBERAL thought ? what today would be dubbed the " neoconservative agenda " ? was that private decisions on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Michael Ignatieff , one of the most articulate defenders of liberal thinking today , rightly points out that what distinguishes liberalism from " possessive individualism " is its appeal to empathy . Rabbi Hillel 's second question ? " But if I am only for myself , what am I ? " ? makes the same point . The pursuit of self-interest is a necessary precondition for a decent social order , but a good society requires more . It requires the ways and means for empathy and solidarity to be reflected in everyday life . Simply put , every successful society will need to THE THREE QUESTIONS recognize and reward individual success as well as demonstrating an organized capacity for social compassion . The U.S. and Thatcherite Britain are counso ? tries that meet the first condition . They fail the second . There are innumerable examples of countries that have pursued compassion on the assumption that prosperity would always be there , and ended up failing both tests . Some , like Holland and Sweden , have begun to make the structural changes required to get things back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more painful . A successful politics will understand that pursuing both prosperity and the public interest ? finding the right answer to Hillel 's first two questions ? is not easy . But that is the challenge that must be met . The right 's answer to the pursuit of compassion is that private charity alone will bridge the gap between rich and poor , between the successful and the disadvantaged . The standard argument is clear : scarcity is the common lot of humankind . The capitalist market system , based on the self-interest of individuals and the natural right of the individual to private appropriation , would produce the most efficient economy , the best distribution of wealth , and the fairest treatment of the individual . These arguments are made with equal force today , although they admitted ly have to contend with a public sector larger than anything contemplated in the nineteenth century . It The Second Question is important to deal with them factually so they can finally be put to rest . The major cuts in federal and provincial transfers to social service agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing over the past several years have not been matched by an explosion in private giving . Nor will they ever be . Cuts have increased both inequality and poverty , and they will continue to do so unless they are reversed . It is not simply that the incomes of the poorest Canadians have been cut . This we know . It is also that the budgets of those agencies whose mission it is to help low-income Canadians have been slashed at the same time . People with little income rely on public institutions to provide them with the services they need . Wealthier people can buy private health care , private education , and private home nursing . But a general decline in public goods in these areas is an assault on equality and common citizenship . Can private philanthropy possibly fill the gap ? Can voluntarism make the critical difference where taxbased support has simply disappeared ? The answer , on the evidence , is clearly " no . " According to the latest statistics , there are fewer people making charitable donations than in the early 1990s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total of $3.5 billion . This is not surprising , given the recession of the early 1990s . But it is a sad fact that the average donation of those who gave was less in THE THREE QUESTIONS 1995 , in constant dollars , than in 1984 ( $450 as opposed to $458 ) . What is remarkable is the continuing stinginess of ? 92 Canadian corporations , whose level of giving for charities stood at 0.88 per cent of pre-tax profits in 1971 and at 0.77 per cent in 1995 . In this factual context , the extent of corporate selfcongratulation over giving stands in remarkable contrast to the amount that is given . The other difficulty is that companies increasingly pursue charitable giving as an extension of their corporate profile . Helping low-income , homeless people is less media positive than helping a hospital or university . The result is that , even in the world of charity , those who need the most get the least . My point is not to discourage private philanthropy . Quite the contrary . A decent society wants to encourage an individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can . It is rather that the free market argument that private giving is an adequate substitute for an ever-diminishing state is an illusion . It can only be an addition , a necessary addition , but just that and no more . Something else happens in a society which is reduced to constantly entreating rich people to give a little more money away . We celebrate wealth accumulation at the expense of other worthwhile activities : our universities and hospitals dedicate buildings , streets , Chairs , and scholarships to the inheritors of fortunes rather than to poets , musicians , and artists . The Second Question They will protest that they must . Religious and charitable organizations fall over themselves to reward as " Men of the Year " or " People of Achievement " people who have succeeded in the endeavours of business and ? 93 finance , in the hope that this recognition will be matched by a generous gift . We 're in danger of losing our balance and sense of proportion . This adulation of wealthy people is unseemly . Wealth need not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in being rewarded and celebrated . Those who are really concerned about homelessness , the growing gap between rich and poor , and the emergence of a growing underclass in Canada can not , if they are serious , simply look to private giving if they want to make any significant contribution to those in need . They have to look elsewhere , to public policy , to which we shall now turn . Canada 's welfare state , while badly weakened , is hardly penniless . We have , over the years , spent a great deal of public money in sustaining the public good . My argument is that we need to spend it more wisely . Looking at the expenditure of the whole public sector ( federal government , provinces , municipalities ) together , we spend billions on health , pensions , unemployment insurance benefits , welfare , support for the vulnerable , and education . Looking at the regulation side of the ledger , governments of differing stripes and philosophy have made it harder ( or easier ) to organize a union , get paid a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , get reasonable vacation pay or maternity leave , and fight discrimination . Why is there such a strong sense that these ? 94 approaches are inadequate ? The first answer is because there are visible signs that the welfare-state roof is leaking . Youth unemployment is much too high . Well over 10 per cent of the Canadian population is on unemployment insurance or welfare . Hospital care seems threatened . Yet the age-old social democratic answer of " spend more money " is less popular than it was , if only because the public instinctively understands that this means higher taxes . Government debts have grown to the point where they risk preventing a capacity for innovation in the public sector itself . And not just governments have become highly leveraged ? individuals and companies as well have been going heavily into debt in order to maintain their standard of living . The gap between rich and poor has widened . Those able to participate fully and effectively in the global economy have done well . Those whose lack of necessary skill , education , and wealth prevent them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle-aged ? face a future on the very margins of society . These are not exclusively Canadian problems . They are faced , in varying degrees , by every industrial country . But there can now be no statistical doubt that this rising tide of globalization is not lifting all boats . The latest evidence is that real incomes for most The Second Question Canadians fell by 8 per cent in the 1990s , and that the percentage of Canadians living in poverty increased by a quarter . Incomes of racial minorities are 15 per cent below the national average . Aboriginal incomes are 34 per cent lower than the Canadian average . While the number of families increased 6 per cent during 1990-1995 , the number of low-income families increased 32 per cent . In Toronto alone , 15 per cent of households were classified as low-income in 1990 ; that number reached 21.1 per cent by 1995 . The average income in Toronto declined a full 10 per cent . Half the one-parent families headed up by women are now described as low-income ; a quarter of male-led single-parent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change the weather or the direction of the wind . But we can change the direction of our sails . The story of the last twenty-five years is one where all Western societies have had to come to terms with slower growth , rapid technological and social change , and a deeper understanding of the connection between our economic and political institutions and prosperity . There are a few on the left who still insist that sovereign governments , committed to greater equality of outcomes , can use the state to steer the economy and society in the direction the elected majority wants . But in many cases , that would mean higher taxes , bigger governments , more intervention , more social engineering , more laws , and more regulation . THE THREE QUESTIONS Fortunately this formula , in its classic form , no longer has much appeal . A much bigger problem is the ideological fixation ? 96 ? of the right . The right-wing " revolutionaries , " as they call themselves in Ontario , are misguided and dangerous . They govern in the name of a theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prefer to tear everything down and " start all over again . " They start from the premise that " nothing is working . " They have no respect for what has gone before , or been tried before . In the case of metropolitan government , for example , they have reached the curious conclusion that creating a single centralized bureaucracy and administration for 2.5 million people and then downloading and off-loading services like housing , welfare , and long-term health care will save money and reduce the tax burden . It will do no such thing . It will produce more costs , higher property taxes and service charges , and more inequality . Unless the plan is drastically changed , it will not produce deep prosperity or a growth which is widely shared . The right wants " government " smaller , ignoring the fact that the vast majority of the taxes we pay as Canadians go to health care , education , pensions and income support , as well as policing , health and safety , and environmental regulation , and not to government bureaucracy itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want to cut health , education , and pensions . " The Second Question They mouth the cliche that " Government is the problem , " and claim that once we are freed from the impossible burden of taxation , the clutches of unions , and the dead hand of inspection and regulation , all will be well . The price for this forced march is high . Health , education , and public services suffer . The wealthy avoid the cuts by purchasing their own services in the market-place . As the quality of services declines , public confidence is further eroded . Human nature being what it is , everyone aspires to jump the queue : the rat race turns us all into bigger and better rats . The principle of trust also speaks to the importance of partnership between all the players in the modern economy . We are , as a country , profoundly reliant on our continuing access to world markets . We always have been , but never more so than today . Nearly half our GDP depends on exports ? up from 35 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low wages and corresponding long strikes , deep divisions , inefficiency , or a disregard for productivity . Old models of irreconcilable divisions between " us " and " them " have to be thrown away . Through their pension plans both public and private , working people have a profound stake in the health of our economy . Quebec 's Solidarity Fund ? an investment vehicle controlled by Quebec unions themselves ? is an important model for the rest of the country and is a demonstration of what can only be called " democratic THE THREE QUESTIONS capitalism . " These lessons were applied in the reconstruction of Ontario 's economy in the 1990s to some real effect . ? 98 Our commitment to the democratic values of community and solidarity necessarily affects the nature of our economy , but it does not exist in mid-air , independent of the economy . Governments should not do too little . But we do pay a price when they try to do too much . We have all had to learn the lesson that there are more good ideas than there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to the practical social and economic policy that will produce both prosperity and the public good . There is no one big ideological " answer . " But there are better approaches . Devolve as much power to local governments as possible , but insist on co-ordination . And governments , in turn , should devolve as much power to the community as possible . Governments steer better than they row . Focus whatever tax relief can be afforded on the lowest paid , and give people every incentive to earn , work , and learn . Reduce the work week and working time . Reward patient capital . Discourage speculation if it re-emerges . Do n't punish success , but give every incentive for private generosity . Do n't reduce taxes to the point where the public sector can no longer provide decent health care , vital infrastructure investment , and education . Canada can ensure its competitive advantage through its strengths in health care , infrastructure investment , and education . The Second Question The left 's answer to welfare reform has been widely perceived as simply giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home . This approach created a reaction from working families who then 99 determined that their taxes were simply being used to subsidize idleness . This happened in the U.S. , in the U.K. , and now in Canada . It has changed the welfare debate . Social democracy needs to put work and education back at the centre of its commitment to income support . Of course , we need to avoid the frenzy to punish the victim that has for centuries been at the heart of the right 's approach . Writing seventy years ago , Sidney and Beatrice Webb described how the English Poor Law was slowly evolving from what they called a " Framework of Repression " to a " Framework of Prevention . " We do not seem to have advanced very far along that road . We are told by the Webbs that what forced a change in the poor law in 1834 was a " spectacular increase " in expenditure on the poor paid for by a variety of local taxes : the financial burden was universally felt to be crushing ; largely because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rates were exacted , not from those who were receiving the rapidly rising rents , royalties and profits , but in accordance with the Elizabethan legislation , from every occupier of lands , houses , titles inappropriate , or THE THREE QUESTIONS appropriations of titles , coal mines and selectable " underwoods. " ' 100 ? The industrial revolution 's growing middle class resented a tax increase on top of a stagnating postNapoleonic War economy . The result was a new law in the 1830s which limited public support for the poor in a drastic fashion , and required that if able-bodied paupers and their families wanted relief , they would have to go to the poor house to get it . The 1834 report has passages that might bring tears of joy to the eyes of even a Mike Harris and his minions . Take this account of what would happen once the principle of no relief outside the workhouse was applied : New life , new energy is infused into the constitution of the pauper , he is aroused like one from sleep , his relation with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he surveys his former employers with new eyes . He begs a job ? he will not take a denial ? he discovers that everyone wants something to be done . He desires to make up this man 's hedges , to clear out another 's ditches , to grub stumps out of hedgerows for a third ; nothing can escape his eye , and he is ready to turn his hand to anything . ' The premise that it is welfare alone that makes people lazy , that unemployment is voluntary , that idleness is a condition perpetuated by " hand-outs " The Second Question from government is still very much part of the welfare debate in Canada . It is not a new idea and it is not common sense . Yet it is equally hard to deny that the very existence of unemployment insurance and welfare in turn affects behaviour . We have created what one economist has called the " quicksand effect , " by which he means that the very act of income support for people fully capable of working on a sustained , institutionalized basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this century it has been an ever-more widely accepted truth that unemployment is more a reflection of a badly working economy than of an inadequate character . We should certainly hold on to that insight . Yet social democrats have to come to terms with the renewed force of the conservative argument that a complete package of entitlements with few reciprocal responsibilities on the part of the individual creates its own " moral hazard . " Social democracy must now make welfare reform its own issue . Dependency is not a good thing . It is a problem . Social democracy is about reciprocal rights and responsibilities . It is about what we owe each other . This solidarity is not a one-way street , a manifesto of state largesse with no sense of contract in return . John Richards has written recently on this subject in his book Retooling the Welfare State . ' It is unfortunate that the positive side of his argument has been lost in his rhetorical excess . When Richards argues THE THREE QUESTIONS that social democrats have to take the pledge on debts and deficits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I agree with him entirely . ? 102 When he argues that income support should be targeted broadly to working people , and that the federal and provincial income tax systems should be geared much more to work , he is right . There are still disincentives because of a lack of support for home care , child care , training , drug costs , and transportation for people seeking to get off welfare and return to the workforce . These should end . People making less than $40,000 per year should be paying less in taxation than they are today , and should have every encouragement and incentive to work . More people should be taken off the income-tax rolls entirely . But Richards is very wrong about the relationship between the modern state and the family . He actually comes close to arguing that while single mothers should be out working , it would be better if women in two-parent families were encouraged to stay at home . This is the " nanny state " with a vengeance . Of course it would be nice if women and men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family values if it pretends the world has not changed as much as it has . The increase in the rate of divorce and family breakdown is a secular trend that " do-gooding " governments can not change . It is the result of thousands of private decisions , wrought of emotions and tragedies the state can not comprehend , The Second Question and should not try to interfere with . And the state has no business dictating to women who should work and who should not . The enthusiasm for work and welfare reform should not be intrusive . The parents of children should be expected by their fellow citizens to care for them in the context of a society that supports that care and that understands the variety and diversity of family life . Those who evade their family obligations and support payments should be made to pay . Women who choose to work should be able to know that child care will be available and affordable . There should be incentives to work , to learn , and to train , but the child benefit should be broadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or income support . What about workfare ? It has become a bumper sticker , a slogan . Yet at its extreme it is really just a return to the Poor Law philosophy of 1834 . It is reasonable to expect people to take the opportunity to learn and retrain when faced with long periods of unemployment . But the punitive , disciplinarian tone of the Victorian workhouse should not be revived . The " framework of repression " should be dismantled for all time . Governments should remove any tax disincentives against hiring , which means that the enthusiasm for payroll taxes has to be challenged . Employers need to be encouraged to provide jobs and training , even if it means subsidizing employment and education in the workplace . Workers should be THE THREE QUESTIONS allowed to join unions , and to work together to improve their lives . There is a distinctly Dickensian feel to the neo ? 104 conservative solutions . They are punitive , which is precisely why social democracy has to challenge the current direction of right-wing thinking and practice . The challenge can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This will never be accepted by the majority of working people , and the longer the left only talks the language of grievance and entitlement , the longer it will remain marginal to the current debate . The idea of reciprocity extends farther . The age of transfers without responsibilities is clearly diminishing for governments as well as individuals , and the federal government can do a great deal through tax policy to encourage the changes that are needed . The age of reliable federal transfers to provinces for health , education , and social assistance is over . This experience has been matched in virtually every province by provincial cuts in general transfers to boards , agencies , and municipalities . Overlapping transfers create real problems both for public finance and for programme accountability and innovation . Nothing demonstrates this more clearly than the response of Ontario Premier Mike Harris to Paul Martin 's 1998 federal budget : he attacked it because it did not transfer more money back to Ontario for health care and education . This from a government The Second Questionthat has cut billions from those very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut that rewards the better-off . Mr. Harris is a wolf in wolf 's clothing : he will fool no one with his protestations.The purpose of transfers from one level of government to another should mainly be to equalize opportunity across the country or province . Citizens should know which level of government is accountable for which expenditure , and there should be as little mixed jurisdiction as possible.Ottawa is in a much weakened position to enforce unilaterally any so-called " national standards " in areas of provincial jurisdiction , like health care . If they do n't pay the piper , they have no right to call the tune . The recent provincial agreement in Saskatoon is an inevitable reflection of the shift in relative fiscal power between the provinces and the federal government.What will hold the country together in this age of greater regionalism is the political will to share standards , values , and enforcement . There will be an advantage to local innovation , which is what federalism at its best is supposed to be all about . At the same time , the principle of equalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensure a relative equality of resources and taxing power.If directing federal spending into an elaborate web of shared transfers is no longer a real option for the national government , the advantage of a single federal income tax should ensure that the federal government THE THREE QUESTIONS focuses its attention on transfers to individuals through the tax system . There is much still to do to ensure that the income-tax system provides all the ? 106 incentives it can to encourage people to return to work and to keep working . The child tax benefit which the provinces and the federal government agreed to in 1996 ( and which was proposed by Ontario in 1993 ) is a very modest start to what should be a more intelligent way to ensure solidarity : all lowerincome families with children would receive incomebased support through the tax system from Ottawa . The provinces and the federal government would then intertwine social assistance with employment insurance to ensure a co-ordinated approach to training , child care , and return to work . The disabled and those truly unable to work ( or train or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again , the existing Canada Pension and provincial programmes would be linked , and ultimately combined . Some of this argument will make some traditional social democrats queasy . But it is hard to see anything particularly noble about a welfare and social security system that gives people a cheque if they make their way to the right wicket , and then tells them to go away . There is surely something wrong if the first cheque a young person receives when he or she leaves home is a welfare cheque . Getting people back to work and off welfare is not a right-wing objective , it is a common goal . It is also not just part of the " corporate agenda . " The Second Question The irony , of course , is that the shift to a more activist approach was started in recent years by social democratic governments . Ontario , British Columbia , and Saskatchewan all expanded child care and adult 107 education . They all linked return to the labour market with better training . They lacked the punitive edge of more conservative governments across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . THE EXTENSION OF PUBLIC , TAX-BASED SUPPORT for health care and education are rightly seen as the bedrock of modern solidarity . The fact that they are supposed to be accessible is what gives democracy more than just a formal meaning . Yet the current controversies about health and education are a real reflection of difficult choices . The status quo is not good enough , and it is not sustainable . We have to overcome the sense that the welfare state is a completed citadel which only requires a stout defence . Social democracy needs to become comfortable again with being an advocate for change . THE THREE QUESTIONS HEALTH Both federal and provincial governments must also 112 ? play a far more creative role in health care . The health policy debate across the country in the last ten years has not just been about money , although that has become an understandable focus . The great achievement of public hospital and health insurance , begun forty years ago , was its reflection of a profound sense among the people of Canada that access to quality care is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of access across the country . Public health insurance is a key expression of the principle of solidarity . But there are tremendous problems with health care in Canada . Few of us appreciate how much it costs . It is one of the main reasons taxes in Canada are higher than they are in the United States . The costs of the system are very hard to control , because we are living longer , because technologies , including drugs , are improving , and because the most significant successes of modern medicine lie not so much in finding complete cures but in turning acute illnesses into chronic ones . Governments across the country have been enthusiastically " restructuring " health care : closing acutecare beds , shutting hospitals , reducing the amount of insurable services . This is not just a Canadian phenomenon ? it is a trend across the industrialized world . Canadians might be readier to accept these The Second Question cuts if they had any confidence they were part of a broader plan , and if there were not so many examples of people being denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the waiting list . The brave new 113 world of the " wellness model " is hard to embrace when it ca n't provide for those who are sick . The health bureaucracies in each province ( and in Ottawa ) are also ill-equipped to provide answers to pertinent questions like , Which treatments are working ? and To what effect ? Doctors resent interference in their practice because they insist they know best and the doctor-patient relationship is sacred . Private insurance companies in the U.S. are much more aggressive about insisting on more attention to outcomes , although their motivation is purely financial . The public system in Canada has not been able to respond to the deep changes underway . We have pushed back the grim reaper with stronger drugs , better living conditions , and dramatic new treatments . We have not developed enough successful strategies for long-term care , or , more accurately , we have by inaction sanctioned a two-tier health system for the major growth areas in health care : drugs , and home care for the chronically ill and ageing . A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place ? nationally , provincially , and locally ? would be a serious mistake . But targeted new spending is required for pharma care and home care ; and a common approach to funding by both Ottawa and the provinces is clearly required . THE THREE QUESTIONS The administration of this new approach must be local . Municipal and regional governments have to assume more responsibility for co-ordinating services , ? 114 ? within budgets that are based on population . Healthcare professionals of all kinds would be expected to work in teams . The task of both provincial and federal bureaucracies , which would be dramatically downsized , would be to encourage an assessment of outcomes according to the best international standards and practices . These are not revolutionary suggestions . They build on trends already underway in almost every province , but will face opposition because they recognize that the status quo is unsustainable . Hospitals would have to be less hierarchical . Unions ( including the medical associations ) would have to be prepared to give up job turf , and general practitioners would no longer be paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matched by an increase in the number of community jobs . Health is an over-bureaucratized system . The health bureaucracy in Ottawa and every provincial capital should be broken up . Regional authorities with real budget control over health promotion , home care , public health , and hospital care should make the key local and regional decisions . Small policy units in Ottawa and the capitals could focus on broader health research , on the broad trends in care , treatment , and research that will affect care in the future . In the first generation of medicare , governments The Second Question socialized the cost and insurance of acute medical illness by spreading the burden to taxpayers . Much more now is required : if we keep on socializing the cost without really managing the system , medicare 's 115 future is in peril . It is impossible to construct a potentially more expensive system . The cost of the collapse of medicare would not be borne by the better-off ( including the unionized with benefit packages ) ; it would hit those unable to bear the market cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today of home care and the cost of drugs . It will be true of other parts of health care if governments and citizens fail to understand that the system continues to need better management as well as better funding . Health care needs this kind of attention and leadership . Reforms like this have already begun in Saskatchewan and British Columbia . Instead of quarrelling about money , health ministers have to come to grips with their own responsibilities . There is still a role for Ottawa . Indeed , logic would suggest a national drug insurance plan linked to the income tax system , and an end to ten pettifogging provincial drug approval bureaucracies . The quid pro quo would be a much more limited direct federal role in a hands-on delivery programme like home care , where local adaptability makes much more sense . THE THREE QUESTIONS EDUCATION The one central fact about the new economy we are ? 116 ? moving into is that learning will be at its centre . It is a world of abounding technological change with a truly global reach . We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of our ability to make goods and perform services at prices and with a quality that compares favourably with others . We can not afford to lose sight of this central fact . The quality of our public services and the level and constancy of support we can provide for each other depend in good measure on two things , which are of equal importance : our prosperity , which should never be despised , and on our sense of mutual obligation and justice , which in turn gives meaning and reward to our prosperity . These are not exclusive values . They reinforce each other . Learning is at the centre of the new economy , and at the centre of our society . How can we demonstrate its importance more effectively than we do ? The 1960s began a shift in educational philosophy that needs to be re-thought . According to this view , focusing on the individual student and the quality and nature of his or her experience was more important than the substance of what was taught . Hierarchies of learning and courses were less important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student . Fixed courses of study , curricula that reflected a body of knowledge certain in space and time , were discarded The Second Question in favour of looser ranges or groupings of study that could be chosen , cafeteria-style , by the student . The Plowden Report , which expressed the philosophy of the 1960s in Britain , argued that schools should ? 117 " allow children to be themselves and to develop in the way and at the pace appropriate to them . " The Canadian report that set the pace of change in the 1970s and beyond was the Ontario Royal Commission , the Hall-Dennis Report . It led to the abandonment of general matriculation examinations , and a revamped curriculum in the name of " childcentred learning . " There is now a growing recognition that this has produced a culture of learning with its own problems . Failure and success were harder to assess . Indeed , at one ideological extreme , the very word " failure " was not allowed to be heard . Yet it is a difficult truth that not all learning is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as imagination . There is a growing sense that we have not been challenging ourselves enough . This is what needs to change . It is better that we start with the premise that the glass is half full . It is very hard to motivate people if we convince ourselves that everything is broken and all must be started anew . The premises of revolutionaries are dangerously self-serving . They start by arguing that the status quo is a disaster and that the world must be changed to conform with a particular theory . Whatever pain and suffering follows from the revolutionary plan is described as a " necessary THE THREE QUESTIONS adjustment , " and in any event completely justified by what is described as the appalling nature of the existing situation . In the course of things , much harm is // in human life and human relations . We need to be infused with a spirit of steady improvement , rather than with the need to turn the world upside down in the name of a revolution . There has already been too much catering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the fundamentals of what we know . In the nineteenth century , which was the first century of public education , children grew up in a world without television , movies , or radio . The book was king . Most children left school before their teenage years , and certainly not all could read , but we did achieve a great degree of basic literacy in the necessary skills of an economy rapidly shifting from its agricultural base to the factory . The modern discussion and debate about education has to come to grips with television , computer games and the Internet . Young children coming to school for the first time will already have spent thousands of hours in front of the TV , and can be expected to spend more time watching TV every week than they spend in school . We " blame schools " for poor results , yet do n't really look at the entire context in which learning is taking place . As long as parents adopt a totally passive attitude to their kids ' leisuretime addiction to television and computer games , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what their children are learning . There is no point in adopting a Luddite attitude to technology . But we can continue to insist that television perform a critical , educational role . We also have to recognize the enormous , untapped potential that new forms of interactive learning now present for children . In a few years ' time , we shall no longer be referring simply to " broadcast television . " It will be more a matter of our choosing programming and courses of learning that we can follow at our own pace and in our own time . The school will become a focus for sharing knowledge , learning , and skills with the community around it . Ideally we would see the physical infrastructure of the school as a community resource , starting with pre-school children and their parents , and involving senior citizens as mentors and valued guides . Early childhood education is even more important in the age of television and the Internet than before . The addictive effect of these technologies has to be offset early on ; working parents need to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early childhood learning opportunities do an enormous amount for young children and their families . This is not " babysitting . " Parents confronted with poor test results should start demanding more from all of us , more from government , more from teachers , more from the leaders of schools . This is entirely to the good . The last thing THE THREE QUESTIONS we want is to encourage complacency or a sense that nothing can be done . Some parents will express their dissatisfaction by moving their kids out of the public ? 12o system . But parents have to take the more fundamental step of demanding more of themselves and their children . This will place the burden of leadership back on parents , students , and the teachers and principals of the individual public school . This is especially true in a time of confusion about the role and number of school boards . Yet this is entirely as it should be : the school will remain the central focus of parents ' and students ' lives and concerns . The principal of each school has to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in turn more capable of expecting accountability from the individual teacher and student . Each school would be freer to set its course within the public system , with the central and regional authorities concerned with regular assessment of results according to the redesigned common curriculum . How each school gets there , and what else is done on the journey , is less important . The point is for schools that are less successful to learn from those that are more so . The key to more successful schools is effective , fairly-compensated , well-motivated teachers . Over twenty years of political life I was increasingly struck by the fact that the professional representatives of teachers have been remarkably under-represented in The Second Question the debate around the quality and performance of the public-school system . Issues of compensation , governance as it relates to job tenure , broad political issues with the government of the day : these issues have been the focus of teacher-union activity . Dealing with poor results , curriculum reform , young kids ' performance in science and math , the central questions of how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by parents , by academics , by some politicians , but not as much by the organizations whose job is to advance the point of view of teachers . This is a missed opportunity , to say the least . With the predominance of the political agenda today , there is little sign that this will change , unless teachers themselves demand that it do so . Teachers should be among the leaders of this debate , and should be the leaders of educational improvement and reform . The adversarial nature of bargaining has tended to move the focus away from education itself , and this is much to be regretted . There is nothing inevitable about this ? the trend can be reversed , but it will require a change of head and heart . At the same time , governments have to stop teacher bashing . Angry teachers can defeat governments , but ultimately this is less important than their ability to short-circuit change in the classroom and in the school , if they are persuaded that this is only way their voice can be heard . A successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of THE THREE QUESTIONS the teaching profession ? teachers are the key , and shifting the debate within the profession is crucial for this to happen . ? 122 The teachers face the challenge of a public that wants value for money and has heard much resistance to change but not enough positive vision . The teachers and their federations need to tell Canadians how things could be improved without spending vast new sums of money . The public needs to understand why most governments around the . world are focusing more energy and attention on education . Globalization and unprecedented technological change make education and training more critical to the success of our society than ever before . Public opinion ? to which governments must respond ? demands quality and results . The radical right has an agenda on public education as it does on everything else . Its central premise is to hate the status quo , and make it look and sound much worse than it is . If successful , they hope that this will lead the way to a demand for vouchers , for charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arguments that were on the fringe in the sixties and seventies are now part of the central ideological agenda of the government . Ironically , this radicalism will set back the cause of more modest improvement and reform . A generation of embittered and resentful teachers is no prescription for improving the quality of education . Yet in many ways social democrats share the The Second Question dilemma facing the teachers . Too much of what one hears as a solution to the challenge is a simple " more money . " Canada already spends a lot of money on education in primary and secondary schools by any 123 international comparison . Why are n't the results better ? As in health care , while radical cuts in spending make matters worse , there is no evidence to suggest that huge increases in spending on their own would make things better . The cliche heard all around us is that " learning is for life . " Like many cliches , it is true . It points to the fact that we need to focus more attention on the earliest years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funding programmes with the simple title " Success by Six . " This points to an important truth : life chances and learning opportunities are in many ways set before a child even gets to school . Poverty , bad housing , lousy nutrition , broken families , child physical and mental abuse : these all make their nasty contribution to a meaner and more marginal life . Time magazine ? that quintessential representative of middle-American thinking ? recently devoted a special report to this issue : Deprived of a stimulating environment , a child 's brain suffers ... " there is a time scale to brain development , and the most important year is the first , " notes Frank Newman , President of the Education Commission of the states . By the age of three , a child ICI THE THREE QUESTIONS who is neglected or abused bears marks that , if not indelible , are exceedingly difficult to erase . ' ? 124 ? We spend the vast bulk of money in the health , welfare , and education systems in the later years of life . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moulded and set . Fraser Mustard , the pioneering founder of the medical school at McMaster University , whose work on the connection between science , innovation , prosperity , health , and well-being is truly groundbreaking , puts it in these terms : Good affordable day care ( mainly good support for parents , particularly mothers and their children ) or early childhood education for all sectors of society is key for a future learning society . All evidence indicates that the competence and coping skills of a population in childhood and adult life is a gradient when assessed against socio-economic markers such as income and education . This means that the biggest part of the problem is in the middle class population , although the largest proportions affected will be the children in poverty . The 7,000 infants born this week are beginning the process of wiring their brains for a lifetime that will have a large influence on their behaviour and capacity to learn throughout the rest of their lives and how they work as members of society . If society , parents and governments do not pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process The Second Question takes place , we will all suffer the consequences starting early in the next century . ' These issues can be addressed , but they will require ? 125 a spirit of innovation and a willingness to make a social investment . This means money as well as focus and commitment to assessing outcomes , which in turn means that not as much can be spent elsewhere . The history of public spending everywhere is that , unless checked by deliberate policy , the lion 's share of spending will go to the interests of the status quo . A government committed to reform can not simply acquiesce to what those with a vested interest want . If we agreed to make education the key priority , the key investment , we could do much . Every child could have a computer , with access to the Internet . Every aspiring educator would have the joy of a job . Parents would know they were part of a deeply supported community endeavour . Every worker would have access to better training . A steelworker 's sabbatical would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and innovation would produce their own investment and wealth . Do we really have any other choice ? THE DEMOCRATIC , AND SUSTAINABLE , ECONOMY Edmund Burke referred to society as a contract between those who are living and those who are yet to be born . These words have developed a special THE THREE QUESTIONS meaning in our own time because of our propensity to consume so much of the world 's resources . This generation can hardly claim to have even come close Its ? to meeting the test of environmental sustainability . The reason is simple enough : the price in terms of higher costs and job losses seems too high . The irony is that key industries like fishing and forestry show that the cost of neglect and simply going with the flow is even higher . Ever since Rachel Carson 's Silent Spring and the reports of the Club of Rome in the early 1970s , no reasonable person can claim ignorance of the cost of doing nothing . Yet resistance is everywhere : " no " to higher fuel costs , higher tobacco costs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , in the case of fossil fuel , clearly finite . The opEc-induced crisis of 1974 ? 1975 created a vogue for environmental reform for a while , but this was quickly swamped by the know-nothing populism of Reagan and Thatcher . Global warming is not a myth . Neither are urban sprawl , air pollution , water scarcity , and depletion of resources . Turning to sustainability will require a willingness to pay the price , which includes paying the prices which themselves are a necessary precondition to change consumer behaviour . Social democrats should finally recognize that people will change when they have to , and not before . User fees for garbage bags will help reduce waste . Toll roads will encourage drivers to get out of cars and The Second Question take urban transit . Higher prices for gasoline and heating fuel will encourage conservation . None of these ideas will be popular initially , but governments might be able to pursue them with greater determination if they are combined with a reduction in other taxes , particularly for the lower-paid , and an investment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new approaches to financing , local governments in Canada will not be able to afford significant improvement , or even healthy maintenance , of our transportation infrastructure . It is equally clear that so-called " senior " levels of government will not be transferring large blocks of funds as was their earlier practice . Sustainability in public finances means insisting on discipline and balance ; in welfare it means building more incentives to work and learn ; in health care it means the shifting of resources to preventing illness and insisting on new strategies for promoting wellness ; in education it means paying far more attention to young people and their families and constantly assessing how the system is really performing . For the whole of society it means developing a sense that we are leaving the world better than we found it . The traditionally important constituencies for social democratic movements have had great difficulty sharing any enthusiasm for this agenda , because they perceive that it is only in a growing and prosperous economy that their own dreams of prosperity have any prospect of success . This was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan in the United States , the resurgence of working-class Toryism in Great Britain and increased support for the Reform Party and their ideas 128 among many working Canadians . " Sustainability " is not enough : Prosperity is the goal . The key is to deepen and broaden that prosperity without attacking its source . If the environmental agenda has been problematic , it has been surpassed in controversy by the gender and race politics of the last quarter-century . We saw at the end of chapter four that one of the undoubted effects of globalization and the technological revolution has been a dramatic shift in the workplace itself Women have entered the workforce in unparalleled numbers . That is a permanent , secular change . Canada has also become , in its largest urban centres , a multiracial and not just a multicultural country . Writing a generation ago , one of the deans of Canadian social science , John Porter , described in The Vertical Mosaic how power was distributed in Canada in a distinctly hierarchical fashion . The multicultural mosaic of which we were all so proud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . Porter was writing before the full impact of the feminist revolution , the shift in Canadian immigration policy , and the population explosion among the aboriginal peoples . Each of these has affected the mosaic for all time , and continues to raise important questions about how power and opportunity are shared . The Second Question Women are now participating in the workforce at nearly the same rates as men . On average , their rates of pay are lower , and they tend to be more sparsely represented at senior management levels . Corporate Canada is still predominately the preserve of the white man , although it is slightly broader ethnically than when Porter was writing in the late 1950s and early 1960s . Certainly French Canadians , Jews , and Italians are more widely represented than in previous generations . But the power structure has been slow to include women in general , women and men of colour , aboriginals , and the disabled . This overwhelming statistical and sociological fact has given rise to an understandable demand for greater representation from these groups , and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sustained , emotional attack . Traditional conservatives in Canada , as in the United States and elsewhere , have bitterly denounced the affirmative action and employment equity agendas as racist and oppressive , even in some instances comparing them to apartheid or the worst experiments in social engineering . Anyone who continues to raise questions about systemic discrimination is immediately accused of advocating political correctness and consigned to the cold . Judge Rosalie Abella 's groundbreaking 1984 report , Equality in Employment , which documents this discrimination in the clearest fashion , now occupies pride of place not in legislation but in the archives . THE THREE QUESTIONS There are issues here of politics and policy which have to be re-examined . The major political mistake has been to create the feeling that single . 13o handedly this current generation of white men is going to be asked to pay the price for past discrimination . The right has been able to twist legislation so that the allegation of quotas is made and repeated over and over again loudly enough that it is believed . Add the insecurity caused by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you have a welcome audience for the antiequity message . The net effect has been to set back the equity agenda . But not entirely . Employers have developed a stronger sense of the changing world around them than the Tories and Reform . Even with no employment equity legislation , and with weakened pay equity laws , the old discriminatory patterns become harder to justify and sustain . Most of Canada 's largest employers have had to develop internal policies for hiring , training , and promotion which reflect the spirit , if not the law , of employment equity . This voluntarism will work much more slowly . The last twenty years have tested people 's patience and goodwill . Canadians voted against free trade in 1988 but accepted it when the election gave the Tories a second term . They reluctantly went along with the consequent restructuring and downsizing , and now view all the media reports about growth and opportunity with a healthy degree of scepticism . The Second Question Many live in a world where the " economy " is benefiting but they are not . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusion : it takes a range of forms , from tax revolts to road rage . The clearest economic challenge of our time is how to deepen the prosperity that is shared by too few , how to deepen it on a sustainable basis , and how to move people to Hillel 's second question . There is no point lecturing people on the need to be generous ? they will be generous when they realize that it is in their self-interest to work for joint action . Above all , we must come to terms with the fact that all our discussions of public policy have to take place in a new context : a world where globalization forces us to talk about results and comparisons . There is no avoiding the questions " how are we doing ? " and " how do we compare to others ? " One of our problems , of course , is that at this point our indicators are too one-dimensional . But that is not a reason to stop assessing ; it is a reason to force comparisons on the full range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens . We need comparisons on health and well being , crime , educational opportunity , access to recreation and retirement . We need to be as relentless in comparing these outcomes as we are for taxes , unemployment and growth . There is no avoiding measurement . We need to make sure we 're measuring the right things . THOMAS D'ARCY MCGEE , THE GREAT ADVOCATE of Confederation , once said that " federalism is a great principle that speaks to the very foundations of human nature . " ' One of Canada 's great orators , McGee might simply be accused of rhetorical exaggeration . But that would miss the point that he was on to something . He believed that a pure and simple ethnic or religious or linguistic nationalism could not bring a lasting solution to the problems of the Ireland of his birth , a view which led to his own assassination in 1868 at the hands of Fenian nationalists . Tens of thousands of deaths later , Irish discussions continue an effort to waken from a nightmare of remembered ( some times real , sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McGee was right about Ireland . He also was right about Canada . McGee understood that Canada 's diversity required a different kind of // colonial past . Speaking almost a hundred years earlier , in the parliamentary debate on the Quebec Act of 1774 , another great Irishman , Edmund Burke , said , " When I compare the rights of human conquest with the rights of human nature , the latter are so great that I can give the former no consideration at all . " Burke 's truth lies at the heart of all great statecraft . Canada 's emergence as a country was marked in fact by two historic encounters , the first between European settlers and aboriginal peoples ( whose arrival in North America predated the Vikings , John Cabot , Jacques Cartier , and Samuel de Champlain by several thousand years ) , and the second between the English- and French-speaking immigrants who gradually became a majority in the new land . Both encounters have been treated as a conquest by some , for whom the only logical conclusion is the triumph of the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This view has by no means disappeared . During our most difficult confrontations , from 837 and its aftermath to Oka and the post-referendum malaise , " conquest-style thinking " has lurked beneath the surface of many people 's thoughts . In our wiser moments we have listened to voices The Three Questions and the Question of Canada like Burke and McGee . Treaties have been signed with rights to both sides . Clear limits have been placed on what any temporary majority could do . From the very origins of these first encounters we have had to learn that rights can belong to groups , as they can to individuals , and that pure and simple majority rule can not be the only principle of a civilized political community . After the battle of the Plains of Abraham in 1759 , the British made two intelligent decisions . They decided to reconcile with both the aboriginal population of North America and the French Canadians in Quebec . There were some very profound geo-political reasons why the British decided to pass the Proclamation of 1763 and Quebec Act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America , faced with all that was taking place in the American colonies . Yet it was truly remarkable that , in this period of imperial history , the British themselves would begin to understand the importance of the federal principle and the federal idea , even in the heart of the empire . Having won a military victory in 1759 , it would have been possible for the British to have insisted that those who had been conquered conform entirely to the culture , to the government , and to the way of life of the so-called conqueror . Wisdom pointed to another path , the road of reconciliation and mutual recognition . Just as the Royal Proclamation in 1763 set the stage for one partnership , the Quebec Act of 1774 THE THREE QUESTIONS was the basis for another . The British Parliament passed a statute which gave extensive rights to the French Catholic minority in Quebec , a law which 138 ? clearly recognized the distinct culture and civil society that is Quebec , within the imperial regime . Les Canadiens , as they were known at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own way of life . Burke argued correctly that a broader allegiance to the Crown was more likely to result from recognizing the distinctiveness of Quebec than from forcing it into conformity with Protestant and Anglo-Saxon principles and culture . Throughout our history Canadians have , at our best , aspired to federalism . Whenever we have fallen by the wayside and ignored and misunderstood its principles , we have run into real trouble . One of the foundations of federalism is that it is part of human nature for one to have a range of loyalties and that to be loyal first of all to one 's own hearth , to one 's own home , to one 's own faith , to one 's own language , to one 's own distinctiveness is entirely natural and indeed healthy . If Quebecers had not been determined to preserve their language and culture , had not insisted on their own self-interest and had not pursued that selfinterest with a vigour throughout their history , no one else would have done it for them . This question extends not only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of interests and to all the expressions of identity that we see around us in contemporary Canada . A The Three Questions and the Question of Canada basic human right is simply the right to be oneself , to be recognized by oneself and others for what one is . A modern constitution has to be a mirror in which people see themselves . The feminist revolution of the last twenty-five years , the movement for multicultural and multiracial recognition , the movement for gay rights are all expressions of people asserting their rights to be themselves and to be recognized for who they are . It is now fashionable to designate " identity politics " as divisive and trivial . This misses the crucial point that there is a difference between identity as an essential first step and identity as the be-all and endall . The assertion of personality and separate identity is the first step to the growth of the individual child . But if development stops there , we wind up with a pretty outrageous adult . The same is true in the life of the community . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first step . But the self then has to confront and recognize the other . And learning to live with the other while being true to ourselves is what federalism is all about . The days prior to Confederation in 1867 were both a time of the country coming apart and a time of the country coming together . The tensions in the communities around Toronto and Montreal that led to the rebellions of 1837 were in part about how much popular government the elites were prepared to allow . They were also about the extent to which the distinct personality of French-speaking Canada was going to be allowed to survive . Britain 's initial answer was to THE THREE QUESTIONS ask Lord Durham to investigate what appeared to be a complete unravelling in the colonies . While in English Canada we celebrate Lord Durham as the father ? 140 of " responsible government , " it is crucial to realize that in Quebec , and more broadly in French Canada , Lord Durham is seen as somebody who attempted to undermine and indeed destroy the integrity and the identity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem : I entertain no doubts as to the national character which must be given to Lower Canada ; it must be that of the British Empire ; that of the majority of the population of British America ; that of the great race which must , in the lapse of no long period of time , be predominant over the whole North American Continent . Without effecting the change so rapidly or so roughly as to shock the feelings and trample on the welfare of existing generations , it must henceforth be the first and steady purpose of the British Government to establish an English population , with English laws and language , in this Province , and to trust its governance to none but a decidedly English legislature . ' The prejudices of his own time , nationality , and class led Durham down a mean path : The French Canadians , on the other hand , are but the remains of an ancient colonization , and are and ever                   @ @ 