@@773596

txt 15o Defining a Cultural Field superior refinement from which they can draw in their writing . They can , in other words , define their own modernity and unique value by rejecting an immediate past , but such presentist self-definition can not serve as a gesture of self-approbation , of self-persuasion leading to conviction . At most , it can lead only to enabling " knowledge " of present customs and manners and of the greater degree of pleasure which contemporary plays can provide an audience . Barely concealed in Dryden 's statement is the paradox of permanence and change , a paradox that confronts Dryden at frequent turns in his criticism . For , it must be asked , which audience will be pleased more with Dryden 's plays than Shakespeare 's ? Dryden may have in mind only a contemporary audience in that he probably does not care how an " unpolished age " like Shakespeare 's might respond to , say , The Conquest of Granada ( 1:181 ) . Yet to admit this , as he may realize , would expose his argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age 's refinement , advantage , and power to " please beyond " would , in such a scenario , function as no more than self-aggrandizing gestures like those he is at pains to preclude . The alternative , absolutist position , that all audiences in all ages would deem Restoration drama superior to its Elizabethan antecedants , might seem initially more desirable if unverifiable , but it would seriously weaken the force of assigning value to " the age " ? if the Elizabethans could recognize a superior play when they saw one , why could they not then refine themselves according to the universal standard of value that is implied in the act of being able to acknowledge " superiority " ? Dryden 's refusal to engage in rhetorical one-upmanship with the Elizabethans has rendered his argument paradoxical : evaluative standards are fixed and eternal but the qualities of an author 's work ? language , manners , wit , and style ? are wholly determined by the circumstances of the age . The question of value is unabatably paradoxical.5 Valuations in a rhetorical culture , such as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and transhistorical , were unapologetically brimming of paradox , by which the drama of persuasion could be so intensified as to compel audiences into belief . In a sceptical objectivist culture , in contrast , such paradox is felt to be disabling , even as it provokes endless conflicts between absolutist and relativist positions of the kind that cut across critical discourse in the Restoration and beyond.6 The specific tenets of these positions are in themselves less interesting than the fact that critics on either side hope that the paradox of value can be resolved or at least deferred through knowledge , even though its accumulation would seem only to confirm the problematic nature of valuation . to knowledge , as Dryden suggests , can be ascribed happiness . The assumption is that , ( hough it can not 15 1 Value into Knowledge empower a self-validating structure of conviction , knowledge permits a note of evaluative certainty because it seems to promise even greater returns : an objective , unassailable apprehension of truth , unclouded by desire ; a disinterestedness of judgment , the claim of which brings with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an eventual universal agreement about the nature of the most fundamental human values . Expressing such a hope in being able to know value may thus be the most persuasive gesture of all . The search for certainty in knowledge gave rise in the Restoration to a panoply of foundationalist discourses that figurally reconceptualized value as " grounded " in the phenomenal . These discourses , or paradigms , could be used in support of either relativist and absolutist positions ? the moderate Dryden could just as easily write a treatise with the words " Grounds of Criticism " in its title as the more imperious Dennis. ? In principle , these discourses were intended to provide a point of normative accommodation between two divergent accounts of literary value : a long-standing rhetorical-didactic tradition , which prescribed conventional models for composition as well as emphasizing poetry 's instrumental power to please , instruct , and mobilize the passions ; and an objectivist reintroduction of the Aristotelian doctrine of imitation , newly reaffirmed in the Davenant-Hobbes debate , which stressed literature 's powers of representation in rendering accessible the universal truths of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ untheorized and transitional character of Restoration criticism , particularly in its earlier pronouncements , that its definitions of literary value could often cite both accounts at once . " ' T is true that to imitate well is a poet 's work , " Dryden could suggest in his Defence of an Essay of Dramatic Poesy ( 1668 ) , but the function of " good verse " was equally " to affect the soul , and excite the passions , and , above all , to move admiration " ( 1:114 ) . In appealing to foundationalist paradigms such as " the age , " critics like Dryden hoped to situate the source of poetic value in something experiential and possibly anterior to language , where such value could then be felt to encompass both rhetorical and mimetic functions . Yet in phenomenalizing this source , these paradigms encouraged the shift from verbal power to knowledge , from valuing persuasion by seduction to valuing persuasion by evidence . The rules , for example , were usually justified on the grounds that they corresponded to the dictates of Nature , itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long title of his Tragedies of the Last Age ( 1678 ) called " the Practice of the Ancients " and " the ( : mullion sense of all Ages . " Pope 's rendition of the argument in the Essav on Criticism ( 1711 ) remains the InoSI frequently cited : 152 Defining a Cultural Field Those RULES of old discover 'd , not de is 'd , Are Nature still , but Nature Methodiz 'd ; Nature , like Liberty , is but restrain 'd By the same Laws which first herself ordain'd. ( 11. 88 ? 91 ) 8 Like any set of poetic conventions , neoclassical rules had formerly been regarded as rhetorical options , more or less authoritative depending on how thoroughly poets wished to harmonize the canon . Yet for Restoration critics , whose status as emergent professionals prompted them to seek legitimization in the authority of method , the rules were models for composition that could be treated like knowledge , and knowledge that encoded social determinations of decorum , propriety , character , and so on . At an empiricist extreme , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of history ( anachronism in Julius Caesar ) or psychology ( the handkerchief in Othello ) , failure to adhere to the rules made for faulty and unpleasurable representations of experience . " Under the rules , many of poetry 's pragmatic and utilitarian functions were therefore either devalued or , in the case of pleasure , tied to imitation - a perfect dramatic representation , Rymer believed , " pleases naturally in it self . " ' ? Critics could allow some " profit " with the pleasure though this was increasingly identified with the acquisition of moral knowledge , which , according to Rymer , resulted from " observing " in the best plays " that constant order , that harmony and beauty of Providence . ' The rules seemed to provide critics with an absolute objectification of value by which to render judgment disinterested and to fix canonicity : " if people are prepossest , " Rymer warned , " we can never have a certainty . ' That they also provided evaluative certainty with a high degree of specificity within the increasingly prevalent practice of tallying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their enduring popularity among critics . Yet in being justified by reference to Nature , the rules could not long be enforced before they began to be challenged by differing perceptions of experience . Working dramatists complained bitterly about how the rules inhibited them from writing anything truly new , which was one way of saying that the rules were inadequate to the changefulness of modern life and " the real state of sublunary nature . " ' 3 The nebulousness of " Nature " meant that it could also be appropriated for valuations of " irregular " authors . " Chaucer followed nature everywhere , " wrote Dryden in the Preface to the Fables ( 2:28o ) . And , of course , Shakespeare would be routinely heralded as an archetype of a natural talent that , as Addison suggested , could function for the relativists as " a Stumbling-block to the whole ' Tribe of these Rigid Criticks " ( Spectator rrcl ) . In Dryden 's celebrated version , 1 53 Value into Knowledge Shakespeare " needed not the spectacle of books to read nature ; he looked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The rules were perhaps the last significant expression of a rhetorical will to harmonize the entire canon of English literature according to specific principles of composition . Yet , in being grounded in Nature rather than empowered by a rhetoric of conviction , the rules would ultimately be discarded because they could not be made to embrace the plurality of values that the objectivist pursuit of knowledge about Nature would inevitably reveal ? as Foucault notes , " knowledge is not made for understanding ; it is made for cutting . " 4 As a secular analogue to God , the evaluative foundations of Nature and its correlate Reason had supreme emotional appeal yet their rhetoricity was difficult to suppress , a fact recognized by Dennis when he attacked Pope for not having spelled out in the Essay on Criticism " what he means by Nature , and what it is to write or judge according to Nature . " ' " The evidentiary utility of these foundational paradigms was limited since they could be too easily invoked on either side of an evaluative contest , of which there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ versus French , Restoration versus Elizabethan , and so on . These contests were essentially traditional rhetorical agons that had retained their binary structure , wherein self= definition was achieved by verbal apposition , even as the methods of contestation had begun to move beyond simple apposition to an objectivist explication of evidence . The quarrel between the Ancients and Moderns , in particular , had gone from being in its earliest manifestations , as in Meres 's canon-matching , an exercise in extended analogy , juxtaposing classical and indigenous authors , to being in its later phase a conflict between rhetorical and objectivist thinking , between orators and scholars , in which either side could barely comprehend the other 's assumptions since these were formed according to Iwo starkly opposed processes of thought . ) In this later phase the quarrel was only tangentially related to canon-formation since the locus of contestation was less the literary system than a broad understanding of cultural value , with each side attempting to humiliate the other according to how each defined that value : Temple and Swift dismissing the scholars for the triviality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bentley embarrassing the classicists for their frivolous , self-deceptive unconcern for truth , as exemplified in Temple 's foolish admiration of the spurious Epistles of /'halals . That the quarrel could never be satisfactorily resolved since the contestants could never agree on the terms of debate was the point . perhaps , of Swift 's withholding of ' closure The Battle of the Books . Swift 's parody of the quarrel literalized it as a masculinist combat 154 Defining a Cultural Field of the type that had long been associated with rhetoric , yet it also ironized the emotional nature of such combats through a bland , journalistic narration ( " A Full and True Account of the Battel Fought last Friday " ) , which worked as a further burlesque of objectivist factmindedness. ' 7 The quarrel of the Ancients and Moderns , like the other evaluative contests of the period , were implicitly debates over the status and function of evidence in valuation , whether such evidence could be used as proof or as suggestion , as a determination of value or as a mode of punctuation within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms of knowledge to supplement the baldly totalizing paradigms of Nature and Reason suggests , however , that contextualizing value was beginning to be considered an authoritative gesture in critical discourse . Among the more commonly invoked paradigms were language and manners , conceived not in rhetorical terms as productive vehicles for the exchange of value but as experiential conditions by which judgments could be sanctioned . Dryden 's claim for the superiority of his own age was primarily founded on the evidence of its wit and manners , evidence that could also authorize comparisons in other directions : a " comprehensive English Energy , " Roscommon argued , put the English language far above the French . ' s As expressions of desire , the function of such claims scarcely differed from that of earlier rhetorical modes of selfassertion , just as the rhetorical positing of a learned evaluative constitutency often underscored arguments from evidence : " When one compares the best Writers of the last Age with these that excel in this , " one modernist typically declared , " the difference is very discernable : even the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our Language correctly ; as he is still our best Author , yet in some places has Figures so strong , that they could not pass now before a severe Judg . ' " What was different in such moves was that proof was felt to be persuasive in itself and that , implicitly , it could be effectively challenged by other evidence or by its contextualization . Thomas Culpeper , in one of his Essays ( 1671 ) , could easily dismiss the modernist 's claim by historicizing it as a perennial " affectation " wherein " every age with us will have the greatest esteem for the Speech they use . " Unfortunately for Culpeper , this relativizing gesture could leave him with little more than emotion on which to form his own canon : " I am not so in love with our own times and faces , as that I fancy in our selves a greater excellency , then in our predecessors ; who can think that the famous St. sic Phillip Sydney , or the incomparable Lord Bacon have been out done in their several kinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ben . /nn n i in ( heirs , by any of our present writers . " ' " 155 Value into Knowledge Critics also sought justification in a variety of value determinisms having to do with social or natural conditions . Some of . these arguments , like the claim for the normative influence of climate and atmosphere , had been around since antiquity . In the mid-165os , one self-styled " commender of England " could defend the indigenous canon by overturning what had by then become the commonplace view that " thicknesse of the ayre must breed ... thick witts , but it is not soe ... for what nation can shew more refined witts then those of our Ben , our Shakespeare , our Beaumont , our Fletcher , our Dunn , our Randol , our Crashaw , our Cleveland , our Sidney , our Bacon , &c."21; Restoration critics took to the idea with a good deal more seriousness , applying it to a host of contradictory valuations . Temple professed himself a believer in judging " from the nature of the People or the Climat. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argued that the superiority of English verse could be further established with the evidence of the quality of England 's " heavy And if this were not enough , the " Wit and Valor " of the English , said Rymer , could also have something to do with " our good Ale , and English Beef " 24 The rage for party in the latter half of the period similarly encouraged many critics to make the connection between England 's poetry and the character of its politics . Gildon , though an advocate of the rules , believed the superiority of English letters was a natural extension of Britain 's advantage " in the Honour of Arms , or the Wisdom of our Laws . " ' " Farquhar , noting the apparent contradiction , declared that the imported laws of the French theatre had no place on the native stage because the English differed from the French " in the complexion and temperament of the natural body as in the constitution of our body politic. " 2t ' The slogans of Tory stability and Whig liberty were often cited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyalists going so far as to attempt a revision of the canon along party lines . Republicans of the 1680s and 1690s strategically republished works by Marvell , Milton , and others to coincide with political crises like the Exclusion Crisis and the Glorious Revolution.27 Milton 's nephew , Edward Phillips , compiled a catalogue of authors , the Theatrum Poetarum ( 1675 ) , that gave short shrift to Cleveland and other Royalist poets . A dozen years later , Phillips 's catalogue was rewritten by the Tory William Winstanley , in an effort to restore the reputations of authors like Cleveland who devoted their careers to " Vindicating the Royal Interest , and undeceiving the People . " t " In 1713 Samuel Croxall produced Whig revisions of Spenser , " Design 'd as Part of his Fairy Queen but never printed , " which provoked an angry response from the The Examiner : " to have Treason and Sedition utter 'd in the Name and Language of Spenser , is an Iniquity that has few Precedents . " Predictably , this ' Tory critic went on to cite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Merit ? Queene.29 All these examples may indicate a " desperate quest for authentication " among rival factions , although , with Cleveland and perhaps Spenser , it seems as much a case of a political party seeking legitimation in the act of harmonizing the canon as of a minor critic trying to rehabiliate a neglected author with the help of partisan rhetoric.30 All these paradigms and determinisms , though seemingly founded in the concrete , could not but seem empty gestures within an increasingly objectivist culture because they did not naturalize the relations of power and value enough . On the one hand , the rules could serve to reinforce class determinations of behaviour and speech , yet , in containing spontaneous subjective aspirations too objectively , they soon seemed illegitimate to writers and audiences . On the other hand , linking value to material conditions such as climate could help to underwrite such aspirations , but , in failing to provide an objective order of values , these paradigms could be too easily recontextualized and appropriated on behalf of any cultural or political mythology . In sum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concealed . The solution in the eighteenth century would be to develop a new series of foundationalist theories that could certify an objective structure of value by being restricted to an autonomous field of cultural production , and yet at the same time be functionally ambiguous enough to sanction the expression of subjective desire vital to the field 's renewal . In time , these theories were refined to identify not only a broadly cultural value , but value situated in the author ( genius , imagination ) , in the work ( a grace beyond the reach of art , the beautiful and the sublime ) , and , above all , in the reader ( taste , judgment , sensibility ) . None of these theories provided an answer to the paradox of value ? the notorious relativity of taste would be for a long time a favourite topic among satirists.3 ' Yet their legitimacy would be difficult to contest . In being based in an ideology of the aesthetic rather than in formal method or material circumstance , they permitted the articulation of desire while seeming to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a localized conception of the aesthetic experience , they helped critics and readers to misrecognize the material and historical contingencies that determined their judgments . VALUES IN LITERATURE The search for evidence , whether in the rules or in experience , had as one of its consequences a heightened impetus among critics to analyse individual works or to provide historical or biographical information that could enable such analysis . Dryden 's " examen " of The 157 Value into Knowledge Silent Woman in the Essay of Dramatic Poesy , it is commonly argued , inaugurated a history of critical exegesis that would soon see treatments of various kinds being lavished on canonical English poets : Dennis , Rowe , and Pope on Shakespeare ; Patrick Hume , Bentley , and Addison on Milton ; John Hughes on Spenser , and so on.32 Though Dryden 's examen , like Rymer 's critiques of Shakespeare , was designed as a defence of a particular poetic practice , it was conducted on the assumption that the value of Jonson 's play could be objectively perceptible to all as evident fact . In Dryden 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of various characters and humours , and all delightful " ( 1:71 , emphasis added ) . Jonson 's resolution , where Epicoene is revealed to be a boy , is contrived so expertly , Dryden argued , that " when it is done , no one of the audience would think the poet could have missed it ; and yet it was concealed so much before the last scene that any other way would sooner have entered into your thoughts " ( 1:74 ) . The language of affectivity , of positing a common audience response , may recall earlier rhetorical fictions of consensus , but what is significant about passages like these is that value is felt to be embedded " in " the text . Instead of circulating value , literature contains it . Value is therefore a form of knowledge which has to be experienced and discerned before it can be appraised by an audience or , for that matter , by other producers . Reception comes first . For Dryden , craftmanship like Jonson 's could make for highly enjoyable spectacle but the source of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter into its referent ( " you see in it " ) . Of Shakespeare , he wrote , " when he describes any thing , you more than see it , you feel it too " ( 1:67 ) . In such assertions are the first faint incantations of an ideology of the aesthetic , which Eagleton , summarizing de Man 's late essays , defines as " a phenomenalist reduction of the linguistic to the sensuously empirical , a confusing of mind and world , sign and thing . " 33 Value is naturalized as an experience that fuses perception with cognition , and one that is as much " in " the reader as " in " the text . Indeed , it is also " in " the poet ( " he looked inwards , and found her there " ) ; his genius is such that he encompasses the phenomenal in his own transcendent consciousness . In Dryden 's influential portrait , Shakespeare " had the largest and most comprehensive soul . All the images of nature were still present to him " 0:67 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind , which comprehended all characters and passions " ( 1:26o ) . The aporia of judgment , of determining whether value is assigned by a reader or imparted by the text or its author , is answered by a claim for an endlessly embracing receptivity in authors , readers , or texts that sees value everywhere . In the greatest works , such as Chaucer 's , value is 158 Defining a Cultural Field bewilderingly profuse and enveloping , sublimely overwhelming the reader in an inexhaustible tide not of rhetoric but of representation and knowledge : " there is such a variety of game springing up before me that I am distracted in my choice , and know not which to follow . ' T is sufficient to say , according to the proverb , that here is God 's plenty " ( 2:284 ) . This ideology of the aesthetic would be later developed to provide a plausible justification for the arts , whose function as a repository of fundamental knowledge would be challenged by the claims of a naive empiricism that promised unmediated access to the truth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second-order phenomenon to the first cause of matter ? a system of opposition that has , of course , become the central focus of deconstructionist revaluations of " metaphysical " reasoning . " Several defenders of the Moderns , like Wotton , believed that nature and knowledge were the purview of science , whereas literary works trafficked in mere opinion and were therefore redundant to an understanding of the truth . The most notorious denigration of the arts , and the one which all subsequent apologists for aesthetics were implicitly attempting to refute , came in the modernist Fontenelle 's suggestion that , while eloquence may have formerly been of some use in political debates , poetry had never been " good for anything , under all manner of government ; this failing is essential to poetry . " 35 Its social utility seemingly negligible compared with science 's , poetry could not be readily defended according to any principle of direct instrumentality or referentiality . Rather , it had to be autonomized as a superior form of knowledge , one that attuned truth and meaning to the passions and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeper , more intuitive and comprehensive understanding than what the lessons of analytical science could furnish . Mediating between sense and intellect , affect and cognition , the work of art or its equivalent in the reader , the faculty of taste , could serve in theories of moral sympathy as the medium through which there could be apprehended the notion of the good and the fundamental harmony of civil society.3e Though it could not make anything in particular happen , poetry could be , for Wordsworth , " the breath and finer spirit of all knowledge ; it is the impassioned expression which is in the countenance of Science ... The Poet binds together by passion and knowledge the vast empire of human society , as it is spread over the whole earth , and over all time . " 37 Severing the values of art from all interests except the transcendent desire for human solidarity , the doctrine of aesthetic autonomy thus became a compensatory move that , in Eagleton 's words , " seizes upon 159 Value into Knowledge the very functionlessness of artistic practice and transforms it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Phenomenalizing the aesthetic as an experience that folded the word into the world repressed the degree to which meaning was contingent upon language . Dryden 's various claims for Jonson 's learning and skill in plotting , Shakespeare 's sensuous apprehension of nature , or Chaucer 's heterogeneous humanity , all treat such knowledge as non-linguistic , independent of any accident of verbal expression . " If Shakespeare were stripped of all the bombast in his passions , " Dryden could write , uttering a commonplace view , " we should find the beauties of his thoughts remaining ; if his embroideries were burnt down , there would still be silver at the bottom of the melting-pot " ( 1:259-60 ) . This marks a significant revision of the old rhetorical norms for valuations , under which poets were esteemed principally for their eloquence and refining of the language because the diffusion of symbolic capital had been considered attendant upon verbal power . Dryden 's assessment of Shakespeare sharply contradicted the views of his earliest admirers , for whom Shakespeare had been almost exclusively a poet of " sweetness " : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; hony-tongued Shakespeare , " wrote Meres , adding , " the Muses would speak with Shakespeares fine filed phrase , if they would speake English . " 39 Under the doctrine of imitation , verbal art could , as ever , be highly prized for its power of enhancing signification , just as polished formal craft like Jonson 's could be felt to have a measure of substantive import . Yet , as evidenced not only in the polemics of the Moderns but equally in the debate over the related category of wit , eloquence was to a degree released from its cognitive functions , or at least emptied of its ethical and political effects , becoming at an extreme , in the definition that provoked Johnson 's censure , Pope 's dress of thought : " True Wit is Nature to Advantage drest , / What oft was Thought , but ne'er so well Exprest " ( Essay on Criticism , 11. 287-98 ) . Dryden 's version of the argument was even starker in its insistence that , while poetry " must be ethical , " its ethical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poet dresses truth , and adorns nature , but does not alter them : ... Though the fancy may be great and the words flowing , yet the soul is but half satisfied when there is not truth in the foundation " ( 1:121 ) . " Language , wit and conversation , " according to Dryden in the I ) e/ence of the Epilogue , could constitute the advantages of " the age " in the very same way that verbal refinement within a rhetorical culture had always been each generation 's source of unique value . If anything , the widespread observance of prescriptions for the drama or the i 6o Defining a Cultural Field iambic-pentameter line accorded verbal refinement something of the force of law , intensifying in many writers and critics a presentist conviction in the cultural " perfection " of their own age . But , in treating of knowledge as anterior to language , preserved in the eternal verities of human nature , the emphases upon both imitative content and the sensuous aesthetic effect of meaning entailed an appreciable devaluation of verbal art , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it happens , it had always been . The implications of this change for literature and for canonicity were enormous . It meant , for instance , that presentist self-definition could co-exist simultaneously with a curious self-abnegation of the kind previously practised under an auctorial order . As ever , it was believed that , the fundamental truths having been already uttered , the living poet 's most meaningful function would be to retell those truths anew ; but , if language were merely contingent to the age , the poet could not produce anything of lasting value by virtue of verbal skill alone . Dryden , in his epistle to Congreve , could express both satisfaction in the polished art of the " present age of wit , " as well as the downcast view that the " second temple was not like the first , " for " what we gain 'd in skill we lost in strength . " Despite their rudeness , or perhaps because of it , the Elizabethans , " the giant race before the Flood , " seemed to have a greater grasp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Such plaintive gesturing may only be rhetorical , a build-up to Dryden 's praise of his younger contemporary , but it does posit a distinction between skill of art and strength of sense , a distinction that , in the long view of history , favours sense above art . The poet may therefore have considered his great works of translation as being no more than productions for the age , and his other writings as being only potentially material for future translators , who might prize their sense as he did Chaucer 's : " Another poet , in another age , may take the same liberty with my writings ; if at least they live long enough to deserve correction " ( 2:287 ) . Lamenting the impermanency of speech was a stock theme among poets eager to harmonize the canon after their own practice , the assumption being that perfection in poetry would stabilize the language in the way that Cicero , Virgil , and other Augustan poets " had by their Writings fix 'd the Roman Language . " n ' In repeating Waller 's refrain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same implicit bid for the essentiality of his own project of refinement : Now Length of Fame ( our second life ) is lost , And bare Threescore is all ev'n That can boast : Our Sons their Fathers ' jailing language see , And such as Chaucer is , shall Dryden be . ( II . 180 ? : 0 tfir Value into Knowledge Yet the theme had by this point lost much of its emotional force because it seemed to be contradicted by the knowledge of how some canonical authors had retained a presence in the canon despite the decay of their wit . Pope 's lines provoked an ill-tempered rebuke from Dennis : " Now what does young Mr. Bays mean by our second life , and by bare Threescore ? If he speaks of himself , and means threescore days , he means too much in Reason : But if he speaks of Chaucer , Spenser , and Shakespear , and means threescore Years , he means too little in Conscience . ' T is now a hundred Years since Shakespear began to write , more since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And yet , the Fame of none of these is extinguish'd. " 12 Subscribing as much as Pope to an ideal of verbal perfection , Dennis could not adequately account for these poets ' durability , but the point was that these poets had not canonized themselves simply through their eloquence . It is true that , for a few critics , the language of the old poets could itself be appreciated as a valuable form of historical knowledge which presented a challenge to contemporary requirements for poetic expression . The June 1 707 number of The Muses Mercury contained an essay that reprinted a " proper Spelling " edition of " The Nut-Brown Maid , " which the essay contended was not " a Ballad ; but an Allegorical Poem , with more Design in it than many of our late Odes . " A few years later , Elizabeth Elstob published her Rudiments of Grammar for the English-Saxon Tongue ( 1715 ) , whose purpose , she claimed , was " to shew the polite Men of our Age , that the Language of their Forefathers is neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ignorance and Boldness. " 4 " Yet such claims obscured the fact that it was the critics ' own acts of preservation , and not the language of the old writings , that had brought the works to the attention of contemporary readers . The emergent discipline of philology , though no less informed by nationalist sentiment than the presentist extolling of the contemporary canon , was thus correlated to the growing belief that poetic immortality lay in something other than verbal power . Being relegated to the temporal , language would subsequently be understood in terms of style , and thereby revalued as the particularized mode of discourse through which a writer could define an authorial identity . Whereas rhetoric , Fredric Jameson has argued , had been correlated to " a relatively fixed class standard , as an institution in which the most diverse temperaments were able to participate " by speaking in the voice of a common public personality , the concept of stylistics slowly displaced rhetoric as the " essential and constitutive component of the literary work of art " because it accorded with a middle-class culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attributes of tone , musicality , and versification , it 162 Defining a Cultural Field could be applied uniformly to a variety of topics whose treatment had been formerly codified according to rhetorical principles of decorum and scales of address . Perceived as at once contingent and keyed to a powerful and original sensibility , an urbane , polished style like Pope 's could serve the creation of a naturalistic voice as persona that could take up with an unwavering equanimity " subjects ranging from a pissing contest ( in the Dunciad ) to the theodicy problem ( in the Essay on Man ) . The style assumes a form of universality . " 45 Verbal refinement could be therefore both a national and a personal project , since the local articulation of a poetic will to distinction coincided with the interests of an upwardly mobile bourgeoisie that was seeking to assert its legitimacy through codes of politeness that could themselves be centred in an aesthetic ideology of individualist sensibility . In time , this emphasis on style encouraged the cult of originality and received legal certification later in the eighteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ copyright legislation as it would eventually be defined , the law could not hinder the commerce in knowledge , but it could protect only the medium or language through which this knowledge was expressed . Accordingly , the formal or stylistic qualities of a work became the focus of legal contention and the determining criteria for authorial uniqueness . The author would be canonized for his or her words , though canonized by others ? by editors and commentators ? because , without a fixed and uniform standard of expression , words had lost their power to immortalize . At the same time , the ideas in the work would continue to circulate , even to other authors , and this circulation could be considered valuable within a broader moral economy even if these ideas , being not necessarily original with the author , were not considered a work 's distinctively aesthetic features . Copyright , in effect , gave legal purport to the depreciation of rhetoric , as the modern author , eager to establish his or her uniqueness , learned to avoid most rhetorical formulae , including commonplaces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with other authors not only ideas but less obviously stylistic conventions of genre , theme , or even allusion.46 Because the emphasis on style was initially reflected in presentist codes of refinement , however , the doctrine of originality would not yet be extended to the works of a ruder past . The growing antiquarian interest notwithstanding , the distinction between sense and art accounts for the increasing recontextualization of older English works during this period , from Dryden 's modernization of Chaucer to the various critical commentaries and appreciations mentioned above and , as well , to the long-popular " new-modellings " of Shakespeare 's plays that were first begun on the Restoration stage . l ' These treatments were 163 Value into Knowledge all undertaken on the assumption that such works were important as cultural documents , valuable in their meaning but whose message could be largely reformulated in terms not simply more accessible to contemporary understandings but equally more adequate to modern values and desires . The " sense " of those older works , their meaning and its sensuous effect , was felt to be worth preserving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or corrected for the benefit of both production and consumption . Such acts of correction were designed to enhance the intelligibility of older works , but they were also expressions of cultural self-definition and of the contemporary literary system 's most self-enabling belief in its own special value , its verbal refinement and classicist purification . Reworking the old works were acts of homage as much to the literary past as to its present ( and , in the view of many of Shakespeare 's revisers , homage far more to the present than the past ) . In this sense , it is correct to say of Dryden and his generation that they were " the first to establish a canon of English classics . " 45 Yet it is a peculiar understanding of the classic that informs these acts of reproduction , one marked not so much by the feeling of belatedness apparent in the term 's earliest usages as by the sense of language 's inevitable progress . As George Sewell declared in his preface to the seventh volume of Pope 's edition of Shakespeare , " what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dead Languages , by treading backwards into the Paths of Antiquity and reviving and correcting good old Authors , we in justice owe to our own great Writers , both in Prose and Poetry . They are in some degree our Classics . " 41 Here , then , is the objectivist revision of the paradox of canon-making : English writings begin to be called " classics " at the very moment when they begin to seem remote , in need of explication , correction , modernization . This opening of the canon to writings of appreciable alterity could only occur with a significant pluralizing of the norms for canonicity . In advising critics to " Avoid Extreams " between judging the art and assessing the substance , Pope was signalling how evaluation could observe a range of values , any number of which could be discerned in a work ( Essay on Criticism , 1 . 384 ) . Harmonization of the canon was becoming less imperative than its ordering according to a hierarchy of ' values . At the top of this hierarchy were to be placed works , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a finished whole ? what Pope felt he could achieve by making the sound an echo to the sense . This highest level could still represent for most an ideal of canonic harmony and the animating principle for Contemporary production . Yet below this level could also be classed mu ( h of the remaining body of established English authors , those like the Elizabethans whose writings lacked an adequate measure of verbal 164 Defining a Cultural Field refinement yet still contained matter for " polite learning " ? under the prescriptions of the New Rhetoric , poetry could no longer be identified with persuasive speech but had to be reclassified , first under the general category of polite learning , then under the more specific , yet significantly less utilitarian order of the belles-lettres.5 ? More difficult to accommodate within this scheme were flashy authors like the metaphysical poets who , as Dryden said of Cowley , seemed to indulge in the " luxury of writing " without benefit of judgment or " solid meat . " Bracketed somewhere below the rest , these authors could be included in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radically redefined , as evidenced by Dryden 's oddly qualified verdict on Cowley : " though he must always be thought a good poet , he is no longer esteemed a good writer " ( 2:280 ) . A good poet , it now appeared , wrote with eloquence but a good writer never wrote without sense . This hierarchy of values would be elaborated and its ranks more precisely defined only later in the eighteenth century , while its rough outlines had much less operative force than the socially determined hierarchy of genres ? the greater referentiality of the novel , for one , would not ensure the genre canonical status until much later , when the parameters of aesthetic knowledge could be revaluated . But the reordering of literary standards would nonetheless be decisive for both the composition of the canon and the process of canon-formation . From now on , valuation had to proceed by attending closely to many possible values in a text , as Dryden would do in his comparative appraisals of Elizabethan with contemporary dramatists , or of Chaucer with Ovid and Boccaccio . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while some historicist dispensation could be made for the alterity and " imperfections " of past writings , as though it were appropriate not to judge Chaucer too strictly just because he " lived in the infancy of our poetry " ( 2:281 ) . Valuation could thus take into account an idea of literary history , in the way that Dryden 's resurrection of Chaucer as " the father of English poetry " not only reaffirmed the language 's debt to him as its first refiner but equally acknowledged him at the head of a tradition that could still offer the working poet much in the way of inspiration : " Spenser more than once insinuates that the soul of Chaucer was transfused into his body " ( 2:280 , 270 ) . But , above all , the perception that the language , however perfected in the present , had undergone continual transformation meant that the works of the past had lost much of their mnemonic and memorializing power and functions . These works could not survive solely by force of eloquence but had to be preserved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now as much about production as reproduction . 165 Value into Knowledge At the same time as value was being historicized in this way , so too was it being resituated at a remove from history , contained and fixed in the work despite the superannuation of its linguistic surface . Dryden 's most telling praise of Chaucer in this regard was his passing admission that the old poet " is a rough diamond , and must first be polished ere he shines " ( 2:286 ) . As integral and perdurable as a diamond , Chaucer mirrored nature 's splendour ; as such , his light had nothing to do with the profit or sweetness of his verse , long since turned to dross . Perceived as at once fixed yet encompassing in its radiance , value was no longer understood to circulate instrumentally among a multiplicity of agents and sources in a dynamic socio-political economy . With increasing frequency in the eighteenth century , critics would refer , rather , to the " intrinsic " merit of canonical works , or to the intrinsic nature of genius or taste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchanged , such as opinion or prejudice . George Sewell , writing in 1720 , remarked that Chaucer 's " Fame is taken upon Credit , from the Recommendations of others ; and they who speak of him , rather pay a blind Veneration to his Antiquity than his intrinsic Worth . " ' " By extension , cultural works that were decried for their morally deleterious effects , such as comedies or novels , were deemed non-canonical precisely because they helped to disseminate undesirable values that in some way impaired or enervated the receptive body . Dennis , expressing a view common among the Augustan satirists , declared that opera is " an effeminate Trifle " that had already , " where-ever it comes , emasculated the Minds of Men , and corrupted their Manners . " 5 " Intrinsic value had the aura of permanence by being fixed , and of truthfulness by being equated with knowledge . As one defender of the theatre from 1759 would put it , " truth has at length prevailed , and the intrinsic worth of Homer , Shakespeare , Milton , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By then , it seemed , modern ages of ' brass could no longer be polished as brightly as the literary diamonds of the past . VALUE AND CULTURAL CHANGE In attributing value to " the age , " Dryden was invoking , as he often did , a deterministic theory of historical cycles , a theory that he assigned in the Essay ' of Dramatic Poesy to the modernist Eugenics : " every age has a kind of universal genius which inclines those that live in it to some particular studies " ( 1:26 ) . ' ' This theory , whose degree of determinism Dryden would vary depending on the occasion , was designed to answer the paradox of permanence and change by proposing a hierarchical model of value , whereby the fundamental values iii a work rested on 1 66 Defining a Cultural Field the permanent verities of nature and human experience while its lesser qualities could be attributed to that category of phenomena " which religion , customs of countries , idioms of languages , etc. , have altered in the superstructures " ( 1:246 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by various critics , the separations of time and culture , and the implicit relativity of literary values , could be trivialized as superficial accidents of fortune . Yet , as much as it reinforced the traditional equation between value and endurance , the model also had the effect of bringing forward the paradoxical nature of value since it entailed contrasting ever more closely the permanent against the changeable . Whereas in rhetorical valuations canonicity could be adjudged by reference to an evaluative community in the present , that fictive community had now to be extended , as it were , to become the much vaster abstraction of time . The abstraction may have functioned much as the earlier elitist fictions in helping to direct audience responses , with the added suggestion that no contemporary audience could be trusted . Dryden , who often professed himself bound to the tastes of his time , could dismiss the " false beauties " of theatrical spectacle as against the more conclusive edicts of the " test of ages " ( 1:275 ) . " To please the people ought to be the poet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Dryden wrote in his Defence of An Essay of Dramatic Poesy ( 1668 ) , " but it does not follow that they are always pleased with good plays , or that the plays which please them are always good " ( 1:120 ) . Yet intensifying the universalizing rhetoric in this way had as one of its consequences the idea that poetic value could not be measured solely by a work 's effects in its own time , and that this stipulation applied as much to works of the present as of the past . This idea anticipates some modern conceptions of literature which , to cite John Ellis 's version , hold that " literary texts are defined as those that are used by the society in such a way that the text is not taken as specifically relevant to the immediate context of its origin . " 56 As repositories of truth , canonical texts could be deemed broadly relevant to all societies but not pertaining to any one in particular . The idea , though not fully elaborated until later , had two related consequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the long established practice of lifting canonical works out of their originating context and denying their historicity - much of the commentary on Paradise Lost in the eighteenth century was designed to universalize the work for modern readers by devaluing its dense allusiveness as well as its political and theological topicality . On the other hand , it sensitized critics to the possibility that canonical works could not simply be valued for their 167 Value into Knowledge effects in the present , and that lifting them out of the context of their origin did not necessarily justify appraising them according to prevailing tastes . As much as critics were quick to depreciate the alterity of those texts or their value for ages past , that alterity could also serve as a check against presentist complacency . If contextualizing value was becoming an authoritative gesture in critical discourse , then the knowledge of cultural difference , it was felt , could help critics to arrive at some understanding of what endures and what does not . Yet the inquiry into contingency that such knowledge presupposed had the effect of further abstracting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate than it had formerly been thought . Critics could thus undertake to describe the alterity of canonical texts yet at the same time seek to contain the sense of cultural discontinuity by positing an absolute foundation of value . Addison , in his Discourse on Ancient and Modern Learning ( c. 1695 ) , could propose such an undertaking on the assumption that the " present Age seems to have a very true Taste of polite Learning , and perhaps takes the Beauties of an ancient Author , as much as ' t is possible for it at so great a Distance of Time . It may therefore be some Entertainment to us to consider what Pleasure the Contemporaries and Countrymen of our old Writers found in their Works , which we at present are not capable of . " 5% Frank Kermode has remarked of this passage that it makes the heretofore unimaginable point that " the ideal way to read the classics is to get as close as possible to reading them as contemporaries did . " 58 In explicating topical allusions in the ancient texts , Addison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcome the alterity of canonical works by furnishing the reader with as much knowledge as possible of their originating context . Yet , whereas meaning could be to some degree recoverable , Addison believed , the contemporary reader was " not capable of ' taking pleasure in that meaning or in the beauties that had already been lost to history . What Addison was saying was that the true value of those texts had to lay elsewhere , in a form accessible even to the present age : " they could see their Author in a Variety of Lights , and receive several different Entertainments from the same Passage . We , on the Contrary , can only please ourselves with the Wit or good Sense of a Writer , as it stands stripp 'd of all those accidental Circumstances that at first help 'd to set it off : We have him but in a single View , and only discover such essential standing Beauties as no Time or Years can possible deface . " 5 ? Any inquiry into originating contexts could not itself be felt to offer anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal only with temporal values and not the transcendent value of good 168 Defining a Cultural Field sense and polite learning . Yet , in revealing the historical basis for much of the pleasure to be gained from a text , such an inquiry relegated that pleasure among the lesser , temporal values . Dryden had already made the point more explicitly in one of his most daring rehearsals of his superstructural model of value , his claim in the Heads of an Answer to Rymer ( c. 1677 ) about how earlier English dramatists could succeed without benefit of rules : " Shakespeare and Fletcher have written to the genius of the age and nation in which they lived ; for tho ' nature , as Rymer objects , is the same in all places , and reason too the same , yet the climate , the age , the dispositions of the people to whom a poet writes , may be so different that what pleased the Greeks would not satisfy an English audience . " Stated thus , the paradox of value seemed an untenable contradiction even to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dryden could offer Rymer the concession that " a foundation of truer reason " would show " that the Athenians were a more judicious people ; but the poet 's business is certainly to please the audience " ( 1:214 ) . As he would later add , pleasure had to be distinguished from the more lasting rewards of knowledge : " nothing but truth can long continue ; and time is the surest judge of truth " ( 1:278 ) . Pleasure could be an enduring value in a work only so long as every new generation expressed its delight . As Dryden remarked in a preface written not much earlier than the Heads , " for generally to have pleased , and through all ages , must bear the force of universal tradition " ( t : 200 ) . This is among the earliest intimations in English critical discourse that the test of time could involve as much an acknowledgment of the lasting worth of a text as a continual process of reaffirming a text 's pleasurable value in changing times . Just as different ages and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a canonical text , so could they also work toward agreeing over what delighted them in that text . Implicitly , for such agreement to be reached , acts of evaluation had to involve some respectful awareness of how different audiences found enjoyment in literary works . " The verse of Chaucer , " Dryden remarked , " is not harmonious to us ; but ... they who lived with him , and some time after him , thought it musical " ( 2:281 ) . This may not be the first time a historicist argument has been used to broaden the standards of literary practice , but it is the first time such an argument has been used to help retain an acclaimed yet distinctive and inharmonious poet in the English canon . It would never have occurred to previous critics to consider how variously canonical works had been received in the past . " ' Chaucer 's original audience had been discredited as rude and ignorant Iry his Elizabethian admirers , and his greatness dismissed as all historical 169 Value into Knowledge aberration . That Dryden was willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might have seemed eccentric to his readers , as might his claim that The Canterbury Tales held much historical appeal in presenting " the various manners and humours ( as we now call them ) of the whole English nation in his age " ( 2:284 ) . Dryden could make these claims because they dealt with what for him were the contingent values of language and topical referentiality . Chaucer 's original audience might have enjoyed hearing his words , but " words are not like landmarks , so sacred as never to be removed ; customs are changed , and even statutes are silently repealed , when the reason ceases for which they were enacted " ( 2:288 ) . Chaucer 's enduring value had to do with his meaning : " He is a perpetual fountain of good sense " ( 2:280 ) . Yet , in praising Chaucer for this transcendent value without making him seem like an anachronism in his own time , the genius among the barbarians , Dryden was asserting continuity with a longdead audience that evidently took pleasure in Chaucer 's meaning as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change had been implicit in Dryden 's long-standing preoccupation with literary paternity and succession . Throughout his writings , Dryden had assembled an impressive stable of literary progenitors whose lineages all presumably concluded with Dryden : in addition to Chaucer , the father of English poetry , Dryden called on , among others , " Father Ben " ( 1:31 ) , " Scaliger the father " ( 2:97 ) , Shakespeare , " father of our dramatic poets " ( 1:70 ) , " Waller , the father of our English numbers , " and , remarking on St Evremond 's treatment of Virgil , " I could wish that he had not discovered our lather 's nakedness. " s ' Dryden 's paternal metaphors served him as a plausible model for literary history , combining as it did the sense of an undying essence co-existing with generational changes in language , manners , and customs . Unlike his superstructural model of value , the idea of a literary genealogy did not necessarily devaluate differences among authors , since it proposed an image of a canon that could be at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Milton was the poetical son of Spenser , and Mr. Waller of Fairfax ; for we have our lineal descents and clans as well as other families " ( 2:270 ) . Literary history and canon-formation could be fused in a myth of inheritance , one that seemed to provide a useful narrative by which to overcome the contradiction between the belief in a uniform human nature and the realities of historical change . What the narrative could not provide was a satisfactory account of value in diversity , of what made all the various lineal descents canonic al . Furnishing such an account required Dryden finally to naturalize and universalise the familial metaphor , and therefore to accept without 17o Defining a Cultural Field embarrassment the paradox of permanence and change : " We have our forefathers and great-grand-dames all before us , as they were in Chaucer 's days : their general characters are still remaining in mankind ... for mankind is ever the same , and nothing lost out of nature , though every thing is altered " ( 2:284-5 ) . The contradictions of essential humanity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the discourse of canon-making ; they were , for him , among the inevitable contradictions of human life . This is the characteristic move of objectivist canon-making , which defers the paradox of value with a dualistic vision of canonicity . In principle , canonical works reveal essential truths about human experience , yet one of the most essential that each work manifests in its turn is the diversity of that experience across time and cultures . Knowledge about that diversity , available from the works and their history , must therefore be accumulated in order that , at some point , some absolute agreement might be reached about those essential truths . The canon in its plurality thus offers , through a multiplicity of perspectives , a hopeful glimpse of what that agreement might seem like . This dual vision of canonicity is apparent from the increasing tendency in the eighteenth century to classify the divergences among established authors . Addison , in Spectator 16o , grouped literary geniuses into two classes , the first occupied by " natural " geniuses like Homer and Shakespeare who wrote without the benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who " formed themselves by Rules . " Yet Addison , risking a relativity of values , refrained from ranking one class above the other : " The Genius in both these Classes of Authors may be equally great , but shews itself after a different Manner . " In proposing an interpretation of how geniuses might differ though still achieve equal greatness , Addison hoped to lessen the urgency of deciding between rules or no rules . The differences between Shakespeare and Milton remained , but Addison removed them from the discourse of canon-making ; they were for him among the inevitable divergences of human behaviour , psychology , and creativity . The relativity of Addison 's argument could be partially offset by his idea of genius , which , unlike a totalizing concept like Nature , connoted an absolute value yet within a specifically aesthetic sphere . No comparable abstract term , however , existed to accommodate the alterity of older works , since that alterity had as much to do with aesthetics as with history . And no matter how deftly texts could be lifted out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a blank denial of their temporality , a reader coming to the canon for the first time would inevitably he required to overcome any presentist feeling and confront squarely the unsettling otherness of 17 1 Value into Knowledge the aged texts . If the canon was to be further expanded and pluralized to include once-marginal authors from the English past , then the question of dealing with cultural alterity had to be seriously addressed . Perhaps the most suggestive discussion of the topic was a brief passage in Hume 's essay " On The Standard of Taste " ( 1757 ) , where he wrote of the difficulty of " reconciling " modern sensibilities to the outmoded and often coarse values in canonical texts . Abiding by the dualistic vision of canonicity , Hume could not believe that the aesthetic values of the past differed in any fundamental way from those of the present , for it was the premise of his essay that a consensual standard of taste , however ample the evidence to the contrary , could be " established by the uniform consent and experience of nations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human values were to him vulnerable to anachronism , and hence any reader of older works had to struggle to broaden his or her own horizon of expectations in order to appreciate the works fully . Quoting Horace , Hume remarked how the old " poet 's monument more durable than brass , must fall to the ground like common brick or clay , were men to make no allowance for the continual revolutions of manners and customs , and would admit of nothing but what was suitable to the prevailing fashion . " Religious or philosophical " errors " of earlier ages , Hume contended , were the easier to cope with : " There needs but a certain thought or imagination to make us enter into all the opinions , which then prevailed , and relish the sentiments or conclusions derived from them . " But , Hume added , the mores and moral values of generations past were a great impediment to the enjoyment of writings from that past : " a very violent effort is requisite to change our judgment of manners , and excite sentiments of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those to which the mind from long custom has been familiarized. " ' 2 It became in the later eighteenth century the hermeneutic task of critics , editors , literary historians , critical biographers , and philologists to enable their readers to undertake this imaginative , violent , defamiliarizing effort at making allowances for the inevitable alterity of writings from other ages and cultures . Such an effort would , in theory , In the reader to an adequate understanding and proper appreciation of the entire , plural canon . Hence Johnson on the need to assess Dryden 's work in the context of the Restoration : " To judge rightly of all author we must transport ourselves to his time , and examine what wile the wants of his contemporaries , and what were his means of supplying them . " ' ' ' Even if it scarcely approached a Herderian emphasis on the discreteness of cultural and historical formations , to maintain a historicist perspective like Johnson 's was to allow for the potential relativity of standards . As well , it would no longer be clear 172 Defining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values to the text , or whether value was intrinsic to the text from the moment of its composition . The hope in the eighteenth century , and into ours , was that . this aporia of judgment could be resolved when our shared cognizance of difference would eventually and paradoxically reveal a powerful mental faculty innate to all , or , at least , a fundamental conformism of value : " in consequence of the growing intercourse between all the nations of earth , " Joseph Priestley predicted , " and all the literati of them , an uniform and perfect standard of taste will at length be established over the whole world.ie4 We may have learned to doubt such essentialism , but the belief that literature may help us transcend our own provincialism is still heard to this day : " art , poetry , fiction can sometimes lift us out of ourselves , as when we see or feel experience , or a portion of it , from the perspective of another . Solidarity can be achieved in no other way . " " 5 It is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objectivist thinking . Accordingly , though not formulated in any theoretical way until much later , it was an assumption of increasing significance within the critical discourse of the eighteenth century . 5 The Fall of Apollo Charles Gildon tells of an event , held just prior to the outbreak of civil war , that brought together the Caroline cognoscenti to debate the relative merits of Shakespeare and the Ancients in a courtly " trial of Skill " : " The place agreed on for the Dispute , was Mr. Hales ' Chamber at Eaton ; a great many Books were sent down by the Enemies of this Poet Shakespeare , and on the appointed day , my Lord Falkland , Sir John Suckling , and all the Persons of Quality that had Wit and Learning , and interested themselves in the Quarrel , met there , and upon a thorough Disquisition of the point , the judges chose by agreement out of this Learned and Ingenious Assembly , unanimously gave the Preference to SHAKESPEARE . " ' Within a few years , Falkland and Suckling would both be dead . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exile and its king executed . The unanimity of the courtiers would be forever shattered . There would be no more trials of skill . During the Restoration and the eighteenth century there occurred many attempts at recreating this primal scene of English canon-making . Dryden and other Royal Society intellectuals dreamt of establishing a British Academy modelled on the French , where not only the language and its usage might be supervised but where also , in Evelyn 's words , " gentlemen and scholars " might " pass censure and bring authors to the touch . Defoe , Addison , Swift , Smollett , and Dick Minim were among the better-known eighteenth-century advocates of a national a ( Arms ' of language and letters . Gildon himself produced a plan for an all-powerful academy that would exercise control over language 174 Defining a Cultural Field and written works in all disciplines and would oversee the moral management of playhouses ? among other recommendations , he urged that new productions be restricted to plays written by wits aged thirty-eight and over . Gildon made it clear that the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former classical vigour . For Gildon and the others , the appeal of academies sprang from the belief that such institutions might reserve the task of canonmaking to those whom Rochester called " the shrewd Judges in the Drawing-Roome. " 3 More than merely enforcing norms of composition , these institutions could , in theory , preserve the select and homogeneous evaluative community of the old courtly order and provide it with a new source of legitimation to supplement a failing political absolutism and a weakened network of patronage . In the absence of such legitimation , the field of restricted cultural production could no longer , it was feared , be properly distinguished from the market of mass production , which was threatening by its continuing expansion to render literary art wholly subordinate to commerce . These fears were , as ever , expressed as elitist jeremiads on the rise of Grub Street and all that it symbolized : the commodification of letters , the impoverishment of literary standards , and the surrendering of culture to the ignorant masses and , for some , to the increasing numbers of women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the ongoing autonomization of art from the realms of the political and the economic . The threat of commercialization may have been real , but the many contests for cultural distinction that marked the period involved more than just authors like Pope reaping symbolic profits by mocking the mercernary exploits of dunces . They involved redefining what made literary production valuable and legitimate now that it was no longer understood to be central to the moral economy of the state but rather practised as a field of activity unto itself . In this chapter , I examine how the process of redefinition was represented imaginatively in some literary satires of the period and how , in Pope 's later work , there began to emerge a new , self-legitimizing conception of literary production . I will then conclude by suggesting , more generally , how this new conception of literary production eventually necessitated the rejection of classicism as the preferred mode of poetic distinction , and the redefinition of the cultural field as deploying its own separable form of cultural capital . SESSIONS OF THE POETS If critics have always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a suitably rarefied institutional setting , ports for their part have long 175 The Fall of Apollo mythologized the canon as a noble refuge , a pantheon or Parnassus safely removed from the routine drudgery of authorship and the burden of temporality . In English literature , the poetic court of canonmaking has moved from Chaucer 's House of Fame to Jonson 's throne at the Devil Tavern and Drayton 's idyll in Elizium , to end up finally in the Grub Street of Pope 's Dunciad . Somewhat less familiar are a host of minor genres that also aim to reproduce this scene : commendatory rolls , procession poems , progress pieces , book battles , visits to Parnassus , and searches after wit . " Albion 's ancient Sons " have been espied on Parnassus in " dream visions " of the Muses 's haunt since at least the sixteenth century.4 In a visit to the hill in 1564 , William Bullein describes Chaucer sitting in " a chaire of gold , " Skelton frowning " with a Frostie bitten face , " and Lydgate " lurking emong the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Parnassus show the conditions for English poetry to have deteriorated under the degradations of the market . An epistle from Parnassus , dated 7 September 1730 , tells of the plight of English authors who , excluded from Apollo 's Court of the Ancients for their professionalism , are reduced to the status of a Heliconian petite bourgeoisie : " Ben Johnson sells ale on the side o ' the hill , / And Beaumont and Fletcher go halves in a mill . " 6 More revealing about the changing fortunes of authorship is the minor burlesque genre known as the " session of the poets , " where , typically , a medley of major and minor authors compete in a trial of skill for the honour of wearing the English laurels . Introduced by Stickling in " The Wits " ( 1637 ) and reaching a height of popularity : wound the end of the century , the genre had as its ostensible subject the various lobbying efforts and self-prostrating exertions of authors eager to gain the office of Poet Laureate , but what its history actually records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civicminded poetry , an ideal that had served ambitious poets from Spenser to Milton in securing a role for themselves within the literary system . The ideal had been first certified by Petrarch 's coronation , an example English poets like Lydgate would follow by bestowing crowns of bay on Chaucer . A Poet Laureateship had enjoyed official or semi-official malls in England at least since the fifteenth century : John Kay in Edward ( I IV 's reign and Skelton in Henry VIII 's each referred to themwives as " Poet Laureate " in recognition of their university training. % Dryden was the first Laureate to be given a formal appointment , though both Jonson and Davenant before him held court patents that were generally acknowledged to be the equivalents of Laureateships ? the appoinment , in this sense , being an official recognition of ' the helot ( ideal , though only fitfully , as in Dryden 's tenure , slid the post and the ideal artually coincide . As an anonymous elegy to Davenant declared , " ' there ate no Gods , but Poets Laureat . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Laureateship began to fade almost immediately after it was formally instituted . Richard Flecknoe , satirizing the elegies for Davenant , reported that the " Officers of Parnassus " had refused the Laureate a " Passport " to Elizium on the grounds that " Bayes was never more cheap than now ; and that since Petrarch 's time , none had ever been legitimately crown 'd . " By the eighteenth century , the Laureate had come to symbolize dulness and sycophancy , the supreme dunce around whom the hacks congregate and the world implodes in Pope 's revised Dunciad . Gray , in turning down the position when it was offered to him , remarked contemptuously that " There are poets little enough to envy even a poet-laureate . " " ' The ostensible reason for the Laureateship 's fall into disrepute was that it had become politicized , one more corrupt favour for court flatterers . As Scriblerus says of the laurel in one of his appendices to the Dunciad , " it is emblematical of the three virtues of a court poet in particular ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actuality , the Laureateship had been politicized from the start . It was instead poetry that had retreated from the chambers of political power , for which poets had always felt a certain ambivalence , because as much as the king and his court had provided legitimacy and patronage for most cultural activities , poets had also long entertained a self-defining conviction in their own independence of judgment and in the supreme power of their eloquence . This independence was what Suckling , of all people , was implicitly reaffirming in his poem , satirizing as he did the upstart wits who were shamelessly vying to replace their late father Ben in the Laureateship . Jonson had epitomized the laureate ideal in presenting himself as a servant but never a slave to the court , yet in his absence the ideal was increasingly compromised as the system of Caroline patronage became ever more consolidated and exclusive . As a highly placed member of the Caroline establishment , Suckling may have also been ridiculing the self-seriousness of this ideal : in addition to pilloring Jonson for his effrontery in publishing his folio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Apollo only to anger the deity by insouciantly refusing to show up for the competition . Suckling modelled the action of his poem on an episode from Trajano Boccalini 's Ragguagli di Parnaso ( 1613 ) , where Tasso , Apollo 's favourite , is awarded the " the Royal Ensigns that used to be given to Poets Laureat , of being allowed to keep Parrets in his windows , and Apes as his gate . " 1$ Yet , unlike the contestants in Suckling 's session , Tasso undergoes no rigorous selection process to achieve the post , being a genius who writes without benefit of rules ; Suckling may have therefore been also obliquely mocking the very sank learned " trial of skill " to which he had earlier participated , where after much ceremony 177 The Fall of Apollo the preference went to another poet who seemed to represent all that was contrary to the classicist pretensions of the polite . In addition , where Boccalini 's Parnassus is animated by courtly politics , the theme of Suckling 's poem , as of all the " session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics and canon-making , and the physical and spiritual vitiation of the poet . The poem inverts the laudatory parade of poets common to Elizabethan criticism into a survey of dissolution and moral turpitude : the costive Carew , the syphilitic Davenant , and the toadyish Toby Mathew . The poem 's ironic close , which sets a pattern for the more than two-dozen later sessions , has Apollo acting out of corrupt self-interest and selling the laurel to an anonymous alderman . Says Apollo , " ' t was the best signe / Of good store of wit to have good store of coyn . " " The suggestion is that , by encouraging poets to surrender their artistic independence , Apollo ? the fictive embodiment of the absolutist Charles ? has undermined the standard by which he could himself be genuinely praised . To some degree , Suckling likewise stands for the very self-interested blurring of politics and canon-making that he aims to satirize in his poem . The poem evinces some of the cynical self-mockery of the courtier for whom poetry could serve no real social or personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who wrote with ease , " Suckling was a courtly poet who was neither professional nor self-abnegatingly amateurish but who simply enjoyed writing witty verses and plays for his king . ' 4 Yet , in turning down the chance to become Laureate , in frequently championing an artless Shakespeare , and in being the first English author to uphold the new poetic doctrine of " a certain je ne era quoys , " Suckling was also anticipating how the autonomy of poetic all would be later asserted . ' ' An artistic integrity of the kind Jonson professed might have only been a matter of self-presentation , nothing other than the assumed heroic profile of the Renaissance poet ? or , more generally , the civic humanist ideal of the self-governing citizen who practised autonomy in the drawing room where he met with his male peers to debate the common good . That it was a poetic profile tenable only for a time in English history seems to be a theme of Marvell 's " Tom May 's Death , " , t poem that is closely akin to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper political role of the poet . In it , Jonson himself appears as a venerable if slightly comical elder statesman of ' the Poets ' Elizium who renounces a former member of his Tribe , ' thin May , Mr having turned servile scrivener for the Parliamentary side . Marvell 's ; Jonson " has nothing but scorn for May who , allegedly resentful of being passed over for the laureateship in 1637 , prostituted his art in the service of party . Marvell has his fictive . Jonson 178 Defining a Cultural Field pull out all of the old Horatian verities of virtue and " spotless knowledge , " but there is in Marvell 's characterization of a gray-haired Jonson the hint that those ancient verities belong to a former time , when politics and literature were thought to be more readily distinguishable.ie In the revolutionary period , potential laureates like May or Marvell , who wrote " Tom May 's Death " soon after his " Horatian Ode , " could not be expected to separate their duty to the state of poetry from the interests of faction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in putting himself and his poetry before politics , Jonson undermined the meaning of the age-old immortality bargain between poet and patron . In emphasizing the way politics exert an unhealthy influence upon the election of canonical poets , satires like Suckling 's or Marvell 's reveal the willingness of poets to distance poetry and poetic value from the very political system that had supported almost all major English poets since Chaucer . Initially , sessions like Suckling 's restrict their political attacks to the mercenary scribes who either sell their poetic souls to powerful patrons or , in the words of a later session , fish " in the Mud for the Party 's Applause . " " Yet , increasingly , the definition of corruption and sycophancy is widened to include any type of political behaviour . Laureate Dryden 's suspect conversion to Catholicism in 1685 provokes a flurry of session-writing , the resulting poems anticipating how in three years ' time ? following the Glorious Revolution ? Dryden would be stripped of his title and pension . A few sessions later , Dryden enjoys a measure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had Usurp't the Bays , " is himself excoriated for having won the office not by demonstrating poetic talent but by exercising an opportunistic " Cunning of Skill . " ' " The retreat from politics , and the attendant displacement of the scene of canon-making from the privy circle of aristocratic power to a wider public sphere , are also signalled in the changing characterization of Apollo and his court . ' ' Where Suckling 's session is presided over by an autocratic Apollo , a session dated d July 1696 proposes a separate class of jurors , one composed of professional critics whose verdicts are binding upon Apollo . ' " The deity 's kingly associations also begin to fade as he and the Nine seem to migrate further away from the House of Stuart . Unlike earlier sessions , later examples of the genre untie Apollo from any direct referent and often serve as vehicles for Whig critiques of monarchic power . James II 's personal rule comes under abuse in the " Lovers ' Session " ( 1687 ) , when Venus , sitting in for Apollo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her to award the prize The best prostitute " ill Christendom " ) to the hearer of ' the warrant . Says an indignant Venus , " We 'll maintain our old way of electing . / 179 The Fall of Apollo Cunts still have been free , nor can any confine em , / Or bring to the beck of their jus divinum. " 11 The 1688 Journal from Parnassus endorses this assertion of literary independence , its Apollo declaring " that the power of Kings , tho it could naturalize Foreigners &; legitimate Bastards , never yet extended to the Creation of Poets . " 22 After 1700 , sessions become fewer in number , in part because it is difficult to take Anne or any of the Hanoverians seriously as the Apollos for English poetry , and also because the idea of literary evaluation being dominated by autocratic authority becomes increasingly alien to the experience of common readers . The eighteenth-century Apollo is an abstraction . In Sheffield 's " The Election of a Poet Laureat in MDCCXIX , " Apollo has never even heard of Laurence Eusden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Laureation in 1730 is accompanied by a host of satires , but few of these are cast as sessions , and many replace Apollo with Queen Dulness.24 By mid-century , Apollo , like modern royalty , enjoys only a ceremonial role in the governing of Parnassus , which is itself no longer a star chamber but a democracy . In one session from 1754 , Apollo is asked to dissolve Parliament " for a general Election in Parnassus for proper Members to represent the Republic of Letters . " 25 In these later sessions , Apollo comes down from the Mount to join the Minims in the coffee shops . There , he becomes a spokesman for the public , arraigning the critics for their arrogance , as in the session from 1754 , where the anonymous contributors to The Monthly Review are charged with presuming to " dictate to the Public " its choice of reading . In these late sessions , as the sources of corruption have evolved from privilege to the market forces of Grub-Street capitalism , canon-making has become depoliticized to the extent that authors are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving in to the demands of booksellers . Event rally , despite a couple of well-intentioned nineteenth-century revivals , the vogue for sessions dies out as the civic humanist ideal of the laureate poet is eclipsed by a new view of the autonomy of cultural work . Though the Laureateship remains , Apollo and his feudal Parnassus lose their imaginative hold on the minds of readers schooled in the bourgeois codes of taste and individual sensibility , and of poets who kid long since left the drawing rooms of state . The movement from absolutist to democratic politics follows . mother , less explicit shift from a harmonious to a plural canon . In Suckling 's session , several prominent poets like Jonson and Carew are c hided for too much self-conscious artistry , as the true Laureate must write with case , not unlike Suckling . This criterion is later overturned in the Rochesterian " Session of the Poets " ( 1676 ) , where Wycherley i+ dismissed as too much the " Gentleman-Writer . " The Laureate , the 18o Defining a Cultural Field poem suggests , must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though not so professional as to write purely for hire ; accordingly , the bays are awarded to the actor Tom Betterton , a compromise figure who , in 1676 at least , combined a work ethos with the courtier 's contempt for print. - ' By this point , the civic laureate ideal is no longer being taken seriously enough to be considered a credible target of satire , with the result that later sessions are much less specific about the requirements for the Laureateship . Parnassus undergoes a diversification of labour , as its candidates for the bays begin to include not only poets and dramatists but critics , historians , pamphleteers , novelists , journalists , musicians , " Punsters , Quiblers , Songsters , and Translators . " 27 One session from 1697 , purportedly based on a true event , records the interviewing of several prominent scholars and poets , including Dryden and Congreve , for the position of the first ever Lecturer in Poetry at Oxford ? rather unsurprisingly , the poem 's ironic close has the position being withdrawn at the last minute for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a republic of letters , authors have begun to compete for office within their respective generic districts : " Dryden , and Mr. Pope were made the Representatives of Satyr ... Lord Bacon and Mr. Locke , were returned for real and useful Philosophy . " 29 If the laureate ideal had lost much of its authority , and the Laureateship most of its prestige , all the session poets were in agreement about the need to keep Parnassus free of popular authors . In the absence of a heroic ideal by which to legitimize authorship , it had become imperative that , particularly among professional authors who could not boast of genteel affiliations , the poetic activity had to be distinguished more than ever as a restricted field of production . Journalists were first tried by a jury of eminent poets in The Great Assises Holden in Parnassus ( 1645 ) , sometimes attributed to the proudly professional George Wither . In the sessions that circulated among the courtly wits of the Restoration , popular writers were generally ignored , their outright illegitimacy as candidates for the laurels rendering them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sessions that grew more numerous toward the end of the century , lower-class professionals like D'Urfey were routinely given rough treatment , often by their colleagues in the trade . In the second part of the Visits from the Shades ( 1704 ) , Virgil indicts Defoe " for Poetical Treason , in defacing the lawful Image of Apollo . " ; " In a few sessions , condemning authors to work among the popular hacks is viewed as a suitable penalty for major authors who transgress Parnassian law . One Tory example from t 711 has the " Goddess of Eloquence " sentencing Steele to three years in Grub Street.9 ' In other sessions , hopeful candidates improve their chances by assailing their plebeian readers . Gildon is the reputed r t 81 The Fall of Apollo author of a particularly gruesome Battle of the Authors ( 1720 ) that includes a scene where several once-popular wits " extend themselves in a wonderful manner by vast slaughters of the common People , in hopes by that means to wash out their former Stains , and Ingratiate themselves with Apollo . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displacement of a heroic ideal for poetry was signalled most clearly by the growing number of women poets . Because of rhetoric 's traditional associations with ritual demonstrations of male valour and productivity in the world of practical affairs , the laureate ideal had been espoused by poets from Petrarch to Jonson as an expression of their masculine ambition . In the earliest sessions , Apollo is a princely personification of this ideal , for whom the figure of the woman poet is an affront to the Laureateship because she was usurping the arts of eloquence that were considered essential to the office in fulfilling the duties of public decision making , duties in which she , as a rule , could not participate . In an early " sequel " to Boccalini 's journal , the women , being forbidden by Apollo from producing poetry , were obliged to suffer not the banishment decreed on poetasters but the less spectacular fate of being cast , like the Muses , as a silent audience for the competition : " his Majesty commanded that the Ladys shou 'd immediately be turn 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the other Sex , for the Reputation of true Poetry . " 33 By the 1688 Journal from Parnassus , the emergence of professional women writers like Behn had become enough of a threat to Parnassus that they had to be exiled altogether , lest they " soon endeavour a Monopoly of Witt. " 34 At most , in the pornographic " Session of the Ladies " ( 1688 ) , the lecherous women of the town could hold their own competition for the sexual favours of the actor Cardell " Adonis " Goodman . Women writers could be given equal status with hacks in printed sessions only so long as the gendered stereotypes were upheld in the penalties the women were made to incur . In the 1696 session , Mary Pix is brought before the Parnassian court for having " unworthily , fraudulently , and sacrilegiously usurpt , in spight of her Stars , the Province of Poetry , " for which she is sentenced by Apollo to " be desperately in Love with several Persons , but not one of them shall regard but despise and laugh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laureate ideal had become weakened sufficiently for wt mien poets to begin appropriating Apollo in their own defence . Finch , iii her " Circuit of Apollo " ( 1713 ) , has the deity dividing the honours among all women since " they all had a right to the Bay 's " and then ceding his evaluative authority to the Muses , " Since no man upon earth , nor Himself ' in the sky " would dare to rid Parnassus of " liner puts in lour from suuongst woman kind . " 3 ' ' Apollo has left 182 Defining a Cultural Field England entirely by 1758 , in a session by the libertine Charles Hanbury Williams , though not before declaring " that women alone for the future shall write . " 37 Because they aimed to celebrate a literary constituency that was only beginning to establish itself , these sessions shared with the various catalogues of women writers of the period , notably John Duncombe 's The Feminiad ( 1754 ) and Mary Scott 's The Female Advocate ( 1774 ) , the same principle of canonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As in the male catalogues , the harmony of women poets had to be achieved through selective purges of the tradition , in particular of those women writers like Beim and Manley whose reputations for bawdiness and scandal had rendered them unsuitable as literary models under the intensified gender codes of the later eighteenth century . Yet the parading of a unified sisterhood in these sessions and catalogues also reflected the conditions for female authorship during the period , which , in the absence of any socially defined goal of competitive advancement for women writers , encouraged the formation of collaborative circles like the Bluestockings . The feminization of Parnassus is most evident , however , from the differences between the two greatest Augustan literary satires , Mac Flecknoe and the Dunciad . Both poems share many of the stock features of sessions : the farcical contest for literary supremacy , the mock ceremoniousness , the concern over bad writing and its possible corruption of the literary system . But the imagining of apocrypha in these works is very different from that of the sessions , where there is always a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation he or she describes . Suckling and the other session wits write local , occasional lampoons about authors with whom they are familiar . Dryden and Pope distance themselves from the events they describe by preserving for themselves a laureate ideal that , unlike what happens in the session burlesques , is not ridiculed by being associated with dunces ? aside from one brief reference in the fourth book of the Dunciad , the figurehead Apollo is noticeably absent from both satires . Both poets certainly entertained doubts about the relevance of a political ideal of heroism , but these only confirmed for them the necessity of upholding a heroic image of poetic independence . As Robert Folkenflik and others have noted , the tensions throughout Dryden 's work over the relation between poet and monarch were heightened following his removal from the Laureateship , and were notably apparent in his late odes , in particular Alexander 's Feast , where the power of Timotheus 's music vanquishes the emperor 's passions.38 Laureate ambivalence becomes outright defiance in T'ope 's later work , where Ilse traditional heroic image of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's welfare is empowered by the fierce moral autonomy of the Juvenalian scourge of kings and ministers . The differences between Mac Flecknoe and the Dunciad have to do with more than their relative treatments of political authority . Though the poem usurps the kingly power of representation in travestying ceremonies of monarchic coronation , Mac Flecknoe , written by Dryden during his tenure in the Laureateship , does not subvert the standard by which legitimacy in a poetic sphere is to be measured . ' ' " Where in the sessions true laureates as well as dunces compete for the same honours , there is no confusing Shadwell 's empire for Apollo 's : " Great Fletcher never treads in Buskins here , / Nor greater Johnson dares in Socks appear " ( 79 ? 80 ) . Flecknoe reigns in the " Realms of Non-sense , " the antithesis to Parnassus , while Shadwell 's coronation is a carnivalesque affair bearing no resemblance to the high ceremony of Petrarchan laureation ( 6 ) . All the conventional tokens of poetic excellence have been safely eliminated or replaced by absurd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but " Poppies " ( 126 ) , and instead of receiving the Laureate 's traditional " tun " of wine , he is himself a " Tun of Man ... but a Kilderkin of wit " ( 195 ? 6 ) . Everywhere apocryphal , Shadwell 's empire confirms by its negativity the authority of the laureate ideal ? except , that is , in the one crucial respect that Shadwell 's " filial dullness " preserves for his empire as for the laureate ideal a masculine succession ( 136 ) . Though Flecknoe erects Shadwell 's throne near the courts of " Mother-Strumpets , " Shadwell is too dull to be a mercenary wit and hence can not be feminized by being equated with prostitutes ( 72 ) . On the contrary , Shadwell assumes a semblance of chivalric heroism in being destined to " wage immortal War with Wit " ( 12 ) . In preserving this masculine order , Mac Flecknoe evinces the closed world of the courtly sessions , where satiric deflation is a rhetorical rite , verbal jousting of the kind that had been encouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not salvage any of the Parnassian apparatus from dulness 's onslaught : " the madding Bay , the drunken Vine ; / The creeping , dirty , courtly Ivy " ( 1.303 ? 4 ) , " give from fool to fool the Laurel crown " ( IV.98 ) , " The Muse obeys the Pow'r " ( IV.628 ) .1 ? If the theme of the sessions is corruption , the dominant principle in Pope 's " grand Sessions " is the contamination of the harmonious polite canon by its apocrypha in the coming of " The Smithfield Muses to the ear of Kings " ( IV.45n. ; 1.2 ) . Political corruption , in ( : fibber 's partisan Laureation , remains a focal point but the poem 's bleakest suggestion is that there exists no operative standard by which to measure this corruption . The poem , smothered in the commentary of the new breed of print-based pedants , records instead the disappearance of 1 84 Defining a Cultural Field learned evaluative communities , of canon-making by coterie and academy . Dulness elects her laureate through universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and leaves unpeopled half the land " ( 11. i 9  - -  20 ) . Whereas Suckling 's Apollo reigned with all the arbitrariness of autocratic rule , Queen Dulness embodies liberal capitalism , whose anarchy has obfuscated all distinctions between selling out to political interests or submitting to the vagaries of consumer taste . As value is wholly determined by the market , participation in any form in this mass culture constitutes , for Pope , prostitution in the extreme , as there is little telling poet from patron , whore from client . This accounts for the substitution of Apollo by Dulness the woman , for Pope 's poem is the first significant expression of a gendering peculiar to the modern world , in which , Andreas Huyssen has suggested , " mass culture is somehow associated with woman while real , authentic culture remains the prerogative of men . " ' Applying Huyssen 's argument specifically to the Dunciad , Catherine Ingrassia has noted how Pope 's matriarchal characterization of Dulness , and his virulent attacks on female writers like Haywood , reveal the poet 's own anxieties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom he shared some " uncomfortable affinities " in being both a commercial author and someone precluded by his religion and physical ailments from acceding to public office.42 In depicting the contamination of high culture as the demonic triumph of feminization , the Dunciad completes the ironic figuration of negativity and illegitimacy suggested in Mac Flecknoe , which had at the last reserved the task of canonmaking to the shrewd men in the drawing room . All that remains of the laureate ideal in Pope 's poem is its independence and power to judge , barely secured in the lonely refinement of the poet 's male voice . " I LISP 'D IN NUMBERS , FOR THE NUMBERS CAME " Mr. Pope has somewhere named himself the last English Muse ... Oliver Goldsmith " The feminization of the literary system extended beyond its commercialization or its recognition of increasing numbers of women writers and readers . It involved , as well , the redefinition of poetic values , with greater emphases being placed upon lyrical expressivity , as well as upon feeling , fancy and passion , categories of experience traditionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this cultural gendering of aesthetics would provoke intense deltaic , with Burke being 185 The Fall of Apollo the most notable theorist for a " remasculinization " of the sublime . ' m Yet what this feminization ultimately reflected was " the increasingly marginal position of literature and the arts in a society in which masculinity is identified with action , enterprise , and progress ? with the realms of business , industry , science , and the In a rhetorical culture , poetry and eloquence had been considered essential to the smooth workings of the feudal state and vital equipment for the warrior , statesman , or courtier who wished to ascend its political hierarchy . With the capitalist privileging of economics , the political value of symbolic representation was greatly diminished . While art and literature would eventually be reconceptualized as a separate sphere of activity that could provide its own special profits , their association with masculinity could not be easily recouped so long as artists and poets , like women generally , were precluded from contributing to the political economy of the state . Yet one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few male poets , like Pope , to see some value in identifying with certain aspects of female authorship . In having been excluded from public decision making , women had the advantage of maintaining an aura of disinterestedness , and of making a claim for the moral autonomy that had always been a mark of distinction for the poet of laureate ambition and even more so now that aesthetics had increasingly to be legitimized through the symbolic disavowal of both economic and political interests . Pope masculinized this feminine authority most obviously by appropriating the themes of renunciation and retirement that had pervaded women 's verse of the Restoration . Writing for a small circle of intimates , poets like Katherine Philips and Anne Killigrew had recreated the closed world of the Renaissance coteries with a far greater degree of exclusivity than had the Restoration courtly wits , who had virtually ' commercialized their poetry through their extensive networks of scribal publication . Within this circle , the women poets compensated for their inevitable social marginality by disclaiming worldly ambitions mid celebrating the ideal of a secluded community of female @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral and psychological benefits of ' retirement , assuming in such poems as " A Nocturnal Reverie , " " On Myself , " and " The Petition for an Absolute Retreat " an attitude almost of ' social defiance . For Pope , this theme of renunciation had long been certified in the male tradition as the authoritative gesture of I lie I Horatian poet , yet his cultivation of the gesture later in his career was as forceful as Finch 's in translating a pose of retirement into the lieu ( pi ( self-dramatization as the isolated , " Unplac 'd , unpension 'd " poet of opposition ? " all the distant Din that World can keep / Rolls o'er my Grotto , and but uroths my Sleep " ( Satirr 11.1.1 Ili , 123 ? 1 ) .18 And 1 86 Defining a Cultural Field much as the women poets had repudiated this same bustling world in order to avoid being branded as prostitutes in print , Pope used the theme to claim his own commercial disinterest and thereby to resist his own feminization by the market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Epistle to Arbuthnot ( " Shut , shut the door , good john ! " ) recalled the theme of public violation that had sometimes been a complaint among women poets whose authorship of their works had been contested . I " Yet perhaps the most interesting aspect of Pope 's masculinization of female autonomy had to do with his use of the Muses . Walter Ong has suggested that the demise of the Muses is tied to " the entry of postGutenberg women in notable numbers into the world of literature . " ' " In actuality , the Muses were more commonly invoked by women poets of the period than by the men , who were beginning to call upon other , less conventional personifications . The treatment given the Muses by women poets , as in Finch 's " Introduction , " was not entirely conventional either , as the poets tended to depict the Muses as fellow women artists , isolated and vulnerable yet perpetually creative . In the male tradition , the Muses had served as one of a number of fictions by which poets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depended on the circulation of verbal power . Parnassus and its denizens had represented the socio-economic conditions for poetic productivity : Apollo as an idealization of the monarch , Helicon as a symbol for the sweet liquor of patronage , and the Muses as embodiments of the traditional incentives of moral instruction , memory , or cultural refinement . The declining fortunes of the Muses during the eighteenth century , their virtual disappearance from English poetic discourse , coincided with the extinction of these traditional models for literary production and of the material conditions which had formerly sustained them . No wonder , then , that their disappearance was well presaged by Apollo 's . For Pope , as for the women poets , the Muses signified a notion of poetic inspiration separate from the material circumstances of production . In the Epistle to Augustus , the poet 's most extreme statement of laureate ambivalence , Pope rehearses the stock theme of the session poems by surveying the entire tradition of English Laureates , whose relation with the monarch had in some way impaired them all as poets . ' ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past rarely corresponded with a laureate ideal . " Kings in Wit may want discerning spirit , " Pope remarks , " The Hero William , and the Martyr Charles , / One knighted Blackmore , and one pension 'd Quarles " ( 385 ? 7 ) , while " Unhappy Dryden " was obliged " To please a lewd , or tin-believing ( ; null " ( 21 ? t ; i ) . In those former " Days of Ease . " the laureate ideal had been vitiated by the seductive appeal of " the King 's Example " 1 87 The Fall of Apollo ( 139 , 142 ) . Yet , if " The willing Muses were debauch 'd at Court " under the restored Charles ( 1.52 ) , the ideal is not even acknowledged by George - " chuse at least some Minister of Grace , / Fit to bestow the Laureat 's weighty place " ( 378-9 ) - as though , for Pope , corruption were preferable to having no Laureate at all . In this way , Pope 's ironic version of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been essentially exiled from the Hanoverian court : " How shall the Muse , from such a Monarch , steal / An hour , and not defraud the Publick Weal ? " ( 5-6 ) . If anything , the poem suggests that George , by his disdain for verse , has undermined the conditions for poetic production , denying it its traditional refining and immortalizing function . The loss of this last incentive is apparent from the poem 's parodying of Laureate procession verses , where England 's elder bards presented themselves before the monarch who , it was believed , could sanction their fame.52 Unfortunately for poetry , however , the Hanoverians have produced only " such forgotten things / As Eusden , Philips , Settle , Writ of Kings " ( 416-17 ) . The absence of any clear social purpose for writing poetry is intolerable for Pope , who , even as he laments its impossibility under ( ; eorge , reaffirms the laureate ideal - " a Poet 's of some weight , / And ( tho ' no Soldier ) useful to the State " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the post : " Your Arms , your Actions , your Repose to sing ! " ( 395 ) . In recontextualizing Horace 's panegyric to his emperor , Pope further intimates that it is the poet who still wields ultimate control over representation in being able to recreate in verse " such Majesty , such bold relief , / The Forms august of King " ( 890-1 ) . Yet , in its reworking of the Roman poet 's defence of literary modernity , the poem also gives implicit recognition to how market forces have laregely supplanted the king 's legitimizing authority . The Muses have given way to the dictates of the audience , whose choices for the bays air far more arbitrary : " the People 's Voice is odd , / It is , and it is not , the Voice of God " ( 89-90 ) . Worse yet , in determining canonicity by a re ? aderly consensus of the ages , the public has assumed for itself the poet 's fame-making power : If Time improve our Wit as well as Wine , Say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or shall we not , account him so , Who dy 'd perhaps , an hundred years ago ? End all dispute ; and fix the year precise When British bards begin t'Inunortatize ? ( 49 ? 54 ) Pope follows I for cc in mimicking the claims of ' the mindless venerator of the past - " ' Who lasts a Century can have no flaw , / I hold that 188 Defining a Cultural Field Wit a Classic , good in law " ' ( 55 ? 6 ) ? yet a more serious consequence than this misguided antiquarianism is the erosion of exclusive standards that had formerly maintained order within the literary system . The growth of the print trade has permitted readers to imagine themselves not only the trustees of the canon but as potential Laureates : " one Poetick Itch / Has seiz 'd the Court and City , Poor and Rich : / Sons , Sires , and Grandsires , all will wear the Bays " ( 169 ? 71 ) . For Pope , commercialization has degraded , marginalized , and feminized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arbitrariness of all the operative tropes for poetic production and canonicity , from immortality to the laureate ideal , could be misrecognized . Many of the basic rewards for writing remained : celebrity , personal advancement , financial profit , and , however reduced in scale , patronage . Indeed , without a controlling structure of conviction , aspiring poets could ever more openly proclaim their pursuit of these rewards . Yet , in the absence of such a determining structure , no poet could attain either distinction or legitimacy . The Epistle does nonetheless contain a very brief indication of what an alternative structure might be founded on . Agreeing with the public 's verdict that Cowley 's efforts in epic and pindaric are best forgotten , Pope avers , rather innocuously , that " still I love the language of his Heart " ( 78 ) . The line recalls Pope 's eulogizing in the Epistle to Arbuthnot of his father who , as a man unfamiliar with the ways of the world , " knew no Schoolman 's subtle Art , / No Language , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To equate an " Un-learn 'd " Pope senior with a poet of subtle art like Cowley might seem odd , but the similar tributes reflect Pope 's reluctant engagement with a new conception of poetic value as something not just independent of the realms of the political and economic but unassailable because it is essentially irrational ( 398 ) . This engagement is most evident in the Epistle to Arbuthnot , though it comes at the cost of the poem 's unity . In condemning as corruption any poetic practice that serves the government , the patron , or the consuming public , the poem , according to Brean Hammond , seems to suggest that " only the author who is entirely cut off from the forces that bring books into existence can be celebrated . " Thus , Hammond argues , it is because Pope deprives himself " of any coherent account of writing that contradictions occur on various levels of the poem 's articulation. " 53 Pope 's inability to relate the autobiographical material in the poem to his several repudiations of the conventional incentives for authorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as in many of the . later satires , may equally represent Pope 's deliberate refusal of one of ' poetry 's most supreme functions , its value in enhancing- the state 's 1 89 The Fall of Apollo language of political signification . Yet the poem does , in fact , imply an account of writing , one that does suggest an author entirely cut off from external forces and interests , though one that can not be made coherent because it is impervious to rational analysis . This account has to do with one of the most profound consequences of artistic autonomization . The ideology of the aesthetic , as it emerged in the eighteenth century , represented an attempt first to promote art and its appreciation as activities separate from the economic and political , and secondly to relocate the source of artistic and literary value by positing certain innate mental faculties , those of taste , judgment , or moral sense . In grounding value in such faculties , eighteenthcentury aesthetic theorists , as I have already suggested , folded the linguistic into the phenomenal ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they were nonetheless said to belong to the realm of the sensuously empirical , a realm of feeling rather than abstraction or convention , of meaning produced by organic natural processes rather than the exchange of the word . Aesthetic value became a matter of felt-experiences within the consumer 's deeply embedded moral sense , of meanings perceived by the reader 's intuitive judgment , and of the shocks and terrors of the sublime upon the viewer 's sensibility . The ultimate source of that value , however , was a providential mystery . The poet could produce a highly rational work , according to Shaftesbury , but the cause of its affective power was beyond rational comprehension : " Though his intention he to please the world , he must nevertheless be , in a manner , above it , and fix his eve upon that consummate grace , that beauty of Nature , and that perfection of numbers which the rest of mankind , feeling only by the effect whilst ignorant of the cause , term the je ne stay quay , the unintelligible or the I know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charm or enchantment of which the artist himself can give no account . " ' " As the source of poetic value was thus unknowable , theorists like Shaftesbury turned their attention from prescribing the right conditions for autistic production to defining the aesthetic experience almost exclusively in terms of the reception of its effects . Their theories , as signalled ni their central notion of taste , bespoke an ideology of consumption . The inevitable consequence of this shift from production to consumption was the suppression of artistic invention within critical discourse.55 Pope had already sensed the implications of this shift in the Essay on Giro inn , where he had attempted to bridge the widening gap between production and consumption by writing a poem that , in form and content , argued for the complementary nature of poetry and criticism , mud their ritual subordination to the law of ' Namur and its articulation In antique practice . Yet , though it stressed their commensurability , the 1 90 Defining a Cultural Field thrust of the poem , as in much of Pope 's early work , was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not merely opposing criticism to poetry but equally exposing just how ambiguous the value of the latter activity had become now that so many of its social functions had been assumed by criticism . That ambiguity was apparent from the poem 's opening , which dramatically trivialized the productive effects of verbal power in its suggestion that ill writing was less harmful than poor judgment : " of the two , less dangerous is th ' Offence , / To tire our Patience , than mis-lead our Sense " ( 4 ) . The terms of Pope 's argument in the poem rendered production answerable to reception : judging ill was dangerous because it misled the sense of readers , among whom were included the poets , who had to respect the advice of wise critics . This had to be so , since the poem proposed to instruct readers on how to become better , more sensitive consumers of art . Under the aristocratic codes of rhetorical culture , both poets and readers were thought to possess similar innate qualities of good judgment and wit , which were then simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heralded in the Essay on Criticism , in contrast , brought about both a separation of writing from reading , and an ideology of self-improvement where most of the ideal attributes of the critic ( manners , good-breeding , learning , candour , self-restraint , avoidance of partiality , prejudice , and so on ) would be a function of learned behaviour . Though ultimate evaluative certainty remained grounded in the natural faculty of " True Taste " ( 12 ) , the reader as critic derived his authority from observing precise rules of socially defined conduct , rules that he could then apply as " Fundamental Laws " for literary production ( 722 ) . In his efforts to refine an " unciviliz 'd " English culture ( 716 ) , the critic had thus taken over all of the responsibilities formerly exercised by harmonious evaluative communities of laureates and courtiers . And in claiming the right to bestow the " Poet 's Bays and Critick 's Ivy , " he could now both determine the canon of literature and form his own pantheon of the " sounder Few " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Source , and End , and Test of Art " that provided the critic with true taste could similarly endow the poet with " true Genius " ( 73 , 1 I ) , yet the poetic gift was far less accountable , more arbitrary and mysterious than the dictates of the critical faculty . Its power was such that the poet could , at rare moments , violate prevailing rules and " snatch a Grace beyond the Reach of Art , " which , as it " gains / The Heart , and all of its End at once attains " ( 156-7 ) , could be an acceptable transgression of wit 's fundamental laws since it returned cultural production to its irrational provenance . Yet , since that source remained irrational , poetic creativity could not be directed , only felt : tqi The Fall of Apollo In some fair Body thus th ' informing Soul With Spirits feeds , with Vigour fills the whole , Each motion guides , and ev'ry Nerve sustains ; It self unseen , but in th ' Effects , remains . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mythology of the poet 's compulsion , as he did later in the poem when he ridiculed the exertions of scribbling wits who run on " in a raging Vein / Ev'n to the Dregs and Squeezings of the Brain " ( 606 ? 7 ) . Yet the Essay on Criticism provided no alternative to this mythology , no coherent theory of artistic productivity , nor much of a sense of the social function of art . Poetry merely happened to the poet , who had to leave it to the critics to assess its considerable affective force , to harness it if necessary through critical prescriptions , or perhaps to fan " the Poet 's Fire " ( too ) . Apart from pleasing an audience or providing the instrument upon which critics could demonstrate their taste and expertise , this peculiar inventive discourse seemed to serve no specific purpose other than , potentially , the supreme one of restoring human society to its transcendent , organic , and endlessly renewing source of value in the universal order of nature . As such , all that could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions of its reception , including the poet 's own attempts to accommodate this sublime force to the rules of art . For all of Pope 's emphasis upon neoclassical standards for composition , the Essay on Criticism marked a major contribution to the increasing tendency among poets and aesthetic theorists alike to consign the causes of artistic production to an origin beyond rational understanding . According to these theories , poetry 's unique source of value , of the je ne sais quoi , had to be lodged in the poet 's super-sensitivities , or in some unknown internal energy which the poet-genius seemed to feel more intensely than could the reader . Production was surrendered to pain and compulsion , to the uncontrollable force of imagination , or to repressed psychic energies within the alienated poet . Such notions of ' poetic genius as compulsion , as I will suggest in the next section , would be increasingly championed later in the period as the poetic activity came more and more to be seen as autonomous . Yet there had been significant antecedents . A few early poets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ productivity to compensate for their estrangement from the centres of power ; most dramatically , Milton , " though fallen on evil days , " declared himself divinely guided to write Paradise Lost ( VII.25 ) . For the Augustan writers , the ongoing commercialization of letters prompted them to toy with myths of compulsion even as they resisted the cultural autonomization 192 Defining a Cultural Field which these myths implied . The result was a host of dark fables of painful inspiration : in Augustan writing , as Margaret Anne Doody has noted , " any approach to the central sources of the energies of life or art , or of the creative powers of the poet 's mind , takes us toward something monstrous . " ' " For Pope , in the Essay and subsequent works , the Muses did not so much disappear as become internalized , in the Cave of Spleen or in Eloisa 's imprisoned raptures inflamed by thoughts of her lover 's mutilated body . That these personifications were often gendered as feminine reflects the identification of women not only with the physiological travails @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perturbations of sensibility ? Finch could feel as much poetically enfeebled by the Spleen as empowered by the " dark and terrible " images it inspired in her ( 78 ) .57 The satirists , in contrast , could experience only distress at their deepening exile from the drawing rooms of state , and so their poet 's masculine fire became transformed into afflictions of the affective body . Dryden , in his later work as a commercial author , frequently complained of his failing memory and of being " a cripple in my limbs . " 58 And desire of any kind , Swift alleged , could stem from a mere disorder of the bowels . By the time Pope writes his Epistle to Arbuthnot , his " Muse of Pain " has as much to do with lashing dunces as coping personally and professionally with " this long Disease , my Life " ( 13 ? 2 ) . ' 9 The " Plague " of intruders upon his privacy provoke ailments both real and feigned ? " say I 'm sick , I 'm dead " ? just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cure for being " sick of Fops , and Poetry , and Prate " ( 29,2,229 ) . But writing is itself the most inexplicable of maladies , no longer an animating spirit or informing essence but a chronic nervous disorder , whose cause could be anything from a foul contamination in the writer 's well to a pathological infantile ictus : Why did I write ? what sin to me unknown Dipt me in Ink , my Parents ' , or my own ? As yet a Child , nor yet a Fool to Fame , I lisp 'd in Numbers , for the Numbers came . ( i 25 ? 8 ) Unlike what infects the decentred , situational selves of Atticus , Sporus , and the rest , the poetic vocation is a mysterious form of obsessive compulsive behaviour that determines the poet from an early age and thereby provides its own special kind of integrity and unshakeable influence . It may equally afford some initial pleasures but , as Pope had earlier written in the Essay on Man , the poet can become among afflicted souls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 193 The Fall of Apollo See the blind beggar dance , the cripple sing , The sot a hero , lunatic a king ; The starving chemist in his golden views Supremely blest , the poet in his muse . ( 11.267-70 ) In the long term , however , Pope 's mad poet , unlike Horace 's , feels only the painful burden of his compulsion . ' ? His " Bill of Complaint " to his friend and physician Arbuthnot can only repeat a despairing note of incomprehension : " Heav'ns ! was I born for nothing but to write ? / Has Life no Joys for me ? " ( 272-3 ) . Yet compulsion has its own authority . The women poets who wrote for no other conventional reason than pleasure recognized that , by their marginality , their furor poeticus was distinguished by a certain purity that could justify their claims of disinterestedness and defiance towards public life . Finch , whose poem on the Spleen had been greatly admired by Pope , implied as much in an unpublished preface to her poems : For I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and immediately repented ; and yett have writt again , and again suffer 'd them to he seen ; tho ' at the expence of more uneasy reflections , till at last ( like them ) wearied with ucertainty , and irresolution , I rather chuse to be harden 'd in an errour , then to be still att the trouble of endeavering to over come itt : ... tho ' itt is still a great satisfaction to me , that I was not so far abandon 'd ... to lett any attempts of mine in Poetry , shew themselves whil'st I lived in such a publick place as the Court.u ' ' It is this purity that Pope masculinizes in his Horatian self-fashioning . Confessing to Bolingbroke that there is none " half so incoherent as my Mind , " Pope makes this self-styled " madness " the source of his poetic uniqueness , the I-know-not-what cause that has made him at once the ultimate outsider and a powerful threat to any common monarch , whose divinity the poet far exceeds by virtue of his remoteness from worldly interests : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without Title , without Fortune bless 'd , Rich ev'n when plunder 'd , honour 'd while oppress 'd , Lov ' ' d without youth , and follow 'd without power , At home tho ' exil 'd , free , tho ' in the Tower . In short , that reas'ning , high , immortal Thing , lust less than Jove , and much above a King , 194 Defining a Cultural Field Nay half in Heav'n ? except ( what 's mighty odd ) A fit of Vapours clouds this Demi-god . ( Epistle Li . 166 , 172 , 18o ? 8 ) Parts of this could form a portrait of the high-born woman , patrician yet powerless , at home while imprisoned , a person of privilege though oppressed . Yet not only has the male poet come to occupy her eminent station at the social periphery but has equally made a claim on her peculiar purity of feeling : because women are increasingly assumed in the eighteenth century to be not only prone to the " vapours , " the traditional diagnosis for female melancholy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are felt to manifest in both body and sensibility a greater sincerity of response than men , whose firmer constitutions and long habituation in the rational artifices of society , it is believed , help them to arrest any spontaneous outburst of sentiment.62 Such fits of sincere feeling and fancy can , however , co-exist with reason and aesthetic discipline in the male poet : " I love to pour out all mysel ' ( Satire II.i.5t ) . As a result , he can enjoy all the symbolic rewards of male productivity - honour , prestige , authority , fame - without the corruption and effeminization that is felt , under the new codes of aesthetic autonomization , to attend an author 's pursuit of material and political gain . Where other wits write for party , patron , or profit , Pope dramatizes himself as a poet driven by a deep , indeterminate yet determining instinct whose preternatural force renders it morally unassailable - a force that appears , in this way , more unpredictable and transcendent than the reactive indignation of the Juvenalian satirist , who must speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's suggestion that he refrain from satire , Pope can imagine no other outlet for his irrepressible impulse , which would disrupt the poet 's sleep as an irruption of the unconscious were it not for the creative catharsis of writing : Not write ? but then I think , And for my Soul I can not sleep a wink . I nod in Company , I wake at Night , Fools rush into my Head , and so I write . ( Satire II.i.1 1 ? 14 ) Later in the same poem , Pope , perhaps realizing that with compulsion runs the threat of enslavement , sentimentalizes his moral authority as he had done his father 's , by locating it in a masculinized purity of thought and feeling that had formerly been associated with female creativity : " My Head and Heart thus flowing thro ' my Quill , / Verseman or Prose-elan , term me which you will " ( 63 ? 4 ) .63 Such an organic explanation of poetic authority can identify no social function for 1 95 The Fall of Apollo writing , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to structure a work . It only asserts a potential , alternative point of distinction for the " verse-man " and , above all , a new heroic legitimacy for the poetic activity , now seemingly absolute in its autonomy . Since it can provide the poet with no coherent understanding of poetry 's symbolic value in society , maintaining this autonomy comes at a serious cost . By the end of his career , Pope is engaging in bitter , even manic gestures of renunciation , abandoning the English cultural establishment to the dunces , melodramatically presenting himself as the " Last of Britons " who draws " the last Pen for Freedom " against an age of vice triumphant in the Epilogue to the Satires ( IL250 , 248 ) , spurning his own evaluative community of political allies in the fragmentary One Thousand Seven Hundred and Forty , and declaring to the world " a resolution to publish no more " ( Epilogue IL25511 . ) . So extravagant and solipsistic is Pope 's self-presentation in these late poems that some critics have charged that his rage is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this vein , Carole Fabricant has written that " the poems appear to lack a convincing objective correlative for the moral outrage and invective expressed , an absence which leaves only the image of a dramatic , bloated , all-consuming , sublime Self that takes over center stage while all else becomes primarily a backdrop which highlights , through contrast , the speaker 's virtuous self . " b4 From this perspective , Pope 's self-definition represents an extreme of rhetorical valorization , where the poet feels compelled to pathologize everything , save perhaps for his own " Heav'n-directed hands , " in order both to assert his distinctiveness as a poet and to make one final , desperate stand on behalf of poetry 's centrality in the moral economy of the state ( Epilogue to the Satires I1.214 ) . For Fabricant and others , Pope 's self-defining " combat " is historically significant because it was directed not simply against the traditional civic humanist targets of moral depravity , political corruption , and economic self-interest , but against the new category of modern mass culture ; " it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " who established the distinction between classic ' and popular ' writers and writing . " 6 ' Yet the binarisms of high and low were nothing new . Pope 's cultural combat was something far more spectacular and revolutionary , the culminating struggle in a lengthy historical process whereby professional authorship had nought to liberate itself from social and political authority by proclaiming the snblinw autonomy of artistic creativity . Pope 's final disavowals , so alienating to most readers , announced the end of writing poetry as it form of social productivity , and signalled the poet 's own personal Irconcillation to the liberating mythology of the poetic compulsion and its troubling anti-social implications . ' I'lumgh the poet , long since 196 Defining a Cultural Field retired to his grotto , could still grandly declare that he could " redeem the land " ( One Thousand Seven Hundred and Forty 98 ) , he would no longer write in the service of the state , the church , the market , or any other institution or formation . From now on , the poet was to be alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death , Pope 's pre-eminence in the canon would be challenged by polemicists hoping to rid English poetry of its neoclassical values by proclaiming a new ideal of what Joseph Warton called a " pure poetry " of feeling , as epitomized by Shakespeare 's artless tragedies , Spenser 's Gothic enchantments , and Milton 's boundless sublimities . In a notorious passage in his dedication to Edward Young before his Essay on the Genius and Writings of Pope ( 1756 , 1782 ) , Warton made it clear that this revaluation of Pope and other satirists in favour of the poets of the sublime and the pathetic would reaffirm the masculinist hegemony of the canon : " We do not , it should seem , sufficiently attend to the difference there is betwixt a MAN OF WIT , a MAN OF SENSE , and a TRUE POET . Donne and Swift , were undoubtedly men of wit , and men of sense : but what traces have they left of PURE POETRY ? " 66 Young seconded Warton 's poetic revolution , and his masculinizing rhetoric , with his epochal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heralded poetry 's emancipation from classicist imitation . Following antique models , Young wrote , " lays genius under restraint , and denies it that free scope , that full elbowroom , which is requisite for striking its most masterly strokes . " If Pope believed he had " pleas 'd by manly ways " ( Epistle to Arbuthnot , 337 ) , Young had simply to reverse the gendering in order to devaluate his former ally 's translations of Homer , the single most influential literary event of the century : " by that effeminate decoration " of rhyme , Pope emasculated Homer 's " various modulations of masculine melody " and " put Achilles in petticoats . " And if Pope 's compulsion was an obscure and physically disabling disorder , Young 's anti-classicist revolution transformed the poet 's pain into a virile force : " For genius may be compared to the natural strength of the body . " 6% Such gendering was a common critical gesture of the period , though a change in its conditions of use was here apparent : whereas Pope had asserted his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was thought to be the feminizing forces of the marketplace , Warton and Young appropriated this masculinity so as to defend themselves from the charge of having feminized literature by promoting a poetry of passion and imagination . ' ' ' ' 1 97 The Fall of Apollo My concern here , however , is less with such gendering than with the possible functions that might have been served by this anti-classicist revolution ? a revolution that , arguably , was a logical extension of the cultural autonomization that Pope had already come to embrace in his final writings . In appearance , the rejection of classicism resembled most other such revolutions in being another round in the perennial contest for distinction within the cultural field . These revolutions are usually characterized , Bourdieu has argued , by insurgent avant-gardes within a genre taking on established vanguards by proposing " to question the very foundation of the genre through a return to sources and to the purity of its origins . As a consequence , the history of poetry , the novel or theatre tends to appear as a continuous process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of a thorough reappraisal of itself , its principles and its presuppositions , finds itself reduced to the most purified quintessence . " ' " Bourdieu sees this process of generic purification as resulting from the persistent need to define the cultural field 's autonomy as a source of its own special , non-economic capital . The return to a genre 's originating essence is a common strategy within what he calls the cultural " game , " since it signals a disavowal of economic interest on behalf of refining one 's art to its seemingly purest form . And such a disavowal , Bourdieu has repeatedly insisted , is among the most powerful gestures for acquiring symbolic profits within the cultural field . The poetic revolution that was waged in the critical discourse of the mid-eighteenth century involved , however , more than just a purification of poetic forms or , for that matter , an intensified gendering of literary practices . Classicism 's decline as a model for production is especially striking since classicism had long been the preferred discourse for a poet of laureate ambition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have already traced a temporal arc of classicist purification within this narrative , beginning with Petrarch , the first modern poet , who could exalt the classical heritage in order to assert his independence from the inhibitions of a moribund auctorial order and to enable his society 's progress out of what he termed the " Dark Ages . " Social progression became moral and artistic fixity in Jonson 's version , a codified formal classicism which he called both " the old way and the true " ( Epigram 18:2 ) and which helped him to distinguish his laureate professionalism from the self interests of the mass market , as well as to secure his artistic independence from powerful influences , Monson announcing himself to the court as " thy servant , but not slave . " ' " Jonson 's presentism then became cultural conservatism with Drvden and Pope , whose strategic pursuit of classicist refinement in 198 Defining a Cultural Field poetry enabled them at once to disavow economic interest , to assert their moral autonomy , and to present their work as essential in preserving English society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to overtake it . After Pope , Johnson supposed , " to attempt any further improvement of versification will be dangerous , " but in fact , as I will suggest , no more classicist purification would be undertaken as poetic practice had ultimately withdrawn from the social world.7 ' Classicism had long been a recognized position for a poet eager for distinction to take , and one eminently adaptable to changing circumstances , such as the rise of the vernaculars or of the print trade . It offered the working poet both a legitimizing cultural lineage reaching back to a revered ancient imperium , as well as an enabling revisionist narrative of refinement by which to define his modernity . Its decline in the eighteenth century must have coincided with a reorganization of the cultural field so extensive as to alter the relations and positiontakings within the field . It is not enough , therefore , to argue that the rejection of classicism reflected an emergent nationalist sentiment that spurned critical doctrines long associated with the French in favour of native genius . Not only was the alternative concept of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally , if Bourdieu 's assumption is correct , the goal of an artistic purification not based in classicist principles can only have come about with a further autonomization of the cultural field rather than its yielding to external political interests like nationalism.72 Nor is it adequate to suggest , as some recent historians have done , that it is only with the establishment of a stable English canon during the period that authors could legitimately relocate the origins of poetic purity from the ancients to a native tradition , in the spirit of " better Ossian than Homer . " 73 Pure poetry , according to Lowth , could just as easily be found among the Hebrew Scriptures.74 Besides , the gesture of proclaiming a pure source among the English had already been proposed authoritatively prior to classicism 's ascendancy in the seventeenth century : Drayton , among others , declared himself the herald of a British bardic past , while Spenser could claim to have drawn from Chaucer 's well of English undefiled . Drayton and Spenser , however , were writing within a rhetorical culture whose main currency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , honour , recognition . Despite being reluctant professionals , Drayton and Spenser were less anxious to define their autonomy from commercial interests than not to compromise their laureate integrity as national poets . They could not be seen to be acting merely out of self-interest , political or economic , since their role as national poets required them to promote the circulation of symbolic capital by using 199 The Fall of Apollo their rhetorical skills to refine the language of political signification ; as I suggested in an earlier chapter , these poets were expected to bestow praise and fame on their patrons and the state in the very act of seeking them for themselves . Classicism , with its Horatian or Juvenalian postures of detachment , could thus offer a poet like Jonson or Pope the means not only to assert an antique poetic purity that could seemingly transcend any economic interest , but , more important , to present himself as a public-minded poet of sufficient moral independence to contribute genuinely to the common good in a style proper to his verbal talents . Classicism , in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civic humanism , with the laureate poet being equivalent to the citizen who practised autonomy in the confined space , the drawing room as it were , where he met with equals ; the neoclassical poet-statesman saw his cultural practice as self-governing yet vigorously productive in its deployment of symbolic capital , itself conceived in terms of the masculinist values of honour , prestige , and devotion to the public realm . As we know from J.G.A. Pocock 's work , the values of civic humanism came into conflict in the eighteenth century with a newer ideology of commercial humanism , which reflected the altered historical conditions of capitalist exchange-relations and an emergent liberal republicanism . Commercial humanism emphasized a much broader polis , in which the citizen , in exchange for surrendering his autonomy to others who would represent him , became a specialized , private , even decentred individual who refined his moral being through a sympathetic social intercourse among the increasingly complex and differenlialed human relations and products that commerce could furnish . And among those products and services were the arts , which , it was felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disruptions of passion because they directly engaged the faculties of imaginative sympathy . Within this greatly expanded polis , the cultural field would continue to play a role in maintaining the moral order , but it was no longer the same role as under a pre-capitalist economy , where it had functioned to help circulate symbolic capital and its attendant ideology of civic humanism . Under commercial humanism , in contrast , the new human relations fostered by commerce and the arts functioned It ) polish the subject 's " manners " rather than to promote an active virtue : these new relations were , therefore , as Pocock has stressed , " social and not political in character . " Thy The masculinist values of civic humanism remained appealing to some who were fearful of culture being feminized because of this emphasis on sympathetic social intertom se , just as there were others like Samuel Johnson who continued ft ) abide by the discourse of classicism because they believed iii the 20o Defining a Cultural Field productive potential of literature to promote virtue directly rather than indirectly through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the specific values endorsed by writers , the cultural field in general was no longer seen as supporting a set of political relationships and was thus bereft of its former source of legitimacy . In addition , since economic capital had displaced symbolic capital as the main currency of social power , the arts were now in direct competition with all the other commercial goods and services that could facilitate the refinement of manners . In danger of being utterly commodified , the cultural field had to be redefined and more insistently autonomized in order to remain distinctive and legitimate . As a consequence , a new structure of belief began to emerge , wherein the cultural field would be seen as deploying its own separate and special cultural capital.77 If symbolic capital denotes a measure of accumulated fame , honour , or prestige that can be used within any form of social exchange , cultural capital refers to the level of accredited competence that is required to appreciate the meaning and value of cultural goods and relations . Such cultural products are , according to Bourdieu , to be treated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only by those who are recognized to possess the necessary disposition , learning , and skill ? this cultural competence thus being credited as a peculiar form of prestige that appears an end in itself , the prestige of aesthetic taste or scholarly expertise , yet in fact represents one category among several of modern social power . ' ' The emphasis on learning and skill might seem to align cultural capital with classicism , since the usual polemical charge against the latter was that it was too codified and stressed learning and correctness at the expense of creativity . As Young put it in the Conjectures , original genius is characterized by " unprescribed beauties , and unexampled excellence " which were outside the " pale of learning 's authorities , and laws . " 79 Yet cultural capital does not have to do with prescribed models of production as with the effects of experiencing or learning about art . Whereas classicism had implied an ideology of productive civic participation , commercial humanism did not propose a theory of production , but only one of enrichment through consumption . Production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural field had to be differentiated , aesthetic theories of the period , as I have suggested , surrendered artistic invention to pain and compulsion . For Pope , prior to his final self liberation , this surrender could be acknowledged only reluctantly , and then to legitimize strenuous strategic disavowals on two fronts , Pope opposing himself both to Grub Street 's commercial contamination of literature and to the traditional target of political corruption . For Young and the other : anti-classicists who no longer had to contend with political                     