@@773548

txt Chapter 5 A theory of teaching as assisted performance The development of cognition in society Schools have much to learn by examining the informal pedagogy of everyday life . The principles of good teaching are no different for school than for home and community . When true teaching is found in schools , it observes the same principles that good teaching exhibits in informal settings . Long before they enter school , children are learning higher-order cognitive and linguistic skills . Their teaching takes place in the everyday interactions of domestic life . Within these goal-directed activities , opportunities are available for more capable members of the household to assist and regulate child performances . Through these mundane interactions , children learn the accumulated wisdom and the cognitive and communicative tools of their culture . They begin to develop functional cognitive systems ; they begin to generalize their new skills to new problems and to novel aspects of familiar situations ; they learn how to communicate and think . In this formal socialization , neither communication nor cognition is the subject of direct instruction . Children 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strategic functions as are necessary to carry on ( Wertsch , 1979 , 1985 ) . Children often are unaware of the goal of the activity in which they are participating , but at the earliest levels this is not necessary to learning . The caretakers ' guidance permits children to engage in levels of activity that could not be managed alone . The pleasures of the social interaction seem sufficient to lure a child into the language and cognition of the more competent caregiver ( Bernstein , 1981 ) . The process begins early , much earlier than was once thought , and takes place mainly without the conscious awareness of the participants ( Ochs , 1982 ) . Without awareness , a caregiver may engage in a collaborative enterprise with the most profound implications for the development of a 94 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development participating child . Revealed in the interpersonal exchanges are the precursors of cognitive and communicative functions that will some day be selfregulated by the child and it is through such mundane interactions that children learn the cognitive and communicative tools and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most profound implications for how we think about development and teaching : From the very first days of the child 's development his activities acquire a meaning of their own in a system of social behaviour and , being directed towards a definite purpose , are refracted through the prism of the child 's environment . The path from object to child and from child to object passes through another person . This complex human structure is the product of a developmental process deeply rooted in the links between individual and social history . ( Vygotsky , 1978 ; 30 ) Thus , to explain the psychological , we must look not only at the individual but also at the external world in which that individual life has developed . We must examine human existence in its social and historical aspects , not only at its current surface . These social and historical aspects are represented to the child by people who assist and explain , those who participate with the child in shared functioning : Any function in the child 's cultural development appears twice , or in two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then on the psychological plane . First it appears between people as an interpsychological category , and then within the child as an intrapsychological category . This is equally true with regard to voluntary attention , logical memory , the formation of concepts , and the development of volition . ( Vygotsky , 1978 : 163 ) The process by which the social becomes the psychological is called internalization : " The process of internalization is not the transferral of an external activity to a preexisting , internal plane of consciousness : It is the process in which this plane is formed " ( Leont'ev , 1981 : 57 ) . The individual 's " plane of consciousness " ( i.e. , higher cognitive processes ) is formed in structures that are transmitted to the individual by others in speech , social interaction , and the processes of cooperative activity . Thus , individual consciousness arises from the actions and speech of others . However , children reorganize and reconstruct these experiences . The mental plane is not isomorphic with the external plane of action and speech . As the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur . In this regard , Vygotsky 's thought is closer to that of ' Piager than to others . For example , Vygotsky expressly denies Watson 's assumption that the A theory of teaching as assisted performance 95 internal speech of thinking is identical with external speech save fotl the vocalization . A child does learn to speak by hearing others speak ? indeed , learns to think through hearing others speak ? but as private speech sinks " underground " into thought , it is abbreviated and finally automatized into a form that bears little surface resemblance to speech itself . This transformation of form is a part of the developmental process . The child is not merely a passive recipient of adult guidance and assistance ( Baumrind , 1971 ; Bell , 1979 ; Bruner , 1973 ) ; in instructional programs , the active involvement of the child is crucial ( Bruner , 1966 ) . To acknowledge the inventive role of the child in transforming what is internalized , some developmentalists have begun to use the term guided reinvention ? a term that connotes both social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1984 ) credit Vygotsky for having best anticipated the guided reinvention perspective , which expressly excludes the extreme positions found in some versions of modern social learning and cognitive-stage theories . Guided reinvention acknowledges the social learning theorists ' insistence that social guidance is ubiquitous . It also acknowledges , however , the Piagetian insight that to understand is to reconstruct . Thus , guided reinvention elaborates the theme that normal cognitive development must be understood as a collaborative process involving the child and the environment . ( Fischer and Bullock , 1984 : 112 ? 13 ) In summary , the cognitive and social development of the child ( to the extent that the biological substrate is present ) proceeds as an unfolding of potential through the reciprocal influences of child and social environment . Through guided reinvention , higher mental functions that are part of the social and cultural heritage of the child will move from the social plane to the psychological plane , from the intermental to the intramental , from the socially regulated to the self-regulated . The child , through the regulating actions and speech of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech . In the resulting interaction , the child performs , through assistance and cooperative activity , at developmental levels quite beyond the individual level of achievement . In the beginning of the transformation to the intramental plane , the child need not understand the activity as the adult understands it , need not be aware of its reasons or of its articulation with other activities . For skills and functions to develop into internalized , self-regulated capacity , all that is needed is performance , through assisting interaction . Through this process , the child acquires the " plane of consciousness " of the natal society and is socialized , acculturated , made human . 96 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development The zone of proximal development Assisted performance defines what a child can do with help , with the support of the environment , of others , and of the self . For Vygotsky , the contrast between assisted performance and unassisted performance identified the fundamental nexus of development and learning that he called the zone of proximal development ( ZPD ) . It is conventional and correct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ability to solve problems unassisted ? this is the familiar protocol of standardized assessment , such as the Stanford-Binet . The child 's learning , however , exceeds the reach of the developmental level and is to be found by assessing those additional problems that the child can solve with social assistance . The distance between the child 's individual capacity and the capacity to perform with assistance is the ZPD , which is the distance between the actual developmental level as determined by individual problem solving and the level of potential development as determined through problem solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers . The zone of proximal development defines those functions that have not yet matured but are in the process of maturation , functions that will mature tomorrow but are currently in an embryonic state . These functions could be termed the " buds " or " flowers " of development rather than the " fruits " of development . ( Vygotsky , 1978 : 86 ; italics in original ) In contemporary neo-Vygotskian discussions , the concept of the ZPD has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " problem solving " of the preceding quotation is understood to mean performance in other domains of competence ( Cazden , 1981 ; Rogoff and Wertsch , 1984 ) . There is no single zone for each individual . For any domain of skill , a ZPD can be created . There are cultural zones as well as individual zones , because there are cultural variations in the competencies that a child must acquire through social interaction in a particular society ( Rogoff , 1982 ) . Boys in Micronesia , where sailing a canoe is a fundamental skill , will have a ZPD for the skills of navigation , created in interaction with the sailing masters . A girl in the Navajo weaving community will have experiences in a zone not quite like any ever encountered by the daughters of Philadelphia . Whatever the activity , in the ZPD we find that assistance is provided by the teacher , the adult , the expert , the more capable peer . Through this assistance , learning awakens a variety of internal developmental processes that arc able to operate only when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaching as assisted performance 97 environment and in cooperation with his peers . Once these processes are internalized , they become part of the child 's independent developmental achievement . ( Vygotsky , 1978 : 90 ) Distinguishing the proximal zone from the developmental level by contrasting assisted versus unassisted performance has profound implications for educational practice . It is in the proximal zone that teaching may be defined in terms of child development . In Vygotskian terms , teaching is good only when it " awakens and rouses to life those functions which are in a stage of maturing , which lie in the zone of proximal development " ( Vygotsky , 1956 ; 278 ; quoted in Wertsch and Stone , 1985 ; italics in original ) . We can therefore derive this general definition of teaching : Teaching consists in assisting performance through the ZPD . Teaching can be said to occur when assistance is offered at points in the ZPD at which performance requires assistance . By whom performance is assisted is less important than that performance is achieved , and thereby development and learning proceed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will occur through that assistance . In terms of pedagogy , assistance should be offered in those interactional contexts most likely to generate joint performance . Vygotsky 's work principally discusses children , but identical processes can be seen operating in the learning adult . Recognition of this fact allows the creation of effective programs for teacher training and offers guidance for organizational management of systems of assistance . Developmental processes , arising from assisted performance in the ZPD , can be observed not only in the ontogenesis of the individual but also in the microgenesis of discrete skills as they develop throughout the life course ... Paths through the zone The transition from assisted performance to unassisted performance is not abrupt . We can again use the example of an interaction between a father and a ( laughter who can not find her shoes ; the father asks several questions ( " Did you take them into the kitchen ? Did you have them while playing in your room ? " ) . The child has some of the information stored in memory ( " not in the kitchen ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has an interrogation strategy . for organizing retrieval of isolated bits of information in order to narrow the possibilities to a reasonable search strategy . The child does not know how to organize an effective recall strategy ; the father knows the strategy , but he does not have the information needed to locate the shoes . Through collaboration , they produce a satisfactory solution . When the child is older , perhaps the lather will have to say less ( " Well , think of where you last saw the shoes " ) , leaving the more specific interrogation to the now self-assisting strategies of the child . This example of memory function provides an account of the 98 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development origins of what are typically called metacognitive processes ( Brown , 1978 ; Wertsch , 1978 ) . The developmental stages of higher cognitive , communicative , and social functioning always involve new systemic relationships among more basic functions . Vygotsky 's discussions of higher-order mental processes all emphasize the shifting nature of such relationships during the course of development ( Vygotsky , 1987 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the first days of school , children can solve even simple problems only if attentional processes are brought into a new relationship with perception and memory . The attention capacity of the child entering kindergarten may be in the ZPD , so that a 5-year-old is capable of attending to teacher instruction and direction , but only if a rich diet of teacher praise is available . The teacher praise assists the child 's attending by both cueing and reinforcing it . With time , the amount of praise required may be expected to decline ( Tharp and Gallimore , 1976 ) . As the capacity for attending advances through the ZPD , assistance often is provided by peers , who may remind a daydreamer that attention to the teacher is wise . For most pupils , after the third grade , assistance by either teachers or peers is rarely needed ; attention processes can be invoked when the situation is judged appropriate ; they have become selfregulated . The development of any performance capacity in the individual also represents a changing relationship between self-regulation and social regulation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four stages . The model focuses particularly on the relationship between self-control and social control . The four stages of the ZPD Stage I : Where performance is assisted by more capable others Before children can function as independent agents , they must rely on adults or more capable peers for outside regulation of task performance . The amount and kind of outside regulation a child requires depend on the child 's age and the nature of the task : that is , the breadth and progression through the ZPD for the activity at hand . Wertsch ( 1978 , 1979 , 1981 , 1985 ) has pointed out that during the earliest periods in the ZPD , the child may have a very limited understanding of the situation , the task , or the goal to be achieved ; at this level , the parent , teacher , or more capable peers offers directions or modeling , and the child 's response is acquiescent or imitative . Only gradually does the child come to understand the way in which the parts of an activity relate to one another or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding develops through conversation during the task performance . When sonic A theory of teaching as assisted performance 99 conception of the overall performance has been acquired through language or other semiotic processes , the child can be assisted by other means ? questions , feedback , and further cognitive structuring . Consider a child perplexed by the myriad pieces of a puzzle . Thus , the adult might say , " Which part of the puzzle will you start to do ? " The child may respond by putting in all the wheels , and thus see a truck take shape . Such assistance of performance has been described as scaffolding , a metaphor first used by Wood , Bruner , and Ross ( 1976 ) to describe the ideal role of the teacher . Greenfield ( 1984 ) noted that the characteristics of the carpenter 's scaffold indeed provide an apt analogy for the teaching adult 's selective assistance to a child . She added that scaffolding is similar to the concept of " behavior shaping , " except in one important way . Shaping simplifies a task by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goal . Scaffolding , however , does not involve simplifying the task ; it holds the task difficulty constant , while simplifying the child 's role by means of graduated assistance from the adult/expert ( Greenfield , 1984 ) . Scaffolding is a concept that has been of unusual importance to the study of child development . However appealing this metaphor may be , the field has advanced to the point that a more differentiated concept can be developed . For example , scaffolding suggests that the principal variations in adult actions are matters of quantity ? how high the scaffold stands , how many levels it supports , how long it is kept in place . But many of the acts of the adult in assisting the child are qualitatively different from one another . " Sometimes , the adult directs attention . At other times , the adult holds important information in memory . At still other times , the adult offers simple encouragement " ( Griffin and Cole , 1984 : 47 ) . The various means of assisting performance are indeed qualitatively different . By discussing these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to connect neo-Vygotskian ideas with a broader literature of American and British psychology . For the present , we can discuss the issue in terms of the various kinds of assistance that are regular features of Stage I. Rogoff ( 1986 ) discusses some of these issues in terms of structuring situations . Even before interacting with the child , a parent or teacher assists by an age grading of manipulanda : the choice of puzzles , the selection of kindergarten tasks , and the selection of appropriate tools and materials for an apprentice are all important features of assisting performance . In addition to grading manipulanda , the assistor provides a " grading " of tasks , by structuring tasks into sub-goals and sub-sub-goals . The Saxe , Gearhart , and Guberman ( 1984 ) work on assisting children to learn to count is an example of structuring a teaching situation by careful task analysis and sub-goal selection , until the entire script is assembled back from its parts . During Stage I , a child ( or an adult learner ) may not conceptualize the goal of the activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5.1 ) . A child 's initial goal might he to sustain u pleasant interaction or to have access to some attractive puzzle items , or there might be some other motive that adults can not apprehend . As interaction proceeds , different goals and sub-goals emerge and change as the participants work together . The adult may shift to a subordinate or superordinate goal in response to ongoing assessment of the child 's performance . The child 's goals will also shift in response to adult help and their growing intersubjectivity . In a careful analysis of such interactions , Saxe and associates concluded that because the goal structure is located neither in the head of the mother nor in that of the child , this goal structure is negotiated in the interaction itself . Thus , the emergent goal structure simultaneously involves the child 's understandings and the historical achievements of culture as communicated by the mother . . . . As children generate coherent means to achieve these socially negotiated goals , they create for themselves a system of representation that reflects achievements that have been generated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1984 : 29 ) The shifting of goals by the adult to achieve intersubjectivity is the fundamental reason that a profound knowledge of subject matter is required of teachers who seek to assist performance . Without such knowledge , teachers can not be ready promptly to assist performance , because they can not quickly reformulate the goals of the interaction ; they can not map the child 's conception of the task goal onto the superordinate knowledge structures of the academic discipline that is being transmitted . This fundamental aspect of interaction in the %Pt ) will emerge repeatedly in our analysis of teaching and the development of teaching . During Stage I , we see a steadily declining plane of adult responsibilities for A theory of teaching as assisted performance 101 task performance and a reciprocal increase in the learner 's proportion of responsibility . This is Bruner 's fundamental " handover principle " ? the child who was a spectator is now a participant ( Bruner , 1983 : 60 ) . The developmental task of Stage I is to transit from other-regulation to self-regulation . The transit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpsychological plane of functioning , because the child can begin to use language exchanges with the adult to engender assistance . For example , in the analysis of joint puzzle-solving , the child can begin to ask the adult for strategic direction ( e.g. , " Which part do I do next ? " ) ( Wertsch , 1979 : 19 ) . Indeed , by asking questions and adopting other sub-routines of the adult 's assistance , children gradually take over the actual structuring of the task and thereby acquire not only the performance but also the process of transfer of the performance ( Rogoff , 1986 ) . The adult 's task is accurately to tailor assistance to the child by being responsive to the child 's current effort and understanding of the task goal . By asking " Which part do I do next ? " the child begins to influence the level of help provided . This assists the adult to assist . Children , and other learners , are never passive recipients of adult or teacher input . As infants , they attracted adult attention through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and walking are not only effective ways of calming babies but also provide them with adult legs to move on and with access to new scenes of regard that yield information about the environment " ( Rogoff , Malkin , and Gilbride , 1984 : 32 ) . " Legs " of a different kind are needed to solve puzzles , learn to read , and acquire all the other skills that have their origins in social interaction . But at each stage , the developing child contributes to the success of an activity . Asking for strategic direction is , in this sense , no different than the infant 's cry that makes locomotion possible . In both cases , the child 's partial performance provides adult assistance , thus permitting an achievement not possible without the collaborating other . The task of Stage I is accomplished when the responsibility for tailoring the assistance , tailoring the transfer , and performing the task itself has been effectively handed over to the learner . Of course , this achievement is gradual , with progress occurring in fits and starts . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ZPD is represented as a zone itself . Stage II : Where performance is assisted by the self If we look carefully at the child 's statements during this transition , we see that the child has taken over the rules and responsibilities of both participants in the language-game . These responsibilities were formerly divided between the adult and child , but they have now been taken over completely by the 102 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development child . The definitions of situation and the patterns of activity which formerly allowed the child to participate in the problem-solving effort on the interpsychological plane now allow him/her to carry out the task on the intrapsychological plane . ( Wertsch , 1979 : 18 ) Thus , in Stage II , the child carries out a task without assistance from others . However , this does not mean that the performance is fully developed or automatized . This point can be seen most clearly at the level of individual , ontogenetic development . In neo-Vygotskian theory , whether we consider the genesis of a particular performance capacity ( microgenesis ) or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same four stages describe the preponderance of **27;160;TOOLONG relationships . During Stage II , the relationships among language , thought , and action in general undergo profound rearrangements ? ontogenetically , in the years from infancy through middle childhood . By the age of 2 years or so , child behavior can be inhibited by adult speech ( " Do n't kick ! " ) . In the next stage of development , this same self instruction ( " Do n't kick ! " ) also inhibits the kicking impulse . Control is passed from the adult to the child speaker , but the control function remains with the overt verbalization . The transfer from external to internal control is accomplished by transfer of the manipulation of the sign ( e.g. , language ) from others to the self . The phenomenon of self-directed speech reflects a development of the most profound significance . According to Vygotsky , and his follower Luria , once children begin to direct or guide behavior with their own speech , an important stage has been reached in the transition of a skill through the ZPD @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control or assistance from the adult to the child , from the expert to the apprentice . What was guided by the other is now beginning to be guided and directed by the self . There is now substantial experimental and observational evidence ( Gallimore et al. , 1986 ; Tharp , Gallimore , and Calkins , 1984 ; Watson and Tharp , 1988 ) that a major function of self-directed speech is " self-guidance , that its developmental origins have to do with early social experiences , and that it increases under task circumstances involving obstacles and difficulties " ( Berk and Garvin , 1984 : 24 ; Berk , 1986 ) . Developmental analysis places selfassistance as a stage in the ZPD . Self-control may be seen as a recurrent and efficacious method that bridges between help by others and fully automated , fully developed capacities . Meichenbaum ( 1977 ) sought to teach self-instruction to children with deficient self-control . " Impulsive " children were taught to instruct themselves with cognitive strategies ( e.g. , " Go slow and be careful " ) before and during a variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tasks as paper-and- pencil mazes . For children older than 6 years , semantic meaning efficiently mediates performance ( Gal'perm , 1969 ) . A theory of teaching as assisted performance 103 Children also employ self-directed vocalization to assist performance under conditions of stress of task difficulty ( Berk , 1986 ; Berk and Garvin , 1984 ; Kohlberg , Yaeger , and Hjertholm , 1968 ; Roberts , 1979 ; Roberts and Mullis , 1980 ; Roberts and Tharp , 1980 ) . Thus , for children , a major function of self-directed speech is self-guidance . This remains true throughout lifelong learning . At the microgenetic level , when we consider the acquisition of some particular performance capacity , adults during Stage II consistently talk to themselves , and indeed assist themselves in all ways possible . The self-conscious , systematic use of selfdirected assistance strategies is one of the most vigorous movements in applied psychology ( Watson and Tharp , 1988 ) . Self-speech is more than instrumental in skill acquisition ; it is itself all aspect of cognitive development of the most profound sort ( Diaz , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus is transformed into the highest forms of communication available to the literate life ( Elsasser and John-Steiner , 1977 ) . Stage Ill : Where performance is developed , automatized , and " fossilized " Once all evidence of self-regulation has vanished , the child has emerged from the ZPD into the developmental stage for that task . The task execution is smooth and integrated . It has been internalized and " automatized . " Assistance , from the adult or the self , is no longer needed . Indeed , " assistance " would now be disruptive . It is in this condition that instructions from others are disruptive and irritating ; it is at this stage that self-consciousness itself is detrimental to the smooth integration of all task components . This is a stage beyond self-control and beyond social control . Performance here is no longer developing ; it is already developed . Vygotsky described it as the " fruits " of development , but he also described it as " fossilized , " emphasizing its fixity and distance from the social and mental forces of change . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back through the ZPD The lifelong learning by any individual is made up of these same regulated , /. l ' 1 ) sequences ? from other-assistance to self-assistance ? recurring over and over again for the development of new capacities . For every individual , at any point in time , there will be a mix of other-regulation , self-regulation , and automatized processes . The child who can now do many of the steps in finding a lost object might still be in the ZPD for the activities of reading , or any of the many skills and processes remaining to be developed in the immature . organism . Furthermore , once children master cognitive strategies , they are not obligated to rely only on internal mediation . They can also ask for help when 104 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development stuck , for example , in the search for lost items of attire . During periods of difficulty , children may seek out controlling vocalizations by more competent others ( Gal'perin , 1969 ) . Again , we see the intimate and shifting relationship between control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the effort to recall a forgotten bit of information can be aided by the helpful assistance of another , so that the total of self-regulated and other-regulated components of the performance once again resembles the mother-and-child example of shared functioning . Even the competent adult can profit from regulation for enhancement and maintenance of performance . Indeed , enhancement , improvement , and maintenance of performance provide a recurrent cycle of self-assistance to other-assistance . A most important consideration is that de-automatization and recursion occur so regularly that they constitute a Stage IV of the normal developmental process . What one formerly could do , one can no longer do . This de-automatization may be due to slight environmental changes or individual stress , not to mention major upheavals or physical trauma . The analogy between microgenesis and ontogenesis is again clear ; at the end of life , capacities fall into general decline . After de-automatization , for whatever reason , if capacity is to be restored , then the developmental process must become recursive . The first line of retreat is to the immediately prior self-regulating phase . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk to themselves about it more , and quite competent adults can recall talking themselves through some knotty intellectual problem or through the traffic patterns of a strange city . Making self-speech external is a form of recursion often effective in restoring competence . A further retreat , to remembering the voice of a teacher , may be required . " Hearing the voice of the teacher " has been shown to be one of the middle stages in the development of complex skills ( Gallimore et al . , 1986 ) . Intentionally recurring to that point in the zone ? consciously reconjuring the voice of a tutor ? is an effective selfcontrol technique . But in some cases no form of self-regulation may be adequate to restore capacity , and a further recursion ? the restitution of other-regulation ? is often required . The readiness of a teacher to repeat some earlier lesson is one mark of excellent teaching . The profession of assisting adults ( psychotherapy ) is now a major Western institution . In all these instances , the goal is to reproceed through assisted performance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automatization . Responsive assistance In the transition from other-assistance to self-assistance ( and automatization ) there are variations in the means and patterns of adult assistance to the child . At the earlier phases , assistance may he frequent and elaborate . Later , it occurs less often and is truncated .. Adult asssistance contingent on and responsive A theory of teaching as assisted performance 105 to the child 's level of performance . In the earliest stages , when the child does not comprehend the purpose of an activity or see the connection between component steps , adult help tends to be relatively narrow in focus : " Pick up the blue one , and put it next to the yellow one . " As the child 's comprehension and skill increase , adults begin to abbreviate their help ( Rogoff and Gardner , 1984 ; Wertsch and Schneider , 1979 ) . The adult may say something like " OK , what else could you try ? " . Such a truncated bit of help may prompt the child to take another look at the model of the puzzle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pile of pieces for a different one . In narrative retelling , the adult may ask if the child remembers any more of the story , whereas earlier queries were about more specific details ( " What did the other brother do ? " ) ( McNamee , 1979 ) . If the truncated guidance fails , the adult may add additional hints , testing to find that minimum level of help the child needs to proceed . This continual adjustment of the level and amount of help is responsive to the child 's level of performance and perceived need . Assisting adults appear to keep in mind the overall goal of the activity , to stay related to what the child is trying to do . New information or suggestions are made relevant to furthering the child 's current goal , and at the same time furthering the overall goal . The tuning of adult assistance appears to begin quite early . For example , Cross ( 1977 ) studied 16 children ranging in age from 19 to 32 months . Although the average difference among their mean lengths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correlations between mothers ' speech adjustments and child speech levels ranged from 0.65 to 0.85 . More significantly , the best predictor of mother adjustments to child utterances was the mean of the 50 longest utterances ( out of 500 ) , not the MLU for the entire 500 . The mothers ' MLUs were , on average , about three morphemes longer than their children 's and less than half a morpheme longer than the children 's longest utterances . The mothers probably were tracking their children 's best perlormance , which probably was at or near the capacity level for the age of the children . This suggests that mothers ' contingent speech adjustments are well " tuned " to the leading edge of child communicative competence ? to the / . Pl ) of social communication . For older children , responsive adult assistance can become quite varied within a single episode of collaborative activity ? and the reciprocity of adult ? child interactions quite complex . Attempts by assisting adults to assess is child 's readiness for greater responsibility often are subtle and embedded in the ongoing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For example , in Rogofis study ( 1986 ) , at the beginning of sessions , mothers often provided redundant information to ensure correct performance ; this decreased over the session , as in the study of Wertsch and Schneider ( 1979 ) . Mothers and children used hesitation , glances , and postural changes , as well as errors by the children , to adjust relative responsibilities for problem-solving . For example , one mother encouraged her child to determine where the next 106 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development item went . When the child hesitated , the mother turned slightly toward the correct location . When the child still hesitated , the mother glanced at the correct location and moved the item slightly toward its intended location . Finally , she superficially rearranged other items in the correct group , and with this hint the child finally made the correct placement . Thus , the mother encouraged greater responsibility by the child and masked her assistance as random activity rather than correction of error , adjusting her support to the child 's level of understanding . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tuned adult assistance does not always occur . A major variable here is the nature of the task or performance . If efficient production is needed , the adult will likely be more directive and less tolerant of such costly child errors as failing to correctly care for animals on which the family 's survival is partly dependent ( Wertsch , Minick , and Arns , 1984 ) . In joint productive activities of some importance , a child 's participation may be relatively passive ? observing the adult/expert carry out the task , and joining in to help at those points where the child 's skill matches the task demands . This is the classic pattern of informal teaching that has been described in the anthropological literature for 50 years ( Fortes , 1938 ) . But when the development of independent child skill is defined as a goal , the pattern of assistance provided by the adult is more responsive , contingent , and patient . The adult graduates the assistance , responsive to the child 's performance level : the more the child can do , the less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . This illuminates an important pedagogical principle . " Assistance " offered at too high a level will disrupt child performance and is not effective teaching . Once independent skill has been achieved , " assistance " becomes " interference . " For this reason , our definition of teaching emphasizes that teaching can be said to occur when assistance is offered at points in the ZPD at which performance requires assistance . Careful assessment of the child 's abilities , relative to the ZPD and the developmental level , is a constant requirement for the teacher . This becomes imperative when we remember that the processes of development are recursive . Assisted performance : child , parent , and teacher As common as assisted performance is in the interactions of parents and children , it is uncommon in those of teachers and students . Study after study has documented the absence in classrooms of this fundamental tool for the teaching of children : assistance provided by more capable others that is responsive to goal-directed activities . The absence of assisted performance in schools is all the more remarkable because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where researchers ( hers have most often found such interactions . Why is it that this K A theory of teaching as assisted performance 107 adult ? child pattern ? no doubt a product of historical , evolutionary processes ? is so seldom observed in the very setting where it would seem most appropriate ? Such interactions can be found in every society , in the introduction of children to any task . But this basic method of human socialization has not generally diffused into schools . Why ? There are two basic reasons . First , to provide assistance in the ZPD , the assistor must be in close touch with the learner 's relationship to the task . Sensitive and accurate assistance that challenges but does not dismay the learner can not be achieved in the absence of information . Opportunities for this knowledge , conditions in which the teacher can be sufficiently aware of the child 's actual , inflight performing , simply are not available in classrooms organized , equipped , and staffed in the typical pattern . There are too many children for each teacher . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ZPD for each task , more time is needed ? time of interaction , for conversation , for joint activity between teachers and children . Occasionally , now and through history , these opportunities have existed : the classical Greek academies , Oxford and Cambridge , the individual tutorial , the private American school with classes of seven or less . But all involve a pupil ? teacher ratio that exceeds the politicians ' judgment of the taxpayers ' purse . Public education is not likely to reorganize into classrooms of seven pupils each . This does not make the case hopeless . Emerging instructional practices do offer some hope of increased opportunities for assisted performance : the increased use of small groups , maintenance of a positive classroom atmosphere that will increase independent task involvement of students , new materials and technology with which students can interact independent of the teacher . There is a second reason that assisted performance has not diffused into the schools . Even when instructional practices allow for increased use of assisted performance , it will not necessarily appear as a regular feature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even by those teachers who are from homes and communities where , outside of school , such interactions are commonplace . It will not necessarily be forthcoming from teachers who themselves provide assisted performance for their own children . Even with the benefits of modern instructional practice , there is still too large a gap between the conditions of home and school . Most parents do not need to be trained to assist ( x ? rfinTnance ; most teachers do . Chapter 6 How do teachers help children to learn ? An analysis of teachers ' interventions in computer-based activities The purpose of this chapter is to describe and explain the style and function of the interventions made by teachers when children are doing computerbased activities in their classrooms . We believe that achieving a better understanding of such aspects of teaching is necessary for the most effective use of the new technology in schools and could also contribute to the development of better " classroom-based " methods for the initial and in-service training of teachers . This chapter also reflects our concern with the adequacy of available theoretical models @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between those theoretical accounts and the practice of teaching and learning as it is actually carried out in schools and elsewhere . We will argue that the " neo-Vygotskian " approach offers the best available basis for the development of a conceptual framework for understanding teaching and learning in classroom settings . We will then use that approach in an analysis of specific examples of teachers ' interventions in children 's computer-based activity using observational data from a current research project . By doing so we hope to shed light on the nature of the teaching and learning process and relate theoretical concepts to the realities of classroom education . Some central features of the neo-Vygotskian perspective We are using the term " neo-Vygotskian " to refer to a theoretical approach to the study of learning and cognitive development which draws heavily , though not exclusively or literally , on the work of Vygotsky ( Mercer , 1991a , 199 ? ) . Others have called this approach " cultural psychology " ( Crook , 1991 ) , " **29;189;TOOLONG theory " ( Smith , 1989 ) and " the sociohistorical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1989 ) . The essence of this approach is to treat learning and cognitive development as culturally based , nut just culturally influenced , and as social rather than individualized ? ' I'lua IK an r ? rlitetI vrr%iim nl ? ut artn Ir ? that algietuctI Ill Learning and /norm lion , vol. 2 , 199 ? . 1 12 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development processes . It highlights communicative aspects of learning , whereby knowledge is shared and understandings are constructed in culturally formed settings . Compared with other theories of learning and cognition , the neoVygotskian approach has certain attractive features for researchers who are concerned with the use of computers for learning and instruction in schools , which can be summarized as follows . First , most theories of learning and cognitive development have focused on the individual to the extent that cultural and interactional factors in learning and development are marginalized or even ignored . In recent years , critical attention has focused on the inherent " individualism " of Piagetian theory , and on the marginal role attributed to language , culture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his followers ( see e.g. , Edwards &; Mercer , 1987 ; Mercer , 1991a , 1992 ; Walkerdine , 1984 ) . In research into computer-based learning , the influence of Piagetian ideas has been particularly strong . This is well exemplified by the work of Papert ( 1980 ) , who promotes a radical " discovery-learning " approach to learning through LOGO , in which the child 's relationship with a human teacher is supplanted by an individualized computer-based learning environment . Other more recently developed approaches to cognitive development share the same individualistic emphasis . For example , much of the " cognitive science " which has been so influential in America ( e.g. , Resnick , 1987 ; Simon , 1980 , 1981 ) is based on a narrow , individualistic definition of learning ( see Newman et al. , 1989 , and Edwards , 1991 , for a critical discussion ) . There is also little evidence of a culturally based approach to learning having influenced the design of educational software . In contrast , because neo-Vygotskian theory gives a central and prominent place to communicative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs of researchers who wish to study learning and instruction in a social context , and also to those concerned with the implementation and design of software for classroom use . In particular , it offers interesting possibilities for theoretical development in the study of " situated learning " with computers , especially if such research focuses on children 's problem-solving practice in schools ( see Lave , 1992 ) and the process of learning through " cognitive apprenticeship " ( Collins , Brown , &; Newman , 1990 ) . Second , neo-Vygotskian theory offers both a theory of learning and a theory of instruction . In all societies , talk is the prime medium for sharing knowledge , and one through which adults influence the representations of reality which children eventually adopt . Neo-Vygotskian theory deals directly with this essential feature of learning and instruction in school . It encourages the view that to communicate with others through speech is to engage in a social mode of thinking . We therefore believe that a lieu-Vygotskian framework offers a suitable basis for an educationally relevant theory of learning and instruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever , its principal concepts ( the zone of proximal development and " scaffolding " ; discussed below ) have not yet been properly defined for classroom research . Although the concepts are now in common use in discussions of educational processes , they were developed in observational research on parent ? child interactions ( Bruner , 1978 ; Wertsch , 1985 ; Wood , Bruner , &; Ross , 1976 ) , and only subsequently applied to educational settings by drawing analogies between learners at home and in school and between the supportive activities of parents and teachers ( e.g. , Bruner , 1985 , 1986 ) . Some educational researchers have therefore suggested that the concepts themselves can not map well on to the pedagogic realities of classroom education . David McNamara ( personal communication ) comments that " the theory implies that each child 's ' scaffold ' or ZPD is different and that the teacher must treat each child 's learning individually . . . this is probably an unrealistic aspiration as far as most teachers and most classes are concerned . " Smith ( 1989 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory 's explanatory value . Whilst we accept the grounds for these criticisms , we see them as a stimulus for research rather than as a reason to forsake the neo-Vygotskian framework . For all its current weaknesses , it represents the only available theoretical perspective which is potentially capable of handling teaching and learning as culturally based , " situated " activity . Through the research presented in this chapter we hope to advance further its empirical validity and educational relevance . Two key concepts in the neo-Vygotskian framework The essential psychological asymmetry of the teaching and learning relationship may be said to be represented in two neo-Vygotskian concepts : the zone of proximal development and scaffolding . The zone of proximal development ( ZPD ) ' The ? zone of proximal development ( ZPD ) is " the distance between the actual developmental level as determined by independent problem solving and the level of potential development as determined through problem solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more able peers " ( Vygotsky , 1978 , p. 86 ) . We believe that the concept represents two basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learning with assistance or Instruction is a common and important feature of human mental development . The second is that the limits of a person 's learning or problemsolving ability can he expanded by providing the right kind of assistance or instruction . Within a neo-Vygotskian framework , learning and problem-solving are seen as context-hound processes , so that the level of understanding achieved individuals in specific settings is recognized to be , in part at least , a 1 14 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development function of those settings as dynamic contexts for cognitive activity ( Crook , 1991 ) . Thus what appear to be variations in the ability of a child to solve " the same " problem across different experimental settings ( for example , as described by Donaldson , 1978 ) might best be explained in terms of variations between the implicit contextual frameworks surrounding those tasks . As Newman , Griffin , &; Cole ( 1989 ) argue , a great deal of psychological research is flawed because researchers have naively accepted that experimental tasks can be defined independently of the intersubjective contexts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are increasingly common in developmental and educational research ; but it seems to us that there is a danger that the term is used as little more than a fashionable alternative to Piagetian terminology or the concept of IQ for describing individual differences in attainment or potential . In our view , such usages miss the essence of the concept , and lose its radical implications for the study of learning . The limits of the ZPD for any particular child on any particular task will be established in the course of an activity , and one key factor in establishing those limits will be the quality of the supportive interventions of a teacher . That is , the ZPD is not an attribute of a child ( in the sense that , say , IQ is considered to be ) but rather an attribute of an event . It is the product of a particular , situated , pedagogical relationship . Through establishing a ZPD , a teacher or researcher may gain valuable insights into how a child may be encouraged to progress . But children do not carry their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new task with a different teacher may generate quite different " zones " for the same group of children . This brings us to the second concept , that of " scaffolding . " In the context of parental tutoring , Bruner ( 1978 ) uses the term to refer to steps taken by an adult to reduce the degrees of freedom in carrying out some task so that a child can concentrate on the difficult skill he or she is in the process of acquiring . It represents the kind and quality of cognitive support which an adult can provide for a child 's learning ? a form of " vicarious consciousness " ( as Bruner also put it ) which anticipates the child 's own developing understanding . As such , it clearly relates to the concept of the zone of proximal development . We and our associates , involved in both educational research and the inservice training of teachers , have found the concept of " scaffolding " a very useful tool in analytic discussions of teachers ' pedagogic strategies ( see e.g. , Fisher , 1991 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mercer , 1991b ) . Teachers also seem to find the concept very appealing , perhaps because it resonates with their own intuitive conceptions of what it means to intervene successfully in children 's learning . It has also begun to appear in studies of computer-based learning . However , it has been used without being operationally defined for the classroom , and so is used loosely and given a variety of covert interpretations . For example , Hoyles , Healy , &; Sutherland ( 1991 , p. 219 ) , in their study of pupil discussion in computer-based learning say , " We refer to scaffolding as ' hooks ' available in any setting which assist pupils in overcoming How do teachers help children to learn ? 115 significant obstacles in the generalization process , " while Emihovich and Miller ( 1988 ) , in a study of young children being instructed in the use of LOGO , employ the term only to refer to teachers ' express guidance , through talk , of the children . Bruner 's own application of it to the relationship between teacher and pupil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an analogy between the discourse of parental tutoring and that of classroom teaching . If we start from the position that the concept of " scaffolding " is potentially applicable to classroom education , the essential problem is to decide what counts as " scaffolding " and what is merely " help . " Is " scaffolding " a description of a particular kind of teacher behavior ( whatever its outcome for the pupil ) , or a label that can be applied to any kind of teacher intervention which is followed by learning success for a pupil ? Maybin et al . ( 1992 ) offer the following hypothetical formulation : " Scaffolding " ) is not just any assistance which helps a learner accomplish a task . It is help which will enable a learner to accomplish a task which they would not have been quite able to manage on their own , and it is help which is intended to bring the learner closer to a state of competence which will enable them eventually to complete such a task on their own ... To know whether or not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to have at the very least some evidence of a teacher wishing to enable a child to develop a specific skill , grasp a particular concept or achieve a particular level of understanding . A more stringent criterion would be to require some evidence of a learner successfully accomplishing the task with the teacher 's help . An even more stringent interpretation would be to require some evidence of a learner having achieved some greater level of independent competence as a result of the scaffolding experience ( that is , demonstrating their increased competence or improved level of understanding in dealing independently with some subsequent problem ) . Method Within our research into teaching and learning in classrooms , one area of %pedal interest has been the study of how computer-based activities are incorporated into the social interactive life of school classrooms ( Fisher , 1991 ; Mercer , 1991c ) . Most recently this interest has generated the SLANT ( Spoken language and New Technology ) Project , which was set up in 1990 to investigate how primary school children talk when they are working together at the computer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to identify ways in which computer-based classroom activities provide contexts for learning through talk and for developing children 's use of talk for learning ; ? to describe the range and quality of the talk observed ; 1 16 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development to relate our analysis of the talk to the design of computer-based learning tasks ( including the nature of the software used ) ; to provide information about the role of a teacher in mediating and supporting such activities ; to assist teachers in developing and refining their practice . With the aim of obtaining data on a variety of ages of children , urban/rural locations , curriculum-related topics , and educational software packages , ten schools and fifteen teachers were chosen from those who had responded to initial enquiries from the project to schools in four eastern counties of England . The design of the project was based on a notion of close partnership between the researchers in the central team and the primary teachers in whose classrooms the research was to be carried out . All the teachers were experienced teachers , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only two had special responsibility for IT in their schools . At initial meetings , researchers explained to teachers that the project was primarily concerned with examining the potential of various computer activities for generating discussion between children ( as described above ) . The teachers then developed activities ( usually in discussion with a researcher ) which would fit in with and , it was hoped , enhance their normal curriculum activities . After spending some time in more general observation in the classrooms , the researchers made video recordings of one or more groups of children doing the activities , usually over a series of lessons . In this way , 50 children aged between 5 and 12 were recorded working at the computer , on a range of activities based on software which included word-processing packages , adventure games , simulations , databases , and mathematics programs . Once the research was under way , regular meetings between teachers and researchers ( which usually involved the viewing of recently recorded data ) often led to new ideas for activities and to further recording . Researchers and teachers also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scope , aims , and rationale for SLANT are described in more detail in Mercer , Phillips , &; Somekh ( 1991 ) . Teacher interventions It has become increasingly apparent to SLANT researchers that , in order to identify the contextual factors which encourage different kinds of discourse , it is necessary to examine the total activity , including the way the teacher has set up the task and how she then supports its progress . This has led us to focus on the kinds of intervention that teachers make in pupils ' activity in order to help them continue and complete the learning task in hand . In the current chapter we are concerned only with teachers ' interventions in computer-based activities which are already under way , and not with the ways that teachers " set up " or initially " frame " activities before pupils start them ( as discussed in Fisher , 199I ; Mercer , 1991 b , 1992 ) . How do teachers help children to learn ? 117 Relevant here is the work of Emihovich and Miller ( 1988 ) , who in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discourse of teaching and learning when two pairs of 5-year-old children were instructed in the use of LOGO by a teacher ( one of the researchers ) . One of their aims was to demonstrate an effective role for the teacher in LOGO learning , and the nature of the experimentation involved was to design a set of " cognitive teaching acts " which the teacher-researcher self-consciously employed in attempting to " scaffold " the children 's learning . These acts were " acts " in the sense that the term has been employed by discourse analysts ( Mehan , 1979 ; Sinclair &; Coulthard , 1975 ) ; that is , single utterances which initiated verbal exchanges with the pupils . Thus , through the use of a " meta-elicit " act like " Remember what those were for ? " , the teacher elicits from the child information previously learned . Their main finding was that the children became increasingly able to take strategic responsibility for their LOGO activity , and that while the number of teacher-led exchanges remained high throughout , the children 's learning was mirrored by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the children themselves . Certain distinctive features of computer-based activities in school are important for any analysis of teacher interventions . One is the physical separation of the work done at the computer from the " mainstream " activity of the class . Even when it is within the classroom ( as seems generally to be the case in primary schools ) , the computer is likely to be at the side ( near an electric socket and out of harm 's way ) , with children often seated with their backs to the rest of the class . This makes it easier for an observer to see when the teacher makes contact with the group as well as requiring the teacher to make ? definite move if she is to see what the children are doing . The opportunities for teachers to make useful interventions , and relative frequency of different kinds of interventions will certainly vary with the nature of the software and the activities in which it is embedded . For example , Emihovich and Miller 1988 ) suggest that when tasks and problems ( and children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ screen , as in LOGO problemlving tasks , teachers may more easily be able to make an explicit connection between talk , thought , and action than in activities where the effect of children 's decisions are not so graphically represented . Another feature of computer work seems to be that children ( and possibly &hilts; also ) are prepared to work for longer-than-usual periods of time , even When their work fails to be productive . Consequently the physical separation mentioned above , together with the fact that it is not always easy for a teacher identify what has gone on already , make the timing and nature of intervention even more crucial than it would be with other types of classroom activity . Otherr researchers have reported on the nature and importance of intervention , and have emphasized the need for strategies which change over time and in relationship to the complexity of the task with which the pupils are involved . and Sutherland ( 1989 ) found that , whereas pupil requests for teacher 1 18 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development intervention decreased as pupils became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more often as the tasks which they had set became more complex . Their interventions were sometimes aimed at directing pupils , but more often were attempts to encourage pupils to reflect on what they were doing . Similarly , Fraser , Burkhardt , Coupland , Phillips , Pimm , and Ridgeway ( 1990 ) , also working in mathematics classes , found that teachers gradually relinquished the managing role and took on more of a counselling , fellow pupil , or resource role . Teaching and learning in progress In this section we will take three transcribed sequences of classroom discourse and , for each , attempt to do the following things : 1 Provide some background information about the educational settings from which it was taken , with special reference to the curriculum goals being pursued and the relationship of the work being done to prior activity and that planned for the immediate future ( to the extent that these were made available to us through discussion with the teachers involved ) ; 2 Use a conceptual framework based upon neo-Vygotskian theory ( as expounded above ) to analyze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been expressly chosen from our data to illustrate the features of teaching and learning which we wish to discuss . They are taken from actual lessons and embody strategies used by the teachers of their own volition , though sometimes as the result of their reflections during the progress of the project . Our wider observations support the view that these sequences are not odd or atypical examples of teacher activity , but we do not wish to claim them as representative of the " teaching styles " of particular teachers . Sequence 1 ( below ) was recorded in a class in which the children were using computers in pairs to pursue a specific task set by their teacher . In the preceding weeks , the class had spent some time learning different ways of representing the natural environment , including making three-dimensional models and drawing maps on the computer using the software package Paintspa ( which enables free drawing on the screen through the use of the " mouse " ) . In fact , many of the children in the class found the computer-based part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' using Paintspa and of using a " mouse . " It was the stated aim of the teacher that the children should be learning not only how to model and map the village , but should learn about the relationship between alternative modes of representation and how to transpose information from one mode to another . How do teachers help children to learn ? 119 In this sequence , two 8-year-old girls ( Louise and Harriet ) were trying to reproduce on the computer screen a map of a particular three-dimensional model village which the members of the class had constructed . By the beginning of this sequence , the girls had been working for about 20 minutes . It begins at a point where , having marked out the basic structure of the village , they were putting in some of the buildings . However , they were unsure how to mark each type of building so that it would be identifiable on the map . Although they had had some difficulties ( several of which had been observed by the teacher from a distance ) , Sequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave the girls the initial explanation of what they had to do . ( Note : In all the discourse sequences , the following transcription conventions apply : T = teacher . Simultaneous speech is marked by . Additional information about observed activities is in parentheses and italics . The talk has been punctuated to make it more comprehensible to the reader. ) ' 1 ' 1w talk in Sequence 1 has many features which are typical of teachers ' 120 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development interventions in children 's activity at the computer . The aim of the teacher seems to be to encourage the children 's own efforts at solving problems , rather than to offer ready solutions . For example , in line 1 , the girls ask the teacher a direct question . Although the teacher has intervened at the request of the pupils , she responds with a question of her own ( line 6 ) in which she asks them to suggest a possible strategy , and so elicits a minimal response from the girls ( lines 7 and 8 ) . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the girls ' idea of putting " H " in the houses to mark them , but elaborates the requirements of the task in hand . She then repeats her question and goes on to suggest a strategy for dealing with their problem ( line 9 ) . She confirms Louise 's interpretation of her suggestion ( that such a key could be based on colours ) and adds the additional relevant information that a colour printer is to be used ( lines 12-13 ) . So in the latter part of this sequence her talk consists of comments on the quality of pupils ' activity and of reiterations and elaborations of the requirements of the task . With a fairly open-ended task such as this one ( in that a variety of mapping styles and formats would be acceptable ) , there are no single " right answers . " The teacher 's manner of intervention allows the children to explore the software and develop their own strategies for completing the task , but prevents them floundering or getting discouraged by difficulties which are beyond their technical or conceptual expertise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relevant to an analysis of this kind of teaching and learning event . The teacher had planned the task as one which would " stretch " the children but which they should be able to accomplish with some support . Once the activity was begun , she had to make judgments , presumably based on her assessment of Louise and Harriet 's competence in general and on the evidence of their progress on this particular task , about how much additional support she needed to provide . Louise and Harriet did go on to produce a satisfactory map , with a colour key . Having described the teacher 's supportive activity , we might now ask : is it appropriate to call this kind of activity " scaffolding " ? The effect of the teacher 's interventions is certainly to " reduce the degrees of freedom " of the task . To go a little further , from what we know of this sequence , it would seem that we can satisfy some of the criteria of Maybin et al . ( 1992 ) for the use of that term ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirement of knowing that Louise and Harriet " would not have been quite able to manage on their own " if we accept their own judgment on the matter ( the sequence begins with their appeal to the teacher for help ) . It would seem indisputable that the teacher is offering " help which is intended to bring the learner(s) to a state of competence which will enable them to complete such a task on their own . " We also have some evidence ( in the ( Om ) of the teacher 's stated intention ) of " a teacher wishing to enable a child to develop a particular skill ... or achieve a particular level of understanding . " Furthermore , we can satisfy the more stringent criterion requiring " some evidence of a learner successfully How do teachers help children to learn ? 121 accomplishing the task with the teacher 's help . " What we can not do is satisfy the most stringent criterion of subsequent " independent competence , " because Louise and Harriet did not go onto do an unsupported version of the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lack of such evidence is , of course , virtually a paradigmatic limitation of naturalistic/ observational research : see the experimental studies of Newman et al. , 1989 ) . Our conclusion , therefore , is that ? in the absence of any other apt terminology ? " scaffolding " is indeed an appropriate term to use here . With some computer-based activities , it might well be argued that the software itself provides an element of " scaffolding " for the pupils ' learning . Certainly , some kinds of software , like adventure games and problem-solving programs , provide structure and guidance for activity , and such programs also often provide feedback to children on their actions ( features that are all usually emphasized in the teachers ' manuals which accompany most educational software ) . However , because any educational software that we have observed in use offers , at best , a very limited set of " feedback " responses to children 's input , and since such responses are often a poor match for the problems actually encountered by children in the classroom , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scaffolding " is appropriate . Moreover , we have observed that ( a ) pupils often get into difficulties in spite of information or guidance offered by it program , and ( b ) it is precisely at such times that a teacher 's supportive intervention is sought and received . This is well illustrated in the next sequence ( Sequence 2 ) , which comes from the same class as Sequence 1 . On this occasion , a group of three children ( aged 8 ) were playing a game called Nature Park Adventure . This software is highly structured , in that children have to complete successfully a mathematical problem at the end of each stage of the adventure before they can proceed . Just before the start of Sequence 2 , they reached a stage which required them to choose from a selection of coins ( shown on the screen ) so that they had the correct money to purchase two carrots at 12 pence each . They spent some time selecting a combination of coins , but as they erroneously concluded that they needed a total of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them that they had the wrong answer . ' 1'ht children reached an impasse and were showing obvious signs of frustrat ion , when the teacher ( who has been observing them from a distance ) came ai ross and stood behind the group as they faced the computer screen . Sequence 2 : Buying carrots 1 Harriet : ( to teacher ) What shall we do ? We ca n't ( inaudible remark ) ' /'rim : It 's only 12p Harriet : Last time we pressed 10 and 2 and nothing happened , and then I we pressed 5p and 5p and ) ( Right . Read it out , Harriet . t . Harriet : ( Reading from the screen ) If a carrot costs 12 pence which coins 122 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development 7 would you use to pay for 2 ca- oh , for two carrots , ooh . ( Teacher laughs and walks away ) . The children then proceeded to solve the problem with ease . Clearly it was not their arithmetical skills which were lacking but , as the teacher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properly . She did not respond directly to Harriet 's question ( line 1 ) , but instead she obtained a reiteration of the task by eliciting a response from the child ( lines 5-7 ) . In directing them to read the instructions , she made available to them support which was already there , but which in this case was useless to them without her guidance . From her tone of voice , it seemed that this was a type of mistake which she , and they , had encountered before . She responded by implicitly invoking a simple but golden rule of problem-solving in school : read the question properly ! The teacher 's intervention in Sequence 2 meets several of the criteria of Maybin et al . ( 1992 ) for " scaffolding . " She is helping the children accomplish a specific task at which they were not succeeding on their own , and they go on to complete it successfully . We do not have evidence that they go on to achieve greater independent capability at solving such problems , but it is clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help them do so . That is , it is help which does not provide a direct solution to their problem but which instead focuses their attention on the detail of the problem and on an important aspect of dealing with all such problems . She wants them not only to correct their mistakes , but also to learn from them . This brings us , in an intriguing way , back to the concept of the ZPD . Within some paradigms of learning and some educational ideologies , a problem-solving task which can only be done with a teacher 's help would be judged as poorly designed or illsuited to the children 's needs . However , from a neo-Vygotskian perspective the necessity of a teacher 's support can be seen as a virtue , because it is only when " scaffolding " is required that we can infer that a child is working in a zone of proximal development . Put more simply , neo-Vygotskian theory suggests that any task which children are able to accomplish without any assistance at all is unlikely to be one which encourages them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In both Sequence 1 and Sequence 2 , we can see a teacher supporting children 's learning by not merely helping them but by providing a structure which enables them to help themselves . In both sequences , the teacher 's intervention is a response to a perceived problem on the part of the children : she helps them to " sort things out " and then leaves them to resume independent activity . In the next sequence ( Sequence 3 ) , the teacher 's intervention is less reactive and more directive . The computer-based activity was part of a larger scheme of work on traditional fairy tales , within which the teacher wanted these 6/7-year-old children to develop an understanding of the structure of such stories and how characters in them are typically ( and How do teachers help children to learn ? 123 stereotypically ) represented . She also wanted the children to develop their understanding of a real audience for such stories , as represented by the young children in the nursery class of the school . The computer-based task which she used to pursue these aims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overlay " for the keyboard which would transform it into a " concept keyboard . " The nursery children could use this concept keyboard to select a limited set of words to make sentences and so create their own fairy stories . From our discussions with the teacher , we know that she also intended this computer-based activity to fulfill the aim of developing the computing skills of her pupils , and so to enable them to fulfill National Curriculum targets in Design and Technology . Eight pupils in the class were working on this task in pairs , and the teacher supported their activity by going round to each pair in turn . With each pair , she would observe the current state of their progress , draw attention to certain features and use them to raise issues related to the successful completion of the activity . With all four pairs , her interventions dealt with the following task-specific issues : The relationship of the design of the overlay to the computer keys which it was intended to cover . 2 The need to design an overlay which would generate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " were in the left-hand column , with suitable following words in the next column , and so on ) . 3 The need to select words which were appropriate for the younger children in terms of difficulty and interest . Sequence 3 is an example of one such of her interventions with two girls , Carol and Lesley , in which the teacher begins her intervention by asking for information about the task . Sequence 3 : Designing a concept keyboard I 7i ( Standing behind the pair of pupils ) So what are you going to put 2 in this one ? ( points to a blank square on their overlay ) 3 Carol : ( inaudible mutters ) 4 Lesley : ( inaudible mutters ) S ' / : ? Come on , think about it 6 Lesley : A Dragon ? 7 A dragon , Right . Have you got some words to describe a dragon ? 8 Carol : No 9 Lesley : No ( Reading from their overlay and pointing to the words as she does so ) // // 124 Scaffolding and the zone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yes ( Carol and Lesley continue working for a short while , with the teacher making occasional comments ) 14 T. Now let 's pretend it 's working on the computer . You press a // 16 Lesley : ( pointing to the overlay as she reads ) " Here ... is . . . a .. // 18 T. Wait a minute 19 Lesley : " Princess ... " 20 T : ( turning to Carol ) Right , now you do one . You read your // 22 Carol : ( pointing to overlay ) " Here ... is . . . a little . . . princess " 23 T : Good . What do you need at the end of the sentence , so that the // 25 Lesley : Full stop 26 T. Full stop . We really should have allowed some space for a full // // // // // 33 Lesley : Capital letter 34 T. ? And finishes with ? 35 Lesley : A full stop . 36 T. ? And it 's showing them ( she moves her hand across the overlay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? And go across the page ( She again passes her hand from left to right across the page ) . Sequence 3 includes many examples of the kinds of discourse identified by Edwards and Mercer ( 1987 , 1988 ) as representative of the intellectual relationship between teachers and children . Selecting particular themes , the teacher elicits responses from the pupils which draw them along a particular line of reasoning on that theme ( a line of reasoning consonant with her own goals for the activity : lines 1 , 2 , 5 , 7 , 10 ) . Moreover , she cues some of those responses heavily through the form of her questions ( e.g. , " That a sentence starts with a ... ? " : lines 31 ? 32 ) and by her gestures ( passing her hand from left to right : lines 36 ? 37 ) . In pursuing this line of reasoning , she has to elaborate the requirements of the activity , and in fact goes on to redefine those requirements ( in relation to the inclusion ofa " full stop " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to learn ? 125 26 ? 30 ) . She also defines the learning experience as one which is shared by her and the children through her use of " we . " In Sequence 3 , we can see how a teacher uses talk , gesture , and the shared experience of the piece of work in progress to draw the children 's attention to salient points ? the things she wishes them to do , and the things she wishes them to learn . The nature of her intervention is to remind pupils of some specific requirements of the task in hand , and so guide their activity along a path which is in accord with her predefined curriculum goals for this activity . It is worth noting that this kind of interaction is very different in style from much of her teaching ( as observed elsewhere ) , when she encourages freeranging discussion and in which she plays a much less dominant role . We know that she saw this activity as a demanding one for the children ( they had spent only one session using a manufactured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and she was anxious that they all did manage to produce workable models . Her teaching style in the interventions she made can be seen as clear attempts to reduce the " degrees of freedom " of the activity so as to ensure that its demands did not exceed the capabilities of the children and so that the possible directions and outcomes of their efforts were constrained to accord with the specific goals she had set . In fact , we know that Lesley and Carol did produce a satisfactory overlay , and went on to teach the nursery children how to use it . The prime justification for employing the concept of " scaffolding " in an analysis of the process of teaching-and-learning must be that it helps distinguish some kinds of teaching-and-learning from others . Sequence 3 shows an adult effectively performing the role of teacher without employing a traditional , didactic " chalk and talk " pedagogy or using only the kind of nondirective learning support strategies associated with " discovery learning " and certain " progressive " approaches to primary education , What we see in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sitting with Nellie " kind , rarely encountered in school but common in craft training , where a novice is expected to acquire skills and understanding simply through observation and working in parallel with an expert . We could describe what we see as " scaffolded " learning if ( following Maybin et al. , 992 ) we are satisfied that ( a ) Carol and Lesley could not have succeeded without the teacher 's interventions ; ( b ) the teacher is aiming for some new level of independent competence on the children 's part ; and ( c ) the teacher has the acquisition of some specific skill or concept in mind . We are satisfied that these conditions are met . Furthermore , we also have evidence of thechildren successfully completing the task in hand and even ( though the evidence is not very " hard " ) of their success in going on to deal independently with , t subsequent related problem ( i.e. , teaching the nursery children to use the keyboard ) . 126 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development Conclusions and discussion On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter we argued that one of the most attractive features of neo-Vygotskian theory is that it conceptualizes the process of cognitive change as one of " teaching-and-learning " ( or " learning-and-instruction " ) rather than dealing with " learning " as an individualized activity . It is , moreover , a theory which accords significance to the communicative , cultural contexts in which learning takes place . As education is first and foremost a matter of cognitive socialization ( rather than a process of individual discovery ) , this theory would appear to offer a more appropriate explanatory framework for research into learning in classrooms than other contemporary psychological theories . We accepted , however , that neo-Vygotskian concepts needed to be given more precise formulations if they were to be used to explain classroom events . For the concept of " scaffolding " we took up a formulation offered by Maybin et al . ( 1992 ) . Our view is that this definition is sufficiently elaborated to allow researchers to discuss and explain differences in the quality of intellectual support which teachers provide for pairs or groups of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclude some kinds of " help " provided by teachers . Through applying this formulation of the concept , we have been able to show how teachers use talk to influence children 's activities so that the success or failure of those activities does not hinge entirely on the relationship between the children and the computer . More generally , we have used the concept to describe how teachers attempt to support children 's problem solving without taking over complete responsibility for it . It is probably in making a direct conceptual link between two very different aspects of the teacher 's involvement with pupils ' learning that the concept of " scaffolding " offers most to educational research . These aspects are ( i ) the pursuit of curriculum-related goals for learning and ( ii ) the use of specific discourse strategies for intervening in children 's learning . The concept focuses attention on how , and how well , a teacher can actively organize and support children 's learning without relying on didactic instruction or mere " shaping " through feedback . An obvious extension of the research described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds of interventions teachers make to the progress of children through specific tasks . Our discussion of teachers ' cognitive support in this chapter deals only with strategic response rather than the planning and design of activity . That is ( with the exception of Sequence 3 ) we have not considered here how cognitive support for an activity may he set up in advance by a teacher in the way a task is defined in prtttical terms ( e.g. , choice of software ) , organized ( e.g. , How do teachers help children to learn ? 127 which children should work together ) , related to other learning experiences ( e.g. , to other work on a particular topic , or to children 's broader interests ) and how the task is introduced and explained by the teacher to the children . Aspects of such planning should probably be considered as part of " scaffolding , " as it may well be that some of the more profound aspects of pedagogical decision-making ( e.g. , what curriculum goals are actually to be pursued through a task , and how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children ) are made at that stage . The second concept , the zone of proximal development , also embodies a view of the developing child or learner as someone whose learning achievements are situationally determined . We have offered observational data which illustrate how teachers attempt to provide a supportive contextual framework , and to do so in ways which reflect their judgments about how much help the children need to perform to the limits of their capabilities . For the psychology of learning and cognitive development , this concept challenges views of problem-solving ability or " cognitive level " as something abstract and non-task-specific . It invites us to consider how learning tasks as social events constrain or extend the cognitive potential of learners . For educational psychologists , classroom researchers , and teachers , it also encourages an approach to the monitoring of individual children 's capabilities which focuses on supported development rather than " decontextualized " individual performance . In practice , children 's development might be gauged as they progress through a series of related activities , carried out in the continuity of shared classroom experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become increasingly able to function with diminishing amounts of teacher support . Where special diagnosis is required owing to a child 's learning difficulties , an approach such as this could be very useful . I lowever , the ZPD seems to us to have limited applicability in research directly concerned with the quality of teaching and learning in classrooms . One obvious reason is that practical circumstances force most teachers to plan activities on the scale of classes or groups , not individuals . The notion of any group of learners having a common ZPD seems untenable ! Perhaps classroom researchers and teachers need instead a conceptualization of the ways that the organizing actions and interventions of a teacher are related to the creation of a learning culture in the classroom , and hence to the cognitive advancement of die members of a group or class as a whole . If we shift focus from the strengths and weaknesses of individual learners and instead consider how well ? a lass or group of pupils and their teacher function as a " community of enquiry " ( Prentice , 1991 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we may be more able to identify in what directions members of that class or group could be collectively expected and encouraged to advance . We believe that the conceptualization of what might be called the synergy of a learning group should be an important theoretical goal for research into learning and instruction . 128 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development On the nature of computer-based activity in the classroom A common view , held by teachers , software designers , and many education technology researchers , is that the nature of any computer-based learning activity is almost entirely defined by the software . Teachers typically attribute the failure or success of any activity to " good " or " poor " programs . Although software is of course a defining influence on activities ( to greater or lesser extents for different kinds of programs : compare , say , some adventure games with word-processing packages ) , our observations show that in practice the procedures and outcomes of any computer-based activity will emerge through the talk and joint activity of teacher and pupils . That is , the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different occasions will generate distinctive activities . These distinctive activities will operate to different timescales , generate different problems for pupils and teachers , and will almost certainly have different learning outcomes . Apart from the software itself , the main defining influence on the structure and outcomes of a computer-based activity will be that of the teacher , through any initial " setting up " of the activity , through the nature of the interventions he or she makes during the activity , and through the ways ( before and after the time spent at the screen ) that pupils are enabled to relate the activity to other educational experience . As Crook ( 1991 ) suggests , there is a need for the computer to : become a topic of classroom discourse such that the experience can be interpreted and blended into the shared understanding of the participants . This is a more demanding and perhaps more intrusive role for the teacher than has otherwise been identified . ( p. 87 ) We should not decry or attempt to diminish the powerful influence of the teacher on computer-based learning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that children 's computer-based experience contributes to their education . That responsibility can not be delegated to even the most sophisticated software , or to the children themselves . If we can describe and evaluate the ways that teachers attempt to " scaffold " children 's learning with computers , we might then be able to help teachers to perform that role more effectively and also contribute to the design of more " classroom-friendly " software . Chapter 7 Vygotsky in classroom practice Moving from individual transmission to social transaction* In this chapter we present a case study of a third-grade bilingual classroom . ' The students in the class are primarily working-class Mexican children , and the school is located within their neighborhood in a southwestern city of the United States . We have selected this classroom for discussion because its activities do not fit well or easily into current discussions of " guided practice " or " assisted performance " derived from Vygotskian theory , especially from dyadic interpretations of his concept of the zone of proximal development . Hence this chapter demonstrates how practice can exceed , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By presenting the classroom analysis we emphasize what we consider to be a more dynamic and encompassing notion of Vygotsky 's zone of proximal development . We are , of course , not the first to suggest that current interpretations of this concept may be too narrow.2 Griffin and Cole ( 1984 ) , for example , have suggested that " English-speaking scholars interpret the concept more narrowly than Vygotsky intended , robbing it of some of its potential for enabling us to understand the social genesis of human cognitive processes and the process of teaching and learning in particular " ( p. 45 ) . Valsiner ( 1988 ) has pointed out that Vygotsky 's intent in his introductory explanation of the zone of proximal development was much broader , to " get across to his pedagogically-minded listeners ( or readers ) a more basic theoretical message : ... the interdependence of the process of child development and the socially provided resources for that development " ( p. 145 ) . Vygotsky used this concept to emphasize the importance ? in fact the inseparability ? of sociocultural conditions for understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1990b ; Vygotsky , 1978 , 1987 ; Wertsch , 1985 ) . Hence he viewed thinking not as a characteristic of the child only , but of the **25;220;TOOLONG with others ( Minick , 1985 ) . In terms of classroom learning , Vygotsky specifically emphasized the relation between thinking and 132 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development what we would call the social organization of instruction ( Moll , 1990b ) . He wrote about the " unique form of cooperation between the child and the adult that is the central element of the educational process " and how by this interactional process " knowledge is transferred to the child in a definite system " ( Vygotsky , 1987 , p. 169 ) . It is these systemic properties of instruction that Vygotsky thought provided a special socialization of children 's thinking . In particular , Vygotsky concentrated on the manipulation of language as an important characteristic of formal schooling . He thought that formal instruction in writing and grammar , by refocusing attention from the content of communication to the means of communication , provided the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of important aspects of speech and language ( Minick , 1987 ) . He believed that schooled discourse represented a qualitatively different form of communication from everyday discourse because words act not only as means of communication , as they would in everyday talk , but as the object of study . During classroom interactions the teacher directs the children 's attention to word meanings and definitions and the systematic relation among them that constitutes an organized system of knowledge . Formal instruction , then , with its special organization and discourse , through its social and semiotic mediations , provides children with the resources to develop the capacity to consciously manipulate and voluntarily control crucial sociocultural symbolic systems . The above theory suggests that it is incorrect to think of the zone as solely a characteristic of the child or of the teaching , but of the child engaged in collaborative activity within specific social ( discourse ) environments . From our perspective , the key is to understand the social transactions that make up classroom life . Within this analysis the focus of study is on the sociocultural system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system is mutually and actively created by teachers and students . What we propose is a " collective " zone of proximal development . As we illustrate with our case study , it is this interdependence of adults and children , and how they use social and cultural resources , that is central to a Vygotskian analysis of instruction . Understanding classrooms as sociocultural systems This case study presents data collected during weekly classroom observations over two academic school years in a bilingual third-grade classroom . ' It is a special classroom that provides rich data for a Vygotskian interpretation . The teacher describes herself as a " whole-language " teacher . Central to this approach is a view of literacy as the understanding and communication of ' meaning ( e.g. , Goodman &; Goodman , I9CM ) ) . Both comprehension and expression are built and developed collaboratively by students and teachers through functional , relevant , meaningful language use , Therefore it major // instructional goal of the teacher is to make the classroom a highly literate environment in which many language experiences can take place and different types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and learned by the students . This approach rejects the typical reduction of reading and writing into skill sequences transmitted in isolation or in a successive , stage-like manner ( including such practices as having children sit quietly , follow mundane directions , only read assigned texts , fill out work sheets , and take tests ) . Rather , it emphasizes the creation of authentic social contexts in which children use , try out , and manipulate language as they make sense and create meaning . The role of the teacher is to mediate these social contexts , in a Vygotskian sense , so that through their own efforts children assume full control of diverse purposes and uses of oral and written language . Such classrooms , then , allow insights into the social processes of literacy development that are unavailable in more typical settings . It is this process of atrial mediation that we want to highlight here : not the creation of individual zones of proximal development but of collective , interrelated zones of proximal development as part of a transactive teaching system . The knowledge about subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the teacher . This process is mediated in the sense that the teacher controls it strategically to engage students in different aspects of trading and writing . It is also mediated in the sense that the teacher creates future contexts in which children can consciously apply in new ways what they are learning . Furthermore , this classroom is a bilingual one , using English and Spanish . The teacher 's goal is to create conditions for learning the second language hat are " additive , " that is , perceived by all as a positive addition to a first language , with a strong emphasis on communication for academic purposes . n particular , there is an attempt to integrate written language in either the students ' first or second language as part of every academic activity , where books are read in both languages and the students are free to write in their language of choice . For example , it is common for a student to read a book in English and write a summary in Spanish , or vice versa . When presenting the case study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reader a good sense of the classroom 's daily routine , the social system that is In place . Included is a description of a thematic unit centered on Native Americans that the teacher and students jointly develop . This unit illustrates Nell how the teacher creates diverse circumstances for the children to use and apply their considerable intellectual and linguistic resources . We see these theme units as dynamic contexts within which the children learn by manipulating knowledge and provide the teacher and themselves with many opportunitiess to evaluate how well they are using reading and writing as tools for analysis and fur thinking . In our terms , these units are made up of connected zones of proximal development within which the children constantly redefine themselves as learners . 134 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development Typical day : creating a literate community The classroom community includes 27 children ( 12 boys and 15 girls ) who come from either the neighborhood or " barrio " surrounding the school ( 16 children ) or who travel from other neighborhoods in the city ( 11 children ) as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common in bilingual classrooms , there is considerable diversity in the children 's language and literacy abilities . Fifteen of the children are monolingual English speakers and readers . Of these children , two ( Sarah and Brooke ) are rapidly learning to speak , read , and write Spanish . Elizabeth is the only English-dominant bilingual speaker , and she reads in both languages . Nine children are bilingual . Of the nine , Veronica , Susana , and Lupita are reading and writing in both languages ; Francisco , Raymundo , and Roberto read both but are clearly Spanish-dominant ; and Rosario , David , and Ana are Spanish-only readers . Jaime is a Spanish-dominant speaker who came into the classroom in the fall speaking only Spanish and by the end of the year spoke and read some English as well . Acuzena is a monolingual Spanish speaker . She arrived in the United States from Mexico in the spring and reads only Spanish . Each day for this classroom begins in the patio area of the school , where children , staff , and faculty meet to share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After this morning ritual , the children enter the classroom , noisily put away their things , greet each other in English and Spanish , and move to the group meeting area in the center of the room . The teacher finds a chair , and the group quiets for announcements , calendar and weather information , and a discussion of the schedule for the day . She reads aloud to the children in either English or Spanish at least once each day . After the opening story , the class moves into math centers . Little direction is necessary to get the children and adults moving around the classroom , gathering materials , and settling into four math groups located at various places in the classroom . This classroom is a functionally organized setting . There are several large tables in the room that , along with the ample amount of carpeted floor area , provide work space for the children and adults . Cubicles and cupboards are used by the children as storage space for their personal belongings , but the school supplies ( pencils , paper , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classroom community . They are all within easy access of the children and are clearly labeled in both languages . A piano , loft , and the teacher 's hidden desk allow children places to hide away to work , read , and visit . Following math centers , the children usually go outside for recess , although some students request permission to stay inside to continue writing projects , illustrate books , catch up on assignments , and work on their second language . Roberto and Rafael ask to work on a collaborative hook ; Brooke asks to practice reading in Spanish ; and Shelley finishes a filmstrip project . These children work independently , and the teacher uses this time to prepare // for upcoming activities , plan with the student teacher , or interact with children inside or outside on the playground . The children reconvene at the meeting area before they move into a language arts block that consists of a period of sustained silent reading ( which the teacher calls DEAR : Drop Everything And Read ) , literature study groups , and writing workshop . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the teacher and the student teacher meet with two of the literature groups , the other children either meet in their own author-centered literature groups independently or do DEAR . DEAR in this classroom means an extended period of time ( at least 15 to 30 minutes ) spent reading any material of choice . The children and adults all read , and the reading materials are extensive and varied in type , topic , and language . The teacher frequently selects a piece of adolescent literature to read for her graduate children 's literature courses . Newspapers are available and are usually the choice of the student teacher and the teacher assistant . They share articles with each other , chatting as they would over the breakfast table at home . Children read magazines , chapter books ( books long enough to be segmented into chapters with few if any illustrations ) , books authored and published by students and the whole class , picture books , comic books , and nonfiction books . Children settle in comfortably with friends or alone during DEAR , finding niches under the loft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period is not entirely silent , although it is subdued . Sometimes music plays in the background , and children enthusiastically share information and illustrations as they read . The children and adults must use print to complete activities and " live " successfully in this highly literate classroom environment . The daily schedule is revised each morning and referred to by all participants throughout the day , for instance . Evidence of group learning , as recorded on charts and other public documents , includes the following : webs representing brainstorming sessions , data collected during math and science experimentation , and ongoing records of thematically organized activities . They include lists of questions children generate at the outset of each new theme . Reading and writing are not only subjects in this classroom but essential aspects of the classroom 's intellectual and functional daily life . The teacher uses literature study groups to provide social reading experiences that complement the personal reading experience provided by DEAR . These study groups enable the children to share their reactions , analyses , and questions about children 's trade books with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vary greatly and provide a wealth of opportunity for choice for the readers , as well as a wide assortment of literary examples . During an author 's study group , the teacher supplied over 50 different books in text sets according to author , for example . The children read silently , individually , or with a friend , before their groups meet for discussion . In addition to reading a variety of literature ( luring literature 1 34 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development Typical day : creating a literate community The classroom community includes 27 children ( 12 boys and 15 girls ) who come from either the neighborhood or " barrio " surrounding the school ( 16 children ) or who travel from other neighborhoods in the city ( 11 children ) as part of a magnet desegregation program . ' As is common in bilingual classrooms , there is considerable diversity in the children 's language and literacy abilities . Fifteen of the children are monolingual English speakers and readers . Of these children , two ( Sarah and Brooke ) are rapidly learning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only English-dominant bilingual speaker , and she reads in both languages . Nine children are bilingual . Of the nine , Veronica , Susana , and Lupita are reading and writing in both languages ; Francisco , Raymundo , and Roberto read both but are clearly Spanish-dominant ; and Rosario , David , and Ana are Spanish-only readers . Jaime is a Spanish-dominant speaker who came into the classroom in the fall speaking only Spanish and by the end of the year spoke and read some English as well . Acuzena is a monolingual Spanish speaker . She arrived in the United States from Mexico in the spring and reads only Spanish . Each day for this classroom begins in the patio area of the school , where children , staff , and faculty meet to share announcements , sing , and recite the Pledge of Allegiance . After this morning ritual , the children enter the classroom , noisily put away their things , greet each other in English and Spanish , and move to the group meeting area in the center of the room . The teacher finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calendar and weather information , and a discussion of the schedule for the day . She reads aloud to the children in either English or Spanish at least once each day . After the opening story , the class moves into math centers . Little direction is necessary to get the children and adults moving around the classroom , gathering materials , and settling into four math groups located at various places in the classroom . This classroom is a functionally organized setting . There are several large tables in the room that , along with the ample amount of carpeted floor area , provide work space for the children and adults . Cubicles and cupboards are used by the children as storage space for their personal belongings , but the school supplies ( pencils , paper , crayons , and the like ) arc shared by the classroom community . They are all within easy access of the children and are clearly labeled in both languages . A piano , loft , and the teacher 's hidden desk allow children places to hide away to work , read , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside for recess , although some students request permission to stay inside to continue writing projects , illustrate books , catch up on assignments , and work on their second language . Roberto and Rafael ask to work on a collaborative hook ; Brooke asks to practice reading in Spanish ; and Shelley finishes a filmstrip project . These children work independently , and the teacher uses this tine ? to prepare // for upcoming activities , plan with the student teacher , or interact with children inside or outside on the playground . The children reconvene at the meeting area before they move into a language arts block that consists of a period of sustained silent reading ( which the teacher calls DEAR : Drop Everything And Read ) , literature study groups , and writing workshop . The children are continuing studies of several authors . While the teacher and the student teacher meet with two of the literature groups , the other children either meet in their own author-centered literature groups independently or do DEAR . DEAR in this classroom means an extended period of time ( at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of choice . The children and adults all read , and the reading materials are extensive and varied in type , topic , and language . The teacher frequently selects a piece of adolescent literature to read for her graduate children 's literature courses . Newspapers are available and are usually the choice of the student teacher and the teacher assistant . They share articles with each other , chatting as they would over the breakfast table at home . Children read magazines , chapter books ( books long enough to be segmented into chapters with few if any illustrations ) , books authored and published by students and the whole class , picture books , comic books , and nonfiction books . Children settle in comfortably with friends or alone during DEAR , finding niches under the loft or piano or lying on the floor . The I ) I:AR period is not entirely silent , although it is subdued . Sometimes music plays in the background , and children enthusiastically share information and Illustrations as they read . The children and adults must use print to complete activities and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The daily schedule Is revised each morning and referred to by all participants throughout the ay , for instance . Evidence of group learning , as recorded on charts and other public documents , includes the following : webs representing brainstorming sessions , ' data collected during math and science experimentation , and ongoing records of thematically organized activities . They include lists of questions children generate at the outset of each new theme . Reading and writing are not only subjects in this classroom but essential aspects of the classroom 's intellectual and functional daily life . The teacher uses literature study groups to provide social reading experiences that complement the personal reading experience provided by DEAR . These study groups enable the children to share their reactions , analyses , and questions about children 's trade books with their peers and teachers . The materials fin- literature study groups vary greatly and provide a wealth of opportunity for choice for the readers , as well as a wide assortment of literary examples . During an author 's study group , the teacher supplied over 50 different hooks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children read silently , individually , or with a friend , before their groups meet for discussion . In addition to reading a variety of literature during literature 136 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development study groups , the children learn biographical information about authors and illustrators , compare pieces of writing , extend their reading into writing and illustrations through literature logs and other writing projects , analyze plots , characters , settings , and other literary elements , and create story maps , among other activities . Literature groups are organized according to the interests and choices of the children , in contrast to traditional " reading groups , " which are organized homogeneously by reading " ability . " The groups allow children opportunities to study and enjoy literature with readers of all abilities , as well as readers of two languages , and provide them with frequent opportunities to mediate each other 's learning through shared literacy experiences . The following examples , taken from the transcripts of literature groups about popular children 's authors William Steig and Byrd Baylor , reveal the nature of interactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( T ) opens the first session of the Steig group by eliciting the children 's reactions to one of his books : T. Sylvester and the Magic Pebble . What did you guys think about this story ? Rita : I think they cared a lot for him . T. What do you mean ? You mean his parents ? Rita : Yes T. ? What made you think that when you read the story ? Rita : Because they really worried about him . T. ? Who else wants to share something ? I 'd like to hear everybody 's ideas . Then we can decide what we want to talk about . Sarah ? Sarah : I think he got the idea of it when he was little , or maybe one of his friends got lost or something ? T. What do you mean , he got the idea ? Sarah : He got the idea for his parents to think that Sylvester got lost . T. You 're talking about where William Steig might have gotten his ideas . Sarah : Yes . T. That maybe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A lot of times authors get their ideas from real life things , do n't they ? Jon , what did you think about this story ? Jon : It was like a moral story . It 's like you ca n't wish for everything . But , in a sense , everything happened to him when he was panicking . T. When did you think he panicked ? Jon : Well , when he saw the lion , he started to panic . Richard : And he turned himself into a rock . Jon : Yeah . I le said , " 1 wish I were a rock . " 7 : Right . And it happened , did n't it ? // Richard : It was stupid of him . T : So maybe he was n't thinking far enough ahead ? What would you have wished instead of a rock ? Richard : A plane . A plane . T. An airplane ? That would 've been a good wish . Sarah : I would wish him to disappear . T. Wish the lion to disappear ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tiny gnat and fly away . Rita : I wish he turned into a bird . Note how the students contributed different levels of interpretation of the story in response to the teacher 's open request . She summarizes the discussion thus far , saying , " Look at all the different kinds of things you had to say . Rita talked about the characters in the story and what they must have been feeling . Sarah took the author 's point of view . And you saw it as a particular kind of story , Jon , as a moral story . " The teacher asks the students to reflect on their reactions and justify them , and she is explicit about her goals . Note that she refers to the literature logs the students keep on the stories they have read . T. ? What did you say in your log about the story when you wrote in your log yesterday ? Richard : That it was a good book . T ' Why would you say this was a good story ? Richard : I do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for kids to know why they think something is a good story . As the discussion progresses the children use each other , their experiences , the text , and other stories they have read to mediate their understanding of the story . Throughout , the teacher participates in the discussion , revealing her thinking , contributing her observations along with the students , and elaborating on the children 's comments . As the talk continues , Sarah initiates a discussion to clarify her understanding of the text , and the group recalls the details of the plot to seek an answer . In the following segment of the transcript it is particularly interesting that after Sarah initiates an in-depth discussion she listens quietly to the group interpretation of the text . The teacher takes a notably quiet place in the lively discussion as well ; in fact , twice her attempts to participate are interrupted by children . Eventually , Sarah verbalizes a conclusion CO her own question . Sarah : I was thinking , at the end , I always get mixed up , because when they have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or do his parents ? Richard : Sylvester does ! 1 38 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development Rita : No , they do ! Richard : Sylvester does ! Sylvester does ! T. ? Can you find in the book where .. . Richard : It 's right here , it 's right here . Wait a second . And Richard if you will .. . Richard : It says , " I wish I were myself again . I wish I were my real self again , ' thought Sylvester . " Jon : Yes . Rita : But his parents did that too . Richard : But he said .. . Rita : They found the pebble and they .. . Richard : Put it on him . T. ? Do you remember how the magic had to work ? Jon : It would have to be on Sylvester . T. What was the only way the pebble worked ? Richard : If it was on the person . T. ? If you had it in your hand , right ? Richard : Or on you . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold the pebble . Jon : But he could support it . Sarah : Yeah , he wished himself back . As the discussion of the story continues , the children and the teacher explore several themes and interpretations that come about from a shared reading of the text . The discussion includes what the story might be like in another genre , such as a novel , how the action in the story alternates between panic and calm , and if the changing colors in the illustrations depict the changing seasons and why that would be important to the story . Near the end of the session , the teacher discusses with the students what they want to plan to do next . The teacher negotiates with the group , drawing on what has captivated them about the piece of literature . It is the teacher 's way of facilitating the students ' ownership of the discussion and purpose of the literature group . Reading and writing merge during another author study about Byrd Baylor 's work . After spending several days reading from a set of Baylor 's books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss their impressions of the books , the commonalities across texts , and how they might share their reading with the rest of the class . Here again , the teacher mediates the children 's understandings by using their ideas , questions , and interests to help them focus on meaningful discussions and presentations . Ilinca : All the hooks are deserty . They all have to do with the desert ? mostly the plants and animals . Mariah : All the desert scenes look like they were painted with watercolors. // Rita : What I liked best was the lettering , the print . It was like in poetry . It does n't have anything to do with poetry . Well , maybe a little . It sounded like poetry . T ? Poetry does n't have to rhyme . It 's more a way of expressing feelings and describing things . Do you think Byrd Baylor was expressing her feelings about the desert ? Rita : I can tell she 's a gentle person . It sounds like she cares about the desert and does n't want it destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper article . She lives in the desert . Her house is kind of Indian style . pinta : Maybe we could write about the desert , a plant , or animal and make it look like poetry like Byrd Baylor does . I like being in the desert . Could I write about being in the desert ? Yes , of course . That sounds like a wonderful way to share what you have learned with the rest of the class . Mariah : And we could make pictures like the books too . The group then spends time studying Peter Parnall 's illustrations ( in the Baylor books ) more carefully , noticing how he uses simple lines and little color , and how only some parts of the plants and animals are detailed . They are not sure how to go about writing in a style similar to Byrd Baylor . The teacher suggests that first they simply write something about the desert that expresses their own feelings . She does the same , and then demonstrates breaking her prose into shortened segments to establish the rhythm that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the results . Here are some examples of the children 's writing : I love to watch the hawk soar through the sky and the coyotes howl at night . The rabbits hop from cactus to cactus . by Sarah The coyote eats by day and the coyote howls by night . The coyote goes out in the middle of the night to find 140 Scaffolding and the zone of proximal development his prey . At the time of dawn , he comes home , with good things to eat . The mother says ( in coyote words ) I was worried . ? Do n't worry , be happy . I thought you got caught . Who me ? Never . by Jon As a participant in such literature groups , rather than solely the leader , the teacher strives to respond as a reader , to move beyond traditional comprehension questions , and to expand on teachable moments . Most remarkable is the teacher 's trust of the children 's questions and ideas . She clearly does not have a predetermined agenda for discussions and resulting projects but assists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group to summarize their ideas , merge their questions , and conceptualize ways to present their learning to themselves and others . This important role of the teacher demonstrates her trust of children 's transactions with the text and with each other , and her continuous sharing of control with them in curriculum development . DEAR and literature studies transform into a writing workshop ( WW ) with a quiet direction or by turning off and on the lights . Materials and work partners change , and quiet talking about reading becomes active discussion about writing projects , illustration , and publication. ? At the piano bench , Racheal and Lupita finish a conference with the student teacher about spelling and return to the publication process . Their story represents an interesting collaboration . Racheal , a monolingual English speaker , approached Lupita and invited her to join her in a project so that they could produce a bilingual book , Lupita being bilingual and biliterate . Their joint story concerns a young English-speaking girl who encounters a monolingual Spanishspeaking girl and the problems they face as they develop a relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says , " Lupita , you know what we should do ? " and suggests a minor revision . " No , that wo n't sound good , " counters Lupita . " Okay , you 're right , " Racheal adds , " I 'm not good at the Spanish , Lupita " " You 're not ? Then just do the letters , " comforts Lipka . Jaime and Roberto are nestled under the loft . They are busy writing letters during WW elms ? . The letters , written in Spanish , ; VC ' Waded at rocs the room to David adn Raymundo , who are scrunched under teh study carrels . Jaime                     