@@774044

txt // not only different " function and content " but different-sized linguistic units and different grammatical rules for their recombination . For example , depending on the kinds of speech children hear directed to them , they may first learn unanalyzed " gestalts " ( e.g. , social expressions like " What 's that ? " uttered as a single unit ) instead of learning single words that are then freely recombined ( see also Peters 1985 ) . The source of linguistic knowledge here is Outside-in : there is little discussion of what linguistic knowledge the child brings to the task other than the ability to participate in and profit from these social encounters . An early proponent of a strong version of the social-interactional position was Bruner ( 1975 ) , who argued that the structure of social interaction could be mapped transparently onto linguistic structure . On this view , when infants engage in give-and-take games with their caregivers in which they alternately play the role of " agent of action " and " recipient of action , " they are essentially learning language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ... something intrinsic in the nature and organization of concepts ... predisposes language to be the way it is ? including the grammar " ( 1983a , 27 ) . Bruner ( 1983a ) subsequently recanted this position and concluded that " . . . systems of language ... are autonomous problem spaces , that however much their conquest may be aided by non-linguistic knowledge or external support from others , they must be mastered on their own " ( p. 28 ) . Despite his later retraction , a portion of the study of language acquisition was redirected by Bruner ( among others ) to the study of the ways in which the social environment supports ? and in stronger versions , accounts for ? such acquisition . Under these formulations , repeated interactions with the environment provide the material for the child 's construction of increasingly detailed scripts that serve as the substrate for initial language learning ( Nelson 1985 ) . Children can memorize sentences and phrases embedded in " formats " ( Bruner 1983a , b ) or " routines " ( Snow 1986 ; Nelson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stored sentences , deriving from them a set of sentence " rules . " As children advance , the social environment might provide recasts and corrections of their grammatically incorrect utterances , facilitating and refining their early productions ( Hirsh-Pasek , Treiman , and Schneiderman 1984 ; Hirsh-Pasek et al . 1986 ; Nelson 1977 ; Sokolov and Snow 1994 ; Moerk 1983 ; Bohannon and Stanowitz 1988 ; Furrow , Nelson , and Benedict 1979 ) . Under this view , social interactions provide a cultural classroom for language learning . Children are presumed to bring little specifically linguistic knowledge to // the task of language learning . Rather , they must have some way of interpreting the social interactions around them , of setting up and interpreting joint attentional episodes , of understanding some global relations between the input sentences and represented meaning , and of detecting the corrections that caregivers provide in what are often subtle and inconsistent responses to their sentences ( see Bohannon and Stanowitz 1988 , for a discussion of how this might work ) . Thus , the child begins language learning as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ script construction , " fine-tuning " of caregivers ' utterances to the level of the child 's , and correction from the environment form the foundation for the abstraction of linguistic units and the continuing revision of linguistic rules . The motivation that drives the system forward is often an instrumental one : the child is eager to fulfill various social functions , many of which are best carried out through linguistic means . It is the child 's interpretation of the social environment that propels the language-learning system onward . The work of some social-interactional theorists does not appear to answer the question posed here , namely , how children break into the grammar of their native language . Rather , it seems to center more on issues surrounding the uses to which language is put . As Bruner ( 1983b ) writes : Whatever else language is , it is a systematic way of communicating to others , of affecting their and our own behavior , of sharing attention .... Let us not be dazzled by the grammarian 's questions . Pragmatic ones are just as dazzling and mysterious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done with words ? ( p. 120 ) On the other hand , some social-interactional theorists ' work is motivated by a desire to understand how social interaction supports language acquisition per se . As Snow ( 1989 ) writes : No one denies that social interaction is a prerequisite to normal development , in language as in other domains . The question arises about special features of social interaction ? whether there are aspects of the ways in which adults or older children interact with infants and young children that are crucial or helpful to language development , and if so , what those features are and how they help . ( p. 2 ) In short , some social-interactional theorists , like Snow , continue to focus on what it is about social interaction that might facilitate the learning of grammar . Others appear to be concerned with the pragmatic aspects of language and not the syntactic ( e.g. , Berko Gleason 1993 ) . // Cognitive Theories Because children appear to interpret their environment in terms of cognitive categories made up of agents , patients , actions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schlesinger ( 1971 , 1988 ) and Braine ( 1976 ) argue that these cognitive categories can provide a solid foundation for language learning . Unlike those who have argued from a more social perspective , these theorists ( who do not negate the role of social input ) have also developed models of language learning . For example , in describing his semantic assimilation model for language acquisition , Schlesinger ( 1988 ) argues that children begin the task of language learning with early relational categories that are semantic case-like categories ( such as agent , patient , location ) rather than syntactic ones . These semantic categories ... reflect the way the child interprets the world around him .... The child interprets the environment in terms of semantic relations and learns how these are expressed in his native language by means of word order , inflection and function words . ( p. 122 ) Evidence from studies of early event perception and memory adds credence to Schlesinger 's claims . Children may indeed come to the languagelearning task equipped with language-relevant categories like agency ( Golinkoff 1981 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Cohen and Oakes 1993 ) , and possibly path or location ( Mandler 1988 , 1992 ) . The developers of the most detailed of these models , Bates and MacWhinney ( 1987 , 1989 ) , endorse a domain-general view of language learning in which minimal language structure is given from the start . Building on Maratsos and Chalkley 's ( 1980 ) analysis of how children discover form classes through unconstrained distributional analysis , MacWhinney and Bates ( 1989 ) write : The universal properties of grammar are only indirectly innate , being based on interactions among innate categories and processes that are not specific to language . In other words , we believe in the innateness of language , but we are skeptical about the degree of domain-specificity that is required to account for the structure and acquisition of natural languages . ( p. 10 ) According to Bates and MacWhinney 's " Competition Model , " based on connectionist-type learning mechanisms , the child looks for formfunction mappings through the use of such constructs as " cue validity " and " cue strength . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cue for how a language works is available ( i.e. , present in the surface structure ) and reliable ( i.e. , leads to the same outcome when it is available ) . Cue validity can therefore he assessed by looking at what grammatiTheories // cal devices a language uses to mark certain meanings . " Cue strength " is how much weight the learner gives to units of linguistic information . A particular cue will be weighted more heavily if it has high cue validity . Thus , for English , preverbal position tends to be a highly reliable and often available cue for agency . It will correspondingly be assigned greater cue strength than it would in a language like Italian , where word order is less rigidly constrained and semantic roles are marked in other ways . The Competition Model has undergone extensive additions and revisions , although the assumptions underlying it have not changed : Language acquisition becomes a problem of pattern detection that may or may not require the application of innate linguistic knowledge . We suspect that more general principles of pattern detection and distributional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MacWhinney 1989 , 26 ) Thus , children note distributional evidence in the input and piece together the grammar of their language . The claim is that far less linguistic knowledge needs to be in place at the start of the language-learning process than would be supposed by the nativistic or Inside-out theories to be discussed below . General-purpose cognitive mechanisms such as induction and hypothesis testing can be employed in the service of language acquisition , and these processes are sufficient to guarantee successful grammatical learning . Theories like Bates and MacWhinney 's are being extended in connectionist treatments in which computer simulations are used to model a distributional theory of language acquisition ( Plunkett 1995 ) . Summary of the Outside-in Position To the three questions posed above , then , Outside-in theorists would offer the following answers : 1 . What is present when grammatical learning begins ? The child brings to the language-learning task a rich social and/or cognitive system that includes cognitive categories such as agent and recipient . The child also brings the ability to attend to and organize linguistic data , although this ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cognition . 2 . What mechanisms are used in the course of acquisition ? Although some theories do not explicitly mention mechanisms , the thrust of the Outside-in theories is that children are equipped with domain-general learning procedures , not particularly constrained in any way , which enable them to analyze events into cognitive categories and to detect the covarying language forms . For grammatical learning the chief mechanism // appears to be distributional analysis , since children form ever wider , more abstract concepts that ultimately overlap with adult linguistic concepts . 3 . What types of input drive the language-learning system forward ? In the Outside-in theories , burgeoning social knowledge and/or cognitive skills provide the impetus for continued language learning . At the earliest stages , language is simply a transparent overlay onto social or cognitive categories . Critique of the Outside-in Position Four criticisms have been leveled at the Outside-in approaches to language acquisition ( see Golinkoff and Gordon 1983 ; Snow and Gilbreath 1983 ; Pinker 1984 ) ; some of these have been prefigured in the above review . The account offered by these theories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abilities ? presumably the same abilities that service , say , perception or number knowledge ? are seen as supporting language acquisition ( PiatelliPalmarini 1980 ) . Yet these general accounts , even in their more advanced instantiations , fall far short of explaining some of the basic facts of language acquisition . The first problem is that although the Outside-in theories profess to make minimal nativistic assumptions about what the child brings to the language-learning task , they presuppose much in the way of nonlinguistic and linguistic knowledge at the start of language acquisition without often explicating the source or process by which that knowledge was gained . For example , Bates and MacWhinneys ' Competition Model requires the " early availability " of the following concepts ( from MacWhinney 1987 , 259 ) : Major item type : nominal , verbal , operator Nominal status : common , proper , pronoun , and dummy Number : singular , plural , and dual Individuation : mass , count , and collection Tense : present , past , and future This list represents only part of the linguistic material that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language learning . Likewise , Schlesinger ( 1988 ) proposes that the child indeed does have access to relational categories underlying sentences , since these are at first not abstract , formally defined categories ... but categories that reflect the relationship in situations referred to by the sentence he hears : the agent of an action , the location of an entity , and so on . If anything , it is these cognitively based categories that must he assumed to be innate . ( p. 123 ) // Thus , the Outside-in approach presumes a host of possibly innate and abstract givens that include ways of ( 1 ) interpreting the environment in terms of categories like agents and actions ; ( 2 ) segmenting the speech stream into linguistically relevant units ; ( 3 ) attending to the order and frequency of these units ; ( 4 ) memorizing the units for purposes of comparing and computing their frequency in order to resolve competition ( Bates and MacWhinney 1987 ) ; and ( 5 ) creating categories of everexpanding power such that they approximate grammatical categories like " subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Braine 1976 ; Bowerman 1973 ; Schlesinger 1988 ) . To sum up , the first problem faced by Outside-in theories is that they contain many hidden assumptions about the linguistic knowledge that the child brings to the task . Indeed , these linguistic assumptions are necessary for their arguments to go through . As Kelly and Martin ( 1994 ) state with respect to theories that rely on distributional analyses : Reference to the statistical structure of the environment will not be sufficient to characterize learning since the nature of the environment is partly defined by how the learner categorizes items within it . Furthermore , these categories may in fact be intrinsically linguistic in nature . Hence we are back to a basic problem in language learning : What notions about the nature of language do children bring to the task at hand ? Reference to statistical regularities has not eliminated this problem at all . ( pp. 115-116 ) . The second problem faced by some Outside-in theories is that they treat linguistic knowledge as though it is reducible to knowledge in other domains . That is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a transparent mapping between cognitive or social categories and linguistic forms . But this view faces several obstacles and questions . If there is any such transparency , children quickly go beyond it when they master the complexity of their language . Furthermore , if the transparency assumption were true , why would n't all languages be the same ? Why would n't all languages rely on the same order of elements if it was more " natural " to use the sequence doer ? action ? result ? Humans presumably construct these categories as a result of universal cognitive processes . The fatal flaw in this assumption is that cognitive and social categories do not map transparently onto linguistic forms ; nor is linguistic knowledge the same as social or cognitive knowledge . One argument to this effect is made by Roeper ( 1987 ) , who points out that the cognitive category of " agent " is not the same as the linguistic category of " agent . " For example , one can say " the robber of the bank , " but not " the thief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both agents , but the words " robber " and " thief " can not fill the same grammatical slots in the phrases given . Thus , knowing the cognitive agent would not be sufficient for expressing this idea linguistically . The third problem faced by Outside-in theories is the need to explain how the child starts with one kind of linguistic system based on cognitive and social categories and transforms it into the adult linguistic system based on abstract syntactic categories . As Bloom , Miller , and Hood ( 1975 ) first pointed out : Braine 's ( 1974 ) formulation , and pragmatic explanations in general , establish a serious discontinuity with later development . Such claims fail to contribute to either a ) how the child eventually learns grammatical structure , or b ) the systematic ( semantic-syntactic ) regularities that are manifest among the earliest multiword utterances . ( p. 33 ) Gleitman ( 1981 ) humorously refers to this problem of discontinuity as the tadpole-to-frog problem . What we have called Outside-in theories begin with cognitive categories ? the tadpole ? and must transform them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , if children begin with the category of agent and not the category of sentence subject , they must somehow transform the former into the latter . Since sentence subjects can be agents , patients of action , locations , and so on , there is no one-to-one mapping between cognitive and linguistic categories . Yet the Outside-in theories can not adequately explain how this transformation occurs . They are unable to offer workable solutions to this problem of discontinuity for two related reasons : some of the Outside-in theories conflate language and communication and therefore do not see it as a problem ; others seem to rely on unarticulated assumptions about the grammar that the child must ultimately acquire ( Golinkoff and Gordon 1983 ) . One response to this problem of discontinuity is to note that there may be no discontinuity problem at all . Perhaps syntax ( and not just semantic categories ) is there from the beginning . There is reason to believe that children can use syntactic information ; that they can even use abstract syntactic categories from a very early age ; and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based system to a syntactic one , it occurs quite early in the language acquisition process . Evidence from children as young as 17 and 18 months of age , for example , suggests that children are keenly aware of syntactic structure and that syntax is not reducible to semantics ( see Levy 1988 ; Pinker 1984 ; Bloom 1990 ; Choi and // Bowerman 1991 ) . Further , in an exquisite demonstration of the impact of syntax , Choi and Bowerman ( 1991 ) show that young children ( 17 months of age ) use syntax in interaction with semantic information to carve up the domain of spatial relations . In English , for example , the notion PATH ( into or out of ) is marked in the same way whether it results from a spontaneous or a caused motion ( e.g. , " John rolled the ball OUT OF the box " vs . " The ball rolled OUT OF the box " ) . In Korean different words are used to represent PATH depending on whether the movement is caused or spontaneous . Thus , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a fact that seems to be internalized by children who are but a year-and-a-half old . Syntax here is influencing semantic organization ; form is influencing function . ( This result is perhaps most striking given that Bowerman ( 1973 ) was one of the early proponents of an Outside-in , semantically based approach to language acquisition . ) In short , there may not be a tadpole-to-frog shift on this view . The fourth problem is perhaps the most toublesome for the Outside-in theories . It falls under what has been referred to as the " poverty-of-thestimulus " argument . In Chomsky 's ( 1988 ) words , " As in the case of language , the environment is far too impoverished and indeterminate to provide this system to the child , in its full richness and applicability " ( p. 153 ) . Three examples will illustrate what the environment fails to contain . The first example of how the linguistic stimulus ( sentences that the child hears , in isolation from their context ) can not provide sufficient data for distributional analysis is what are often called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are categories that are presumed to exist at some abstract , underlying level but that are not realized in the surface structure of the sentence . Psycholinguistic research with adults ( e.g. , Bever and McElree 1988 ; see Fodor 1989 , for a review ) has demonstrated that online sentence processing reflects the existence of these categories . In imperative sentences ( e.g. , " Get dressed ! " ) , " you " is implied but is not present in the surface form . Children ( who hear many imperative sentences ) do not produce sentences like " Get dressed himself ! " although they do produce sentences like " Get dressed yourself ! " Since they can not be performing a distributional analysis on a " you " that is not present in the speech they hear , children must , in some way , be aware of its existence at a deeper level . No amount of pattern detection will supply learners with the clairvoyance needed to retrieve the nonexistent " you " ; some other mechanism must account for their sensitivity to this category . // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presents insufficient data for pattern analysis . The sentence cited earlier , " The man who will come is John , " makes this point in that its surface form gives little indication of how it is hierarchically organized ( but see Lederer and Kelly 1991 ) . Yet this sentence is composed of a main clause ( " The man is John " ) and a subordinate noun phrase ( " who will come " ) , and only the " is " from the main clause may be fronted to form a question . Thus , only the question " Is the man who will come John ? " is grammatical ; the question " Will the man who come is John ? " is not . No amount of " ground up " surface structure analysis will allow learners to stumble on the fact that not all noun phrases are treated equally ; the grammatical role the noun phrase plays in the sentence determines what alterations it may undergo . Without this structural knowledge , however , children will make many incorrect generalizations about the grammar of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poverty-of-the-stimulus argument is that reliance on the surface cues provided in the input often leads to the wrong generalizations . Consider the following examples provided by Gibson ( 1992 ) in his critique of Bates and MacWhinney 's Competition Model : The chicken cooked the dinner . ( chicken = agent ) The chicken was cooked . ( chicken = theme ) The chicken cooked . ( chicken = theme ) Under the Competition Model , cue validity and cue strength predict that preverbal position here should be identified with agency . It is not . Children do not seem to make the overgeneralization errors that would be expected if they were analyzing the input in ways suggested by the Outside-in theories . In fact , there are no surface cues in the impoverished input that can assist the child in these cases . In sum , the following four limitations make the Outside-in theories less than plausible accounts of how children learn language : ( I ) the problem of hidden assumptions embedded within the theories ; ( 2 ) the conflation of language and communication that leads theorists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as reducible to cognitive or social knowledge ) ; ( 3 ) the problem of discontinuity in grammatical development ; and ( 4 ) the poverty-of-the-stimulus argument . Although almost all Outside-in theories suffer from one or more of these limitations , one is more or less free from all of them . Bloom 's Version of a Cognitive , Outside-in Theory Bloom ( 1970 , 1973 , 1991a , 1993 ) is an Outside-in theorist who has consistently appreciated that linguistic knowledge is not reducible to other kinds of knowledge : ... linguistic development is neither isomorphic with nor a necessary result of cognitive development " ( Bloom , Lightbown , and Hood 1975 , 30 ) ; " ... how they children have learned to think about the objects , events , and relations in their experience is something apart from how they have learned to represent such information in linguistic messages " ( p. 29 ) . Thus , Bloom saw language as a " separate problem space " early on and does not view language acquisition as a simple one-to-one mapping between cognitive knowledge and linguistic forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of what the child brings to language acquisition , her answer is completely " bottomup . " That is , she does not believe that the child begins with any a priori linguistic categories ( Bloom , Lightbown , and Hood 1975 ; Bloom 1991a , personal communication ) ; instead , she believes that the child applies domain-general cognitive principles ( as opposed to principles specific to language ) to the task of language learning . She writes : The processes involved in this learning grammatical learning are the same as for learning anything else ( physical knowledge , biology , etc. ) and consist of 1 ) detection of novelty , identity , and equivalence ... and 2 ) abstraction , coordination , and integration , for connections between categories . These processes themselves no doubt have a biological basis ( categorization , for instance ) but depend upon such garden variety context factors as salience , frequency , and the like . ( personal communication ) Further , although Bloom believes that children express notions like " agent " and " location " in their earliest multiword @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the child is able to make use of syntactic categories from the first multiword utterance ( although not before ; see Bloom 1973 ) . Counter to Outside-in theorists who argue for the separate acquisition of semantics and syntax ( see Schlesinger 1988 ; Braine 1976 ; Bowerman 1973 ; Bates and MacWhinney 1987 ; Brown 1973 ) , Bloom maintains that children learn semantics and syntax together , as opposed to deferring syntactic learning to some unspecified future time ( Bloom 1970 ; Bloom , Lightbown , and Hood 1975 ; Bloom , Miller , and Hood 1975 ) . The basis for this claim is that Bloom found sentences such as " Lamb go here " and " Put lamb here " among children 's earliest utterances . In " Lamb go here , " " lamb " serves as sentence subject and as patient ( or object affected ) ; in " Put lamb here , " the unstated " you " is the // sentence subject and " lamb " is the grammatical direct object and patient . Such sentences , produced by the same child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to semantic relations . If the child had access only to semantic relations , the same noun playing the same semantic role should not vary in its syntactic function . On the other hand , if children are sensitive to syntactic requirements ? in this case , the argument structure required by particular verbs ? " lamb " may play the same semantic role but have two different syntactic functions depending on the verb . Bloom 's data revealed that children consistently made complex mappings between meaning and form , respecting the syntactic subcategorization requirements of verbs that were highly similar in meaning . Given increasing evidence that children do indeed treat language as a formal object ? as opposed to a system isomorphic with cognitive or social knowledge ? many researchers have returned to Bloom 's position , crediting young children with knowledge of both form classes ( e.g. , noun , verb ) and syntactic categories ( e.g. , subject of the sentence ) ( Pinker 1984 ; Bowerman 1988 ; Ihns and Leonard 1988 ; Valian 1986 ; Levy 1988 ) . Some researchers , such as Pinker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . According to Bloom 's view , although children are engaged early on in formal linguistic analysis , their original categories are not identical to adult categories but smaller in scope . Nonetheless , Bloom 's emphasis on the child 's ability to engage in formal linguistic analyses provides a bridge between the Outside-in and Inside-out theories . A foundational assumption for Inside-out theories is that young children conduct linguistic analyses and use syntactic as opposed to only semantic categories . Inside-out theories differ from Bloom 's Outside-in account , however , on the source of the child 's ability to perform linguistic analyses and on the nature of the learning mechanisms . Inside-out Theories A key difference between the Inside-out and Outside-in theories is that the Inside-out theories begin with the premise that the complexities of language , as well as its species-specificity , could not be accounted for without innate constraints on the " language faculty . " As Karmiloff-Smith ( 1989 ) writes : I fail to see how it could be biologically tenable that nature would have endowed every species except the human with a considerable amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inside-out theories grant the child domain-specific linguistic knowledge ( hence the term " language faculty " ) and emphasize grammar discovery rather than grammar construction . Compared with the Outside-in theories , the inside-out theories deemphasize the role that the environment plays in language acquisition . This is a direct result of the stance these theories take on what constitutes language . Since on the Chomskyan ( 1975 , 1981 ) view , there are linguistic phenomena such as empty categories that are not " visible " ( or " audible " ) in the linguistic input , linguistic knowledge can not in principle be wholly discovered through inspection of the available input . Hence , the Insideout theorists often allude to the notion " poverty of the stimulus . " The existence of grammatical elements like empty categories is central to the Inside-out arguments . On this view , the child could never learn about something that is absent from the surface structure of the sentence and present only at an abstract level . If one grants these linguistic facts , no corpus of utterances , however vast , could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be genetically " prepared " to encounter these empty categories . Indeed , there is mounting evidence that both child and adult processors are sensitive to some types of empty categories ( such as traces left behind by various movement processes ) ( see Goodluck 1991 ) . The Chomskyan Basis of Inside-out Theories Current Inside-out theories represent an advance over previous formulations based on Chomsky 1965 . In the older versions , the child 's mind was likened to a black box whose contents defied inspection . Into this box , commonly known as the " Language Acquisition Device , " were dumped all the linguistic generalizations that could not arguably be derived from linguistic experience ( Chomsky 1972 ) . When the number of linguistic rules and transformations became unwieldy both in the grammar and by extension in the child 's Language Acquisition Device ? Chomsky ( 1981 ) developed the " Principlesand-Parameters Theory " of what he ( 1988 ) refers to as the " language faculty , " which consists of a set of invariant principles and a set of parameters that are set by some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on exposure to a horizontal line . ( Lightfoot 1991 , 647 ) . Thus , this theory replaced a grammar in which rules and transformations had proliferated with an elegant , more streamlined grammar . Multiple and // contradictory rules were replaced by a finite set of principles and parameters ; multiple transformations by a single transformation ( " Move a " ) . By " principles , " Chomsky means something very different than Slobin ( 1985a , b ) , namely , universal statements about how language works . One such principle , the Projection Principle ( Chomsky 1981 ) , states that " the properties of lexical entries project onto the syntax of the sentence " ( Cook 1989 , 11 ) . For example , nouns " project " into noun phrases ; verbs into verb phrases . Thus , once learners know the form class of a lexical item ( e.g. , " chair " is a noun ) , they will also know how it may behave syntactically . Knowledge of the Projection Principle allows children to recognize that individual lexical items are part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " parameters , " Chomsky captures the ways different languages handle various grammatical phenomena . One suggested parameter called " pro-drop " captures whether or not a language allows sentences without subjects . For example , English does not permit subjectless sentences and even requires the use of expletives or dummy elements to avoid this ( e.g. , " It 's raining " ) . However , Italian does allow subjectless sentences ( e.g. , " It 's raining " is expressed simply by the verb " Piove " ) . To say that children begin the language-learning process in possession of such a parameter implies that they need to hear ( in theory ) no more than a few key sentences to set the switch of this parameter to match their target language : either " subjectless sentences are allowed " ( Italian ) or " subjectless sentences are not allowed " ( English ) . Thus , the development of **25;2237;TOOLONG Theory represented a clear advance for Inside-out theories of language acquisition . First , it acknowledged the many important ways in which languages differ while at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Second , by positing a " menu " for the setting of parameter switches , it introduced a powerful metaphor . According to Chomsky ( 1988 ) , " ... universal grammar is an account of the initial state of the language faculty before any experience " ( p. 61 ) . All children need to do in language acquisition is set a few switches , corresponding to the language they are immersed in ? an act whose repercussions will extend throughout the grammatical system ? and acquire the vocabulary items particular to that language ( Cook , 1989 ) . Third , since there was no agreement on what these parameters were , a whole new program of linguistic research was initiated . Once again , acquisition research was central to this enterprise . If the proposed parameters were the correct ones , they should be able to account for acquisition . // Types of Inside-out Theories : Structure- Versus Process-Oriented Theories The basis for separating the Inside-out theorists into two groups rests on presuppositions about how the process of language acquisition gets underway . The structure-oriented theorists begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presupposing answers to our first question , " What does the child bring to the language-learning task ? " Also , until recently ( Lightfoot 1989 ) , theorists in this camp have been relatively less concerned with finding answers to our second question , " What mechanisms does the child use to acquire language ? " The process-oriented theorists , on the other hand , are dedicated to understanding the origins of grammatical acquisition and the mechanisms that make it possible . Thus , although both subgroups presuppose that nature prepares the child for the task of learning language , the process-oriented group provides more complete answers to the questions that motivate this review . Structure-Oriented Theories The prototypical structure-oriented theorist is Chomsky himself ( 1988 ) , who has articulated the strongest version of this position . Along with other structure-oriented theorists ( e.g. , Wexler 1982 ; Hyams 1986 , Lightfoot 1989 ) , he assumes that whatever the exact array of principles and parameters turns out to be , nature has given these to the child . Thus , to the question of what the child brings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the child has been endowed with considerable , explicit , domain-specific , linguistic knowledge . The social or cognitive framework for language acquisition so important to the Outside-in theories is reduced to a given by Chomsky ( 1988 ) , who writes that the child approaches language with an intuitive understanding of such concepts as physical object , human intention , volition , causation , goal , and so on . These constitute a framework for thought and language and are common to the languages of the world ... ( p. 32 ) For structure-oriented theorists the interesting questions have to do with children 's manifestation of the principles and parameters of universal grammar ; entry into the domain-specific system is a given . These theorists presuppose that the child comes to the language-learning task with the ability to segment the linguistic stream , find word classes and grammatical categories , conduct phrase structure analyses , and set parameters . What interests these theorists is ( 1 ) exactly what principles and parameters children begin with and ( 2 ) what constitutes the " primary linguistic data " ( Chomsky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // According to Chomsky ( 1988 ) , parameters can be set , and the basis for principles revealed , by exposure to only a few sentences of the language to be learned . This position is sometimes referred to as the " instantaneous " view of language acquisition . When the actual data produced by children contradicted this extreme position ( see e.g. , Wexler and Chien 1985 , on the late appearance of Principle B of the binding theory ) , the explanation endorsed by some structure-oriented theorists was biological maturation . Thus , with regard to the question of the mechanisms responsible for language acquisition , some Inside-out theorists assume that biological maturation , parallel to the maturation of bodily organs , is primarily responsible . Further , structure-oriented theorists eschew traditional notions of learning as explanations for language growth . Chomsky ( 1988 ) has written that learning a language is not really something that the child does . Rather , it is something that " happens " to the child in an appropriate environment . The analogy that Chomsky ( e.g. , 1988 ) consistently uses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an organism had " learned " to develop sense receptors on the retina for the perception of horizontal and vertical lines , so one should not argue that language is " learned . " Finally , for the structure-oriented group , the input that drives the system or " triggers " parameter setting is certainly linguistic input . Since not all sentences are usable by the child , the language faculty selects relevant data from the linguistic input ( see Lightfoot 1989 for discussion of what constitutes the " primary linguistic data " ) . In addition to having a critical role in the setting of the parameters , the environment is treated as playing a role analogous to the one that nutrition plays in the onset of puberty : an impoverished environment may restrict or suppress language growth in the same way that poor nutrition may delay the onset of puberty ( Chomsky 1988 ) . Process-Oriented Theories The differences between process-oriented and structure-oriented theories are slight . Structure-oriented theorists tend to focus on the emergence of particular linguistic structures as a way to validate aspects of grammatical theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which children discover their grammar by focusing on the mapping between function and form . Not surprisingly , structure-oriented theorists are often linguists and process-oriented theorists tend to be psychologists . Like the structure-oriented theorists , the process-oriented group grants that nature has endowed the child with // domain-specific linguistic knowledge that makes language learning possible . These Inside-out theorists , however , focus on how the child breaks into language . Thus , the fact that the child is seen as being prepared to learn certain linguistic facts does not remove the mystery of how the child actually accomplishes this feat . As the name we have given them reveals , process-oriented theorists , such as Gleitman and her colleagues ( 1990 ; Gleitman and Wanner 1988 ; Gleitman and Gillette 1995 ) and Pinker ( 1984 , 1989 ) and his colleagues , are concerned with how initial linguistic representations are formed and how acquisition continues once children have produced their first words . Pinker ( 1984 ) offers the most explicit overall theory of language acquisition to date . To the question of what the child brings to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ... the child is assumed to know , prior to acquiring a language , the overall structure of the grammar , the formal nature of the different sorts of rules it contains , and the primitives from which those rules may be composed " ( p. 31 ) . That is , Pinker believes the child is equipped with word classes like noun and verb , syntactic categories like subject and object , and other grammatical knowledge . Gleitman ( 1990 ; Gleitman and Wanner 1988 ) , too , begins from the premise that a child operating without any constraints on how to interpret the linguistic input ( or the nonlinguistic world , for that matter ) would wallow forever in a hypothesis space too large to chance upon the correct interpretation of a word , let alone a sentence . For this reason the child needs considerable language-specific knowledge to even begin the task of language learning ? knowledge about how to parse sentences , knowledge of potential sentence structures , and so on . The task that children face is somehow to derive instantiations of this knowledge from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this perspective is provided by word learning . Without constraints on the myriad hypotheses a child might generate , the word " cat , " uttered in some nonlinguistic and linguistic context ( e.g. , the caregiver points to a cat lying on a pillow and says , " See the cat ? " ) , could be interpreted in any number of ways . It could refer to the cat 's tail , which happens to be swishing , the union of the cat and the pillow it is lying on , or perhaps some property of the cat like its fur . Clearly , the child must be predisposed to interpret words in specific ways , compatible with the way already accomplished speakers seem to use them . Markman ( 1989 ) and Golinkoff , Mervis , and Hirsh-Pasek ( 1994 ) discuss a set of principles for lexical acquisition that would do this work . // The acquisition of lexical items is only the beginning of the story , however : the child must cross-classify these words into word classes . Inside-out theories grant the child the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1984 ) points out , it is not enough to say that children are born with word classes such as " noun " and " verb " ; they also need to be able to find instantiations of these classes in the input . To solve this problem , Pinker ( 1984 ) posits a mechanism that he calls " semantic bootstrapping , " based on related proposals by Grimshaw ( 1981 ) and Macnamara ( 1972 ) . On this proposal , children who encounter labels for persons , places , or things are prepared to link these back to their linguistic counterpart , namely , the word class " noun . " The semantic bootstrapping proposal goes well beyond this example . In Pinker 's ( 1987 ) words : The claim of the Semantic Bootstrapping Hypothesis is that the child uses the presence of semantic entities such as " thing , " " causal agent , " " true in past , " and " predicate-argument relation " to infer that the input contains tokens of the corresponding syntactic substantive universals such as " noun , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and so on . In the theory outlined in Pinker ( 1984 ) this knowledge is used by several sets of procedures to build rules for the target language . ( p. 407 ) Note that Pinker 's account presupposes that ( 1 ) children can parse incoming sentences ; ( 2 ) they can figure out which word in the string corresponds to the object label ; and ( 3 ) they ( innately ) possess " linking rules " for joining the word for the referent to the class " noun " and further to " sentence subject . " Gleitman ( 1990 ) points out that each of these issues constitutes a significant research problem in its own right . For example , upon seeing a rabbit jump and hearing " See the rabbit jump ! " , how is the child to know that the phonological segment " rabbit " ( assuming it has been discriminated from the stream of words around it ) maps to the object in motion ? In this regard , Pinker may be overestimating the transparency of the mapping between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their disagreements , however , Pinker and Gleitman would answer the first question in somewhat similar ways . Children come to the language-learning task with a linguistic endowment that predisposes them to make certain hypotheses rather than others about words and about grammar . With regard to our second question on the nature of the mechanisms for language learning , both Pinker and Gleitman believe that children use domain-specific and domain-general processes to analyze the linguistic input . From a domain-general perspective , both theorists would agree that children must apply general learning devices ( e.g. , pattern detection ) // to uncover the details of the way their language works . On the domain-specific side , children are predisposed ( because of their innate grammati-cal endowment ) to come up with certain hypotheses rather than others as they analyze the linguistic stream . Indeed , theorizing far more explicitly than previous researchers , Pinker ( 1984 ) posits a set of six procedures to describe how the child conducts syntactic analyses . According to the " structure-dependent distributional learning " principle , for example , children use what they already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose semantic and syntactic features are not im-mediately transparent . So , a child who hears the sentence " John told the truth " can tell from the fact that the article " the " precedes the word " truth " that it is probably a noun . This allows the child to continue to parse the sentence without having to stop . Once children have worked out something of the grammar , it would be very useful for them to exploit the frames in which words appear to figure out the nuances of their meanings . The clearest case is that of blind children , who although they can not observe environmental contexts of use , nonetheless seem perfectly able to distinguish between such verbs as " look " and " see . " To account for this phenomenon , Landau and Gleitman ( 1985 ) propose the mechanism called " syntactic bootstrap-ping . " For example , if a noun occurs immediately before and after a verb ( as with " push " ) , the verb may be causative . If a noun occurs only imme-diately before ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to be noncausative . Obviously , in order for syntactic bootstrapping to be possible , there must be correlations between syntax and meaning that the child must be able to exploit at a relatively early age . A number of current research projects suggest that these correlations do exist and that adults and children ex-ploit them ( see Fisher , Gleitman , and Gleitman 1991 ; Naigles 1990 ; Fisher 1994 ; Gleitman and Gillette 1995 ) . Regarding the third question ( What inputs drive the language-learning system forward ? ) , there is again considerable agreement between Gleit-man and Pinker . The input that propels language learning is linguistic in nature , although the role of the extralinguistic environment is far from minimal . Unlike the structure-oriented theorists , Pinker and Gleitman do not talk of the environment as a " trigger " but instead focus on the nature of the information available in the language input , as well as in the child 's observation and interpretation of events . On both accounts the semantic system can be used to help learners bootstrap their way into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helps learners narrow // down particular facets of the semantic interpretation . In this sense , both Pinker 's and Gleitman 's positions allow for a dialectic process . Nevertheless , although both authors acknowledge strong contributions from semantics and syntax ( Pinker 1990 ; Gleitman 1990 ) , Pinker puts relatively more weight on the semantic input in the dialectic whereas Gleitman puts relatively more weight on the syntactic input . In sum , the process-oriented Inside-out theorists , although granting that nature has prepared the child for language learning , are distinguished from the structure-oriented Inside-out theorists by their emphasis on the question " how " ; that is , they ask , " How do children actually operate on the linguistic stream to uncover the categories nature has prepared them to search for ? " In their attention to mechanism , the process-oriented theorists seem to resemble Bloom ( 1991a ) , an Outside-in theorist who grants that children actively construct grammar . Where Pinker and Gleitman differ from Bloom is on their insistence that children do not begin the task with exclusively domain-general learning procedures or structures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child 's hypothesis space considerably and to endow the child with domain-specific processes that facilitate grammar acquisition . Critique of the Inside-out Position Several criticisms can be leveled at the Inside-out theories , especially at the structure-oriented branch . First , the relegation of linguistic insights to innate constraints built into the grammar itself is open to question . Specifically , Inside-out theories are vulnerable to the criticism that claims of innateness make a theory unfalsifiable because , as Fodor and Crain ( 1987 ) argue , " A theory which admits substantive innate languages " ( p. 46 ) . The next three criticisms stem from the first . Given that much linguistic knowledge is innate , Inside-out theories ( particularly the structureoriented branch ) often appear ( 1 ) to be nondevelopmental ; ( 2 ) to reduce the role of the environment to serving as a trigger ; and ( 3 ) to rely on the nonmechanism of maturation when structures do not appear instantaneously . With respect to whether acquisition has a developmental curve , it is only in recent years ( in response to data showing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start ) that structure-oriented Inside-out theorists have begun to grapple with the actual course of acquisition . Bates and MacWhinney ( 1987 ) point out that this literature is still characterized by // too much of an emphasis on language structures emerging cleanly in a single trial , never to be used incorrectly again . Yet the course of acquisi-tion is not a smooth , ascending curve . Children have been known to use correct structures alongside incorrect structures for years ( see Kuczaj 1977 ) . Infant perception may be a good analogue for how development occurs in other domain-specific , encapsulated areas where children start out with innate knowledge . As Spelke ( 1990 ; Spelke et al . 1992 ) argues , infants appear to begin the process of perception with the expectation that objects have solidity , take up space , and so on . However , infants do not operate according to the Gestalt principles that older children and adults operate with in perception ; for example , they do not employ " comple-tion " ? the notion that objects that are partially occluded continue behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point , or the skeleton around which later learning is organized . In emphasizing that input sentences " trigger " linguistic progress , the metaphor of the child as a passive reactor ? ironically , as in the mechanis-tic model ? has been reasserted . Inside-out theorists of the structure-oriented type minimize psychological mechanisms such as imitation , comparison , storage , and concept formation that the child undoubtedly uses to acquire language . As Bloom ( 1991a ) writes : A developmental perspective assumes that children play an active part in ac-quiring language . They are in effect , " the agents of their own development " ... . Most learnability-theoretic research has an essentially mechanistic world view , in which language depends on inborn , specifically linguistic constraints triggered by relevant instances in the input . Developmental research and theory has an organismic world view , with an emphasis on change , integration , and process . ( pp. 13-14 ) . The lack of a developmental approach seriously impedes the structure-oriented Inside-out theories from being able to explain when particular structures are triggered by the input available from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be presumed to be a constant , it must be something within the organism that allows the trig-gering to take place at time 2 when it did not occur at time 1 . This point brings us to the next criticism . For the structure-oriented Inside-out theorist the role of the environment in language learning is likened to the role that nutrition plays in human growth : it is necessary ? and no more . Other than containing the linguistic input , and the extra-linguistic situations that covary with the input , the environment serves a minimal function in the process of language acquisition . Inside-out // theorists ( e.g. , Lightfoot 1989 ) are just beginning to grapple with what it means to say that the environment serves as a " trigger " for the acquisition of linguistic structures , even though research on how children use the environment to service acquisition has been going on for years ( Snow and Tomasello 1989 ) . Linguistic and extralinguistic features of the environment appear to be coincidentally arranged in a coalition that assists the child in learning language . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posit no mechanisms for learning language or else rely on maturation when the principle or structure of interest does not appear in a timely fashion . Chomsky , again anchoring one end of the continuum , repeatedly likens the process of acquisition to what takes place in the development of the retina . Other than having visual experiences , the organism has no control over the increase in the density of the receptors on the retina . For Chomsky , language is analogous . Referring to it as the product of " learning " is a misnomer ; instead , like vision , it is something that just happens to the child . When it does n't happen fast enough , biological maturation is sometimes invoked as an explanation ( Borer and Wexler 1987 ) . And yet as Weinberg ( 1987 ) writes : By assuming maturation as an account for the sequenced appearance of various grammatical structures we are led to a theory that merely catalogues points in time when different principles come into play without searching for any understanding of why particular principles come in any given order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the literature like this one highlights basic differences among the leading theories of language acquisition ( recall table 2.1 ) . Among the most obvious is that Outside-in theories are likely to be domain general , with an emphasis on the learning process , whereas Insideout theories are likely to be domain specific , with an emphasis on both internal structure and processes . In Outside-in theories , the learning processes evolve from general cognitive or social bases and are sensitive to external input that allows children to construct grammar from rather meager beginnings . Notice , however , that these processes must somehow be sensitive to language-relevant information in the environment ; otherwise , children could randomly abstract units and relations that would lead them to generate incorrect grammatical hypotheses . By contrast , Insideout theories assume the child to be endowed with a strong internally consistent structural foundation ( a universal grammar ) that drives the // learning process . Processes are thus " informed " of what kinds of things to look for , and learning can be thought of as a process of discovery rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attested differences follow . First , in Inside-out theories , language learning rests on the child 's possession of linguistic structure ; in Outside-in theories , it rests on cognitive and social structures . Second , Inside-out theories use domain-specific processes to construct language ; Outside-in theories use domain-general processes . Third , because of the Inside-out theories ' strong reliance on an a priori internal grammar , language learning is thought to rely more on innate knowledge in these theories than in Outside-in theories . Fourth , compared to Outside-in theories , language learning is considered to be relatively instantaneous in Inside-out theories because as some argue , much less needs to be learned and what must be learned need only be triggered by the appropriate environmental stimuli ( at least for those who hold that the source of linguistic structure is innate ) . These distinctions provide a sketch of the major families of language acquisition theories . But are these theories really as polarized as the literature suggests ? Are the sketches offered in this chapter accurate portrayals of how each group of theorists believes that language is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories reveals that many of the proposed dichotomies are " hyperboles . " That is , these dichotomies are a product of exaggerated statements that differ more in degree than in kind . If it is true that theories of language acquisition have more in common than has generally been assumed , then it logically follows that points of consensus may emerge with regard to the three questions around which this chapter is organized . 2.3 Collapsing Dichotomies : How Theories of Language Acquisition Rely on Hyperbole In this section we refine our look at the theories by discussing why characterizations of differences among them may be more hyperbolic than real . We argue that the dichotomies that have historically characterized theories of language acquisition are better cast in terms of continua than in terms of polar extremes . By collapsing theories onto continua , we do not intend to downplay the significance of prior work in language acquisition . Rather , adopting this treatment allows us to show the perhaps unanticipated commonalities among the theories that guide our research . Indeed , // in section 2.4 , we discuss what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter . The research reported in this book empirically investigates this common ground ? namely , in our view , the basic sensitivities that form the foundation for language acquisition . The first of the three hyperboles that characterize theories of language acquisition is this : Hyperbole 1 Outside-in theories account for grammatical development in terms of cognitive and social categories . Inside-out theories account for grammatical development in terms of the discovery of facts about an a priori grammatical structure . Like all hyperboles , this one contains some truth and much exaggeration . Panel ( a ) of figure 2.1 exposes the hyperbole by characterizing the major families of theories with respect to the kinds of categories that children are thought to bring to the language-learning task . That is , Outside-in theories do postulate that children start with cognitive and social categories like agents and actions that somehow turn into linguistic categories like nouns and verbs . In stark contrast , Inside-out theories provide the child with a rich linguistic structure at the outset , although the nature of this endowment depends on the particular theory . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relies exclusively on the categories shown on its side of the opposition . That is , even Chomsky ( 1988 ) , the most extreme of the Inside-out theorists , acknowledges the role played by social understandings and cognitive processes in the acquisition of language . For example , Chomsky assumes that the child has a knowledge of " theta roles , " which are the action role categories ( e.g. , agent , recipient ) of the Outside-in theorists . On the other hand , the Outside-in theorists use linguistic scaffolding to get their models off the ground . For example , Schlesinger 's ( 1971 , 1988 ) model presupposes a child who is sensitive to inflectional markings in the input . Thus , both families of theories grant that the child has at least some linguistic sensitivities at the start ( if not a full grammar ) and is capable of conceptualizing the environment in terms of language-relevant cognitive and social categories . Given that each of these families of theories requires linguistic , cognitive , and social categories , the dichotomy between theories that rely on linguistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapses into a continuum ( see figure 2.1 , panel ( a ) ) . Anchoring the // continuum at one end would be a theory that relied totally on linguistic categories , apart from any categories constructed through environmental interaction . Notice that there is no theory that falls at that end , except perhaps for the incorrectly stereotyped view of Chomsky 's theory . Anchoring the other end of the continuum would be a theory that allowed for no linguistic structure at all at the outset of language learning . No modern-day theory is to be found here either , given the Outside-in theorists ' claims about what is presumed to be present as children start learning language ( MacWhinney 1987 ; Schlesinger 1971 , 1988 ) . The two families of theories , although still not totally overlapping in their distribution , are now seen to have much more in common than previously thought . Indeed , they differ more in degree than in kind . The same picture emerges when we examine the learning mechanisms implicated in language learning . Hyperbole 2 Outside-in theories rely on domain-general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This hyperbole implies that Outside-in theories allow the child to construct language via the same domain-general learning procedures first used to construct cognitive and social knowledge . Thus , as languagelearning mechanisms these theories tend to rely on general learning procedures , identical to those used to acquire knowledge in other domains . On the other hand , Inside-out theories are said to rely exclusively on processes tailored to detect and form linguistic generalizations . Panel ( b ) of figure 2.1 illustrates the kinds of mechanisms each family of theories claims that children use to build language . For a number of reasons , however , turning attention to processes does not sharpen the line between the theories . First , as Sternberg ( 1988 ) writes : Processes need a knowledge base on which to operate , and the extent of the knowledge base in large part determines what processes can operate under which circumstances , as well as how effectively they can operate . ( p. 277 ) The Outside-in theorists ' domain-general learning procedures operate on ( minimally ) a knowledge base that includes the identification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form linguistic generalizations . Second , the Outside-in theories include procedures or mechanisms that are themselves domain specific . For example , in the accounts of Schlesinger ( 1979 ) and MacWhinney and Bates ( 1987 ) , children " look for " patterns of word order , inflections , or tense markers . More recent inTheories // stantiations of the Competition Model posit a learner who can identify a word as having occurred immediately before ( or after ) a verb . To accomplish this task , a learner must have some way of identifying a verb ( as opposed to words from other classes ) in the input stream ( see Gibson 1992 ) . In order for acquisition to proceed under these theories , then , children must , a priori , be able to identify linguistic units . Note the effect that this has on the hyperbolic dichotomy we have drawn between the theories ( panel ( b ) of figure 2.1 , and table 2.1 ) . Domain-general learning in the Outside-in theories has become open to the linguistic categories present in the Inside-out , domain-specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanisms for language learning , these mechanisms begin to look increasingly domain specific . Building linguistic sensitivities into the process rather than into the knowledge base ? as the Outside-in theorists have done ? is but a backdoor way to acknowledge that the child must use some domain-specific knowledge to acquire language . The result is to blur the line that separates the families of theories with regard to the source of linguistic structure and process . It becomes impossible to distinguish whether some implicit knowledge of language guides the operation of the processes or whether the activation of language-relevant processes guides the construction of linguistic structure . Thus , on this analysis , the two families of theories begin to resemble one another . Both contain some reference to domain-specific learning procedures ? whether couched in terms of the knowledge base ( as in the Inside-out theories ) or in terms of the processes employed ( as in the Outside-in theories ) . Also , both contain references to domain-general learning processes , as when children extract a particular morphological pattern by noting its frequency in the input . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or even primarily on domain-general mechanisms . Rather , both families of theories fall on a continuum with regard to domain-specific claims ( see figure 2.1 , panel ( b ) ) . In the following passage Gelman and Greeno ( 1989 ) capture the sense of why both families of theories include domain-specific knowledge of language , whether they place that knowledge in structure or in process : If we grant learners some domain-specific principles , we provide them with a way to define a range of relevant inputs , the ones that support learning about that domain . Because principles embody constraints on the kinds of inputs that can be processed as data that are relevant to that domain , they therefore can direct attention to those aspects of the environment that need to be selected and attended to . ( p. 130 ) // In other words , without some structural knowledge of what the processes are to operate on , the organism 's hypothesis space would be far too wide to form the correct linguistic generalizations . In sum , all theories of language acquisition require a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedures . Domain-specific procedures are necessary if the child is to become sensitive to peculiarly linguistic information such as " hidden " elements or empty categories ( see Fodor 1989 ) . Domain-general procedures such as categorization , abstraction , and weighting of cues can also play an important role in acquiring linguistic knowledge ( MacWhinney 1987 ) . This hyperbole exposed , a third follows : Hyperbole 3 Outside-in theories avoid claims for innateness whereas Inside-out theories are replete with such claims . This hyperbole is represented in panel ( c ) of figure 2.1 . It is clear that Inside-out theories assume that children enter the language-learning task in possession of a veritable armamentarium of linguistic principles , parameters , and categories , depending on the theory . The collapsing of the hyperbolic dichotomy here hinges on whether the Outside-in theorists truly avoid such presuppositions . If we grant , as in the above discussion , that even Outside-in theorists build in some domain-specific linguistic constraints so that the processes responsible for language acquisition will ( 1 ) " look for " appropriate input in the environment and ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the innateness dichotomy also collapses into a continuum ( again , see panel ( c ) of figure 2.1 ) . The thorny nature of the innateness issue for many developmental questions ( see Aslin 1981 ) , along with the fact that it is difficult to evaluate these claims empirically , leads us to avoid that quagmire . Instead , we think this argument is best cast in terms of the availability of information by the time that language acquisition begins . As pointed out earlier , although they claim to be minimalists , all Outside-in theorists ( save L. Bloom ( 1991a ) ) posit that certain languagerelevant information must be available by the time language learning begins . It is often the case that the origins of this knowledge are glossed over and its existence simply stated as a given . It may be that these theorists believe this knowledge is a product of the domain-general processes that ( they would argue ) construct linguistic structure . However , as we pointed out in discussing hyperbole 2 , the fact that this inforTheories // mation is written into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the information no less available at the start of language acquisition . The question that should be asked is , " How much language-specific knowledge and what kinds of domain-specific processes are needed at the outset of language learning to ensure that grammatical learning takes place ? " Otherwise put , how much does the child need to know to be able to learn about syntax ? Indeed , this question is at the heart of the current attempts to define the conditions for language learnability . Once the in nateness argument is cast in these less dogmatic terms and redefined as availability , it is clear that this dichotomy , too , collapses into a contin uum . Again , no theory occupies the extremes . Even those from the struc ture-oriented Inside-out camp assume that some learning takes place in the form of parameter setting ; and even the staunchest Outside-in theorist posits that some linguistic information is available to learners as they begin their journey toward linguistic competence . Panel ( c ) of figure 2.1 illustrates the new continuum . By way of analogy , no good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pottery . Rather , equipped with procedures designed to unearth the relevant data , the archaeologist , like the child , would look for confirming evidence and for patterns in the uncovered shards . To continue the analogy , the archaeologist knows to " look for " certain types of clues like particular markings or carvings on earthenware , just as the child knows to " look for " evidence like word order and inflec tions in the linguistic input . Both the archaeologist and the child are guided by a constrained set of hypotheses . This does not , however , negate the need for learning , nor does it argue that learning should be instantaneous . In sum , we have reexamined the earlier analysis of the two families of theories . We derived three hyperboles often used to characterize these theories in the literature . In all cases , these hyperbolic differences have exposed the artificial dichotomies on which these theories have tradition-ally been distinguished , and have revealed that the theories are much better described in terms of continua. 2.4 Language Acquisition Theories : Common Ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories than would be assumed from a surface analysis , in this section we consider // whether some consensus can be reached on the answers to the three questions raised earlier . In doing so , we also present our own view of the language acquisition process . Question 1 : What is present when language learning begins ? Whether the theory is Outside-in or Inside-out , the child is viewed as being sensitive to and able to detect a number of linguistic units and potential arrangements of those units . The Inside-out theories capture this knowledge in structure and the Outside-in theories in the processes the child brings to bear on linguistic input . The result , however , is the same : children must have access to linguistic units ( nouns , verbs , phrases , and clauses ) and must be sensitive to the possible relations between those units if they are to proceed in the learning of grammar . Question 2 : What are the mechanisms used in the course of language acquisition ? Minimally , all theorists seem to agree that children must be sensitive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with strategies that enable them to " look for " language units like clauses , phrases , and words . Unless these units are detected , the abstraction of grammatical patterns is impossible . Even those arguing in favor of initial categories composed of agents and actions must at some point account for how these agents and actions become the epiphenomenal linguistic categories that are functionally equivalent to nouns and verbs . For the purposes of a consensus view , then , one need only argue that there must be some processes capable of detecting sentencelike units , phrasal units , word units , and form classes ( e.g. , nounlike units and verblike units ) , and some processes that can come to distinguish open-class words from the smaller set of closed-class words ( e.g. , inflectional markings ) . These processes must also " look for " organizational patterns in the data to detect linguistic relations . All theories of acquisition require that children attend to the order of units , be it the order of words , of inflectional markers relative to words ( Levy 1988 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are housed . The theories also need to account for the child 's knowledge that all nouns ( agents and themes ) or clauses are not alike ? for the knowledge that language is hierarchical and that there can be embedded clauses and main clauses . In answer to the second question , then , our opinion is aligned with a kind of process-oriented , Inside-out view ( see figure 2.1 ) in which children come to the learning task with some sensitivities to properties in the input that are informed by internal grammatical knowledge . It is essential not only that children learn about the units and patterns in the input but also // that they be able to recover the hidden grammatical elements and to recognize dependencies within the input that they hear . We believe that there are multiple and overlapping cues for grammatical structure in the input ; infants must be primed to detect these inputs and extract these correlations . In chapter 7 we develop this idea further as a mechanism we call " guided distributional learning . " Indeed , there is ample evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to form certain kinds of associations or to pick up certain kinds of information from the world around them . For example , Gallistel et al . ( 1991 ) describe how migratory songbirds , as nestlings , use specialized computational mechanisms to store an image of the stellar constellations , which they use later to guide their migration . In the following passage , the word " infant " could easily be substituted for " bird " , and the context understood to be about language learning rather than the learning of stellar configurations : We have a domain-specific learning mechanism that determines what in the bird 's environment will be attended to at a certain stage in its development , how that input will be processed , and the structure of the knowledge that is to be derived from that input . ( p. 18 ) As the wall between process and structure crumbles , so too does the distinction between the first two questions . The mechanisms used in the course of development will be those processes used to abstract languagerelevant data from the input ? those processes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sometimes these processes will be guided by structural constraints and operate in a language-specific way : for example , " Look for inflectional markings . " At other times they will be guided by more domain-general learning procedures : for example , " Attend to ordering relationships . " Thus , children perform guided distributional learning finding regularities in the input that they have been primed to notice . Guided distributional learning , therefore , entails an intertwining of the domain-specific and domain-general processes . Question 3 : What types of input drive the system forward ? With regard to this question , we propose that consensus among the various theories be identified not by examining the intersection of the possible input sources they presume , but by examining the union of these sources . This coalition of input sources was introduced in chapter 1 and will be developed further in chapter 7 . As the theories were reviewed above , it became evident that many theorists concentrate on one type of input as more central than // others for ensuring grammatical development . The very fact that input sources as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and syntactic patterns are all viewed as criterial for different theories of grammatical learning should give one pause . Perhaps a more eclectic stance will better explain how children come to abstract or to discover the units and relations embedded within the grammar . Indeed , the recent proliferation of bootstrapping theories leads one to suspect that children live in a benevolent world in which these input sources covary reliably with one another ( Shatz 1978 ; Landau and Gleitman 1985 ; Gleitman 1990 ; Pinker 1984 , 1987 ; Grimshaw 1981 ) . In English , for example , the highly stressed noun is usually found in last position in the utterance ( Goldfield 1993 ) , is commonly found preceded by an article ( " the " or " a " ) , and is often the focus of joint attention in a social context ( Messer 1983 ) . It is this coalition view that represents the eclectic position that we adopt as our answer to the question of what types of input drive the system forward . 2.5 Summary : Early Sensitivities to Language Input In sum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sense of the foundation that children have for later language learning . By the time that language ( grammatical ) learning begins , children are sensitive to certain language-relevant information in the input . Using previously undiscovered consensus among the theories as a guide , we propose that very early on , children are sensitive to information in the input that will allow them to " look for " such basic units of language structure as words , phrases , and clauses ( chapter 4 ) . Children are also sensitive to basic relations such as agency and location , to order ( e.g. , of words ( chapter 5 ) and inflections ) , and at some point to the syntactic configurations in which words appear ( chapter 6 ) . With early attention to these basic units and relations , children can begin the journey to full linguistic competence by noting the distribution of units and markers within the language input that they hear . The process by which this occurs is the guided distributional learning mentioned above and discussed further in chapter 7 . In fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children will be sufficiently developed to learn language in ways suggested by some of the theories . Given the linguistic presumptions noted above , we must ask , " How do children come to discover these basic units and relations in the input ? " // Here we suggest that the processes that children bring to the task are sensitive to language-relevant information from a number of sources con-currently . Units of language emerge amid a kind of multimedia display in which the notes of prosody , context , syntactic position , and so on , form a chord or coalition that children can reliably identify as a nounlike or verblike unit . These smaller units then act consistently within sentence patterns that also covary with certain types of environmental events and prosodic/intonational patterns . In short , children try to use all the pieces of information at their disposal , although not necessarily at the same time , in abstracting the units and relations of grammar . This multimedia display will be explored in greater detail in chapter 7 when we outline a framework of language comprehension . Infant and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already been discovered . For example , during the last decade researchers have made significant progress in uncovering some of the ways in which children segment the speech stream ( see Hirsh-Pasek and Golinkoff 1993 , for a review ) . A number of studies have also investigated infant sensitivity to semantic information in the input ( e.g. , Bowerman 1988 ; Bates , Bretherton , and Snyder 1988 ; Mandler 1992 ) . Less research , however , is available that focuses on the infant 's sensitivity to linguistic or syntactic organization . This is largely because such information has been very difficult to obtain from preverbal infants . In the research that fol lows , we address this gap and report the development of a new method for studying early language comprehension . This method provides a way of looking at language processing in very young children ( beginning at 13 months ) and a way of permitting children to use the coalition of sources at their disposal . After describing the method in some detail , we demon strate how it has been used to unveil some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In sum , if the account we have developed about the origins of grammar is plausible , then unlike Gold 's learner , the real learner is a biased one who lives in a real social world . To learn more about the kinds of lan guage processes that young children bring to the task of grammatical learning , we must begin to develop methods of investigating early lan guage sensitivities , that can be used with very young children who are just beginning to learn language , and that allow children to capitalize on their sensitivities to the coalition of language-relevant inputs . In what follows , we present a method of language comprehension that meets these criteria . ... it seems to me that , if anything far-reaching and real is to be discovered about the actual grammar of the child , then rather devious kinds of observations of his perfor-mance , his abilities , and his comprehension will have to be obtained , so that a variety of evidence may be brought to bear on the attempt to determine what is in fact his underlying linguistic competence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Discussion " During the past two decades researchers have devised a number of clever and devious ways to peer in on the strategies that infants and young children use as they embark on their language-learning journey . Many have observed early language production for clues to how children solve the language-learning problem . Others have developed ingenious ways of eliciting utterances from young children by enriching the linguistic con-texts that stimulate the production of particular language structures ( see Crain and Thornton 1991 ) . If children can be " tricked " into generating certain rarely produced structures , their otherwise hidden competencies can be revealed . Many have also studied emergent language through tests of language comprehension . This work rests on the assumption that chil-dren may be capable of understanding structures that they can not or do not yet produce . In this chapter we review some of the methods used to investigate early language knowledge . In doing so , we have three goals . First , we make the case for studying language comprehension as opposed to just studying production . Second , we briefly evaluate existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limits inherent in these methods . Third , and most prominently , we present a new method for studying language comprehension , one based on the intermodal preferen-tial looking paradigm developed by Spelke ( 1979 ) . In chapters 4 , 5 , and 6 Chapter 3 The Intermodal Preferential Looking Paradigm // we then demonstrate how this method can be profitably used to investigate infants ' and toddlers ' grammatical sensitivities. 3.1 Reasons for Studying Language Comprehension ? There can be little doubt that studies on young children 's language production in the past 25 years have provided a rich source for language acquisition theories . Language production , the observable half of the child 's language performance , however is only part of the story . Just as astronomers were not satisfied to study only the light side of the moon , so researchers in language acquisition have long recognized that access to data from the " dark " side of their topic ? namely , language comprehension illuminates the language acquisition process far more than the study of production alone . In particular , language comprehension data serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ researchers can obtain a more accurate picture of the content of the child 's emerging language system . It has sometimes been assumed , for example , that the syntactic variability found in a set of transcripts accurately reflects the breadth of the child 's grammatical knowledge . However , since children talk in environments that are rich in contextual and social supports , it is likely that their productions underrepresent their grammatical knowledge . That is , children typically select speech topics from the " hereand-now . " Because of this , and because of willing adults who interpret for them , children can often get away with saying less , and saying it in a less sophisticated manner , to achieve their goals . Without comprehension assessments , the researcher is forced to wait for the child to spontaneously produce the structure of interest . In comprehension experiments , one can test for a wide range of syntactic sensitivities , whether they have been produced or not . These syntactic sensitivities become the bases for more accurate theories of language acquisition . A case in point illustrating how comprehension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young child 's linguistic competence , comes from work by Radford ( 1990 ) . Radford states that young children 's language productions provide no evidence of a determiner system or an inflectional system . One possibility is that Radford is correct : the absence of these linguistic elements from children 's speech is what gives early speech its telegraphic character . On the other hand , Radford may be wrong . Although these elements do not appear in speech // ? because of currently unspecified limitations on production ? perhaps the child is sensitive to and aware of these systems in comprehension . Gerken and her colleagues ( e.g. , Gerken , Landau , and Remez 1990 ; Gerken and McIntosh 1993 ; and see Shipley , Smith , and Gleitman 1969 ) have shown that children who do not use function words in their own speech do seem to expect them . When these words are missing or altered , children 's sentence comprehension suffers . In other words , if children 's sentence comprehension is adversely affected by the absence or mutilation of some linguistic feature , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system is not apparent in production . A second reason for focusing on comprehension studies is that they may provide an alternative window onto the process of language acquisi- tion . Arguably , by the time children are producing a particular structure , they have already acquired it . Yet the steps leading up to the analysis and mastery of that structure would be less visible without studies of sentence comprehension . For example , by studying language comprehension , one can ask what kinds of organization children impose on a word string or what strategy children are using to interpret a new word . One can present novel or nonword stimuli ( see experiment 6 , chapter 6 ) , too , to " trick " children into revealing their apparent processing strategy . Although lan- guage production also yields insights into process by virtue of the errors and omissions children make , we can sometimes verify hypotheses gener- ated from production by designing tests of language comprehension . More questions about the relationship between comprehension and pro- duction processes will be addressed in chapter 7 . The third reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control . in the real world there may be circumstances in which children appear to comprehend certain structures when in fact they do not . With comprehension experiments , researchers interested in a cer tain structure and the circumstances under which it is used can create situations of a type that control for extraneous variables . For example , Shatz ( 1978 ) argued that children are biased to respond to sentences with action , whether or not an action is being called for . To test this hypothe- sis , Shatz created conditions in which it was clear to adults that action was not being called for to see whether children could resist the temptation to act . By controlling the experimental situation in this way , Shatz increased the likelihood that she could unambiguously interpret children 's action responses . ( In fact , children interpreted many such sentences as requests for action. ) // In sum , studies of language comprehension have three advantages over studies utilizing spontaneous production : they permit researchers to probe for structures that are not yet produced ; they offer a new window @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure before that structure emerges full-blown ; and they permit a degree of methodological control not available from observing production . 3.2 Evaluating Methods for Studying Language Comprehension Several procedures have dominated language comprehension assessment in both the lexical and grammatical domains . First , researchers have used " enactment tasks " such as providing children with dolls or miniature objects and asking them to ( for example ) " Make the boy kiss the girl ! " Second , they have used a related technique called " acting out tasks " in which children are asked to carry out actions themselves : for example , " Kick the ball ! " These enactment and acting out tasks are easy to administer and are fun for children . Yet comprehension tasks that require children to either act out events or follow commands may underestimate children 's linguistic knowledge because of their competing action biases . It is well known , for example , that children have a tendency to act , and to act in particular ways , when surrounded by objects . Their predisposition to " act like x " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " even if the information in the sentence has been understood . This problem has been explicitly acknowledged in a number of studies ( see , e.g. , Shipley , Smith , and Gleitman 1969 ; de Villiers and de Villiers 1973 ) and documented by Shatz ( 1978 ) . Alternatively , young children may simply refuse to act on command . Therefore , a biased response or a failure to respond can not be taken as evidence of noncomprehension , but only as evidence of noncompliance . Other studies have used a third method for generating comprehension data : picture-pointing tasks . Children are presented with a choice of pictures and are asked to point to the picture that a sentence describes . For example , Fraser , Bellugi , and Brown ( 1963 ) asked children to " Point to the picture that shows The deer are jumping . " ' The pictures showed one or more deer jumping , so that the child 's discrimination hinged on the number specified by the auxiliary verb ( " is " vs. " are " ) . Other examples come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the comprehension of a number of language structures in children from 22 through 7 years of age . // Pictorial tasks have been very popular in psycholinguistic research . Like enactment tasks , they are easy to administer . Like enactment tasks , however , they also pose some problems . In addition to requiring the action of pointing , pictorial displays may fail to provide young children with sufficient motivational incentive and may fail to make sought-after distinctions salient and unambiguous . Studies by Friedman and Stevenson ( 1975 ) and Cocking and McHale ( 1981 ) , for example , show that young children do not understand the function of conventions such as curved lines around joints to indicate that movement is taking place . Thus , the depiction of dynamic relationships involving action is problematic . A fourth method is to infer children 's comprehension by observing their comprehension in situ and recording the observations in diaries ( Nelson 1973 ) . These studies may overestimate the young child 's gram-matical knowledge . For example , a mother may state that her child under-stands the sentence " Go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this sentence , she performs a unique action ( e.g. , peering into the child 's dia per ) , which signals that a diaper change is about to occur . The child may understand no more about the sentence frame than does a dog who sees his master pick up a leash while uttering the sentence " Do you want to go for your walk ? " Credit for comprehension can come only from tests in controlled settings . Given these methodological problems , Golinkoff et al . ( 1987 ) argue that most studies of sentence comprehension that use enactment or picture-pointing techniques have been biased toward nouns , against an understanding of action terms , and against an understanding of the rela tionships embedded in grammatical constructions . That is , the current methods used to study comprehension are not optimal for studying the strategies that children may rely upon in the learning of grammatical relationships . Note that to make this claim does not dismiss the significant gains that have been reaped from research on language comprehension . It does , however , make clear that methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to perform actions and ( 2 ) represent dynamic events in a more natural way . In recent years a few new methods have been introduced that appear to answer this need . One of these methods depends on the child 's differential visual fixation responses ; it thus has the advantages of being based on a response already in the child 's repertoire and of requiring no explicit action on the child 's part . Thomas et al . ( 1981 ) developed a signal detec tion procedure to test for lexical comprehension . A child is shown an // object at one of four corners of a rectangular apparatus as the ob ) c is named aloud . Using a signal detection analysis , the question is whethe a naive observer will judge that the child then looks more to the corner containing the named object than to the other corners . Although promo , ing , this method has had only limited use , and only with static ( as opposed to dynamic ) stimuli . Another method with great promise is just beginning to be used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventrelated potentials ( ERPs ) . When electrodes are placed on a subject 's scalp . it is possible to record the ongoing electrical activity of the brain ( Molfesc 1983 ) . ERPs establish strict temporal relationships between the onset of a discrete stimulus event and changes in the resulting ERP pattern in different regions of the brain . ERPs have been used to study the infant 's grasp of word meanings ( e.g. , Molfese , Morse , and Peters 1990 ; Molfese et al in press ) , as well as children 's sentence processing ( e.g. , Holcomb , Cofey , and Neville 1992 ) . For example , Mills , Cofey , and Neville ( in press ) demonstrated that infants between 13 and 20 months show a distinct ERP response when they listen to a word their parent reports they comprehend but not when they listen to a word their parent reports they do not comprehend . As with the visual fixation method , the main virtue of the ERP paradigm is that it does not require that the child speak or act . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulus , which may or may not be accompanied by a visual stimulus . Thus , this method can also be used with infants . Finally , a group of researchers has refined and validated a parent report measure of children 's language comprehension , the MacArthur Communicative Development Inventory ( Fenson et al . 1994 ) . The first part of the inventory ( " Words and Gestures " ) can be administered to parents of infants between the ages of 8 and 16 months . It requires nothing from the child and can be used to ask parents about the child 's understanding of verbs , nouns , and closed-class items such as prepositions . Parental responses have been shown to correlate positively and significantly with the child 's subsequent language ability ( Dale et al . 1989 ; Fenson et al . 1994 ) . This instrument , validated in a number of ways on hundreds of children ( Fenson et al . 1994 ) , provides useful data on what lexical items parents think their infants understand at various ages . It is therefore also useful as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions on closed-class items , the first part of the instrument was not designed to explore early syntactic sensitivities. // In sum , numerous studies have been conducted using an array of methods , some of which may be better suited than others to infants ' and young children 's natural response repertoires . The most recent paradigms have been designed to alleviate some of the assessment problems inherent in the enactment and picture-pointing methods . However , none of the new methods has been sufficiently refined to enable researchers to look at grammatical development in ways that require no overt action on the part of the child and that can portray grammatical relationships through dynamic stimuli . The intermodal preferential looking paradigm incorporates both of these advantages . 3.3 The Intermodal Preferential Looking Paradigm Introduction and Rationale The intermodal preferential looking paradigm is depicted in figure 3.1 . An infant is seated on a blindfolded parent 's lap 2 ' 2 " back from the center : ) f and exactly between two television monitors , which are 30 inches apart . A. concealed audio speaker midway between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " matches " only one of the 3isplays shown on the screens . Mounted atop the speaker is a light that - omes on during each intertrial interval to ensure that the infant makes a . iew choice about which screen to look at on each trial . The infant 's task . s to look at one of the two video screens . In all such studies the logic is : he same : infants will choose to allocate more attention to the video event : hat matches what they are hearing ( in this case , a linguistic message ) than o the video event that does not match . To see how the paradigm works , consider a pair of stimuli in what is trguably the simplest case : noun comprehension ( Golinkoff et al . 1987 ) . ! n one trial a shoe appeared on one screen and a boat on the other . The inguistic message ( produced in child-directed speech ) was " Where 's the ; hoe ? Find the shoe ! " The hypothesis , which was confirmed , was that nfants would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoe than toward the screen displaying the boat . This paradigm has been successfully used to investigate early language ; omprehension in a number of previous studies . For example , in the first ; et of studies ( Golinkoff et al . 1987 ) , whose goal was to see whether he paradigm would work for both syntactic and lexical assessments , ve purposely selected 28-month-olds who were using two- and threeword utterances in their own speech ; these children showed word order // Figure 3.1 A depiction of the intermodal preferential looking paradigm showing a sample stimulus set from experiment 1 . On the left screen a woman is kissing keys while holding a ball in the foreground . On the right screen a different woman is kissing a ball while holding keys in the foreground . comprehension in the paradigm . In the same set of studies we also showed , using a random sample of 17-month-olds , that the paradigm worked for noun and verb comprehension . Naigles ( 1990 ) has used the paradigm to demonstrated that 2-year-olds are sensitive to the meaning implications of transitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Herrera ( in press ) have used it to examine the effects of prosodic manipulations on the comprehension of familiar words . The intermodal preferential looking paradigm seems capable of ' revealing linguistic knowledge in young children for two reasons , both of ' which will he treated further elsewhere in this book . First , unlike many // other assessments of language comprehension , this paradigm does not require children to point , answer questions , or act out commands . Children need merely employ a response already in their repertoire ? visual fixation in order to fulfill the task requirements . Second , the paradigm usually does not set natural cues for comprehension in conflict with each other , nor does it omit the contribution of these sources . That is , in this paradigm children have access to syntactic , semantic , prosodic , and contextual information . When these are all provided , children may take advantage of the coalition of cues normally used in language comprehension , those discussed in chapters 1 , 2 , and 7 , to demonstrate the upper limits of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of Spelke ( 1979 ) , who developed it to study intermodal perception . For example , 4-month-old infants saw two events ( e.g. , a person clapping hands and a donkey falling onto a table ) and heard a nonlinguistic auditory stimulus that matched only one of the events ( say , the sound of hands clapping ) . Infants watched the screen that matched the auditory stimulus significantly more than the screen that did not match . When linguistic stimuli are used as in the present studies ? children can show relatively more visual attention to the match only if they understand the language used . For this reason our adaptation of the preferential looking method is fundamentally different from its use in studying intermodal perception . Indeed , it could be argued that the rationale behind the paradigm namely , that infants will prefer to watch the screen that matches the linguistic stimulus more than the screen that does not ? apparently contradicts much of the research indicating that infants prefer to watch novel or discrepant stimuli ( see Cohen , DeLoache , and Strauss 1979 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for novelty differ from the one presented here in two fundamental ways . First , novelty preference appears to be the rule for intramodal experiments in which two visual events are paired and presented with no accompanying auditory stimulus . In addition , intramodal experiments specifically manipulate novelty by presenting the same stimuli repeatedly and then varying the next stimulus in some systematic way to see if the child can discriminate the new from the old . Intermodal experiments do not manipulate novelty but ask a different question : Can children find the invariance or link between stimuli presented in two different modalities ( e.g. , visual and auditory ) ? Throughout the literature on intermodal perception , studies show that infants prefer to find the matching rather than // the nonmatching stimulus . For example , Starkey , Spelke , and Gelman ( 1983 ) showed that 10-month-olds , presented with two screens , would watch the one that displayed the same number of objects ( randomly arranged ) as the number of taps they heard . Similarly , Meltzoff and Borton ( 1979 ) found that 29-day-old infants would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ touch than at one they had not explored . Finally , Kuhl and Meltzoff ( 1982 ) found that 4-month-old infants preferred to look at a face whose mouth was moving in concert with a speech sound they heard rather than at a face whose mouth was articulating another sound . Second , unlike intramodal experiments , intermodal experiments are not designed as discrimination tasks in which a concept or category is built up and then altered systematically . Rather , in intermodal experiments ( like ours ) that yoke symbolic stimuli with referents , researchers ask about infants ' ability to use a symbolic stimulus to find a referent . That is , these studies do not address the issue of novelty and discrimination indeed , they present two equally novel stimuli . The question is whether children can use their understanding of the language to find the corresponding stimulus in the other modality . In a sense , the intermodal preferential looking paradigm duplicates the language-learning situation . When a parent says , " See the dog ! " , for example , the child 's task is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word " dog " ) with something in the environment ( a dog ) . Thus , this paradigm may work because its requirements mimic those found in language learning : infants might prefer the matching screen over the nonmatching screen because there is some ecological validity in looking for a " match " in the environment when they are presented with symbolic stimuli like words . For this reason and the reasons stated above , in no studies performed in our laboratories have children ever shown a significant ( or even approaching significant ) preference for the nonmatch . Description Given that the intermodal preferential looking paradigm was used in all the experiments to be reported , a detailed description of it will be helpful . Construction of the Video Events Two videotapes are developed for each study . These tapes are constructed so that they work in synchrony , trial for trial , down to the same number of frames . This level of precision is essential given that the paradigm relies on preferential visual fixation , // which can be biased by a number of incidental factors not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming on before the other . Trials on a pair of tapes start and end at the same time , and the tapes stay in synchrony as they are played . In addition , although achieving perfect control is impossible , every effort is made to balance the amount of action and color on the two screens so as to reduce any potential salience problems . For example , the characters used in each tape in a pair are of equivalent size , and if a repetitive action is being performed on one screen , it is balanced against another repetitive action taking place the same number of times on the other screen . Videotapes for the studies are filmed with a color camera against a white background . The best exemplars of each type of desired event are then selected and duplicated exactly for the number of trials needed for a particular study . Editing is done at the University of Delaware 's Media Services Center . The videotapes used for the original footage and editing are 4 " performance-quality tapes , although the 2 " medium works as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for testing are then made on both 2 " tape ( for the Temple University laboratory ) and 4 " tape ( for the University of Delaware laboratory ) . Trials and Intertrial Intervals By way of illustration , table 3.1 shows a typical layout of a pair of tapes using a set of stimuli to be described further in chapter 4 . There are three kinds of trials , all 6 seconds in length , called " sequential trials , " " simultaneous trials , " and " test trials , " and one type of intertrial interval . Intertrial Intervals Each trial is preceded and followed by a 3-second intertrial interval . During this period both screens are blank , and a lowwattage light bulb ( mounted atop the hidden speaker centered between the two screens ) is illuminated . The intertrial interval serves an important function : it draws the child 's attention back to the center area between the two screens , allowing the child to make a " clean , " independent choice for each trial . If children do not attend to the central fixation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the test trial , their data for that trial are discarded . ( Well over 97% of all trials are retained using this criterion . ) Sequential Trials As table 3.1 shows , in the sequential trials the child first sees an event on only the left screen while the right screen remains blank . This is followed by a 3-second intertrial interval . Then the child // Table 3.1 Experiment 1 : The video events and linguistic stimuli for one block of trials Tape 1 Linguistic stimuli Tape 2 Sequential trials Woman kissing ball " Oh , what 's going on ? " Blank screen while dangling keys in foreground Blank screen Center light Blank screen " Hey , what 's going on ? " Blank screen " Look ! What is she Woman kissing keys doing ? " while holding ball in foreground Simultaneous trial Blank screen Center light Blank screen " Wow , what 's happening ! " Woman kissing ball ... " What are they doing ? " Woman kissing keys .. . Test trials Blank screen Center light Blank screen " Hey , she 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wow , she 's kissing the Woman kissing keys . keys ! " Blank screen Center light Blank screen " Where is she kissing the keys ? " Woman kissing ball ... " Oh ! She 's kissing the Woman kissing keys . keys ! " sees an event on the right screen while the left screen remains blank . These trials serve to ( 1 ) introduce the video events before the child has to find the match for the linguistic stimulus , and ( 2 ) create the expectation that something will appear on each screen . The audio presented during sequential trials , as well as the audio presented during the intertrial interval that precedes each sequential trial , is " neutral " in the sense that it " matches " or is equally consistent with both events . For example , it might be something like " What 's going on ? " Simultaneous Trials A simultaneous trial , during which the video scenes are presented synchronously on both screens , follows the sequential trials . // Simultaneous trials show the child that events will appear concurrently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulus salience . That is , if the visual stimuli have been well balanced for perceptual factors , and while the linguistic stimulus is still neutral ( see above ) , it is predicted that attention should be distributed equally to each member of the simultaneous pair across children . Test Trials Two pairs of test trials always follow the simultaneous trial . The test trials differ from the simultaneous trial in a single way : the linguistic stimulus that accompanies these trials now exhorts the child to look at the screen that matches the linguistic stimulus . The linguistic stimulus , which describes one of the video events , is first heard during the 3-second intertrial interval that precedes the test trials and again during the test trials themselves so that the language , not merely the video , drives the looking response . For three of the four studies described here , the procedure of introducing the video events with sequential trials , next showing a simultaneous trial , and finally showing two test trials is repeated four times to test four different exemplars of the structure in question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocks of trials were presented . ) Linguistic Stimuli The linguistic stimuli for the test trials are given first during the intertrial interval that precedes the test trials and then during the test trials themselves . The rationale for presenting the linguistic stimulus during the intertrial interval is that by the time the intertrial interval that precedes the first test trial comes on the screen , the child has already had ample opportunity to observe the scenes on both screens . Depending on the particular study , the linguistic stimulus is presented either once or twice during each test trial . From pilot work it became clear that the linguistic stimulus should be present for the duration of the event to maximize the amount of time the infant looks toward the matching screen . All studies use " motherese " or child-directed speech produced by female voices . Although the use of child-directed speech has not been systematically manipulated as a variable , several research findings indicate that infants prefer to listen to child-directed rather than adult-directed speech ( Fernald 1985 ; Kemler Nelson et al . 1989 ; Cooper and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pegg , and McLeod 1994 ) . Further , despite the added linguistic complexity , all the linguistic stimuli are // full sentences . The rationale for the use of full sentences again comes from the literature on child-directed speech : young children are more likely to be addressed in sentences that are grammatically complete than sentences that are incomplete and grammatically incorrect ( Shipley , Smith , and Gleitman 1969 ) . Independent , Dependent , and Counterbalanced Variables The independent , dependent , and counterbalanced variables are more often than not the same across experiments . Independent Variables Typical between-subjects independent variables in these studies are age and sex . Sometimes children of the same age are also divided on the variable of linguistic level . The within-subjects variables are match versus nonmatch and stimulus . " Stimulus " refers to a pair of test events . Most of the studies have used four pairs of events to test the structure in question . Each pair is seen twice and the data are always averaged across these two trials to increase the reliability of children 's responses . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time in seconds ( measured to the tenth of a second ) the child spends watching the matching versus the nonmatching screen is the dependent variable . ' It is cumulated from the time that the child looks at the light between the screens for more than .30 seconds during the intertrial interval . Recall that the linguistic stimulus for a test trial is first heard during the intertrial interval that precedes it . By that time children have seen ( in most of our studies ) two sequential trials and one simultaneous trial , so they presumably know what events to expect on each screen . Thus , we have found that children look to the matching screen even before the test trials come on . Furthermore , analyses that began measuring the dependent variable during the intertrial interval or that measured only during the test trials had the same results . In order for a look at either screen to feed into the cumulation of visual fixation time , it must exceed .30 seconds , considered the lower limit on the observer 's reliable judgment of visual fixation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visual fixation time will be allocated to the matching than to the nonmatching event . Note that it is never hypothesized that the child will look exclusively at the matching screen . In fact , looking times are expected to be distributed between the two video events since , for control purposes , visual displays in a pair are designed , as much as possible , to contain equivalent activity , bright colors , and complexity . // Coding of the Dependent Variable Infants ' visual fixation responses are recorded either off-line ( and coded after the child 's visit ) or on-line by a hidden observer . Figure 3.1 depicts the off-line situation ; figure 5.1 the on-line situation . When visual fixation is coded off-line , the child 's viewing of the tape is recorded on another videotape by an observer manipulating a video camera whose lens protrudes slightly from between and below the two monitors . The observer , hidden from the child 's view , keeps the camera focused on the child 's face . After the child 's visit , a coder sets up the computer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record back without sound . The coder , blind to the sequence of matches the child has seen , depresses hand-held buttons that correspond to the left and right screens to record the child 's visual fixation on the tapes . The coder holds down the appropriate button for the duration of the child 's gaze at a screen ; both buttons simultaneously if the child looks to the center ; and neither button if the child looks at neither screen . A computer program , especially designed for the purpose of calculating the data and depicting them trial by trial , receives the output of the coder 's button presses . When visual fixation is coded on-line , the observer is behind the apparatus holding the visual fixation coding buttons . The observer can hear the audio but is blind to the sequence of matches the child is seeing . In both the on- and off-line cases , observers report that they can not keep track of the sequence of the matches ; capturing the direction and duration of the child 's gaze is all-consuming . Further , since sequential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no easy pattern of matches to be memorized . Interrater reliability was calculated in two ways because coders should agree on both the direction ( left , right , center , or away ? to neither screen ) of a child 's gaze and the duration of each look . Reliability was computed on data from the Delaware laboratory , which were coded off-line from videotapes . First , Cohen 's Kappa ( 1960 ) was computed to compare coders ' agreement for the direction of a child 's gaze . That is , two coders each coded the performance of 10 randomly selected children independently . A different set of random numbers was generated for each child 's data printout to allow us to sample 10 interspersed data points . The direction in which each coder thought the child was looking was recorded for each of these points . This was a very stringent way to measure reliability of coding gaze direction because it selected a single instant rather than measuring reliability during a whole event . Thus , although coders might have shown excellent agreement across any 6-second event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fail to agree on the single instant chosen . Cohen 's Kappa was calculated on these data . Its value was .771 with a standard error of .052 ( p @#@ .001 ) . This indicates an extremely high level of agreement between coders on the direction of a child 's gaze . Second , to compare coders ' agreement on the duration of each gaze ( when they agreed on its direction ) , the intraclass correlation coefficient ( ICC ) ( Shrout and Fleiss 1979 ) was used . Since coders agreed on 85 out of 100 gazes selected ( see above ) , data from 85 different gazes were entered into this analysis . ICC Model 2 was used so that we could generalize our results to a larger population of raters . The ICC was calculated to be .88 . Generally , an ICC above .75 is considered adequate ; an ICC of .90 is considered excellent . Since the 95% confidence interval for the ICC extends from .81 to .92 , the ICC of .88 obtained here indicates that observers show a high degree of agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two analyses were conducted on the data resulting from 6 randomly selected children who were tested in the Temple laboratory , where visual fixation is coded on-line . Cohen 's Kappa was .676 , with a standard error of .077 ( p @#@ .001 ) . The ICC was calculated to be .91 , with a confidence interval between .84 and .95 . This represents a high degree of agreement between coders . Since the confidence intervals from the two laboratories overlap , the ICCs do not differ statistically from each other . This means that on- and off-line coding yield the same high degree of reliability . Missing Trials Averaging across studies , approximately 3% of children 's trials are not included in the data analysis . Trials can be missed for two reasons . First , if a child fails to watch the center light for at least .30 seconds during the intertrial interval that precedes each test trial , that trial is not counted . Second , if a child looks at neither screen for the duration of a trial , that trial is not counted . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixation time to the matching and nonmatching screens across all the other test events is entered into the empty data cell . Counterbalanced Variables Five factors were counterbalanced in all experiments within a pair of videotapes . First , the first sequential trial ( see table 3.1 ) appeared half the time on the left screen and half the time on the right screen within the four ( or six ) blocks of trials . Second , the match occurred the same number of times on the left screen as on the right screen . Third , for half of the subjects tape I was shown in the left deck ; // for the other half of the subjects , it was shown in the right deck . This had the effect of producing two orders of the matching events that were mirror images of each other . Fourth , the linguistic message matched one stimulus of a test pair for half of the subjects and the other stimulus of a test pair for the other half . This was achieved by rerecording the audio message . Thus , if positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us to conclude that they are not a function of some peculiar synergism between the linguistic stimulus and the video event . Fifth , when a study required two actors on a screen , the left-right position of the actors was counterbalanced so that location on the screen could not serve as an artifactual cue to the matching screen . Matches always occurred in the order left-right-right-left ( or its mirror image ) to ensure that subjects were basing their performance on finding the match for the linguistic stimulus and not on ordering strategies . Orders avoided were a strict alternating pattern ( e.g. , left-right-left-right ) and starting out with two " winners " on the same side ( e.g. , left-leftright-right ) . Additional Experimental Controls Two additional controls were built into the studies . First , the parent ( usually the child 's mother ) wears a visor so as not to be able to see the stimuli and unwittingly influence the looking patterns of the infant . The observers who code infants ' eye fixations ( either on- or off-line ) discard the data from any child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ videotapes . Second , the parent sits facing forward with uncrossed legs , having been instructed not to speak to the child so as not to unduly bias the infant 's looking preference . Apparatus and Lighting All equipment except for the two 20-inch color monitors is shielded from the child 's view . The videotapes ( filmed with a Newvicon 3150 color video camera ) are shown on either Z " or 4 " video decks , at the Temple and Delaware laboratories , respectively . The linguistic stimulus , dubbed onto the first channel of the videotape , is shunted to an audio speaker between the two monitors ( see figure 3.1 ) . Thus , infants can not find the match by looking at the monitor that plays the linguistic message . Videotapes have two auditory channels . The first channel contains the linguistic message the child hears . The second , inaudible channel contains a I - kHz tone recorded 19r the duration of each trial . Thus , when any of // the three types of trials is playing , the tone is on ; when there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tone is off . These tones are " read " by a speccially designed tone decoder that has two functions : ( 1 ) it turns the light on during the intertrial intervals and off during the trials ; and ( 2 ) it signals the beginning and end of each trial to the computer ( an Apple 2e ) , which has been programmed to compile a record of each child 's looking responses throughout all trials and the intertrial intervals . The output from the observers ' button presses enters the computer through the game port control panels . Ambient lighting in the testing room is kept dim to heighten the salience of the monitors , minimize other distractions , and maximize attention to the screens . Although overall attention to the videotapes can be affected by the ambient lighting ( as a serendipitous difference in lighting between the Temple and Delaware laboratories revealed ; see chapter 5 ) , these overall differences in visual fixation do not affect looking preferences to the matching screen . Subject Solicitation Subject families for all experiments were found through birth announcements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explaining the project and then by phone to set up an appointment . All appropriate human subjects procedures were employed . Parents were fully informed about the purpose of the study and signed a release form at the laboratory before testing began . After their visit parents received a letter thanking them for their participation . Later they received another letter summarizing the results of the study . Procedure The children came to our university laboratories , where they first played with an experimenter using a small set of toys . For some of the studies ( as will be detailed below ) , items relevant to the tapes they were about to see were among the toys used . While the child played , the parent heard an explanation of the research . The parent signed a human subjects release form and then filled out the Rescorla Language Inventory ( 1991 ) . The latter requires checking off the words that the child understands or produces ( depending on the child 's age ) from a large set of words commonly produced by 3-year-olds . ( Depending on the child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not expected to know more than a subset of the words . ) The parent was also asked to report examples of the longer word combinations that the child used . Children 's utterances during the laboratory visit were recorded by an experimenter // so that they could be crudely classified as one- , two- , or three-word speakers . The parent was then asked to put on a tennis visor that was to be pulled down to block vision during the actual testing . Putting the visor on in the playroom removed some of the novelty of the " hat " s'o that it did not distract the child 's attention during testing . The vast majority of parents complied readily with the request to keep the visor over their eyes during testing . Parents sat facing forward with uncrossed legs and were asked to keep their children centered on their lap and not to speak to them during the - video presentation . If the child seemed to want to get off the parent 's lap , the parent was told to say something neutral to the child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ darkened the laboratory , started the two videotapes , and left the room . Testing was discontinued at any point if the child became fussy or upset . Finally , the parent and child were invited to see the experimental tapes immediately after each test was completed . Subject Loss Our subject losses in this procedure parallel those found in other studies of infant development and , in particular , in other studies that use visual fixation as a dependent variable ( e.g. , Cohen and Oakes 1993 ) . Although this procedure has an advantage in that it often utilizes movement in its visual displays , infants are notoriously difficult subjects . Although subject loss information will be given for each experiment , we describe here the criteria used for discarding data . The most obvious reason to discard a child 's data was fussiness . Clearly , this decision required a judgment call . In our view , the goal was for the child and parent to have a positive experience . If the child persevered in leaving the parent 's lap or , began to squirm and/or cry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was equipment failure or experimenter error . For example , an experimenter who observed the testing from behind the parent and child discarded the child 's data if the tapes were not well synchronized ( i.e. , one tape in a pair came on before the other ) . Data were also discarded from any child who showed a preference for one screen that exceeded 75% of the total looking time or who watched the tapes less than 35% of the time ( these criteria were calculated by the software ) ; from any child whose parent watched the tapes ; and from any child who failed to return to the central fixation point on more than 33% of the trials in a given experiment . Failure to return to the central fixation point might // imply that the child was watching the same screen ( perhaps in a daze ? ) 1 across several trials . Of course , the possibility always exists that when children 's data are discarded for their failure to engage in the task , it is because they do not understand the linguistic stimuli . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies are not a homogeneous group . Their productive and receptive language varies widely , as do their visual fixation patterns . The experience level of the laboratory can also affect subject losses . For example , we lost more subjects in earlier studies because of experimenter error and equipment failure than in later studies . ( See , for instance , the differences in subject loss in experiments 1 and 2 in chapter 4. ) 3.4 Summary and a Look Ahead In this chapter we suggested that studies of language comprehension may offer researchers a unique view of the emergent language system and of the strategies that children use to discover their native language . In fact , comprehension procedures have a number of advantages over those that rely on production , not the least of which is that they allow the researcher to probe for particular language structures that are not yet produced . Despite these advantages , many comprehension studies have been plagued by having to rely on children 's compliance with requests for action . They have also been hampered by the inability to represent dynamic relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter in detail , avoids some of these pitfalls . It is a procedure that requires minimal action ( a looking response ) and that can portray dynamic relationships in a video format , thereby making available new ways to study the mapping between language and events . Across a number of experiments , in addition to those reported here ( e.g. , Naigles 1990 ; Fernald , McRoberts , and Herrera , in press ) , this paradigm has proven effective in unveiling young children 's hidden linguistic competencies . Yet the paradigm has its drawbacks , too . For one thing , only four to six pairs of stimuli can be examined in any study , given current designs and subject fatigue . Further , all stimuli are presented in a forced-choice procedure so that very few alternatives can be examined at a single time . Finally , the use of the paradigm requires a relatively complacent child . Nevertheless , as we will shown in the next three chapters , the paradigm can effectively make headway in revealing very young children 's sensitivities to structures in the language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word order , and subcategorization frames . Chapter 4 Infants ' Perception of Constituent Structure We have suggested that language learning is possible because children are biased to interpret input in particular ways . In chapter 2 we asked what presumptions current theories of language share with respect to the information required to get language learning off the ground . One presumption held by all theories is that , at the outset of language learning , children must be sensitive to constituent structure at a number of levels and to the fact that words combine into larger units over which the grammar operates . In this chapter we investigate infants ' sensitivity to constituent structure using the intermodal preferential looking paradigm presented in chapter 3 . As we will show , one-word speakers , as young as 14 months of age , seem to know that words presented in strings are not isolated units , but are part of larger constituents . As noted in chapter 2 , sentences are composed of subunits called phrases , like noun phrases and verb phrases ; these phrases are themselves composed of constituents called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be sensitive to the fact that the input is packaged into units like phrases , which determine meaning . Several examples illustrate the impact of constituent structure on language comprehension . First , consider the sentence " The big bus pushed the small car . " To interpret this sentence , a child must realize that the words combine in restricted ways to represent events in other words , that sentence meaning is not constructed from a random combination of these words . " Big cars " and " small buses " are not being referenced . Rather , constituent structure demands that the child focus on the " big bus " and the " small car . " Another example comes from ambiguous sentences . Here the same string of words ( e.g. , " She slipped on a sweater " ) can have two meanings , but the organizational packaging of a particular utterance , as in ( 1 a ) or ( 1 b ) , signaled by the prosody of the utterance , determines th , e particular meaning that should be imposed . // ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( on a sweater ) b . ( She ) ( slipped on ) ( a sweater . ) ( I a ) conjures up the sense of tripping over the sweater , whereas ( lb ) refers to getting dressed . A final example is provided by the ways in which constituents operate in the grammar . For instance , " the young boy with the black hair " is a single noun phrase and can therefore be moved as a unit ( 2a ? b ) or replaced by a single ( 2c ) . ( 2 ) a . The young boy with the black hair kissed the girl . b . The girl was kissed by the young boy with the black hair . c . He kissed the girl . Language is not organized serially ? as strings of isolated words ? but in terms of structural units . Speakers of English , for example , know " he " in ( 2c ) stands for the entire phrase " the young boy with the black hair " in ( 2a ) . Thus , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they must become aware of constituent structure , for only with that knowledge will they be able to derive meaning from form . Little is known about the child 's appreciation of constituent structure . On the production side , accounts of early utterances do at least provide a glimpse into the syntactic structure used by young talkers . Bloom ( 1990 ) , for example , found that children from 18 to 34 months of age respect constituent structure in their first spontaneous utterances . Even the youngest children in the study seemed aware that adjectives like " big " can precede common nouns like " dog " but not proper nouns like " Fred . " Thus , children do not utter possible but ungrammatical noun phrase constituents like " big Fred , " but from the start they do produce grammatical noun phrases like " big dog . " Valian ( 1986 ) also argues that young children ( mean age = 2 years ) appreciate constituent structure since the children in her study used forms like " one " and " it " to represent fuller noun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these children were aware that the " it " and " one " forms were coreferential with full noun phrases . On the comprehension side , however , little is known about the assumptions that preverbal infants or one-word speakers make about constituent structure as they listen to language input . In this chapter we specifically address this gap and examine whether children 's comprehension is guided by knowledge of constituent structure or whether leaner interpretations of their apparent comprehension of simple sentences are in order . Three // questions frame the discussion . First , do prelinguistic children know that words " go together " or form units ? Second , do children know which words in the sentence form units ? And finally , if the answer to the first two questions is yes , we can ask the third : do children understand that words that form units map to specific events in the world ? Regardless of how any particular language carries out the mapping between language and the world ( e.g. , Japanese puts the action ? the verb at the end of the sentence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expectation that such mapping occurs must , at some implicit level , be present for grammatical learning to proceed . The first question , whether preverbal infants know that words in a sentence somehow form units , is the focus of much current research ( Fernald 1991 ; Hirsh-Pasek , Tucker , and Golinkoff , 1995 ) . Indeed , recent evidence suggests that by 72 months infants can locate words in the speech stream ( Jusczyk and Aslin , in press ) . Evidence is also mounting that during the first year of life children seem to be sensitive to the acoustic cues that indicate the major constituent boundaries of clause and phrase ( Jusczyk et al . 1992 ) . In these experiments 9-month-old infants demonstrated their preference for intact prosodic envelopes of both noun and verb phrases . They attended longer to stimuli in which 1-second pauses were inserted at the natural noun and verb phrase boundaries than to stimuli in which 1-second pauses were placed within noun or verb phrases , where they do not ordinarily occur in child-directed speech ( Bernstein Ratner 1995 ; Fernald 1991 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the experimenters used filtered speech that removed the linguistic segments suggests that infants were probably relying solely on acoustic cues to the phrasal units . Just what this acoustic finding means with respect to what infants know about linguistic constituent structure is unclear . At minimum , these results suggest that infants in the first year of life are able to detect at least the breaks between constituents and possibly even the organizational packaging in the input . They say nothing about whether infants know ( 1 ) which words go together to form units or ( 2 ) that linguistic units map to events in the world . The importance of the findings by Jusczyk et al . ( 1992 ) is clear , however , in that they indicate that infants can find constituents in the linguistic stream even if these constituents initially " hang together " exclusively on shared prosodic features . Later the infant may become capable of looking within these acoustic units to discern the distributional dependencies they contain and how // these acoustically defined units map to events in the world . This possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a feature of the coalition framework developed in chapter 7 . The evidence regarding the second question , whether infants know which words in sentences form units , is scant but suggestive . Earlier we described the work of Bloom ( 1990 ) and Valian ( 1986 ) , both of whom found that toddlers have knowledge of constituent structure by the latter half of the second year of life . Additional support for these claims comes from the work of Gerken and her colleagues ( Gerken , Landau , and Remez 1990 ) . Although infants often omit closed-class items in their own speech , Gerken , Landau , and Remez ( 1990 ) and Gerken and McIntosh ( 1993 ) report that by 2 years of age infants nonetheless expect to find these units in the speech they hear and are surprised when they are missing or altered . Using an elicited imitation task , Gerken found performance was disrupted when functors like " the " and " was , " which indicate noun phrases and verb phrases , respectively , were omitted from the sample sentences , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of phrase . Thus , it appears that by 2 years of age ? if not sooner ( see Bloom 1990 ) infants know what kinds of words typically form units in the speech they hear . If 2-year-olds show evidence of having performed distributional analyses " within " previously identified acoustic constituents , perhaps even younger children recognize when words in an acoustic constituent go together to make up a joint meaning . The experiment described in this chapter examines infants ' ability to find meaning in the verb phrase in sentences . The third question presumed by any study of constituent structure is the mapping question : when do children first realize that language " refers " ? or that constituents of language should map onto some meanings ? Golinkoff , Mervis , and Hirsh-Pasek ( 1994 ) claim that by the end of the first year of life infants are already guided by what they call the " Principle of Reference " : namely , words can be mapped onto children 's representations of objects , actions , or attributes in the environment . Obviously , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " map , " concepts that have proven notoriously difficult for philosophers , linguists , and psychologists alike . Equally mysterious is the nature of the mapping relation between words and referents in the environment . As Gauker ( 1990 ) points out , a word does not refer just because presentation of a specific object or event elicits its production . For example , one can say " Pikes ! " each time one sees a particular cat , but that is not // necessarily the same thing as referring to the cat . " Yikes " could merely be an emotional reaction ; it could also be a trained associate ( as in pairedassociate learning ) . Suffice it to say that a word ( or group of words ) that is used to make reference is a phonological shape that has an arbitrary relationship to the concept it represents ( Lyons 1977 ) . " Mapping " refers to the symbolic relationship between the word ( be it spoken or signed ) and the event or object it represents . The problem is figuring out how the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Put another way , how does the form come to symbolize , or stand for , the referent and not just " go with " it , as in a paired-associate relationship ? It is very difficult , indeed virtually impossible , to diagnose a clear-cut case of linguistic reference in young children , although much research on early lexical development shows that infants appear to comprehend and produce some words as early as 12 months of age ( Benedict 1979 ; Nelson 1973 ; Clark 1994 ; Huttenlocher 1974 ; Barrett 1995 ) . If infants operate with the Principle of Reference , it should be possible to show that words affect their attention , perception , categorization , and memory for events differently than do other acoustic stimuli . This is because if words bear a " stands for " rather than a " goes with " relationship to referents , they should make referents more distinct and promote categorical thinking . In general , the research supporting the Principle of Reference is sparse and somewhat contradictory ( see Golinkoff , Mervis , and Hirsh-Pasek 1994 ) . Waxman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words against sine wave tones of the same duration and amplitude in a categorization task with infants aged 9 months . Only when a word , and not a tone , accompanied slides of animals did infants appear to form a category by watching an out-of-category object longer at test . Even if future research shows unequivocally that words are interpreted as symbols by infants , it is logically possible to know that a single word can label an object or event but not to integrate the meaning of a string of words in a sentence . For example , an infant could know the meanings of the words " dog , " " boy , " and " kiss " in a sentence such as " The dog kisses the boy " but not recognize that the separate word meanings taken together describe a unique event . And yet all theories of language acquisition build upon the child 's ability to find a mapping between words and the world . Unfortunately , little is known about when young children make the assumption that groups of words work together to represent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to imagine that young // children around the end of the first year of life , in the single-word period , would , as one of Slobin 's ( 1973 , 1985a , b ) principles predicts , process only the first word or the last word heard . On this account the child might only notice the word " dog , " with no understanding of the fact that the following word , " kisses , " had anything to do with the dog . Indeed , as Sachs and Truswell ( 1978 ) point out , many researchers have argued that in most everyday situations , young children do not need to integrate various words from an utterance in order to interact appropriately in a conversational situation . Many investigators ( e.g. , Bloom , 1973 , 1974 ; Clark , Hutcheson , and Van Buren , 1974 ) have suggested that children in the one-word stage who appear to understand more than they can say may typically be responding on the basis of a key word or cues from the situational context . ( p. 17 ) Bloom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not integrate words in sentences to form units until they themselves are producing multiword speech ( see also Atkinson 1985 ) . Bloom writes : Before the use of syntax in their speech , children have little if any knowledge of linguistic structure ( p. 20 ) and ... when a sentence is redundant with respect to the context in which it occurs , then the amount of information which the child needs to get from the linguistic message is probably minimal . ( p. 59 ) Alternatively , if some of the lexical items in a sentence are known , and if sentences are seen as specifying particular relationships in the world , children might be able to do more than just notice a key word and rely on context . The extreme version of this position would be that of McNeill , ( 1970 ) , who claims that new grammatical relations are constantly emerging , even during the one-word stage . Without crediting the child with syntactic or grammatical relations ( e.g. , subject of the sentence ) , however , it is possible to assume an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they may expect the items in a sentence that they hear to map in some particular way to the world . Thus , upon hearing the sentence " The dog is kissing the boy , " children might expect to observe an event in which the boy is being kissed as opposed to just being present in the scene . If children are integrating words in the sentence to derive a semantic representation , then they should not consider a scene in which something other than the boy is being kissed to be an accurate portrayal of the sentence . In sum , then , we have asked three questions pertinent to the experiment to be described in this chapter , and we can answer them as follows . First , it appears that infants in their first year of life can isolate the units of language in ways that would make attention to constituent structure // possible . Second , at least by the middle of the second year , toddlers have some appreciation of which words within these constituents ordinarily form units ( e.g. , " the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also some evidence in the literature to suggest that by the end of the first year of life , infants have achieved the insight of reference , or the principle that single words map to objects , actions , and attributes . What is still unclear , however , is whether infants interpret sentences as if groups of words function together as units of meaning , to specify particular relationships in the world . Moreover , very little is known about infants ' sensitivity with respect to which words go together to form a constituent . For example , upon hearing an admittedly odd sentence like " She 's kissing the keys , " do infants know that the words predicate a particular nonlinguistic relationship ? That is , do they know that a scene that depicts some keys on a table , and a woman kissing something that is not keys , would not represent the gist of the sentence ? The experiment to be described here was designed to investigate this fundamental property of constituent structure . 4.1 Experiment 1 : Can Infants Perceive Constituent Structure ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether children producing only a few single-word utterances appreciate the fact that language maps to particular ongoing events . To have this knowledge implies that children have isolated linguistic constituents ( not just the acoustic counterparts of such constituents ) , appreciate that word groups map to unique events , and can identify which groups of words ( in the present case , the verb phrase ) form a semantic unit . To comprehend language and to build a grammar , the child must have such knowledge , being capable of more than just noting key words and relying on nonlinguistic context . Thus , the null hypothesis is that infants especially at the beginning of single-word speech ? are unable to integrate word meanings within the sentence . Consistent with Bloom 's ( 1973 ) argument , the ability to map sentences to events may come only when children have achieved some degree of productive language . In stark contrast , our hypothesis was that young children are capable of finding constituents larger than the single word in the sentence and can make a reasonable guess about which words go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sentence attend to single words or to larger units that is , whether infants are sensitive to constituent                     