@@773867

txt Colon Therapy only gravity pressure , are well documented throughout history . About 1500 B.C. , accounts of the ancient Egyptians using a reed to introduce aqueous substances into the body via the rectum were documented in work called the Ebers Papyrus . The use of enemas was described by two ancient Greek physicians . In the fourth century B.C. , Hippocrates mentioned the use of enemas as a treatment to reduce fever . Galen , a physician and writer during the second century B.C. , referred to the use of enemas . During the time of the Roman Empire , noble citizens of Rome , with their obsession for baths , found the enema to be a kind of internal bath . In the New Testament references are made to the Escene 's use of reeds and gourds to administer enemas . They used the procedure to cleanse the body which they believed to be a temple for the soul . The large intestine , which starts at the end of the small intestine , consists of three sections : cecum ( blind pouch where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large intestine serves several purposes , one of its major functions is to absorb water from the liquid residue of digested food that empties into it . The colon , which extends from the cecum to the rectum , is made up of three connected segments totaling some five feet in length . The ascending colon extends up the right side of the abdomen , the transverse colon runs horizontally across the abdomen , and the descending colon extends down the left side of the abdomen and then turns toward the center of the body . As water is absorbed by the colon , the fecal matter is formed into solid stools and moves toward the rectum by muscular contractions called peristalsis . It is then discharged from the body through the anal opening . In a true carnivore ( meat eater ) , such as lion , the colon is very short in comparison to that of a human . This allows the meat eaten by a carnivore to be out of its body before it has had time to putrefy , usually 24 hours or less . In humans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Because the typical diet of modern-day industrialized societies is low in fiber and high in mucoid-forming foods such as meats and fats , the once watery residue becomes " slimy " as moisture is absorbed , and its rate of movement through the large intestine is slowed down . The slimy medium then becomes " glue like " as more moisture is removed from it . Colon Therapy theory maintains that this gluey substance forms a layer along the colon wall as it passes through . Peristalsis can cause the colon wall to fold over on itself , forming pockets called diverticula that trap the gluey substance . Over a period of time , layer upon layer of gluey , putrefied feces build up in the colon , often becoming tough and rubbery . This " lining " in the colon of stagnant decaying matter causes a condition called autointoxication . Colon Therapy Autointoxication is a process whereby toxins produced by the decaying matter are released into the bloodstream and make their way to all parts of the body ; the body literally poisons itself . Colon therapists believe this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancer . The reason fiber is so important in the diet is that it roughs up this gluey substance and " sweeps " it on through the large intestine . Without fiber in the diet , or without Colon Therapy , the tough rubbery lining of the colon will continue to build up . Autopsies have shown a colon that was nine inches in diameter with a passage through it no larger than a pencil . Another autopsy revealed a colon full of stagnant decaying matter that weighed nearly 40 pounds . In many naturopathic modalities , Colon Therapy is integral to the healing process because of autointoxication . Although Colon Therapy is not a specific cure for any disease , colon therapists believe that it helps the body overcome difficulties more readily by removing a source of toxins , thus allowing its natural healing ability to function properly . There are two different approaches to Colon Therapy , or colon cleansing , each using the opposite end of the alimentary canal to accomplish its task . The first approach is the introduction of water into the rectum and colon by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach utilizes herbs and other organic and inorganic substances , taken orally , to cleanse the colon . Colonic irrigation is a therapeutic process used to loosen and remove accumulated , stagnated waste from the colon , and detoxify the system . Filtered water under gentle pressure flows into the rectum until the colon is filled . The colon therapist massages the colon through the abdomen to help break up the accumulated glue-like material on the colon walls . The therapist can also massage foot reflexology points . The water is then allowed to flow out , the waste flushed out and removed . This process is repeated many times during the session which generally lasts 45-60 minutes . Although plain water is customarily used , herbs and other substances can be added to adjust the acid/alkaline balance in the colon to maintain and encourage the growth of " friendly " bacteria . Enemas containing a variety of substances such as herbs , wheatgrass , bentonite , and clay can also be used therapeutically . Proponents of the Gerson Therapy , in fact , believe that coffee enemas cause stimulation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excretion of toxic bile . Although there are some units manufactured for home use , professional colonic irrigation requires specialized equipment which costs several thousands of dollars and requires a trained operator to Color Therapy administer . Because of the threat of the transmission of AIDS and other diseases , the design of modern colonic irrigation machines allow critical parts to be sterilized . Additionally , disposable hoses and speculums are available . Because a colonic irrigation can only reach about half of the large intestines ' five feet of length , a more complete method of colon cleansing is the ingestion of certain herbs , combinations of herbs , or certain other organic and inorganic substances . These ingested remedies work to soften , loosen , break up or dissolve the stagnant , hardened mucoid material build-up in the colon . The use of bentonite and pumice ( special types of volcanic ash ) , some varieties of clay , and psyllium seed are very effective in removing stagnant material . To be most effective , any type of Colon Therapy works better with a change in dietary habits . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fruits and vegetables and less mucus-producing foods such as meat and dairy products . Two good books on the subject are The Colon Health Handbook : New Health Through Colon Rejuvenation by Robert Gray , and Healing Within : The Complete Colon Health Guide by Stanley Weinberger . For additional information contact the National Colon Therapists Association or the California Colon Hygienists Society . Color Therapy Color Therapy , or Color Healing , is the therapeutic use of various forms of color and light for physical , emotional , and spiritual benefit to the human body . Color Healing can be traced back to ancient Egypt , and other premodern societies . Egyptian priests left manuscripts showing their system of color science , and Indian and Chinese mystics had knowledge of color in their secret doctrines . In ancient Egypt and Greece , color temples were built with seven compartments , each containing one of the seven colors of the rainbow . People were brought to the temples and put into specific compartments , depending on their need , for physical healing and spiritual uplifting . Pythagoras , the Greek mathematician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Isaac Newton developed the first valuable theory of color when he admitted sunlight through a prism . Newton established the presence of seven basic colors in the spectrum . For centuries the healing profession has recognized that color is a force of immeasurable and infinite power , exerting a tremendous Color Therapy psychological and physiological influence on people . In Europe during the late 1800s and early 1900s , psychologists working in mental hospitals researched the effect of color on patients . By utilizing different colored walls and lights it was found that depressive patients put into rooms with red or bright yellow walls , and hyperactive patients put into rooms with blue or green walls , were both calmed by the respective colors . Black is a color associated with tragedy and death . Blackfriars Bridge , in London , was a gloomy black structure known for its high rate of suicide . After the bridge was painted green , the suicide rate declined by one-third . The use of color has numerous applications in industry . Experiments have shown that muscular reaction time is much quicker under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application on an assembly line . The colors used on factory walls and machinery affect employee morale , efficiency , absenteeism , and accident rate . In sports , a locker room painted in colors on the red side of the spectrum is known to stimulate the team members . Uniform color can also influence a team 's performance , thus , many professional football teams use red or orange as some part of the team colors . Color is used extensively in interior design to create a certain feeling or mood , and to influence behavior . For example , red rooms cause an overestimate of time . This is a particularly effective color for restaurants that want to make an individual feel she has spent more there time than she actually has . This allows the restaurant to seat more people in a given time period . Restaurants and food processors use color to make food more attractive and appetizing . It has been suggested that consuming naturally colored foods and beverages is an excellent way of getting color into the body for the improvement of health . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Exposure to a color and its vibrations can be used to assist the body 's natural healing and recuperative powers to achieve and maintain health and well being . There are seven natural colors in the visible light spectrum ( rainbow ) : red , orange , yellow , green , blue , indigo , and violet . Each color vibrates at its own individual frequency . In Color Therapy each color corresponds to one of the seven chakras ( energy centers in the body ) which in turn can influence a specific gland , organ , or tissue of the body . For example , the color red , which corresponds to the root or base chakra , can be used for problems with the adrenal glands , kidney , and bladder . A color therapist may use a variety of methods to influence healing . Connective Tissue Massage Some of these include immersion in colored light , wearing colored clothing and/or underwear , eating certain colored foods , drinking water that has been in a colored glass , or wearing colored eye glasses . Color Therapy is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science of healing and rejuvenation . The healing properties of certain basic natural colors are used to treat imbalances of the three doshas or tridoshas which are the forces that govern all the functions of the body , mind , and consciousness . We all use Color Therapy whether we are aware of it or not . Color is an integral part of our life , woven into virtually every facet of it . We choose the color of the clothing we wear , the color of the car we drive , the color of the walls , furniture , carpet and towels in our homes . All of these colors have a psychological and physiological effect on our daily lives . There are numerous books available on the use of color for healing . Many books dealing primarily with other subjects such chakras and Ayurveda contain sections dealing with Color Therapy . Two good books are The Ancient Art of Color Therapy by Linda Clark , which covers the subject in general , and Ayurveda : The Science of Self-Healing by Dr. Vasant Lad , which has a section on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connective Tissue Massage or Bindegewebsmassage is a type of German bodywork . It is a non-invasive , specialized massage technique used to relieve pain and treat a wide variety of problems . Connective Tissue Massage was developed in Germany by Elizabeth Dicke . Suffering from a serious medical problem , Dicke was facing amputation of one leg . Unwilling to accept this consequence , she experimented with different types of massage on herself and discovered a new technique which eventually cured her . Dicke found that dragging a crooked finger , with a fairly light pressure , through the skin and connective tissue in one area of the body had an effect on a distant site . In other words , if you stimulate a specific area on the skin it will affect the tissues and internal organs in distant areas of the body . She later devised a system for treating various illnesses and organic imbalances as well as structural problems through the use of this technique . Connective Tissue Massage works on a principle similar to trigger points ( hypersensitive areas in the muscle and connective tissue which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " refers " a sensation of pain to some other part of the body . This neuromuscular mechanism CranioSacral Therapy is the result of nerve connections that developed embryologically between the skin , muscles and internal organs . The technique consists of the massage therapist subtly hooking her fingers into the skin and superficial connective tissue while performing a dragging or pulling stroke that somewhat stretches the skin . Connective Tissue Massage leaves a visible mark that looks somewhat like an abrasion or burn , but which goes away without leaving a scar . Research has shown that Connective Tissue Massage may tend to stimulate the parasympathetic nervous system which relaxes the body and is also responsible for pain relief and healing in the body . Connective Tissue Massage is a well developed physical therapy technique in Germany , and in some parts of Europe it is considered a medical technique . In the United States , the technique is taught at various massage schools , and the technique is part of the armamentarium of many qualified massage therapists . For additional information on Connective Tissue Massage , consult A Manual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) " Bindegewebsmassage " by E. Dicke , H. Schliack , and A. Wolff ( Scarsdale , New York : Sidney S. Simon , 1978 ) . CranioSacral Therapy CranioSacral Therapy is a gentle , non-invasive , hands-on manipulative technique that helps to detect and correct imbalances in the CranioSacral System , which may cause various sensory , motor , or intellectual dysfunctions . The CranioSacral System is a physiological system found in the human body and in animals that have a brain and spinal cord . It is comprised of the brain , spinal cord , cerebrospinal fluid , cranial dural membrane , cranial bones , and the sacrum . It is a closed hydraulic system that moves with slight but perceptible rhythmic fluctuation . Early in the 1900s , William G. Sutherland , an osteopathic student in Kirkland , Missouri , was struck by an idea . He observed that certain bones in the skull had a distinct bevel . He reasoned that these skull bones were designed to move in relation to one another . For more than 20 years Dr. Sutherland contemplated movable skull bones in adult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of his head with a helmet-like device . During these experiments his wife would describe his reactions to the different duration and intensity of pressure . He then developed a system of examination and treatment for the bones of the skull . Sutherland 's system became known as Cranial l'I bpi CranfoSacrad Therapy Osteopathy . Although patient success was recorded , sometimes even miraculous , it acquired a cultist reputation . Because it was not well understood , it became somewhat of an embarrassment to the Osteopathic Medical profession . In 1970 John E. Upledger , D.O. , F.A.A.O. , while observing neck surgery , noted the rhythmic movement of a membranous boundary of what appeared to be a fluid system . Neither medical books nor colleagues could explain his observation . Then in 1972 , while attending a seminar on Sutherland 's Cranial Osteopathy techniques of evaluation and treatment , Dr. Upledger put the pieces together . He understood how a fluid system could function within a membrane sac encased in the skull and the spinal column canal . This became known as the CranioSacral System . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and contracts as a means of transporting cerebrospinal fluid throughout the brain and spine . Through this mechanism of pumping and draining , nerve cells continually receive a fresh supply of nutrients to keep them healthy , similar to the way muscles receive nutrients via the bloodstream . At Michigan State University in 1975 , Dr. Upledger and a team of researchers set about to establish a scientific basis for a CranioSacral System and explain the function of the system in both practical and scientific terms . They showed how the system could be used to evaluate and treat innumerable health problems . CranioSacral Therapy is used by many health care professionals including medical doctors , dentists , chiropractors , osteopaths , physical therapists , acupuncturists , occupational therapists , and licensed bodyworkers . Evaluation and treatment of the patient can be accomplished by hand palpation . Although all the bones of the spine and pelvis can be used for examination , CranioSacral motion is most easily felt in the bones of th e skull , sacrum , and coccyx because they are attached to the membranes which encase the cerebrospinal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ System can be felt as clearly as the rhythms of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems ; ) The positive effects of CranioSacral Therapy are dependent to a great extent upon the practitioner 's ability to sense and follow the subtle movements of the CranioSacral System . Through light touch and gentle manipulations , the practitioner makes subtle adjustments to release tension within this intricate system ; this aids the body 's inherent , selfcorrective physiological activities to help the CranioSacral System work more efficiently . CranioSacral therapists use CranioSacral Therapy to treat a host of CramoSacral Therapy health problems . They frequently combine it with neck or spine therapy to help relieve headaches , stiffness in the neck and spine , and whiplash . It can also be used to alleviate TMJ ( Tempromandibular Joint ) syndrome , ear and eye problems , balance or learning difficulties , dyslexia , hyperactivity , and others . It is especially beneficial for those who have had a head or neck injury ( car , sports , falls , work accidents ) . More advanced practitioners of CranioSacral Therapy can utilize an effect known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ release a specific trauma by recreating the same position it was in when the trauma occurred . Once the tension is released , the dysfunctional or painful part of the body is returned to its normal state . Unwinding acts like a self-correcting mechanism . Practitioners discovered that the unwinding effect occurs spontaneously if they are able to physically support the client and follow his movement while , at the same time , maintaining contact with the client 's CranioSacral rhythm . Unwinding can occur in any position such as sitting , standing , etc . For the sensitive practitioner , following the client 's movements and staying in touch with his CranioSacral rhythm simultaneously can be like Tai Chi Chuan movements or dancing . This process requires a certain amount of agility and a great deal of sensitivity on the part of the practitioner . If the client perceives that the practitioner is following his movements accurately , he will go into the unwinding and release these traumas . Also , during the unwinding process , there is frequently some emotional realization or memory triggered at the moment the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurred . As the energy stored in the body from the trauma begins to release , its blocking effect which causes dysfunction begins to unravel . For additional information which explain in detail the functioning of the CranioSacral System , consult the three textbooks written by Dr. Upledger : CranioSacral Therapy , CranioSacral Therapy II , and SomatoEmotional Release and Beyond . The Upledger Institute offers workshops to train healthcare professionals such as physicians , chiropractors , massage therapists , physical therapists , and others in the benefits of CranioSacral Therapy . To locate licensed health care professionals who are alumni and incorporate CranioSacral Therapy into their practice , contact the Upledger Institute . In addition , the Upledger Institute maintains the HealthPlex Clinic at their Palm Beach Gardens , Florida , headquarters which offers various health care programs . For additional information contact the Upledger Institute . Creative Arts Therapy Creative Arts Therapy Creative Arts Therapy , used in the field of mental health treatment , is a non-verbal , non-threatening type of therapy based on natural forms of patient expression . It includes music therapy , dance therapy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The nature of many patients ' inner conflicts makes verbal communication extremely difficult . With Creative Arts Therapy patients can choose such media as voice , instrument , dance , fine arts , poetry , or drama to create , to learn , to express themselves , and to heal . Cross-Fiber Friction Massage Cross-Fiber Friction Massage is a massage technique in which the massage therapist applies friction to the muscle by rubbing across or perpendicular to the muscle fibers . Skeletal muscle is comprised of fibers , grouped into bundles , that all run in the same direction . This is called striated muscle . Most other massage techniques stroke the muscle in same direction as the fibers . Also called Deep Transverse Friction Massage , the technique was developed by English orthopedist Dr. James H. Cyriax . Cross-Fiber Friction massage is classified as a deep-tissue massage . Cross-Fiber Friction Massage also falls into the category of a mechanical proprioceptor reset . Proprioceptors are neurological receptive mechanisms ( sensory receptors ) located throughout the body . Found primarily in the soft tissue , proprioceptors function at the subconscious level to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nervous system to the brain , which is then able to tell us exactly where our body is situated in space . Proprioceptors in soft tissues are continuously relaying information concerning the status of that soft tissue to the brain . The information includes the amount of pressure on the muscle , its state of contraction , how much tension is on the muscle tissue , etc . In essence , the proprioceptors relay essential information to the brain so that we can coordinate all the actions necessary for any movement we want to make . Some health care professionals believe the proprioceptors that control tension in the muscle and induce them to relax are directly stimulated by Cross-Fiber Friction Massage . Rubbing across the muscle tends to break up adhesions in the connective tissue ( fascia ) which permeates between the muscle fibers . It Cryotherapy also works well around the origin and insertion of the muscle . Cross-Fiber Friction Massage Technique is used extensively in physical therapy , sports massage , and as a treatment to prevent or reduce the formation of scar tissue . When a massage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muscle fibers is not appropriate for some reason , Cross-Fiber Friction Massage can be a useful technique because it offers another approach . In essence , the innate wisdom of the body intuitively knows what needs to be done to make it well or whole . Depending on the type of injury or physical ' problem Cross-Fiber Friction Massage can produce many benefits . In sports massage it is used on trigger points and to treat tendonitis . Muscle trauma or muscular tension from stress and other factors will cause a buildup of lactic and carbonic acid within the muscle . When these toxic waste products are not removed by the body , it results in a " knot " or painful spasm in the muscle . Massage increases blood circulation to a specific area which brings fresh oxygen and nutrients while it removes waste products . Cross-Fiber Friction Massage appears to help the muscle regain function and release the buildup of toxins more readily than some other massage techniques . One of the keys to successful massage therapy is using the right technique at the right time on the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this . It can be used alone or in combination with other massage strokes . Massage therapists who specialize in sports massage and physical therapists are two types of practitioners that utilize Cross-Fiber Friction Massage . Cryotherapy Cryotherapy , also known as Ice Therapy , is the application of cold to various parts of the body for therapeutic purposes . The source of the cold can range from immersion in ice water ( especially effective for the limbs ) to the application of ice cubes , crushed ice ( in containers ) or frozen commercial gel packs directly to the problem site . Additionally , an ice cube can be rubbed over an area to gradually numb it . The use of cold for treating physical problems has been in use since the time of Hippocrates . It has been a common practice to apply ice or cold cloths to the body or immerse the body in cold water to reduce fever and treat heat exhaustion . Many parents have rubbed the gums of teething children with ice or put ice on a minor burn to reduce discomfort and pain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crystal Therapy in effect for increasing circulation and relieving pain . Although the ice initially slows circulation and metabolism in the area of application , after it is removed a rapid recovery and circulatory increase takes place . Cryotherapy is especially effective in treating a trauma injury such as a sprained ankle . Quick application of ice after the incident lessens swelling , pain , and loss of range of motion . Ice is also useful to cool and reduce inflammation . Because of its numbing effect it can be used before certain types of deep muscle massage procedures to diminish discomfort . Ice used alternately with heat is extremely effective to increase circulation and " flush " an area . This flushing effect helps remove metabolic wastes and supplies oxygenated blood and nutrients to the area , speeding tissue growth and repair . The procedure always begins and ends with the application of ice . Usually ice is applied for 15-20 minutes , followed by the application of heat for 5-10 minutes and then ice for 15-20 minutes again . Because it is so effective , simple , and inexpensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily be used by individuals for self-care therapy . Crystal Therapy Crystal Therapy , sometimes referred to as Gem Therapy or Crystal Healing , is the use of quartz crystals , gemstones , and other types of crystals and stones for therapeutic and healing purposes . The use of stones and crystals are also used with chakra balancing and color therapy ( see elsewhere in this book ) . Crystals and gemstones , like the human body , are known to have electromagnetic energy . They emit vibrations and frequencies that have the very powerful potential to affect the whole being ? body , mind , and spirit . Throughout history people have been attracted to the beauty of various types of rocks , stones , crystals , and gems . It is natural for an individual to want to pick up a beautiful rock , stone , or crystal and carry it with him . Eventually it became known that certain types of crystals and stones had the potential to create or produce certain effects on the body . Jewels and precious stones have always possessed mystical qualities and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Native American tribes used crystal healing . In the United States during the early 1980s the crystal awareness phenomena swept across the country . People attracted to crystals and stone began to incorporate them into their daily life . Certain crystals Crystal Therapy and stones were worn on the body while others were used in the home to produce desired emotional effects . For self-healing and other beneficial effects , the energy vibrations and inherent healing properties of crystals and gemstones can be utilized in various ways . An individual might wear them as an ornament or jewelry , place loose crystals and stones directly on her body while sitting or lying down , keep them in her pockets , or have them in different rooms of her home and in her office . Crystals and stones make people feel good , and their beneficial effects may be due to a person 's belief that they will have positive effects on her . Crystals and gemstones are commonly incorporated into items such as necklaces , bracelets , rings , earrings , headbands , crowns , and head-pieces , belts and waistbands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be kept in a pouch and hung from the body . Crystal and gemstone jewelry is generally worn over the body 's energy meridians , and on or near the chakra points . This tends to open up and increase the flow of energy in the area that is either in direct contact with or in the immediate vicinity of the stone . Emotions are thought to be evoked by being near certain types of crystals . For example , rose quartz , a popular healing stone which corre sponds to the heart area of the body , when placed in various rooms throughout the home contributes to the thought of self-love and nurturing , while the stone pink tourmaline contributes to the dynamic expression of love . Many physical problems and diseases result from blockages of the Vital Life Energy within the body . Crystals and gemstones can be used to regulate the flow of energy in and around the human body . By removing the energy blocks and increasing the free flow of energy , balance is restored to the body 's energy system . This in turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the type of stone used , an individual can be calmed , revitalized , or have an inspiring or stimulat ing experience . In the ancient art of " laying-on of stones , " practitioners place crystals and gemstones on various parts of body , corresponding to chakra points , to balance energy flow . As an example , malachite ( a green stone composed of copper carbonate ) placed at the solar plexus will draw out suppressed emotions so that the heart chakra can open . Crystals and gemstones should be " cleared " before use , especially if they are to be used for healing . They can accumulate vibrations and other imprints from those individuals having previous contact with them . Sources such as sounds , light , emotions , thoughts , and the physical environment can leave their energy in the crystal . If the individual who previously had possession of the crystal was ill or had Dance Therapy very negative thoughts , these vibrations could be passed on to the next person using the crystal if it were not cleared . Clearing can be accomplished by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water , packing them in sea salt , passing them through a flame or smoke , holding them under running water , or burying them in earth for a period of time . Most work with crystals is done in a self-help ( healing and selfdevelopment ) context , although there are many practitioners that practice crystal healing . Many good books on the subject are available at bookstores and most libraries . Crystals and gemstones are readily available from a variety of sources , both retail and mail order . Dance Therapy Dance Therapy is a non-verbal , action-oriented method of helping people become aware of their feelings by experiencing the direct sensation of movement . The goal of Dance Therapy is to improve or restore the integration of body and mind , and to help an individual regain a sense of identity , and build self-esteem . It is used to aid and support verbal psychotherapy , physical therapy , and medical therapy . In 1966 the American Dance Therapy Association was founded to establish standards for professional education and qualifications for individuals who practice this therapy . Prior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would go through a trial-anderror process to develop a personalized method utilizing their own knowledge and experience . Today professional Dance Therapy training occurs on the graduate level . Studies include courses such as dance/movement therapy theory and practice , psychopathology , human development , observation and research skills , and a supervised internship in a clinical setting . Dance Therapy is used in a variety of settings including psychiatric hospitals , clinics , day care centers , community mental health centers , developmental centers , correctional facilities , special schools , and rehabilitation centers . Dance Therapy can be used to treat a variety of conditions including some geriatric related difficulties , physical disability , and behavioral problems such as psychosis , neurosis , autism , regression , and substance abuse . Elderly people who are confined to a bed or sit all day often suffer from loss of self-esteem . The dance therapist , by providing an opportunity for freedom of expression through movement , can help the person Deep 71ssue Massage improve her self-image and regain feelings of self-worth . Although there are many different Dance Therapy methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it creates a feeling of security and unity . A typical session begins with warm-up exercises then progresses into arm , wrist and finger movements set to appropriate music . These arm movements are derived from folk dances such as the Japanese fan dance . At the same time participants are encouraged to move the head , neck , and shoulders and to sway the body . Various props such as balls , fans , rhythm instruments , and scarves are used to give the participants an object they can manipulate or hold onto . The group may move around the room using simple steps like walking , jumping , hopping , sliding , or running . The session is ended by relaxing to slow , quiet movements . Many Dance Therapy methods use a " grouphug " as their finale . Dance therapists can be found throughout the United States , in Canada , Europe , South America , Asia , the Middle East , and Africa . Additional information on Dance Therapy can be obtained from the American Dance Therapy Association . Deep Compression Massage Deep Compression Massage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " action on the muscle . It is frequently used in sports massage . The technique involves alternate pushing into and releasing of the muscle by a massage therapist . Done in rapid succession , this inand-out action works the muscle like a pump and turns it into a kind of " heart . " Actually , all muscles act as a " heart " by moving blood when exercised . Deep Compression Massage is used to rapidly pump fresh blood to tendons , ligaments , and muscle bellies ( the large center portion of the muscle ) , and to remove adhesions . The main benefit of Deep Compression Massage is accelerated healing in areas of the body which normally do not get enough circulation . It is very invigorating and works well on athletes and non-athletes who have a large build-up of lactic acid in their muscles . Many massage therapists are trained in this technique and use it when appropriate . Deep Tissue Massage Deep Tissue Massage is a generic term for bodywork techniques that go into deep layers of muscle and connective tissue where aches , Deep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deep tissue work encompasses many different types of bodywork such as cross-fiber friction work , Rolfing , Deep Tissue Sculpting , Hellerwork , Chua Ka , and others . To be effective , this technique requires that the client 's muscle be profoundly relaxed so the therapist can work on tissue right down to the bone . Starting at the skin and going deeper into the body , each layer of muscle must be relaxed in order to reach the next lower layer . Although some practitioners try to force their way into the deep tissue , the deep layers can not be reached this way . Using a great deal of pressure causes the body to fight back by tensing the muscles and making them impenetrable . When the muscles are properly relaxed , a client often will not perceive the work as feeling " deep . " Deep Tissue Massage usually concentrates on " clearing out " a specific area of the body such as the feet , legs , back , arms , neck , or shoulders rather than being a full body type of massage such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is used to remove chronic muscular pain , help with injury rehabilitation , and reduce inflammation-type pain caused by ailments such as arthritis and tendonitis . By helping to remove accumulated lactic acid and other waste products from the muscles , deep tissue massage works to detoxify tissue . Lactic acid is a natural chemical byproduct of muscular contractions . An accumulation of lactic acid deep within a muscle causes soreness and stiffness if it is not removed . Although it can be used alone , some forms of deep tissue work are integrated with other massage techniques . Most massage therapists are able to perform some Deep Tissue Massage . Deep Tissue Sculpting Deep Tissue Sculpting , also referred to as Muscle Sculpting , is a form of bodywork ( deep tissue massage ) that is characterized by firm , constant compressions and strokes applied parallel to the muscle fibers . It is a sensitive yet penetrating system of therapeutic touch that produces effective , lasting relief of chronic muscular tension , and soft tissue pain and dysfunction . It can also evoke emotional release . Deep Tissue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orleans , Louisiana , in 1949 , she graduated from Louisiana State University , New Orleans , in 1971 . With a degree in secondary education , she taught English and journalism to public high school Deep T7issue Sculpting students . Osborne-Sheets ' introduction to " bodywork " began informally in 1972 . It started with what she calls " her love affair with the human anatomy . " Fascinated with the anatomical structure of her lover , including his bones , she began to explore the depths of his muscles and all the bumps and curves on his skeleton . She discovered that by applying pressure in a certain way , his skin and muscles seemingly melted and opened beneath her touch , and she could reach even greater depths into his body . Her interest in anatomy continued and spread to the study of friends and family members . As her investigation of the body continued , she worked on herself and studied anatomy books to learn more about what she had been examining . While exploring through the musculature for bones , Osborne-Sheets discovered that touch applied one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied another way would cause the musculature to seem to melt or dissolve under her touch . She then discovered that emotions were released when the body was touched in certain ways . Recipients became profoundly relaxed and serene as a result of this work . She began to realize that perhaps this was some type of massage she was performing . For several years prior , Gestalt and primal re-education had been part of Osborne-Sheet 's training at a center in New Orleans . It became a natural extension to begin blending her deep tissue work with the emotive work of the therapists . Although a high school teacher by day , she helped to facilitate primal release with her touch work in the evening . In 1974 Osborne-Sheets learned that the Arica Institute in New Orleans was teaching a type of bodywork called Chua Ka , which was similar to what she was doing . The information presented on this centuries-old self-massage technique enhanced what she already discovered on her own . With the help of classmate Barry Green she was able to pull together the various aspects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bodywork that Osborne-Sheets has used for the past 18 years . After moving to San Diego in 1976 to pursue her love of the body/ mind therapies full time , she studied Tai Chi Chuan , learned Swedish and Esalen style massage , underwent Rolfing , and satisfied her interest in passive joint movement by training with Milton Trager , M.D. In 1977 she co-founded with Barry Green the Institute of Psycho Structural Balancing or IPSB , later changed to the International Professional School of Bodywork . At that time the name " sculpting " was coined to label the related-yet-different systems of deep tissue work that Deep Tissue Sculpting had been synthesized from their various explorations . Osborne-Sheets has since taught deep tissue sculpting , integrative bodywork , and bodywork for the childbearing year throughout the United States and in Europe . Like other methods of deep tissue work , the techniques used in Deep Tissue Sculpting are intended to go beyond the skin level and get into the deeper structures of the musculoskeletal system , including connective tissue and muscles . Connective tissue surrounds , penetrates , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a semi-liquid matrix , or ground substance and two types of fibers . When a practitioner or " sculptor " applies pressure or traction to a muscle , the fiber component in connective tissue initially takes the load . If pressure is released quickly it springs back . If pressure is maintained over a more sustained period of time , 30-90 seconds , the force is absorbed by the ground substance . It is this substance which becomes movable and makes a permanent change in the tissue . When the pressure is relieved , the tissue does not spring back completely . To reach deeper layers , the sculptor uses her fingertips , knuckles , elbows , forearms , heels of hand , or any bony body part as tools . Deep Tissue Sculpting is most effective when it is used in conjunction with other forms of bodywork . With very few exceptions Deep Tissue Sculpting is performed without the use of oil . Exceptions include individuals with extremely dry skin , and individuals with a lot of body hair . In the case of body hair , the oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Through balancing and releasing of the connective tissue , Deep Tissue Sculpting is able to relieve tension in chronically tight musculature caused by injury , emotional upsets , or repetitive movements such as those performed by an assembly line worker , an athlete " pumping iron , " or a baseball pitcher . It is also a particularly effective way to release enduring emotional tension held in the body , the result of chronic and traumatic emotional states caused by a single or repeated emotional trauma . In addition to the technical procedures used , Deep Tissue Sculpting integrates an intuitive and/or artistic quality to working with the human body . This aspect of the work is necessary to access not only the physical , but the emotional , psychic , and spiritual response of the body as well . While the practitioner is applying pressure , that part of the client 's body is attuned to receive messages from the tissue . The muscle can reveal information about its tension , its resistance , and how it releases . Like an artist , the deep tissue sculptor begins by holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from . Then pressure is applied to areas of the body that are not within the parameters of the ideal configuration . Although the shoulder may be to high or the chest collapsed , pressure brings the body from its misaligned or disorganized state to one that is optimal . Deep Tissue Sculpting is especially helpful for people with whiplash injury , scoliosis ( lateral curvature of the spine ) , extreme lordosis ( swayback ) , postural deviations , short and tight muscles from athletics , and muscular tension and shortening of connective tissue due to chronic emotional problems . It is also used as an adjunct to psychotherapy . Psychotherapists often refer individuals under therapy to bodyworkers . Those with early childhood or later life traumas , and those with various addictions benefit from touch therapy to release stored energy . Deep Tissue Sculpting is taught at a number of massage schools throughout the country in either intensive or extended format . Level I consists of 28 hours of instruction , Level II is 36 hours . Carole Osborne-Sheets ' book , Deep Tissue Sculpting : A Technical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodywork professionals and not the layperson . It is available from Integrative Bodywork Consultants . For a referral to a practitioner of Deep Tissue Muscle Sculpting contact the International Professional School of Bodywork or Integrative Bodywork Consultants . DMSO Therapy DMSO Therapy is the use of a chemical compound known as dimethyl sulfoxide , abbreviated DMSO , for a wide variety of therapeu-tic purposes . The pharmaceutical grade of DMSO , when administered by a physician knowledgeable in its use , is a very effective and versatile compound which has been successfully adapted for use in the treatment of a number of health problems . Depending on the condition being treated , physicians can administer DMSO in various strengths and amounts ? orally , topically as a liquid or creme , or by injection either intramuscularly or intravenously . Dimethyl sulfoxide was first synthesized in 1866 by a Russian chem-ist named Alexander Saytzeff . In addition to its medicinal uses , DMSO is an excellent solvent . It has the ability to remove paint and varnish and dissolve many different types of plastics . It is also used in the manufac-ture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a cotton , wool , or leather . DMSO Therapy Chemists ' interest in DMSO was activated after World War II . In the late 1950s a chemist for Crown Zellerbach Corporation in Camas , Washington , a large paper manufacturer , was asked to find new commercial applications for a by-product of the company 's wood pulp manufacturing operation . The by-product was dimethyl sulfoxide . Zellerbach chemist Robert Herschler , while exploring agricultural uses for DMSO , noticed that some plant antibiotics and fungicides penetrated into the plant 's circulatory system more quickly and deeply when mixed with DMSO than they did on their own . Also , Herschler noticed that when he got DMSO on his hands , a funny oyster-like taste developed in his mouth . Several other observations of DMSO 's interesting properties led Herschler to think he was on to something . When Herschler 's superiors at Zellerbach were not interested in his " discovery , " he realized he needed someone to test DMSO in a clinical setting . Fortunately he met Stanley Jacob , M.D. , an assistant professor of surgery at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960s Dr. Jacob began experimenting with DMSO 's ability to carry substances into the body normally administered by injection , and its toxicity and side effects on laboratory animals . Since that time , thousands of studies appearing in numerous scientific publications , as well as abundant anecdotal evidence , have shown DMSO to be an amazing healing tool . Recently published research seems to show that DMSO delays or retards the growth of several types of cancer . Although approved for medical use in over 50 countries throughout the world , the use of DMSO in the United States is under intense scrutiny by the FDA . Currently DMSO is approved by the FDA for only one medical application : the treatment of a rare bladder condition . All other therapeutic uses of DMSO are not approved by the FDA . Currently , DMSO is used by a wide variety of people and age groups for a multitude of applications , from a young bodybuilder who is in excellent physical condition to an elderly arthritic who can barely walk . The therapeutic benefits from DMSO use are numerous . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide variety of causes , and reduces swelling and inflammation caused by arthritis , bursitis , tendonitis , and other musculoskeletal injuries . It " carries " other drugs into the body , avoiding the use of a hypodermic needle . It is a muscle relaxant . It softens scar tissue and soothes burns . It increases blood circulation in a local area by enlarging ( dilation ) the small blood vessels . DMSO is manufactured in two grades : pharmaceutical and industrial solvent . Only the industrial solvent grade is currently available over the counter . Almost every health food store in the United States carries the industrial solvent grade of DMSO . According to the vast amount of literature published , DMSO has Dong Diet been found to be a safe product . However , the application of 100% DMSO can sometimes cause skin irritation . A product commonly found in health food stores today contains 70% DMSO and 30% aloe vera , which prevents skin irritation . For self-help use , it is most often applied topically to areas of pain and inflammation . When used in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ability to pull other substances with it into the body . The skin must be absolutely clean when DMSO is applied , otherwise dirt , bacteria , and other harmful substances will be introduced into the body . Two excellent books on the subject are DMSO : The New Healing Power by Morton Walker , D.P.M. , and DMSO : The Remarkable Story of a Pain Killing Drug by Barry Tarshis . Dong Diet The Dong Diet is a nutritional plan used to treat arthritis which is based on a traditional low-fat , high-fiber Chinese diet consisting mainly of fresh vegetables , rice , fish , and small portions of chicken . The Dong Diet was developed by Colin H. Dong , M.D , a graduate of the Stanford Medical School . At the age of 35 , after practicing medicine for seven years , Dr. Dong found himself overweight and suffering from crippling arthritis and a generalized dermatitis . For three years he ingested large amounts of aspirin and other related pain killers in order to withstand the agony of his disorder . The drugs produced severe side effects but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baffled as to why his arthritis was becoming progressively worse . There was nothing further they could suggest to treat his joint pain or skin condition , and the last advice he received was to see a psychiatrist . During three years of suffering , he read virtually every journal , scientific paper , and book on the subject of arthritis . All described the same type of treatment he had been given , treatment that had not worked on him . " Written-off " by conventional medicine and faced with spending the remainder of his life in a wheelchair , Dr. Dong knew he must find a way to treat himself . In somewhat of a revelation , Dr. Dong remembered an old Chinese proverb that his father quoted , " Sickness enters through the mouth and catastrophe comes out the mouth . " Dr. Dong recalled that almost every member of his family had some type of food allergy , and he had many . Also , he knew that allergies had been known and treated by traditional Chinese medicine for centuries . Drama Therapy He began to realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his diet had changed to the typical diet of most affluent Americans . This was very different from the one on which he grew up : One of nine children , Dr. Dong previously ate a diet of beef , pork , chicken , fish , vegetables , and rice . Dr. Dong decided to start himself on what he called a " poor man 's diet " consisting of simple meats , vegetables , and rice . At first the results were not promising , but by eliminating different foods and medications his condition began to improve . Eventually he found that seafood/ vegetables/rice was the optimal combination . Within a few weeks amazing changes took place . The sleepless nights of pain were gone . He was able to shave and play golf again as the stiffness and pain in his joints disappeared . His skin cleared and he went from 195 pounds to 150 . At the age of 71 , Dr. Dong played golf each morning and still treated 30 to 40 patients daily while leading a full , active life . Dr. Dong believed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fresh foods , as well as processed and prepared foods which contain chemical preservatives , artificial flavor and color , and other additives . Because of this philosophy , the following substances and foods are excluded from the diet : all chemical additives ( particularly monosodium glutamate , or MSG ) ; all preservatives ; meats ; fruits ( including tomatoes ) ; all dairy products ; hot spices ( including all varieties of pepper ) ; alcoholic beverages ( especially wine ) ; nuts ; chocolate products ; any strong acid ( like vinegar ) ; carbonated soft drinks . Two excellent books by Colin H. Dong , M.D. , The Arthritic 's Cookbook and New Hope for the Arthritic , provide additional information on the Dong Diet . Drama Therapy Drama Therapy is defined by the National Drama Therapy Association as " the intentional use of drama/theater processes to achieve the therapeutic goals of symptom relief , emotional , and physical integration , and personal growth . " Drama Therapy is an active approach to behavioral , emotional , and cognitive change that has been found to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is equally applicable to the exploration of human potential in all people . The National Association for Drama Therapy was incorporated in 1979 to establish and uphold high standards of professional competence Dream Therapy among drama therapists . The association* also develops national guidelines for Master 's and Doctoral training programs in Drama Therapy and sets criteria for Standards of Registration for drama therapists . In Drama Therapy clients have an opportunity to neutralize the intense emotions stemming from the unsettling events that have taken place in their lives . Drama Therapy helps to integrate them back into surroundings of family life , friends , and community . The range of people benefiting from drama therapy includes those recovering from substance abuse , dysfunctional families , the developmentally disabled , prison inmates , AIDS patients , the homeless , psychiatric patients , children , adolescents , and the elderly . Drama therapists are trained in theater arts , psychology , and Drama Therapy . They provide evaluation and treatment with individuals , groups , and families . Drama Therapy is used in a variety of settings such as mental health facilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and businesses , as well as in private practice . Various methods are used in Drama Therapy including improvisational techniques such as role-play , theater games , mime , puppetry , and mask work . Scripted dramatizations and theatrical productions are also used . Registered Drama Therapists have fulfilled the requirements for registry and may use the appellation R.D.T. The eligibility requirements include a Master 's degree , 500 hours of drama/theater experience , 300 hours of Drama Therapy training , and 1000 hours paid work experience as a drama therapist . Currently a Drama Therapy training program is available at the California Institute of Integral Studies in San Francisco and New York University . For more information regarding Drama Therapy contact the National Association for Drama Therapy . Dream Therapy Dream Therapy is the use of dreams and the dream state to accomplish physical and emotional healing . It involves both the interpretation of information obtained while dreaming and the active participation in the dream process through a technique called lucid dreaming . The various processes associated with dreams have been put under the generalized term of " dreamwork . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great interest to people because they provide a link between the mysterious inner world of the mind and the outer physical world of waking life . Dream Therapy Hippocrates practiced Dream Therapy , encouraged dream incubation , and taught about the therapeutic powers of dreams . In ancient Greece , more than 300 dream temples were built to heal the sick . Dream incubation was a practice in which people made a pilgrimage to a sacred temple in hopes of having a curative or prophetic dream while sleeping . There were elaborate preparations for the dream experience . The process lasted up to three weeks and included prayers , fasting , bathing , singing , and reciting poetry . The practice began in Egypt and was used for more than a 1000 years in Greece . Freud aroused interest in the importance of the dreaming mind . He stressed that dream interpretation by an expert psychoanalyst could be very healing . In Jungian analysis , therapy begins with free association and dream analysis . Great emphasis is placed on dream interpretation . Carl Jung said " To be concerned with dreams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dream interpretation as part of their normal therapy , and there are practitioners in the healing arts who specialize in dream analysis consultation ? dreamwork is mostly a selfhelp process . Most dream interpretation is done by the individual having the dream , using one of the many books available on dream interpretation . Dreams may warn of oncoming health problems , help diagnose them , suggest treatment , accelerate the healing process , and contribute to lifelong health . An individual with an injury , illness , or emotional problem can use lucid dreaming to heal himself . Lucid dreaming is a process in which the dreamer takes his conscious awareness ( conscious mind ) into the dream state to receive guidance or insight on a particular subject or problem . It is the unconscious awareness ( subconscious mind ) that provides answers and information in the form of symbols and pictures in the dream state . During waking hours , our conscious awareness is the part of the mind that deals with memory , knowledge , and logic ; it uses words , ideas , and thought to communicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state , there is a moment in the dream at which you are aware you are dreaming . By using a " script " prepared before going to sleep , you can influence the dream and make it turn out any way you want . For example you could say " help me heal " or visualize your skin free of the disease which now infests it . Having the conscious awareness functioning while dreaming builds a bridge , so to speak , between the conscious and unconscious awareness and allows the two to work together . The conscious awareness is then able to interpret the pictures and symbols ( answers from the unconEgoscue Method scious awareness ) , and upon waking the dreamer will know why he had the dream and what the dream meant . The dreamer can then use this information to heal himself . Also , healing can take place within the dream and the individual can wake up and be fully healed without further effort . There are many books available on the subject of dreamwork and dream interpretation . For a general overview of dreamwork @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An excellent book that focuses on health and the healing aspect of dreaming is The Healing Power of Dreams by Patricia Garfield , Ph.D . There are several organizations and publications specializing in the field of dreamwork . They are the Association for the Study of Dreams , Lucidity Association ( Lucid Dreaming ) , Night Vision : A Dream Journal , and Dream Network : A Quarterly Journal Exploring Dreams and Myths . Egoscue Method The Egoscue Method is a treatment for musculoskeletal pain and a training technique to help athletes achieve peak levels of performance . It is based on the premise that the body needs motion to function properly and stay healthy . The Egoscue Method exercise program provides an individual with a means of receiving sufficient daily motion which is no longer supplied at work or at home in a modem industrialized society . It is both a diagnostic and therapeutic technique that puts the responsibility of recovering from pain and physical dysfunction with the individual who is suffering . For those not in pain , the Egoscue Method can be used to increase energy levels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual from future dysfunction . The Egoscue Method was developed by Pete Egoscue over a period of 20 years . It is derived from research and rigorous application . In the late 1960s , Egoscue was in a hospital recovering from a wound suffered in Vietnam . While immobilized , he began to realize that physical function is quickly lost under those conditions . Although it was a standard practice to rest an injured body part , Egoscue wondered if the recovery process did not contribute to the dysfunction . Backed by 22 years of experience as an anatomical functionalist , Egoscue believes that people in the United States , Western Europe , Japan and other parts of the industrialized world do not move enough . The current lifestyle in these countries does not provide the opportunity for sufficient movement to allow the body to maintain health and wellbeing . In a sense , we are suffering from " motion starvation . " Through lack of motion , a person 's body and overall health begins to deteriorate . Egoscue Method Previous generations , going back 10,000 years , depended on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , most people walked to the grocery store , and few families had two cars . That is not the case today , With technological advances and a myriad of so-called labor saving devices , our daily movement is continuously being reduced . Egoscue believes that the body needs motion to survive and be healthy , just as it needs shelter , companionship , food , and other biological necessities . Not supplying the body with its needs leads to deterioration and death . Conditions such as carpal tunnel syndrome , tennis elbow , low back pain , stiff neck , lack of energy , inability to perform as desired in a sport , and many other common problems are recognized by Egoscue as symptoms of dysfunction precipitated by lack of motion . For the Egoscue Method to be successful , it is essential for an individual to realize that her pain and dysfunction are due to what she has done to herself , and not from some outside source . And it is her responsibility , not her doctor , therapist , or other health practitioner 's , to correct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takes , his method works every time . In his clinics and in his new book , The Egoscue Method of Healing Through Motion , Pete Egoscue begins with an educational program to teach people how the muscles , bones , nerves , and other parts of the body function . With this knowledge , it is easier for an individual to understand how a variety of factors have led to pain and dysfunction in her own body . Next comes the diagnosis . Function-dysfunction is divided into four categories , and every person fits into one of the four . Conditions I , II , and III relate to various dysfunctional symptoms . Condition IV , or DLUX as he calls it , describes a person who 's body geometry is perfect ? a rare find . It is Egoscue ' s goal to get everyone into the D-LUX category . Once it is known which category the individual falls into , an Egoscue Method workout is performed daily for about an hour to correct the dysfunction and alleviate muscle and joint pain . Each workout consists of a specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of 22 different techniques . These techniques are designed to restore lost functions by reintroducing the right types and amount of movement in the body . Currently , Pete Egoscue operates a clinic in San Diego and West Palm Beach where many world famous athletes , including golfer Jack Nicklaus , and others have come for relief of their pain and dysfunction . For additional information consult Pete Egoscue 's book , The Egoscue Method of Healing Through Motion , or contact his T.H.E . ( Therapy , Health , Education ) Clinics . Electrotherapy Electrotherapy Electrotherapy is the use of electrical current for a variety of therapeutic purposes including pain relief , reduction of swelling , muscle relaxation , speeding up of the healing process , and stimulation of acupuncture points . A device known as a transcutaneous electric nerve stimulator ( T.E.N.S. ) dispenses minute amounts of pulsed electricity to stimulate specific areas of the body . Electrical stimulation can be used directly over the pain site or other related areas on the body , including acupuncture points . This can be accomplished with electrodes placed on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During the 1970s and 1980s , Robert O. Becker , M.D. , did extensive work on the effects of electrical stimulation on the body which is detailed in his book The Body Electric . Dr. Becker was able to stimulate the regrowth of severed limbs in salamanders and to speed the mending of broken bones through the use of electric current . Currently in Russia , electrical stimulation of broken bones to accelerate mending is a common practice in hospitals . With repeated electrical stimulation ( over-excitation ) , a muscle that is painfully contracted will become fatigued and finally release . Some of the latest research has shown that over-excitation can also relax a muscle by stimulating the " C-fibers " found deep within it . The " Cfibers " in turn trigger the body to release endorphins , thus reducing pain and relaxing the muscle . As the pain subsides and the tensed muscle is relaxed , an increased blood flow is sent to the area . This brings fresh oxygen and nutrients to the muscle and accelerates the removal of waste products . At the same time swelling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lymphatic system . Repeated contraction of a muscle with electrical stimulation can also be used to strengthen atrophied muscles . This is a very useful procedure in rehabilitation of people recovering from a paralysis or who have been immobilized in a brace , cast , or hospital bed for long periods of time . The healing rate for various injuries has been shown to be affected by the frequency and amplitude wave of the electric current used for stimulation . Acute injuries respond best to high frequency and high amplitude , while chronic injuries respond best to low frequency and low amplitude . Today , electrical stimulation it is used extensively by acupuncturists and in the field of physical therapy and rehabilitation . Environmental Medicine A new use for electrical stimulation has found its way into the field of cosmetology . Certain acupuncture points are stimulated to strengthen the facial muscles , giving the face a tighter and more youthful look . Although this method of " electric facelift " is less invasive than the traditional surgical method of facelift , periodic maintenance treatments are required . Environmental Medicine Environmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the specialty in medicine in which doctors assist patients in uncovering the cause-and-effect relationship between their environment and their ill health , and help them to learn to avoid those inciting factors . The term " allergy " was created to describe an abnormal response to substances that a person 's system recognizes as foreign , yet which do not cause reactions in most people . Common substances that cause allergies , called " allergens " or " antigens , " include pollen , animal danders , molds , dust , foods , chemicals , drugs , air pollution , and perfumes . Allergies can produce symptoms in almost every organ in the body , often masquerading as other diseases . It can affect the skin , eyes , ears , nose , throat , lungs , stomach , bladder , vagina , muscles , joints , and the entire nervous system , including the brain . There are several ways to develop allergic reactions . Heredity seems to be a major factor . The more relatives a person has with allergies , the earlier in life that person is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allergic sensitivity after a severe viral , bacterial , or fungal infection . Heavy exposure to industrial chemicals , pesticides , and other petrochemicals can lead to the development of allergic reactions . An increased load of stress , whether emotional or physical , positive or negative , can play a roll in allergies . Poor nutritional habits contribute to the development of allergies as well as other illnesses . In many cases , an allergy exists latent in an individual for some time . It is believed by some that a latent allergy may be " triggered " by an allergen , and future contact with the allergen causes a reaction . When the severity and frequency of reactions increase , the individual may seek professional help . As the allergy gradually become worse the individuals ability to adapt to these stresses finally runs out . At that point they are forced to seek medical attention to correct the debilitating condition . To diagnose conditions , the physician takes a detailed environmentally oriented history and each complaint or symptom is traced Esalen Style Massage chronologically to reveal any possible cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along with an objective physical examination , leads to a provisional diagnosis which is used to direct the " testing . " Testing is used to determine those substances causing the symptoms , and which treatments will improve the condition . Various testing procedures are used to measure an individual 's reaction to the excitant ( common foods and/or environmental chemi-cal ) . The simplest procedure takes place in a physician 's office . This consists of placing concentrated solutions of the excitant under the tongue or injecting it under the skin and observing the reaction . More sophisticated testing involves hospitalization of the patient in a con-trolled environment , introducing excitants one at a time and recording the reactions to each . Once the offending substances are identified , the individual 's symptoms may be reduced or eliminated through various methods . Avoidance is the primary method . Immunization against a particular substance to control its adverse effects and increase the individual 's tolerance to it is another . Environmental factors such as air , water , and building interiors can be controlled or mitigated by the use of air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials , furnishings , and cleaning materials . A rotary diversified diet can be used to see which foods cause a reaction . The individual is placed on a diet restricting most known food allergens . Foods are then returned to the diet singly or in groups , and reactions observed . Currently , over 400 physicians in the United States , Canada , England and Australia have grouped together to form the American Academy of Environmental Medicine . Their objective is to study and treat people with illnesses or health problems caused by adverse , allergic , or toxic reactions to a wide variety of environmental substances . A list of physicians practicing Environmental Medicine is available from the Academy . Esalen Style Massage Esalen Style Massage is a light and gentle type of bodywork that emphasizes nurturing and empathy . Rather than clinical in nature , there is more of a sensual or pleasurable quality to it . Esalen Style Massage originated at the Esalen Institute in Big Sur , California , during the 1960s . Esalen Institute was a gathering place for new ideas in the human potential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first presented her work to the world there . The Est center encourages work in the humanities and sciences that promotes human values and potentials . The strokes used in Esalen Style originate from Swedish massage , although none of the vigorous Swedish strokes such as percussion are used . Esalen Style Massage strokes are soft , easy , and done at a much slower pace than standard Swedish massage . It is more of an attitudinal variation of Swedish massage , with some changes in technique rather than a completely different form of massage . Esalen Style is usually superficial , although it can be done fairly deep . It is practiced with the attitude of the Esalen Institute , which encompasses understanding , the enhancement of human potential , and the exploration of physical , emotional , and sensorial experiences . Based more on intuition rather than technique , the philosophy behind this method is that every stroke counts and every touch should be soothing and pleasurable . The soothing nature of Esalen style massage allows the body to turn off the stress response and relax . The nurturing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practitioners who perform generic massage use the Esalen Style . Although the gentle , soothing touch usually dominates , typically a massage alternates between Esalen and the common Swedish strokes . This method of massage is used effectively to reduce stress , relieve pain , improve sleep , aid digestion , and cause the healing mechanisms of the body to dominate . Currently Esalen Institute offers a 28-day , 130-hour massage practitioner training and certification program . For additional information contact the Institute . Est Est is a personal growth and behavior modification process . It is an acronym for Erhard Seminar Training . Always written in the lower case , " est " means " it is " in Latin . Werner Hans Erhard , the founder or guru of est , was born in Pennsylvania in 1935 with the name Jack Paul Rosenberg . The son of a family-style restaurant operator , he graduated from high school in 1952 ending his formal education . Rosenberg married shortly after graduation , and for the next eight years worked at various jobs including a meat-packing plant and a construction firm ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home and family ' in Pennsylvania , and traveled to St. Louis with a female companion . To avoid being traced he changed his name to Werner Hans Erhard . For the next sevExercise Therapy eral years he worked in sales , executive , and training positions . Before leaving his last position with the Grolier Society , Erhard studied several different movements dealing with the mind and human potential . Erhard founded est in 1971 , seemingly combining the many disciplines he studied , including Scientology , Mind Dynamics , Silva Mind Control , Zen , Transcendental Meditation , Transactional Analysis , Freud , Jung , Esalen , and others . Est training consists of three fundamental parts . First , the trainer gives a lecture to provide the trainees with information . Second , the trainees talk about their own experiences or beliefs related and nonrelated to the lecture information . Third , the trainees go through various processes in which they " get in touch with " thoughts entering each person 's consciousness . In est these steps are referred to as " the Data , " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To an individual who has not been through the whole process , some aspects of an est seminar may seem harsh , unreasonable , or worse . These aspects , however , are merely tools used for the behavioral modification and personal growth of the participants . The forerunner in this type of program , many similar programs dealing with human potential and behavior modification have been patterned after est . In an est seminar or training program approximately 250 people from all walks of life meet on two consecutive weekends in a hotel conference room for 15 hours each day . The room is locked , and if an individual wants to leave , only the trainer decides whether or not to physically let him go . No food , few opportunities to use the restroom , and only hard , straight-backed chairs to sit on for hour after hour are part of the 15-hour sessions . The basic goal of est is " Getting It . " Although this phrase has as many definitions as there are participants , est philosophy is concerned with certain basic points . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telling lies , giving space in relationships , taking responsibility , and treating life as a game . Est is an individual experience rather than a belief . The seminar is designed to give trainees a means to deal with situations in their life that are not working for them . They are taught the skills to work on a problem until they work out of it . Exercise Therapy Exercise Therapy is the use of exercise to improve , correct , or alleviate a variety of physical problems or conditions . The benefits of exercise as therapy are overwhelmingly positive . Exercise can be sepaExercise Therapy rated into different types and categories which are utilized for different purposes . Isometrics ( exercise against unmoving resistance ) involve muscle contraction with a minimum of other body motion . Weight lifting or the squeezing of a tennis ball are examples of isometric exercises . They are good for strengthening and building muscle . Isotonics ( dynamic exercise ) involves body movement including the arms and legs . Walking , jogging and running are examples of isotonic exercise . These are continuous ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Low-Impact Aerobics ( low-stress ) are exercises that promote physical fitness using aerobic principles while avoiding physical risks such as knee and ankle injury , strained ligaments , tendon damage , and back pain associated with the more strenuous forms of exercise . They include walking , swimming , and bicycling . High-Impact Aerobics are vigorous exercises that stress the body . They include jogging , running , and aerobic dancing . Many doctors are now using Exercise Therapy as an alternative to many conventional treatment methods such as drugs and surgery . Under supervised conditions , exercise has been shown to alleviate or improve many physical conditions . For example , exercise in place of drug therapy can be used to lower blood pressure . Exercise has been shown to help the mentally ill in some cases by helping to reduce or alleviate the need for anti-depressive drugs . In obese individuals , exercise increases the metabolic rate , bums excess fat for effective weight control , and in some cases may prevent coronary bypass surgery . For the elderly , it is more desirable to increase brain function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tense or nervous can be calmed and relaxed through exercise rather than through the use of tranquilizers . Clinical studies carried out at Yale University during the 1980s tested the effect of stretching and exercise on a group of people with back problems , all of whom were diagnosed as requiring surgery to correct their condition . The group was divided in two . One half acted as the control and did not participate in an exercise program . The other half performed certain stretches and exercises for a specific period of time . At the end of the test , after examination it was determined that a significant percentage of the participants in the exercise program no longer required back surgery , while everyone in the control group still required surgery . According to researchers even a modest exercise program helps prolong the quality and quantity of an individual 's life . Also , exercise is both integral and complementary to many other programs such as the Eye-Robics well-known Pritikin Diet Program . Physical therapy and rehabilitation also benefit from exercise as it increases endurance , alleviates structural problems , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also help prevent disease from attacking the body by increasing the release of growth hormones from the pituitary gland , which stimulates the immune system . Eye-Robics Eye-Robics is a method of improving visual deficiencies without the use of corrective lenses ( glasses or contact lenses ) or surgery . It is based on the Bates-Corbett Method of vision training . Jerriann J. Taber , Ph.D. , wore glasses for 10 years before learning the Bates-Corbett Method . Dr. Taber was so pleased with regaining normal vision , she went on to become a teacher of the Bates-Corbett Method . In 1971 she founded the Vision Training Institute and has been teaching the art of seeing ever since . She is the author of a book titled Eye-Robics . Eye-Robics is based on research and scientific discoveries made by an ophthalmologist named William H. Bates , M.D. ( Bates Method described elsewhere in this book ) and furthered by the efforts of Margaret Darst Corbett who was personally trained by Dr. Bates in 1930 . In addition to using the Bates-Corbett vision training techniques , Dr. Taber has adapted many self @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all aspects of the whole person are experienced : mental , physical , emotional , and spiritual . The basic premise of Eye-Robics is that tension in the mind causes imperfect sight . Relaxation of the mind and body are prime objectives in reversing the condition of imperfect sight . Different techniques are used to release mental and physical stress . Eye-Robics utilizes illustrated instructions , charts , and audio and video cassettes to accomplish this . Eye-Robics deals with the causes of vision problems , not the symptoms ; most types of vision deficiencies can be improved . EyeRobics teaches that through relaxation , the mind and body can be reeducated with good visual habits once again . The visual process is not a fixed state as commonly believed . Eye muscles function better when they are in a relaxed state . By relaxing the six intrinsic eye muscles , the lens is better able to reshape itself . This allows for normal vision to be restored . The Vision Training Institute offers a complete home training program in Eye-Robics vision improvement . It also offers a teachertraining program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become certified to teach the Bates-Corbett Method . Fasting Fasting Fasting , as a therapy , is the process of depriving the body of food ( but not fluid ) for a certain period of time . This allows the body an opportunity to cleanse itself and reestablish metabolic order . There are many different types of fasts , including a water fast , juice fast , and fasts that are limited to only one type of food such as a fruit fast or rice fast . The duration of fasts also vary greatly , ranging from only one day to 30 days or longer under closely supervised conditions . Fasting is the deliberate abstention from food , and is very different from starvation , which is to die or perish from lack of food or nourishment . The origin of the words , both Anglo-Saxon , are derived from different roots . " Starve " comes from the Old English word steorfan that meant " to die a lingering death from hunger , " and " fast " is derived from the Gothic word fastan and the Old English word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to be strict . " Four of the six major religions of the world ? Hinduism , Christianity , Islam and Judaism ? have distinct fasting traditions . Fasting was used for religious observance and for the spiritual effect derived from the cleansing process . The Bible relates many instances of fasting , with some editions mentioning it on 75 occasions . Many tribes of Native American Indians had ceremonies of renewal and rejuvenation in which fasting played a major part for the purification of mind and body . Ancient Greek , Roman , Egyptian , and Chinese physicians have recommended fasting . During the past 100 years diet reformers have believed in the efficiency of fasting . Russian research claims that skin disorders such as eczema and psoriasis can be cured by fasting . Also , they say that fasting helps to restore the balance of hormones in the organism . The desire of the body to fast seems to be an inherent process . When a person is sick she has little desire to eat , and fasting becomes a natural part of the healing process . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been inhaled or ingested . The body must use a great deal of energy to process the food it is constantly consuming . When the body is under siege due to illness , energy is needed to fight the illness , and there is little energy is left to clean out the digestive system . Fasts have been used to improve overall health and as a therapy for specific health disorders . Some non-obese people fast on a regular basis to detoxify their bodies and give various parts of the body a chance to rest . Morbidly obese people have gone on medically supervised fasts for several months and lost hundreds of pounds in the process . PhysiologiFeldenkrais Method cally , in a prolonged fast the body consumes its own reserves of extra flesh , both fat and lean tissue ( muscles , connective tissue , and organs ) . A group known as " natural hygienists " believe in the holistic approach to health and healing . When they become ill they use fasting as the primary means of recuperation . The theory is that fasting allows the body to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can concentrate on healing itself . Fasting has also been used to treat a multitude of diseases including rheumatoid arthritis , chronic headaches , stomach ulcers , bronchial asthma , diabetes and schizophrenia . Research has shown that fasting also has some application in life extension . Because fasting can be dangerous if done improperly , it should always be carried out under the supervision of a licensed health care practitioner . Feldenkrais Method The Feldenkrais Method is a powerful technique of body/mind integration that uses movement to enhance the communication between brain and body . Although it is not a therapy or healing technique , the lessons taught provide a way to improve a person 's awareness , as well as physical and mental performance . The lessons are taught with two different techniques , manipulative and group . The manipulative technique , called Functional Integration , is a hands-on one-on-one , instructor-with-student arrangement . It is custom tailored to meet the needs of a certain individual and was the first of the two techniques to be developed . Awareness Through Movement is a group technique . It was created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a group of people . Although the Feldenkrais Method can help average persons of almost any age in their daily activities , it is particularly useful to professionals such as dancers and musicians to fine tune their skills . The Feldenkrais Method was developed by Moshe Feldenkrais ( 1904-1984 ) . Before he became immersed in the holistic health and New Age movements , Feldenkrais was an engineer with degrees in both electrical and mechanical engineering . The Russian-born Israeli received his doctorate in science from the Sorbonne in Paris and worked on the French atomic research program . A judo master and excellent soccer player , he had always been interested in the body 's mechanics . When a knee injury sustained while playing soccer began to flare up , he was led to apply his engineeringoriented mind to the mechanics of body and brain . In England during Fit for Life Program the 1940s he drew on the work of body/mind pioneer Frederick Mathias Alexander , originator of the Alexander Technique . This led to the development of The Feldenkrais Method . Feldenkrais believed that ordinarily we learn just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use our hands well enough to write and our legs well enough to walk , but our ability to function with a greater range of ease still remains undeveloped . Movement only occurs when the brain sends a nerve impulse to a muscle and the muscle contracts in the correct pattern and time sequence . If muscle patterns never change ( great numbers of them never do , especially after childhood ) then the areas of the brain that control these patterns remain fixed . The Feldenkrais Method uses over 1000 different exercises or movements to help the body program the brain , thus enhancing the whole body/mind system . Lessons are usually done on a padded table with the student comfortably ( fully ) clothed . He lies on his back or in various other positions , sometimes with head and arms supported , to remove the effects of gravity normally experienced while standing . The practitioner guides the student through a series of precise movements that alter habitual patterns and provide new learning directly to the neuromuscular system . Movements are light and performed as slowly , easily , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After a Feldenkrais session a student experiences improved posture , flexibility , coordination , relaxation , and relief of muscular tension . Sessions normally last from 30 to 50 minutes . Specialized training to become a Feldenkrais practitioner requires 800 hours of instruction , usually over a period of four years . In 1977 , Dr. Moshe Feldenkrais established the Feldenkrais Guild , the professional organization of practitioners of the Feldenkrais Method . A list of certified Feldenkrais practitioners is available from the Guild . Additionally , numerous books , audio and visual tapes , and other information pertaining to the Feldenkrais Method are available from the Guild . Fit for Life Program The Fit for Life Program is a way of eating that can be incorporated into a persons lifestyle as a way of life . It is a safe and balanced system based on natural physiological laws which apply to everyone , and cycles of the human body . Fit for Life is truly a lifestyle , not a temporary AA Fit for Life Program pattern of behavior . The Fit for Life Plan was developed by Harvey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his early twenties , Harvey Diamond began to struggle with a weight problem . Nearly 50 pounds overweight , in an attempt to reduce he tried numerous types of diets and came to the conclusion that diets do not work . While at a music festival one evening , Diamond overheard two healthy looking individuals discussing their friend in Santa Barbara and his views on health and beauty . Very interested in what was said , he inquired about this person and was on his way to Santa Barbara , California , less than 24 hours later . In Santa Barbara Harvey Diamond met this man who personified good health . Later , he was introduced to the concept of Natural Hygiene , a most remarkable approach to the care and upkeep of the human body . In 1970 , one month after his introduction to Natural Hygiene , Diamond lost 50 pounds ; he spent the next three-and-one-half years studying with this man . During this time , Diamond also read everything he could find on the subject of Natural Hygiene . After leaving Santa Barbara , Diamond studied Natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hygiene and in 1981 began a seminar program known as The Diamond Method . As Diamond explains , the word hygiene connotes cleanliness and the word natural implies a process unhampered by artificial forces . Therefore , " The basic foundation of Natural Hygiene is that the body is always striving for health , and that it achieves this by continuously cleansing itself of deleterious waste . " Although not a diet regimen , the Fit for Life Program provides a means for safe and permanent weight reduction . The key to the system is that it works with the body to free up energy , making energy readily available for other functions . Digestion of food requires more energy than any other body function . The body needs energy to detoxify , and by eliminating this toxic waste , weight is lost in the process . With extra energy available the body automatically goes to work shedding any excess weight it is carrying . If weight loss is not a goal , then a significant boost in overall energy will be gained . The unique part of this program is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eaten , it is also extremely significant what time of day they are eaten and in what combinations they are eaten . It has been found that certain combinations of foods digest more readily than others . In Fit for Life , proteins are not combined with starches because the body is not designed to digest more than one concentrated food at a time . Any food that is not a fruit or a vegetable is Geriatric Massage considered to be concentrated . For example , fish with salad or vegetables would be a properly combined meal but fish with rice would not . A properly combined sandwich would be whole grain bread filled with tomatoes , avocados , sprouts , lettuce , cucumber and lettuce . But , if turkey were added to that sandwich , it would not be properly combined . The beauty of the Fit for Life Program is that if you get off the program for any reason , you just get back on it and results are immediately seen again . In their excellent best seller , Fit for Life , Harvey and Marilyn Diamond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of common-sense , easy-to-follow dietary principles . The book includes numerous recipes and sample menus . When these guidelines are followed , the Fit for Life Program can facilitate the goal of eliminating obesity and alleviate the necessity for dieting . Fit for Life was followed by Fit for Life II ? Living Health which goes beyond diet and teaches a total lifestyle . For additional information on Natural Hygiene contact the American Natural Hygiene Society , the American Health Sciences Institute , or the International Association of Professional Natural Hygienists . Geriatric Massage Geriatric Massage is the use of various bodywork and body/mind techniques on the elderly , typically those over 60 years old , for their therapeutic benefit . Although a fairly new specialty in the bodywork profession , it has been well received and is growing in popularity . Massage for the elderly presents a special set of challenges because of the diversity found in this age group . While it is not difficult to identify a " typical " 20-year-old , there is no typical 70-year-old . The vast majority of the 20-year-olds in the U.S.A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arthritis , osteoporosis , or rheumatism . The physical condition of 70-year-olds , however , can range from those in training for their next marathon race to those individuals who are helpless , bedridden , and incontinent . People over 60 years , more than any other group in the population , can benefit from massage . Because of their extended number of years they have had more opportunity to subject their body to a wide variety of deleterious effects . Lack of nurturing , less than ideal nutrition , harsh climate , environmental pollution , accidents , trauma , emotional upset , financial reverses , severe physical activity and/or occupation , and mental outlook all accumulate to take their toll on the body/mind . Geriatric Massage Added to this are the built-in genetic factors that influence the body . The general slowdown of the body 's built-in capacity for maintenance provides an explanation for the physical changes that can be observed in an elderly person . Many of these changes are expressed as poor blood circulation , joint stiffness and hardening of the musculature . The specialty of Geriatric Massage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including social gerontology , developmental anatomy and physiology , geriatrics , physiotherapy , and of course bodywork . Added to these are the human qualities of patience , intuition , gentleness , supportiveness , resourcefulness , and positive thinking . Geriatric Massage resembles Sports Massage in many respects . Both address muscle problems that are the result of overexertion , injury , and general wear and tear . While athletes incur these muscle stresses in training and competition over a relatively short period of time , aged persons acquire them over a long life . The elderly , because they typically do not move around as much as when younger , have reduced blood circulation which slows down cell nourishment and cell detoxification . Massage increases the blood supply to the massaged area , thus nourishing and detoxifying cells . It also stimulates the lymphatic system and softens hardened muscle tissue . This results in a feeling of relaxation , improved joint movement , lowered blood pressure , and increased energy . Health problems in the elderly that respond well to massage include myofibrositis ( rheumatism ) , arthritis , hip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back pain , neck and shoulder pain or stiffness , bad feet , walking problems , scoliosis ( lateral curvature of the spine ) , and kyphosis ( abnormal backward curvature of the spine ) . Hospital patients , the seriously ill , and residents of nursing homes and extended care facilities are extremely responsive to even the briefest sessions of therapeutic massage and touch . Alone and isolated , they are denied physical'contact and oftentimes verbal as well . The gentle touch of a massage therapist , along with verbal and nonverbal contact , not only work to improve physical conditions but serve to enhance quality of life for these people as well . Regular massage can often be the deciding factor in improving or at least maintaining the state of health in an older person . Despite the tremendous growth of the massage and bodywork movement during the past 20 years , the elderly are the most under-served population group in America and also the neediest . By the year 2007 , the first of the " baby-boomers " will reach 60 years of age and the demand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Project in Guerneville , California , Gerson Therapy has available a correspondence course in Geriatric Massage . The course is also taught at some massage schools in a workshop format . A textbook titled Geriatric Massage Techniques by Dietrich W. Miesler , M.A. , is available from Day-Break . Gerson Therapy The Gerson Therapy is an intensive medical treatment based on nutrition . It is a state-of-the-art , contemporary , holistic , and natural treatment which assists the body 's own healing mechanism to combat chronic debilitating illness . The Gerson Therapy was originated by Max Gerson , M.D. ( 1881-1959 ) . Dr. Gerson graduated from Albert-Ludwigs Universitaet Medizinsche Fakultaet , Freiburg , Baden , Germany , in 1909 . As a young doctor just out of medical school he suffered migraines usually three days a week , headaches so severe he would lie nauseated in a dark room totally unable to function . Gerson sought an answer from medical school professors and teachers who were authorities on the subject . He was told that , according to all studies , there was nothing they could do for migraines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better . " At this point Dr. Gerson realized that he would have to help himself , and so he began to read and study nutrition . At that time there was a relatively small amount of material available . His first experiment was with milk . Reasoning that since it is the first food babies can digest , if he took only milk it would be easy to digest and may help him . The milk diet did not work at all . He then realized that in nature adult animals do not live on milk , and that milk is designed for fast growth and is suited to a baby 's metabolism . Looking to man 's closest ancestor in nature , the apes , Dr. Gerson noted that they lived on a diet of mainly fruits and nuts , along with greens and vegetables . Believing this was the right direction to proceed in , he put himself on a diet of apples . Within a very short period of time , he was free of migraines . Dr. Gerson began his medical practice , in Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patient came to Dr. Gerson suffering with migraines , Dr. Gerson suggested he try his personal " diet . " After a short time the man reported back that he was fine when adhering to the diet , and when not , the migraines returned . A turning point came for Dr. Gerson when another migraine patient , to whom he had given his diet , reported back that not only had his migraines stopped but his lupus ( skin tuberculosis ) had cleared up . Dr. Gerson Therapy Gerson thought this impossible and must be attributable to something other than his diet , since there was no known cure for lupus . Curious , Dr. Gerson tried his diet on lupus patients who did not have migraines , and they recovered also . From this experience Dr. Gerson concluded that with the right nutrition the body develops the ability to kill off the lupus . He applied his therapy to other types of tuberculosis and they also responded . In 1928 Dr. Gerson cured Dr. Albert Schweitzer 's gravely ill wife of tuberculosis with his diet . Soon Dr. Gerson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other complications such as arteriosclerosis , arthritis , and other diseases . They all cleared up with the same treatment . He realized that in this approach the basis of the treatment was to see the body as a total organism . And , when the body 's ability to heal is restored , it will heal whatever is ailing it . In 1936 , fleeing the Nazis , Dr. Gerson and his family moved to New York City and in 1938 he established a medical practice . Dr. Gerson went on to successfully treat hundreds of people , most of them with " terminal " or " incurable " cancer . At the age of 75 , Dr. Albert Schweitzer came to Dr. Gerson lacking energy and taking insulin for his diabetes . With Dr. Gerson 's diet , Dr. Schweitzer was able stop taking insulin and retain the energy to work and be active until the age of 92 . Dr. Gerson considered degenerative diseases to be just that ? degeneration of the body and its metabolism brought on by consuming toxic , degraded food , water , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regenerate the body to health instead of allowing or causing further degeneration toward death . It works closely with nature to help the sick body rid itself of disease through the supportive effects of simple foods , juices , and nontoxic medications . The main features of the diet include sodium restriction , potassium supplementation , extreme fat restriction , periodic ( temporary ) protein restriction , high vitamin , mineral , and micronutrient intake , and high consumption of fluids . The medications used in The Gerson Therapy are classified as biologicals , materials of organic origin which are found in the body and supplied in therapeutic amounts . The Gerson Therapy floods the body with nutrients from 20 pounds of fresh organic food daily . Most of it is pressed into 13 glasses of fresh raw juices . Raw and cooked foods are also consumed . Another important part of the therapy is the detoxification of body tissues and blood by coffee enemas . Gerson Therapy proponents believe that coffee enemas stimulate the enzyeme systems of the gut wall and liver to promote excretion of toxic bile . Hakomi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Max Gerson is , " Stay close to nature and its eternal laws will protect you . " From the 1940s , the American Medical Association has looked upon Dr. Gerson and his unorthodox treatment with disfavor . For years , the AMA contended that Dr. Gerson had failed or refused to acquaint the medical profession with details of his treatment even though Dr. Gerson had published more than 50 papers and three books on his diet treatment . Although many of his papers were submitted to various medical magazines for publication , they were rejected . After Dr. Gerson 's death in 1959 , his treatments continued through the work of his daughter Charlotte and former aerospace engineer Norman Fritz . To free their work of the influence caused by the decades-old boycott led by the American Medical Association , the Gerson Therapy Center of Mexico was opened in 1977 . Currently , the Gerson Therapy is available at through the Centro Hospitalario International del Pacifico , S.A. in Tijuana , Mexico . For further information contact the Gerson Institute . Hakomi Method of Body Mind Therapy The Hakomi Method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an efficient and powerful process for discovering and then studying mind/body patterns and core beliefs ( self-limiting beliefs formed in childhood and stored in the subconscious ) as they are experienced . It synthesizes aspects of Western psychotherapy , Eastern philosophy , and contemporary science into a unique process . Hakomi is an ancient Hopi ( American Indian ) word meaning " How do you stand in relation to these many realms ? " with a more modern translation of " Who are you ? " The Hakomi Method , developed in the late 1970s by Ron Kurtz , utilizes various philosophies , techniques , and approaches . Some of its origins stem from Buddhism and Taoism , and it also draws from the modern body-centered therapies such as Reichian work , Bioenergetics , Gestalt , Pyschomotor , Feldenkrais , Structural Bodywork , Ericksonian Hypnosis , Focusing , and Neurolinguistic Programming . The main theory behind the Hakomi Method is that an individual has certain experiences ( feelings , thoughts , and sensations ) as a child that are powerful enough to form basic beliefs about herself and the world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Hakomi Method process often involves following these core beliefs back on the childhood events where lifetime habitual responses were created . Hanna Somatic Education The objective of the Hakomi Method is to facilitate personal growth and transformation . Through various processes , people are able to discover , study , and revise limiting beliefs about themselves . Hakomi is offered through both individual sessions and workshops . The Hakomi Method utilizes Hakomi Bodywork , a unique synthesis of bodywork and psychotherapy based on the recognition that body , mind and spirit are one continuum of experience . Therapists work through the body , not on it . The body is viewed as a vast source of information that can be tapped into and used to elicit change , and not as an object to be repaired . Much Hakomi therapy is done in a special state of consciousness , or deep knowing , called " mindfulness . " Using this mindful awareness fosters open communication between the conscious and unconsciousness . In a state of " mindfulness " one not only has experiences but is able to observe the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ includes both hands-on work ( massage , deeptissue work , structural work ) and off-table work such as movement and body awareness . Both bodywork and psychotherapy are used simultaneously throughout the process to maintain a sense of relationship between the physical body and beliefs . Awareness of sensation is heightened , and associated memories , beliefs , and emotions emerge . Hakomi bodywork can elicit a wide variety of experiences . Examining these experiences in the present sheds light on beliefs and the childhood events that shaped them . By reevaluating those parts of the individual 's belief system that are painful and limiting , alternative choices and more satisfying options can be developed and incorporated into their daily life . Hakomi Method Therapist Training and Hakomi Bodywork Training are taught at a number of locations in North America and Europe . Although classroom hours vary with training location , a typical therapist training format consists of a long weekend ( 3 ? 4 days ) every 4 ? 6 weeks over a period of 18-24 months , with bodywork training being longer . Additional information and a list of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtained from the Hakomi Institute . The Institute also has available the book by Ron Kurtz , BodyCentered Psychotherapy : The Hakomi Method , video tapes , and an Introduction to Hakomi Bodywork ( includes articles and tapes ) . Hanna Somatic Education Hanna Somatic Education , sometimes called Somatic Education , is the procedure for teaching voluntary conscious control of the neuroHanna Somatic Education muscular system to individuals suffering muscular disorders of an involuntary , unconscious nature . The process uses hands-on bodywork and a series of Somatic Exercises to relax chronically contracted muscles , restore voluntary control of the muscular system to the individual , relieve pain , and allow the body to move freely . The Greek word soma has been used since the eight century B.C. to mean " living body . " A human being may be viewed in two ways : from the outside and from the inside . In conventional medicine or physiology , the person is seen from the outside , a third person view , as a " body " with a certain size and shape . But , when an individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view , she is aware of internal feelings , movements , and intentions . This is a " soma : " Somatics is based on the work of Moshe Feldenkrais and Hans Seyle with the addition of the use of biofeedback principles . Feldenkrais , an Israeli physicist , developed a powerful technique of body/mind integration , known as Functional Integration , and combined it with Awareness Through Movement to enhance the communication between brain and body . Hans Selye , an endocrinologist and medical researcher , recognized that disease could be caused by stress . The term " somatics " was coined by Thomas Hanna ( 1928-1990 ) . In 1970 he wrote a book , Bodies in Revolt : A Primer in Somatic Thinking and spent the next 16 years developing his process through research and practical experience . Born in Waco , Texas , the son of a pharmaceutical salesman , Hanna had a desire early in life to become a physician . By the time he went to college his interest changed and in 1949 he graduated from Texas Christian University with degrees in philosophy and music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bachelor 's degree in divinity and a Ph.D . in philosophy . Unlike many who enter the health field to heal themselves , Hanna had always been healthy and athletic . While at Texas Christian University he played football and was the school middleweight boxing champion . Because of a strong interest in neurophysiology , Hanna was allowed to attend classes at the University of Florida Medical School , where he was a philosophy professor . This education in neurophysiology would later become the foundation for his somatics work . In 1973 he moved to San Francisco , California , to become director of the Humanistic Psychology Institute . While there he arranged the first training session with Moshe Feldenkrais in the United States . Hanna became interested in Feldenkrais ' work but did not adapt it in full . In 1975 he organized the Novato Institute for Somatic Research and Training . From his study of neurophysiology Hanna realized that muscles ila // chronically contracted due to constant stress and traumatic injury could not release because of the " closed-loop " principle in the body 's sensorymotor system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly subjected to various types of stress reflexes and/or traumatic injuries for a prolonged period of time , it " forgets " how to relax . Hanna termed this " sensory-motor amnesia . " In Somatic Education a practitioner , through bodywork and Somatic Exercises , puts new sensory information into the individual 's sensorymotor feedback loop and muscles begin to relax . This is not a passive experience for the individual , as she actively participates and contributes to the process . Exercises are repeated at home to habituate the muscle to a new , easier pattern of movement . It was Hanna 's belief that so called " old age " and the attendant softening , weakening , and deterioration of the body that takes place is due to decreased activity and is not inevitable . The " sensory-motor amnesia " that takes place slowly and insidiously within an individual can be reversed . Before his untimely death in 1990 , Hanna wrote another book , Somatics : Reawakening the Mind 's Control of Movement , Flexibility , and Health , in which he describes in detail his Somatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For additional information contact the Novato Institute for Somatic Research and Training . Hellerwork Hellerwork is a holistic and preventive approach to health consisting of a series of 11 , 90-minute sessions of deep tissue bodywork , movement reeducation , and therapeutic verbal dialogue . Joseph Heller ( not to be mistaken for the novelist ) , the founder of Hellerwork , was an aerospace engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena , California , during the late 1960s . He analyzed the effects of stress and gravity on aerospace structures such as rockets . Seeking relief from the stress of his very demanding occupation , Heller attended numerous workshops and encounter groups at Kairos , a center for human development in Los Angeles . Eventually Heller was offered the position of director at Kairos and enthusiastically accepted it . It was through a workshop at Kairos that he met Ida Rolf , the developer Structural Integration , more commonly known as Rolfing . Heller was impressed by Rolf s theories concerning body alignment , stress , and gravity , and the new Rolfing therapy that she was teaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1975 when he was named the first director of the Rolf Institute in Boulder , Colorado . Herbal Medicine After serving as director for three years , Heller departed from the Rolf Institute to found his own form of bodywork called Hellerwork . While a practicing Rolfer , he realized that restructuring the body alone was not enough to accomplish long-term change . The missing element in Rolfing , according to Heller , was teaching people how to use their bodies efficiently . It made no sense to Heller to bestow his clients with a " new " body only to have them misuse it in all their old ways . To prevent this he incorporated a movement reeducation program into Hellerwork . It is based on exercises that teach stress-free methods of performing basic everyday movements such as standing up , sitting down , walking , and bending over to pick things up . Hellerwork is designed to realign the body and release chronic tension and stress . In short it is a restoration program , using a body/mind approach , on the human physical structure . It focuses on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aligned , relaxed , and youthful state . Verbal dialogue is used to assist the client in becoming aware of emotional stress that may be related to physical tension . The deep tissue massage portion of Hellerwork focuses on fascia , the body 's connective tissue , which envelopes the muscles and joins them to the bones . By releasing chronic tension in the fascia , the major body segments ? head , shoulders , chest , pelvis , and legs ? are brought toward a vertical alignment . According to Heller there are three main causes of accumulated tension in the body : physical trauma , emotional trauma , and misuse . So , by releasing tension , buried memories of past physical and emotional traumas are unlocked . The benefits of Hellerwork to the client include increased energy , vitality , and fitness , improved posture and body shape , and greater flexibility and ease of movement . Hellerwork practitioner training is held throughout the world . Although formats vary , the same curriculum is used for each training . A list of Hellerwork practitioners is available from Hellerwork @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and William A. Henkin and an illustrated handbook describing the Hellerwork series is also available from Hellerwork , Inc . Herbal Medicine Herbal Medicine , sometimes referred to as Herbalism or Botanical Medicine , is the use of herbs , in a wide variety of forms , for their Herbal Medicine therapeutic value . An herb is a plant or plant part valued for its medicinal , savory , or aromatic qualities . Herb plants produce and contain a variety of chemical substances that act upon the body . Herbal Medicine was an integral part of the development of modem civilization . No other healing art has carried with it such a long , varied , and detailed history of usage . It is by far the oldest form of medicine practiced by mankind . Necessity required primitive man to observe and appreciate the great diversity of plant life available to him . It provided food , clothing , shelter , and medicine . When pain , injury , or disease struck , besides animal products or mystical rites , he had little other choice but to turn to plants for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ritual , and concoc-tions made from local herbs which may have been considered " magic potions . " Countless plants were tested in the hope of finding one with magical powers . Much of the medicinal use of plants seems to have been based on a highly developed instinct which led the medicine man or healer of the tribe to the correct plant and its use . Herbal treatments also developed empirically through observations of wild animals , and by trial and error . Over time , each group , tribe , or people added to their understanding of the therapeutic uses for plants indigenous to their local area . The oldest known systems of medicine in the world are those from China , India , and ancient Egypt , which date back more than 5000 years . Information regarding the various uses of plants were recorded in books called " herbals . " Much of today 's knowledge of herbal medicine is based on these ancient volumes . About 4000 B.C. , the Sumerians inhabited an area in southern Mesopotamia around the Tigris and Euphrates rivers . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they used opium , thyme , mustard , licorice , and the chemical sulfur for medicines . Later , the Babylonians added garlic , cinnamon , coriander , saffron , and other herbs to the Sumerians ' list of medicinal substances . In 2800 B.C. , the Emperor Shen-nung ( c. 3737-2697 B.C. ) , a Chinese herbalist , recorded a list of 366 plant drugs in a Pen Ts'ao ( herbal ) . This is the oldest of the Chinese pharmacopoeias ( books describing medicinal preparations ) . Additional information on herbal medicine was included in The Yellow Emperor 's Classic of Internal Medicine , attributed to the Yellow Emperor Huang-ti ( c. 2697-2595 B.C. ) . The Materia Medica of Li-Shih-Chin , a compendium which analyzes over 100 plants and lists 12,000 formulas and prescriptions was translated into English and first published in 1596 . Ayurveda , the oldest medical system known to man , has been pracHerbal Medicine ticed in India for more than 4000 years . The Vedas , originally written in Sanskrit , recorded many references to healing plants . The Rigveda , an ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A comprehensive Indian herbal , Chakra Samhita , mentions more than 500 herbal remedies . Egyptian herbal medicine was developing concurrent with Chinese and Indian . Extensive information on herbal-based healing was found in the Ebers Papyrus , a document dating back to the 16th century B.C. It contains a listing of some 800 medicinal preparations including aloe , anise , peppermint , fennel , castor oil , saffron , garlic , and many others . Ancient temple carvings at Karnak depict medicinal plants being brought back to Egypt from Syria by a royal expedition . Hippocrates ( 460-377 B.C. ) , a Greek physician , was the first to move the healing profession away from superstition and magic and regard it as a science . In his writings , Hippocrates described the use of some 400 healing plants used as purgatives , diuretics , ointments , liniments , and numerous other applications . Some of the plants he recommended are still in use today including sage , mint , mugwort , verbena , and others . Roman medicine , which had its roots in Greek medicine , later served as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures in Roman herbal medicine were Galen ( c. 130-200 A.D. ) and Dioscorides ( 1st century A.D. ) . Dioscorides wrote a pharmaceutical guide , De Materia Medica , which deals with more than 600 plants . The work Dioscorides , Galen , and Theophrastus ( c. 371-287 B.C. ) formed the basis of European herbalism until well into the 16th century . From about 400-1500 A.D. the Catholic Church controlled almost all medical knowledge in Europe . During the Dark Ages ( 641-1096 A.D. ) , the herbal healing doctrines of Galen and Dioscorides were perpetuated when monasteries cultivated herb gardens for medicinal uses . At the same time , folk remedies and practical herbal know-how became the realm of the common people . The Arab world rediscovered classic Greek medical works during the Dark Ages in Europe . They added plants such as camphor , saffron , and spinach to their existing pharmacopoeia . After the Crusades , Arabian knowledge of herbal medicine took root in Europe . Starting with the reign of Elizabeth I of England ( 1551-1603 ) , The Great Age of Herbals began in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Botanicum by English herbalist John Parkinson , covering 1800 pages and detailing 3800 plants , was published in 1640 . This was followed by Nicholas Culpeper 's classic work , The Complete Herbal ( also called The English Physician ) , which contained detailed information on the medicinal properties of hundreds of herbs . The plants and herbs brought to America by English colonists were Herbal Medicine an important part of their existence in the New World . Because some of these plants would not thrive in America , the colonists replaced them with native species which they discovered . At Monticello , Thomas Jefferson grew more than 25 different herbs in his " kitchen garden . " Although the use of herbal medicine declined in the United States during the 20th century , due to advances in medical science and pharmaceutical chemistry , it is currently making a strong comeback . There are many reasons for this , including the holistic health movement , greater availability of herbal and health foods , and an increased desire of individuals to take charge of their own health . But the main reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the millennia , there have been many botanical remedies that have worked consistently and effectively to treat a wide variety of physical and emotional problems . Today , the use of herbal remedies is not an obscure method of treatment ; approximately 75% of the world 's population relies on it as their primary source of healthcare . Major pharmaceutical companies are currently conducting extensive research on plant materials gathered from the Amazon rain forests and numerous other locations throughout the world for their potential therapeutic value . Substances derived from plants remain the basis for a large proportion of the commercial medications manufactured today which are used to treat heart disease , high blood pressure , pain , asthma , and other problems . Some of these plants have been used since antiquity for their same therapeutic value . An example of this old/new use of an herb is ephedra , which has been used in Traditional Chinese Medicine for more than 2000 years to treat asthma and other respiratory problems . The active ingredient in ephedra , ephedrine , is currently used in commercial pharmaceutical preparations for relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual to breathe more easily . A more recent example is the foxglove plant . Discovered in 1775 by the English physician William Withering , the powdered leaf of this medicinal plant is more commonly known as the cardiac stimulant digitalis to the millions of heart patients it keeps alive . Herbal Medicine can be broadly classified into various basic systems : Traditional Chinese Herbalism , which is part of Traditional Oriental Medicine , Ayurvedic Herbalism , which is derived from Ayurveda , and Western Herbalism , which originally came from Greece and Rome to Europe and then spread to North and South America . Chinese and Ayurvedic Herbalism have developed into highly sophisticated systems of diagnosis and treatment over the centuries . Although Western Herbalism originally had such a system during the Herbal Medicine Greco-Roman times , the present system did not continue to develop after the Middle Ages in Europe and is today primarily a system of folk medicine . Central to the philosophy of Chinese Herbalism is the Taoist 's dualistic concept of yin and yang . Yin is described as that which is dark , cold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while yang is described as that which is light , warm , dry , dominant , positive in polarity , and masculine . Although yin and yang are opposite in nature , it is their ability to interact and balance that creates health . The classification of foods and herbs in Chinese Herbalism is based on four categories : the Four Natures , the Five Flavors , the Four Directions , and the Organs and Meridians affected . The Four Natures consist of cold , cool , warm , and hot , which relate to the theory of yin and yang . For example , a cool/cold or yin herb would be used to treat a warm/hot yang disease by creating balance . Additionally there are herbs classified as neutrals which can be used to treat either yin or yang disease . The Five Flavors consist of sour , bitter , sweet , spicy , and salty . Each of the flavors relates to a general physiological effect and is classified as either yin or yang in nature . The Four Directions are rising , sinking , floating or descending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body . In this system the direction of yin is downward and yang is upward . Heavy or yin herbs are used to treat deep , more chronic diseases while the lighter or yang herbs treat more surface conditions such as inflammation or a cold . The Organs and Meridians Affected is a relatively new classification in the Chinese system . Only a few hundred years old , it is not as highly developed as the other classifications . Chinese physiology is based on the interaction of the 12 vital organs , and this classification uses certain foods and herbs to affect specific organs . Chinese Herbalism uses formulas of related groups of herbs to achieve its results rather than a specific herb for a specific ailment . The main principle of herbal formulation is based on four categories , with each one having a particular function in the formula . These include chief herbs , supporting herbs , assisting herbs , and conducting herbs . Herbal Medicine is a huge part of Traditional Oriental Medicine and is used in the treatment of virtually every type of ailment . Ayurveda recognizes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth , and ether . They manifest . in the human body , condensed , as three basic elements : vata ( air ) , pitta ( fire ) , and kapha ( water ) . Vata , pitta , and kapha , known as tridoshas ( three humors ) , are the vital life-forces that govern all bodily functions . Ayurvedic healing is based on the knowledge of " prakruti " or the 11 , Herbal Medicine 11 human constitution of the individual person . Each constitution is a combination of all three doshas , vata , pitta , and kapha , with a predominate tendency toward one or more . When the doshas are in balance they sustain the body , and when out of balance they serve to destroy it . Thus , health in the body consists of the correct balance of the creative and destructive forces of the doshas . For a more complete description of Ayurvedic medicine , see elsewhere in this book . The classification of foods and herbs in Ayurvedic Herbalism , like ; j , Chinese Herbalism , is also based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rasa ) , post-digestive effect ( vipaka ) , and special potency ( prabhava ) . Specific herbs are used to either increase or decrease vata , pitta , or kapha and put the body into balance . ' I Western Herbalism in Europe before the 17th century utilized the energetic classification of herbs associated with Galen and the GrecoRoman medicine previously described . Similar to Ayurveda , people were classified according to four biological humors : sanguine being hot/moist , melancholic being cold/dry , phlegmatic being cold/moist , and choleric being hot/dry . The Native peoples of North America had extensive knowledge of medicinal plants . Through careful observation and trial and error , the Native Americans found medicines that were useful in treating a wide variety of ailments . American Indian Herbal Medicine was based on treating the symptom . They used one herb to treat one ailment rather than formulas of herbs as the Chinese use . The American Indian pharmacopoeia included such well known herbs as American ginseng , willow bark , sassafras , witch hazel , and many others . Willow bark was used by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active ingredient of willow bark , salicin , which was later synthesized into acetylsalicylic acid and commonly known as aspirin , is used millions of times daily throughout the world for the same purpose . Natives of South America and Africa also have extensive knowledge of the medicinal value of native plants . The rainforests of South America are still among the most unexplored regions in the world for medicinal plants . Recently , two South American herbs , pau d'arco or lapacho from Argentina , and suma from Brazil , have become familiar to herbalists . Pau d'arco has been shown to be effective in the treatment of inflammatory diseases , tumors , and candida yeast infections . Suma , much like Angelica sinensis in Chinese Herbalism , is used as a gentle tonic for women . Both herbs are known to increase immune defense . It should be noted that different systems of botanical medicine may also use the same herb for completely different purposes . For example , Herbal Medicine in Chinese Herbalism the hawthorn berry is used for treating food stagnation , while in Western Herbalism it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart-related problems . Also , within one system a certain herb may be of a major significance , while in the other system it is relegated to a minor role . An example of this would be the herb haritaki ( Terminalia chebula ) , used only as an astringent in Chinese Herbalism while in Ayurvedic Herbalism it is used for strengthening and purification and is regarded as the most potent and sacred herb of the Himalayas . Many herbs that are commonly used as condiments or spices also have valuable medicinal properties . In Chinese Herbalism a prime example is cinnamon . Popular as both a spice and a major medicinal herb , cinnamon is used therapeutically as a carminative to aid digestion and relieve vomiting . Another example is cayenne pepper . A popular spice in foods , medicinally it is used to aid the cardiovascular , respiratory , and digestive systems . Others in this spice/herb category include oregano , basil , nutmeg , and many more . Currently , ginseng is the most popular herb of the world . It is widely used in Asia and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Native Chinese ginseng , in short supply after being harvested for thousands of years , has become very expensive . A large , wild ginseng root will command a price of $20,000 to $30,000 in China today . Due to the high cost of the native species , American ginseng has now become very popular in China . Herbs can be prepared in a variety of forms depending on their purpose . These include : juice squeezed from herbs ; mashing herbs into a paste ; decoction , or extracting the active ingredient by boiling down the herb ; a hot infusion ( made like hot tea ) ; a cold infusion ( made like sun tea ) ; herbs ground into a powder and used in that form or pressed into a pill ; an herbal wine made by adding the herb to water and sugar and letting it ferment ; a tincture , made by combining ground herbs with alcohol and used internally ; a liniment , made like a tincture except it is used externally ; salves and ointments made by adding herbs to a medium such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a medium such as honey ; a poultice in which the herbs are applied directly to a wound or body part and held in place with a cloth . Although herbs come naturally from plants , they must be treated with the same respect one would afford any prescription drug . It is necessary to use the correct herb in the appropriate quantity and at the appropriate time to achieve the desired results . Improper use of herbs can result in unwanted and sometimes dangerous results . There are numerous self-help books on Herbalism available in libraries , bookstores , and health food stores , but it must be remembered Hippotherapy that herbs are potent substances and should be used with caution . It is suggested that an individual consult a healthcare professional in a major healing modality such as Acupuncture , Naturopathic Medicine , or Ayurveda , or a qualified professional Herbalist for guidance regarding the use of Herbal Medicine . There are numerous general information books available on every aspect of Herbalism . Some interesting ones are Planetary Herbology by Michael Tierra , Green Pharmacy by Barbara Griggs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Illustrated Encyclopedia of Herbs , and Readers Digest Magic and Medicine of Plants . Organizations that can provide additional information on Herbalism include the American Botanical Council , Herb Research Foundation , and The Herb Society of America . Hippo therapy Hippotherapy is the use of horses for various therapeutic purposes , but differs from Equestrian Therapy . In Equestrian Therapy , a horse may be used by a handicapped person as a form of sport or recreation . In Hippotherapy , the horse is used as a medium to accomplish a therapeutic objective ; the movement made by the horse 's back as it walks serves as an aid in the treatment . Horses used for Hippotherapy must be specially trained for this purpose . The ideal horse is small , well broken-in with a smooth gait , accustomed to various distractions such as noises , bright colors , and being out at various times of day . It must not have a tendency to buck . The patient is positioned comfortably in a saddle on the horse 's back , legs hanging freely , unsupported by the stirrups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the horse down a fairly straight pathway with only infrequent or slight changes of direction . An indoor or outdoor riding ring is ideal . Slightly uneven ground texture that produces an increased movement of the horse 's back is particularly suitable . The pace is a slow , gentle walk . As the horse 's back moves , the motion is transferred to the patient 's torso . This causes a reciprocating movement of the pelvis , thus producing an action similar to passive joint mobilization in the hip joint and lower spine . The process helps to increase blood flow to the area , improving mobility and unblocking muscles . It also produces an equilibrium reaction in the patient similar to that experienced while walking normally , except that the patient 's torso is more stable while on the horse . The purpose of Hippotherapy is to retrain a patient to balance or Hoffman Quadrinity Process stabilize his torso , something that is automatic in healthy people , but must be learned by those with motor dysfunction . Hippotherapy has been used successfully to treat children with cerebral motor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ multiple sclerosis who have difficulty maintaining their balance . In Europe , Hippotherapy is a fully recognized form of physical therapy covered by health insurance . Hoffman Quadrinity Process The Hoffman Quadrinity Process , formerly known as the FischerHoffman Process , is an intensive seven-day residential program designed to rid an individual of negative behavior , moods , and attitudes , and then implement positive personality changes . The Quadrinity Process is an integrative approach which works on an individual 's physical , emotional , intellectual , and spiritual levels . These four levels are known as the quadrinity . Combining psychological processes and spiritual tradition , the Quadrinity Process contains elements of Gestalt psychology , transactional analysis , psychosynthesis , psychoanalytic thought , and spiritual concepts . Until January of 1967 Robert Hoffman was a businessman in Oakland , California , whose hobby was giving free psychic readings . One night he awoke , and went into a state of deep contemplation . During this time he conceived the basis of the Quadrinity Process which went far beyond his understanding of psychology or spiritual growth . Over the ensuing 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although the basic core of the concept has remained the same . Beginning in the late 1960s and continuing to 1984 , it was given in a group format which consisted of clients meeting twice weekly for 13 weeks . In 1985 the Quadrinity Process evolved into its present form : an intensive seven-day residential program held at a comfortable , scenic retreat . Currently , a team of at least three teachers conducts the Quardinity Process which includes both individual and group sessions . The size of each group is limited to about 22 students . The basic premise of the Hoffman Quadrinity Process is Robert Hoffman 's concept of " negative love . " According to Hoffman , the negative love syndrome is the key to all neurotic , negative behavior patterns , especially the inability to love . These negative behaviors , moods , and attitudes experienced as adults have their beginning in early childhood . Through the Quadrinity Process , participants are guided through a Holistic Medicine skillfully designed sequence of powerful experiences that enable them to discover , isolate , and resolve negative childhood conditioning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become more genuinely loving , accepting , and forgiving toward their families , their friends , their parents , and most of all themselves , and offers deep and rapid healing of emotional wounds suffered in childhood . A book written by Robert Hoffman titled No One is to Blame : Freedom from Compulsive Self-defeating Behavior , which provides a comprehensive understanding of the Hoffman Quadrinity Process , is available at bookstores or the Hoffman Institute . The Hoffman Quardinity Process seven-day residential program is offered at Hoffman Institutes worldwide . For additional information , schedules , etc. contact the Hoffman Institute . Holistic Medicine Holistic Medicine is a philosophy of medical care which recognizes the person as a whole , an integration of body , mind , and spirit , and emphasizes personal responsibility for lifestyle and wellness . It focuses on patient education and participation in the healing process . Everything has an effect on an individual 's health : all factors , gross and subtle , physical , emotional , mental , spiritual , and environmental . All are interconnected and affect one another . Symptoms and illness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or more aspects of a person 's life are out of harmony and that a change is called for . Sometimes these early warning signs are very subtle and must be watched for . Holistic Medicine is an approach to health care that differs from the " treatment only " perspective of conventional medicine . The holistic practitioner can serve as a guide to assist the patient in the process of self-evaluation that leads toward optimal integration of body , mind , emotion , and spirit . A holistic practitioner fosters and maintains a partnership with the patient by using therapies that they both feel comfortable with . But , the practitioner views the patient as being ultimately responsible for her own well-being . Holistic Medicine is not limited to a particular specialty or ideology , but encompasses a wide range of modalities for diagnosis and treatment . Many ancient healing methods such as traditional Chinese medicine ( acupuncture and herbs ) and Ayurveda , the Indian art and science of healing , utilize the principles of Holistic Medicine and more Holotropic Breathwork modern modalities such as chiropractic and homeopathy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practitioners can be obtained from organizations such as the American Holistic Medical Association and American Nutrimedical Association . Holotropic Breath work Holotropic Breathwork , sometimes called Holotropic Breathing , is a powerful technique of self-exploration based on ancient spiritual practices and modern consciousness research . This approach combines breathing , evocative music , and a specific form of bodywork . It includes and integrates the physical , psychological , and spiritual dimensions . " Holotropic " comes from the Greek holos meaning " whole " and trepin meaning " to move in the direction of . " It means literally " moving toward wholeness . " The Holotropic Breathwork process was developed in 1976 by Stanislav Grof , M.D. , a psychiatrist with over 30 years ' experience in psychotherapy research and non-ordinary states of consciousness , and his wife Christina . The Grofs do not call Holotropic Breathwork a therapy or spiritual technique , but prefer to refer to it as " an adventure of self-discovery . " Holotropic Breathwork is presented in a two-day workshop by facilitators certified by the Grofs . Many facilitators are in the mental-health field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the workshop lay flat on the floor in a dimly lit room . Facilitators coach the participants on how to breathe while stereo speakers fill the room with the sound of African drums . Participants alternate in the roles of experiencer and " sitters . " Focused bodywork and mandala drawing are also important elements used in the holotropic process . During the course of a session , two to four hours long , the participants try to access the four " levels " of experience that are available during breathing ; sensory , biographical , perinatal , and transpersonal . By accessing buried memories , an individual can relive their own birth experience or traumatic life events , free up " stuck " emotional viewpoints , or in some cases experience mystical states of awareness such as connecting to the universe . The facilitator training program requires 150 hours of general experience in Holotropic Breathwork , 350 hours of training combining theory and experience , and a two-week certification seminar . The 350 hours of training , given over two years , consist of seven courses given in six-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is described in detail in the books Beyond the Brain : Birth , Death , and Transcendence and The Adventure in Self-Discovery by Stanislav Grof . Currently there are Holotropic Breathwork facilitators in the United States , Japan , Europe , and Australia . A list of facilitators can be obtained from Grof Transpersonal Training , Inc . Homeopathy Homeopathy is a highly systematic therapy that uses small doses of specially prepared plants and minerals to powerfully stimulate the body 's defense mechanisms and healing processes in order to cure illness . The word " homeopathy " is taken from the Greek homeos meaning " similar " and pathos meaning " suffering . " Thus , Homeopathy means " to treat with something that produces an effect similar to the suffering . " This " law of similars , " the concept of " like cures like " or " likes are cured by likes , " is the basic principle of Homeopathy . Homeopathic physicians consider disease from a different perspective than modem conventional medicine . Disease is viewed as a result of a deeper disturbance or imbalance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outward manifestation . Symptoms , whether mental , emotional or physical , are expressions of this imbalance . In Homeopathy , symptoms are not treated because they are only signs of the body 's attempt to cure itself . Homeopathic treatment is based on the whole body and personality of the person , her totality and uniqueness , not solely on the specific condition or disease . In short , Homeopathy treats people , not diseases . In this respect Homeopathy is akin to the holistic school of medicine . In conventional medicine , health is seen as the absence of disease . If nothing is wrong with a person it is assumed they are healthy . Homeopathy views health as more than that . A truly healthy person is seen as one who is free of problems on all levels ? physical , emotional , and mental . In the fourth century B.C. it was Hippocrates who first announced the essential homeopathic principle , which stated that if a remedy produces certain symptoms in a healthy person , it will cure a sick person of those same symptoms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , referred to the law of similars in his writings and used it extensively in his practice . It was also utilized by many other cultures including the Chinese , Greeks , Indians , Mayans , and Native Americans . Samuel Christian Hahnemann ( 1755-1843 ) , a German physician and Homeopathy the founder of Homeopathy , was born in Meissen , Saxony . He earned his medical degree in 1759 , in Vienna , and practiced the conventional medicine of his day , but eventually grew disillusioned with the cures . These were the days when blood-letting , blistering , purges , leeches , sweating , and baths were the popular remedies for all ailments . Through practical experimentation Hahnemann noticed that herbs given in a low dose tended to cure the same symptoms as they produced in a large poisoning dose . Hahnemann 's life changed after he obtained a copy of Materia Medica written by the Englishman Cullen . It devoted several pages to a new Peruvian bark ( cinchona ) , used to cure the Countess of Cinchon of a fever in Peru . He obtained some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and contracted the fever . When he discontinued taking the bark the fever disappeared . For the next six years Hahnemann systematically tested this observation on himself and fellow physicians . He found that any substance that can experimentally produce a specific set of symptoms when given to a healthy person can cure those same symptoms when given to a sick person . In 1810 he wrote The Organon of the Rational Art of Healing in which he stated the laws and principles of a new system of healing he called Homeopathy . Although attacked by orthodox medical men , Hahnemann attracted a large following of thinking physicians to Vienna to learn about the new art , and a school of Homeopathy came into being . Currently , there are still four-year homeopathic medical schools in Europe . Because he distrusted apothecaries of the day to make up his medicines correctly , Hahnemann chose to dispense his own medicines , an illegal practice in Germany at that time . In 1820 , after being arrested in Leipzig , he was found guilty and forced to move . Through special permission granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again in Germany . In 1831 when a cholera epidemic spread through Eastern Europe and thousands died , Hahnemann studied the symptoms and decided that camphor would cure the disease . His advice was accepted and the epidemic was put down ? a great triumph for Hahnemann . When cholera swept through Britain in 1840 , it was found that , percentage-wise , nearly four times as many people survived when treated by homeopathy versus those treated by orthodox methods . Homeopathy was introduced to the United States in 1825 with the emigration of a Danish homeopath named Hans Gram . It became so popular , homeopaths organized the American Institute of Homeopathy in 1844 . In 1846 another group formed an organization called the American Medical Association ( AMA ) , which was intent on slowing the Homeopathy rapid growth of homeopathy . After the AMA was formed , all of the physicians who used homeopa-thy were expelled from its ranks . Throughout the late 1800s the AMA continued its " witch hunt " of homeopaths and censured anyone in the medical profession who had even the remotest connection with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as economics , led to the decline of Homeopathy by the end of the 19th century . In 1900 there were more than 20 homeopathic colleges in the United States and by 1923 only two remained . By 1950 they were either closed or no longer teaching Homeopathy . In the 1970s Homeopathy reemerged as a viable health care field . Today , more and more people are rediscovering Homeopathy . Homeo-pathic medicines are used by many alternative health care professionals including acupuncturists , chiropractors , naturopaths , and many others . Additionally , some medical doctors and doctors of osteopathy are beginning to use homeopathic remedies in everyday medicine . There are several companies that manufacture homeopathic remedies in the United States today . Homeopathic Medicine , or reme-dies , are made from over 1500 natural plant , animal , and mineral products gathered from all parts of the world . These remedies are prepared in homeopathic pharmacies in accordance with the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States , the official manufacturing manual recognized by the FDA . Each substance is triturated ( crushed , ground , or pulverized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an infinitesimal breakdown of the active ingredients , permitting ready diffusion and assimilation , thereby enhancing their therapeutic effectiveness . For example , a known quantity of plant substance , finely ground , is mixed with alcohol or water to obtain a solution . One drop of the solution is mixed with 99 drops of alcohol or water ( to achieve a ratio of 1:100 ) , the mixture is strongly shaken , a process known as succussion , and labeled as " 1C . " One drop of 1C is then mixed with 100 drops of alcohol or water and the process is repeated to make a 2C . By the time 3C is reached , the dilution is 1 part in 1,000,000 . Through this special process of dilution and succussion not only is the potency increased , but because the remedies are so dilute , they cause no side effects and are perfectly safe . Homeopathic remedies act by stimulating the immune system and other restorative systems in the body . Today , such notables as Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II of England and rock music star Tina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Center for Homeopathy , Interna-tional Foundation for Homeopathy , Homeopathic Educational Services , Hoshino Therapy and the Homeopathic Association of Naturopathic Physicians provide information about Homeopathy and promote its use in the United States . Hoshino Therapy Hoshino Therapy is a unique pressure-point system that integrates the art of hand massage with the science of acupuncture . It is based on the detection of " aging " or loss of vitality in the soft-tissues that result from the improper functioning of the biomechanical body . Prevention evaluation is a distinctive feature of the therapy which utilizes 250 pressure points to evaluate biomechanical functioning and to localize areas of wear and tear . The stimulation of selected points , using Hoshino 's unique manual techniques , brings about the revitalization of soft tissue and the restoration of harmonious movement of the body parts . A program of special Hoshino exercises compliment the therapy . Hoshino Therapy was developed by Japanese acupuncturist Professor Tomezo Hoshino . He was born in 1910 in Atsugi , Japan ( near Yokohama ) , into a family who for generations had been practitioners of acupuncture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after being blinded in a motoring accident , he studied the traditional Japanese muscle massage called hamma . Eighteen months after the accident he bumped into a wall and was knocked unconscious . When he awoke , he was able to see again . Hoshino then emigrated to Argentina and worked on a ranch . After six years , he developed neuralgia and returned to Japan , where he was cured by his uncle with treatments of acupuncture and physiotherapy . His uncle told Hoshino he had " special hands , " and encouraged him to study acupuncture . Hoshino began to study acupuncture in 1935 , received his diploma in 1939 and returned to Argentina . In Buenos Aires he began searching for a method to cure arthrosis ( any condition caused by a hardening of muscles , tendons , and ligaments ) . Since acupuncture was not recognized in Argentina , he worked as a pedicurist . When he developed bursitis in his shoulder , Hoshino returned to Japan to be cured . Seeking help from his former classmates at the acupuncture institute , Hoshino found they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese mountain top resolving not to come down until he cured himself . After a month , using only the warmth and pressure from his own hands , he was able to reverse the condition in his shoulder . When he came down from the mountain he was free of pain and knew he had perfected a means to cure arthrosis . Hoxsey Treatment Again he returned to Argentina and began to practice his new therapy with great success . In 1952 his therapy was recognized by the Argentine government as an official medical therapy . In Hoshino Therapy , 250 vital points that relate to the body 's biomechanical functioning are used . These selected acupuncture points are located directly over the muscles , tendons , and ligaments . The combination of finger pressure applied to a specific vital point , and warmth from the therapist 's hand work together to reverse the hardening of the soft tissues , thereby loosening the afflicted area . Hoshino Therapy is used to treat such maladies as osteoarthritis , bursitis , tendonitis , non-traumatic disc disorders , and sciatica as well as non-specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fatigue , nausea , numbness , dizziness , and back pain . Hoshino treatments are complemented by a program of four " Hoshino Exercises " : the shoulder exercise , the knee exercise , the twisting exercise , and the chest exercise . They are designed for proper maintenance of the biomechanical body and help to prevent recurrence of symptoms after a series of Hoshino treatments . For several years Professor Hoshino operated a research and treatment clinic in Boca Raton , Florida . Currently , all training of Hoshino therapists is done at the Hoshino Therapy Clinic of Miami . The Hoshino Therapy advanced training program is open to health professionals and consists of a two-year program totaling 400 hours of instruction . Tomezo Hoshino currently supervises the training of Hoshino Therapists in the United States . Graduates of the program receive certificates . Hoxsey Treatm en t The Hoxsey Treatment is a program for the treatment of cancer utilizing a specially formulated herbal tonic combined with a diet of fresh foods that excludes salt , sugar , and alcohol . Certain other foods are also banned because they conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be taken internally to treat internal cancers , or used as a salve or lotion and applied topically to treat external cancers . Analysis has shown it to contain potassium iodine , licorice , red clover , burdock root , stillingia root , berberis root , poke root , cascara amagra , prickly ash bark , and buckthorn bark . Several of these well known North American herbs are thought to have to have anti-cancer attributes . In 1 840 John Hoxsey noticed one of his horses , one that had                     