@@774078

txt // that the auto-erotic interest in pornography , far from originating in the ( retarded ) aesthetic organisation of the human subject , was ( at least initially ) a relatively rare cultural competence dependent on a definite and limited social distribution . This competence depended on particular kinds of institution transmitting specific ethical techniques . The direction of conscience , for example , was a practice largely of seminaries and convents , so that in the first instance it was only the spiritual aristocracy who could acquire a concupiscent body ' . And even when , through Protestantism , certain ethical techniques were spread more widely , they remained unevenly distributed , depending on the degree of proselytizing and pastoral surveillance , general cultural levels , and mastery of discursive literacy . The schema of the spiritual autobiography in which both Robinson Crusoe and Fanny Hill recorded their respective stages of grace was a cultural device whose mastery not every one acquired . Moreover , pornography did not emerge until these instituted ethical techniques were joined by a particular cultural technology , the printed book . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was print technology that permitted ethical techniques to migrate from their closed religious environments ? to spread along the channels opened up by the book trade where they were transformed by new uses and purposes . Indeed , we have seen that it was precisely in this process of migration that early modem pornography was able to emerge as a profane improvisation on the spiritual interrogation of the flesh . This permits us to see that the ability to achieve sexual pleasure through books and a certain practice of reading is neither incidental to ? nor a regressive surrogate for ? the real thing . Pornography is not so much a representation of sexuality as a specific practice of it . We can , therefore , quite properly speak of pornography as emerging at that point where the ethical and literary techniques of conscience-formation were re-deployed as a biblio-erotics or book sex . The outcome of this transposition , in which techniques for the intensification of desire are relayed through specific practices of reading and writing , is clear enough in the address to the reader prefaced to the English translation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , having come back several days later to inquire of Fanchon how she enjoyed the sport of love and being made a woman of , got the girl to give her a complete account of what had gone on . The two girls being thus absorbed in a conversation which they found so delightful , stop to investigate and examine all the aspects of the game of love . They do this with enquiries which are so choice , and stimulating , // and appealing , so unusual , so ingenious , and so persuasive that a mere reading of them is enough to rouse love 's passions , and I guarantee that even the most fastidious ladies will find something here to give them pleasure . ( Millot and L'Ange , 1655 1972 , p. 66 ) At the intersection of the instituted techniques of the flesh and the communicational technology of the book we find the phenomenon of the audience . It should now be clear that to speak of the audience for pornography is not to speak of a general human subject characterised by aesthetic immaturity . Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the cultural competences responsible for the practice of biblio-erotics . For this reason the audience can not go proxy for the subject ' , defined by generalised processes of subject formation ; for class ' , as the bearer of certain economically-determined interests and attributes ; or for men ' , as a class for whom pornography is both symptom and weapon of a rapacious sexual imagination . Rather , the audience is the terminal point for an array of crisscrossing and overlapping cultural techniques and practices . It is always the plural locus of a patchwork of cultural competences whose bearer is not the human subject but differentiated categories of person . This reconstruction of the interest in and audience for the first pornography enables us to avoid a number of problems endemic to aesthetic discussions of pornography . It enables us to sidestep the problems posed by attempts to specify pornography in terms of a general category of aesthetic value , for example erotic realism ' . The point is not just that the application of such categories provokes endless and sterile debate about which erotic works should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also that the use such categories is premised on the existence of a generalised aesthetic-sexual subjectivity ; one whose truth can only be represented by a literature that dialectically reconciles the fantasies of the will and the norms of experience . However , the audience is not the locus of such a subjectivity . It is the target for an array of cultural techniques , one of which is indeed the specific technique of dialectical reconciliation . The audience is the bearer not of representations but of techniques and practices . And the effect of these techniques and practices is , broadly speaking , to intensify and sensitise . For this reason it is necessary to replace the single division between erotic realism ' and pornography with a more flexible and differentiated descriptive schema ; one oriented to the variety of ways in which a biblioerotics engages the disparate cultural competences of its audience network . Specifying the audience in this way also enables us to relegate the // attempt to treat pornography as symptomatic or expressive of a ( negatively ) exemplary subjectivity . This relegation not only applies to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immaturity but also to feminist attempts to identify this immaturity with masculinity . We have observed that the audience for pornography is not the locus of a deficient subjectivity but the bearer of particular erotic-ethical interests and competences which are not evenly distributed . The fact that this distribution has been gender specific suggests that the masculine erotic repertory is at least in part a historical product of the deployment of pornography , not its source . The masculinity of the audience for pornography is a sign not of the latter 's gender-specific essence but of its gender-specific distribution . Nothing in principle stands in the way of the blurring of this distributional boundary and the emergence of mixed-gender audiences for pornography . Lastly , we can see why political and legal interventions in the pornographic field can not draw a single exemplary line between art and pornography or between morality and law , guaranteed by the potential of the human subject for self-mastery . From the very beginning , the point of reception for pornography ? the sphere of its eroticising functions ? was not a general subject or consciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were differentially distributed according to age , gender , familial position , and cultural ability . Small wonder , then , that the attempt to reform obscenity law by distinguishing between erotica in need of legal regulation and erotica which could be left to the private conscience immediately encountered the problem that the scope of conscience ( and hence of obscenity ) fluctuated , depending on the audience addressed . 3 . How should pornography be historicised ? Our final question to the aesthetic model concerns its history of pornography . In tandem with its historical twin , cultural history , aesthetics has managed to bring this rather inglorious cultural product within the great schema of Romantic historicism . While the aesthetic model depicts pornography as emerging from the crucial mediation of fantasy and experience , of sexual drives and social conventions , cultural history projects this dialectical schema on to the whole culture ' . Pornography is thus held to emerge from an imbalance in the historical dialectic : typically from epochs of social repression in which social norms , too forcefully imposed , deny desire its true object and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standard periodisation : pornography is alleged to arise at the end of the seventeenth century with the onset of Puritanism and to take on new and fantasmatic forms in the Victorian era , itself understood in terms of the resurgence of // Puritan repressiveness . Subtending this periodisation is , of course , the historical version of the aesthetic education of the senses in which ? whether it is actualised or not ? the history of sexuality acquires an ethical direction from the telos of an ideal reconciliation of private desires and social norms . The commitment of this historiography to the view that pornography is an essentially negative phenomenon ? its indebtedness to what Foucault ( 1979 ) calls the repressive hypothesis ' ? is clear enough . There is some irony in the importance attached to Puritanism as a repressive agency , given the eroticising role of Puritan ethical techniques , but this is only a particular instance of the difficulties confronting any attempt to read off a history of pornography from the dialectical development of the whole culture ' . Yet pornography did not appear on the historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose mission is the complete sexual education of man ' . It emerged from a group of local and contingent historical developments : roughly speaking , from that unexpected overlap in which the eroticising machinery of the confession of the flesh was redeployed through the technology of the book as a biblio-erotics . This pragmatic and pluralist perspective shows why biblio-erotics can not be taken as the ( true or distorted ) expression of a sexuality originating , in the human subject , or promised by the latter 's historical development . From the outset pornography functioned as a profane relay for the confessional technology through which some learned to refer all their conduct and feelings to the hidden spring of desire . For this reason the deployment of pornography has undergone the same series of historical mutations as the technology of confession . Foucault 's ( 1979 , pp. 17 ? 49 ) analysis of the field in which these transformations have occurred is thus focussed on a specific series of historical developments . During the second half of the eighteenth century the Christian confessional , through which individuals had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objects of spiritual knowledge and desire , was itself penetrated by and taken up within a range of other instrumentalities and discourses . These included demography , medicine , pedagogy , and psychiatry . This redeployment produced a network of institutions that multiplied the situations in which one had to talk about sex ; it also multiplied the social forces and powers whose anchorage became the constantly reiterated mystery and danger of sex . In this way the formerly esoteric minority practice of sexual self-interrogation became aligned with the more general governmental administration of a new entity , the population . This changed organisation of the field , Foucault argues , was responsible for a decisive transformation in western sexuality . Inside the new institutional network , an old pastoral regulation of conju44 On Pornography gal desire ? organised around the division between licit and illicit sex ? underwent a sea-change . The new demographic , medical and pedagogic deployments of sexuality were less concerned with policing conjugal desire as a law governing the couple than with establishing it as a population-wide norm in relation to which various non-conjugal sexualities could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correction . Against deviancy theory , Foucault argues that these perverse sexualities ? of children , the homoerotic , the insane ? were not negative refluxes of their social stigmatisation and repression . They were in fact directly positive outcomes of the newly normalised field that specified them , classified them , ' implanted ' them in bodies and personalities as so many definite forms of life . Power , in Foucault 's terms , did not attempt to take charge of sexuality through the negative means of prohibiting its marginal forms . On the contrary , generated within the expanding institutional network of the apparatus of sexuality , power was exercised in a series of strategies which were in fact responsible for a proliferation and intensification of perverse sexualities . Because of their importance in organising the pornographic field we should take a brief note of these strategies , again drawing on Foucault 's ( 1979 , pp. 41 ? 6 ) account . 1 . The marginal sexualities were not objects of eradication but props or supports for strategies of inquiry and management which , in using these sexualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required their multiplication . For example , in constituting masturbation as an aberration to which all children were prone , sexual medicine and pedagogy could enter the home and the school , reorganising these spaces of conduct around the constant surveillance of a vice ' which was thereby rendered indispensable to new medical , pedagogical and familial arrangements . 2 . Non-conjugal acts and desires were not banished but targetted by programmes of ( medical , psychiatric , criminological ) codification and incorporated into personality types . Practices like sodomy and mutual masturbation , once illicit acts anyone might be tempted to commit , became instead signs of unique personages . They were attached to exemplary biographies and identified with exotic sensibilities , as medicine and psychiatry expanded their field by making available a new sexual characterology : not just homosexuals but zoophiles , fetishists , necrophiles , exhibitionists , masochists , and so on . 3 . Without forfeiting their own methods and objectives , medicine , psychiatry and pedagogy ? in absorbing the technology of confession ? took over the ritual in which one individual is relieved of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another . So , the technique of knowledge that permitted these disciplines to claim rights to the continent of sexuality was simultaneously a technique of pleasure , as confession brings desire to the light of knowledge only by inciting it . The power of the new disciplines of sexuality was thus inescapably wedded to the strategic exchange linking knowledge and pleasure in the mechanism of confession . In the case of medicine , for example , therapeutic confession gave the doctor access to the concupiscent body of the patient and was responsible for a profound medicalisation of sexuality . At the same time , by ensuring that this body could only be reached through the eliciting of sexual secrets , therapeutic confession eroticised the doctor-patient relation and was responsible for a significant sexualisation of medicine . The power of the new discipline was thus not the expression of a will or principle acting through them . It was formed only through particular techniques and relationships , through participation in what Foucault ( 1979 , p. 45 ) calls a particular game ' . Capture and seduction , confrontation and mutual reinforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and students , doctors and patients , the psychiatrist with his hysteric and his perverts , all have played this game continually , since the nineteenth century ' . In the complex field to be organised by these three operations or programmes , early-modem pornography was itself subject to a number of decisive mutations . In the first place , caught up in the strategies through which the apparatus of sexuality colonised new regions of social space , pornography too , like the marginal sexualities with which it was increasingly identified , underwent ever greater specification and expansion . Identified with the problem of precocious sexuality and made a target of the great anti-masturbation campaigns undertaken by nineteenth-:century sexual medicine and pedagogy in home and school , pornography became pathologised as a secret cause of the vice that robbed youth of its physical and mental health and threatened the ' future of the family and the race . Pornography thus entered the realm of social problems ' as a pathological agent . When we come to investigate the terms in which Victorian judges spoke of the harms caused by pornography , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical and pedagogical specification and to avoid the habit of mind which simply falls back on notions of prejudice and hypocrisy . At the same time , because pornography was so closely identified with the evil of masturbation , it too came to function as an indispensable support for the expansionist strategies of the apparatus of sexuality . In this way , during the nineteenth century , pornography became // a far more important phenomenon that it had ever been before . The more it became the hidden cause of the dormitory ailment ? the guilty secret that any boy might confess ? the more thoroughly consciousness of it took hold in the new spaces of sexual surveillance . Second , with the codification of aberrant sexual acts into personality types a pornography of perversions became possible . This was not , as Stephen Marcus assumes , a fantasmatic reflux of increased repression . It resulted from a particular cultural exchange . On the one hand , pornography absorbed the medical and psychiatric specification of perverse personalities . It transposed and re-valorised these new types , acquiring in the process a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlymodern pornography ? typified by Fanny Hill ? fragmented into specialised pederasts , masochists , fetishists and so on . On the other hand , the machinery of the novel was itself a powerful force in this codification and proliferation of perverse personalities . Not only was it to permit the migration of medical characterologies to new milieus where they could be put to erotic and self-affirmatory uses , the novel was also the popular vehicle for those techniques of conscience through which readers learned to organise their feelings and conduct around the incitation-interrogation of the flesh . It was through this unforeseen exchange that certain acts which in libertine literature had obeyed a logic of the progressive intensification of pleasure ? for example , mutual masturbation which Fanny Hill learns as simply one skill or element of the erotic repertory ? reappeared in the pornography of perversions as the identifying traits of proudly inverted sexual personalities . Third , the scientific coding of the confessional pleasure-powerknowledge nexus ? accompanying the emergence of sexual medicine and psychology ? is also a key feature of the modern deployment of pornography . Continuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-coded technology of sexual confession , pornographic writing itself acquired a scientific character . Hence the appearance during the nineteenth century of a whole catalogue of erotic books , memoirs and letters in which the intensification of pleasure is attached to perverse yet methodical forms of recording , measurement and classification . Such are the writings whose heroes and authors are pictured as enthusiastic sexual sociologists and anthropologists , adept in the methods of participant observation , or ? like poor William Chidley ? doctors of sexual medicine obsessed by the pathology of their own desire . At the same time , because the new sciences of sexuality could approach their object only through the writings of their subjects ? whether fantasies , therapeutic dialogues , diaries , published and unpublished memoirs ? they themselves acquired a certain pornographic character . We have noted that // the object of knowledge of the new sexologies ? deviant sexuality in particular ? existed only through the constant application of incitatory technique . The fact that pornography was a major repository of such technique meant that auto-erotic reading and writing were not simply dispassionate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indispensable instruments . For this reason , sexological studies have not been able to reveal the secret of pornography except through excitatory quotation and rhetoric . The discourse on pornography is always in part a pornographic discourse . Today , in the exchanges of knowledge and pleasure that link a scientific pornography and a pornographic science , it is difficult to separate the diagnosis of pornography from its symptoms . In this twilight world , erotic literature provides a symptomatology for sexological classification ( as in the case of Masoch 's Venus in Furs and the works of Sade ) , while sexological studies are themselves disseminated as erotic bestsellers ? consider the whole series of sex reports and surveys from Havelocks Ellis ( 1922 ) and Krafft-Ebing ( 1965 ) through Kinsey ( 1948 ) and the Kronhausens ( 1959 ) to Shere Hite ( 1976 , 1981 ) and Andrea Dworkin ( 1981 ) . It would be naive to treat these transformations as indicative either of the scientific abuse of literature or of the popular misuse of scientific knowledge . They are simply signs that pornography and sexology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the interdependence of examination and excitation , knowledge and pleasure , is inescapable . The fact that the first volume of Havelock Ellis ' Studies in Sexual Psychology was threatened with prosecution under the obscenity statutes is not necessarily symptomatic of legal obscurantism and puritanism . Instead of the model of cultural history ? where the place of pornography as the retort of a repressed sexuality is always redeemed by the goal of an epoch promising the true reconciliation of desire and norm ? we can therefore propose a more multivalent history of the pornographic field . In the modern apparatus of sexuality ? formed when the technology of confession was dispersed through a new governmental network , and the law of conjugal desire was redeployed as a norm specifying a new spectrum of perverse sexualities ? the pornographic field took shape around three main co-ordinates . Pornography spread along the same axis along which the medical and pedagogical administration of sexuality was expanding . Like the aberrant sexualities with which it was identified , pornography was an indispensable support for this process , and for this reason the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pathologisation . Pornography also functioned as a relay and support for the new specification of perverse sexual // personalities produced by the apparatus . It transposed the pathological characterology into an affirmative erotic register and disseminated the techniques of sexual-ethical identification to an expanding array of specialised audiences . Finally , there is the fact that the interrogation of sexuality was the product of a limited number of techniques of examination in which knowledge was linked to pleasure . Forced to share these techniques , pornography and the emergent sciences of sexuality entered into a reciprocal relation . In this exchange the pursuit of knowledge was inseparable from the charge of pleasure and the pursuit of pornographic pleasure borrowed the interrogative forms of the science of sexuality . LAW AND ETHICS To say that the role of the law in the pornographic field has outstripped the public understanding of it would be a decided understatement . Lawrence 's early cri de coeur The law is a dreary thing , and its judgements have nothing to do with life ' ( Lawrence , 1936 , p. 170 ) might seem a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already cited contrast of a law which is regulative ' and a literature which , being creative , imaginative and aesthetic , with no extrinsic purpose ' , can not be confined within the Procrustean bed of the law ' . Moreover , as we have seen , these ideas are at work in jurisprudence itself where they have informed the attempt to disengage the law from morality precisely along the line alleged to separate pornography from erotic art . Jurisprudential reasoning about obscenity law has been disabled by its openness to the psycho-aesthetic analysis of pornography , an analysis which is in fact barely legally literate . Placing it at the intersection of erotic desires and social utility , private fantasies and public norms , this analysis has allowed the law a very narrow field of action indeed . What is more , this action has been typically and overwhelmingly seen in negative terms , as a matter of censorship . The law , we are told , silences and prohibits . Fuelled by a norm-fed fear of the drives whose psychological repression it duplicates at the social level ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aesthetic reconciliation with experience it blocks ? obscenity law is made to appear as a monolithic refusal of sexual expression . It is for this reason that even our best history of it ? Donald Thomas ' A Long Time Burning ? is subtitled The History of Literary Censorship in England , and places the legal regulation of obscenity in the same series as the law controlling blasphemy and sedition. ' // Until the 1970s , the only option allowed to the law was that it convert this repressive and censorious function into one of true mediation and reconciliation . In effect this meant leaving the field of erotic expression to the intrinsic dialectics of human subjectivity , except for some residual policing along the line which marked the occasional failure of this dialectic ; that is , the line separating erotic art and pornography . We have already noted the problems which the liberal reformers faced when they attempted to draw such a line through an organisation as shifting and ambivalent as the pornographic field . We will return to these problems below . Our prior task , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscenity law itself . Here we must pose the following question : Does obscenity law emerge from a fundamental conflict between desire and norm , fantasy and utility , in which it has played the role of censor ? A number of considerations suggest an answer in the negative . First , there is the organisation of the field in which obscenity law initially appeared . We have argued that in its technical complexity and historical contingency this field does not share the exemplary dialectical structure of the human subject , or its collective surrogate , culture . As a result we must be sceptical concerning the existence of a general repressive function ? the tyranny of norm over drive and fantasy ? to which the law supposedly gives social expression and force . This scepticism is borne out if we look at the creation of the offence of obscene libel in early eighteenth-century English common law . We can be brief here as the following chapter deals with this topic in more detail . Typically this event is discussed in terms of the early eighteenth-century resurgence of Puritanism , manifest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manners . There is no denying the importance of this event with regard to the policing of obscenity . We have , however , already cast doubt on the existence of a uniformly repressive relation between the Puritan conscience and the deployment of sexuality ; what is more , the sparse obscenity case law of the period reveals no clear evidence for such a relation . There was , for example , none of the legal mobilisation of the reforming societies which was to be characteristic of the nineteenth-century Societies for the Suppression of Vice . The circumstances permitting the first emergence of obscenity law lie elsewhere . As a preliminary we need to note that the first book to cause its publisher to be convicted of obscene libel in a major court ? Jean Barrin 's translated Venus in the Cloister , or The Nun in Her Smock , printed and sold by Edmund Curll in 1724 ? had in fact been freely available in London since 1683 , just as Millot and L'Ange 's L'Ecole des filles and Chorier 's Satyra Sotadique had been sold openly , apparently without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that brought such books to the attention of the common-law courts in the first decades of the eighteenth century ? What made the criminal law assume a form , in 1727 , that permitted it to attend to them ? There seem to be two key factors , tied to the concepts of public ' and public morality ' . 1 . The question of jurisdictions . Curll 's defence argued that to count as a libel in a temporal court a work must either undermine public order or defame some private person ' : Whatever tends to corrupt the morals of the people ought to be censured in the Spiritual Court , to which properly allsuch cases belong ' ( R. v. Curll , p. 849 ) . And indeed it was precisely on these grounds that the Court of King 's Bench had quashed a conviction for obscene libel in Queen v. Read in 1707 . The majority of the judges in Curll , however , accepted a new disposition of public morality , one which cut across the existing division of jurisdiction between the civil and ecclesiastical courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sphere of government : As to morality . Destroying that is destroying the peace of the Government , for government is no more than publick order , which is morality .... I do not insist that every immoral act is indictable , such as telling a lie , or the like ; but if it is destructive of morality in general , if it does , or may , affect all the King 's subjects , it then is an offence of a publick nature . ( p. 850 ) Accepting this reasoning by the Attorney General prosecuting , the court broke with the old boundary between spiritual and temporal jurisdictions and instituted a new division between private ethics and public morality . It was with this expansion of the governmental sphere that the crime of obscene libel came into being . 2 . The question of the audience . What pushed Curll 's book across this threshold in 1727 was the formation of a public for pornography . No such public existed in the middle of the seventeenth century , when works such as Venus dons le cloitre first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sophisticated specialist audience ? Pepys is again representative ? they did not constitute a public problem . Their translation into English , however , together with the rapid expansion of print literacy and the popular book trade in the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries , changed this situation . That this change was crucial to the formation of the crime of obscene libel is evident in one judge 's claim that the Spiritual Courts punish only personal spiritual defamaThe // tion by words ; if it is reduced to writing , it is a temporal offence ' ( p. 850 ) ; and in Justice Reynolds ' remark that This is surely worse than Sir Charles Sedley 's case , who only exposed himself to the people then present , who might choose whether they would look upon him or not ; whereas this book goes all over the kingdom ' ( p. 851 ) . We will return to this prescient linking of the public domain to the apparently coercive immediacy of a new technology of communication . For the moment we can say that obscenity law first emerged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new governmental distinction between public and private spheres and the spread of a specific cultural technology and competence . It was this unforeseen overlap , not an access of Puritan repressiveness , which first saw the law concern itself with a : corruption of public morality by written publications judicially deemed obscene . Even if the expansion of government had specified a public whose morality might be corrupted , a public which might be corrupted by pornography could not in fact exist without the prior dissemination of a specific cultural technology and the competence to use it : the book and print literacy . Second , we should note the specific forms of action open to obscenity law in the pornographic field . The law did not supervene in an exemplarily repressive swoop on a field occupied only by the drives and erotic fantasies . Rather , through a single and uncertain common-law court decision , the law entered a field already dense with specific forms of social and ethical regulation derived from the religious technology of the flesh and the direction of conscience . This occurred only when a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morality . Finding its object here ? with a judicial reassessment of the possibility of a corruption of public morality by printed dissemination of the techniques of the flesh and the erotic conscience ? obscenity law has been substantially dependent on those other forms of regulation ( first religious and then , in the nineteenth century , medical and pedagogical ) which have supported the deployment of sexuality . The objective of the law was not ? and can never be ? the complete suppression of biblio-erotics . Rather , obscenity law has provided legal codification and sanction for a specific infra-legal ' distribution of ethical-sexual competences ( infra-legal ' refers to fields of knowledge and institutions which have overlapped with the legal domain , and carried regulatory functions of various sorts ) . In using this term , our intention is to establish a historical sense of the on-going negotiations between law and other forms of regulation ? religious , ethical , medical , pedagogical , aesthetic ? of which law might codify certain elements . In the early eighteenth // century , then , a governmental concern with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal creation ? the new crime of obscene libel ? which marked the juridification of obscene publication . ' This is not to say that law served as a simple vehicle for state power . In advance of the finding in Curll , the jurisdictional transfer to which we have referred was in no way predictable . It should be clear why the action of obscenity law can not be understood as fundamentally repressive or censorious . Particular acts of restriction form part of a juridification of those channels ? differentiated by age , gender , class and culture ? through which the literature of erotic formation circulates . These acts signal a larger strategy that is distributive rather than repressive . This ? not the hypocrisy of the judiciary ? explains not only why Curll was still advertising Venus in the Cloister in 1735 , eight years after his exemplary prosecution , but also why Victorian authorities turned a blind eye to the trade in privately-published pornography . It also enables us to provide an appropriate analysis of the fact that when , in the nineteenth century , the legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did so along specifically differentiated social channels . Consider in this regard two crucial moments in the development of the nineteenth-century law of obscenity , Lord Campbell 's Bill of 1857 and the landmark Hicklin judgement of 1868 . In a moment that was anything but fortuitous , Campbell raised the matter of the trade in obscene literature during a House of Lords ' debate on the unregulated sale of poisons in the metropolis : He Lord Campbell was happy to say that he believed the administration of poison by design had received a check . But , from a trial which had taken place before him on Saturday , he had learned with horror and alarm that a sale of a poison more deadly than prussic acid , strychnine , or arsenic ? the sale of obscene publications and indecent books ? was openly going on . ( Parliamentary Debates , 1857 , p. 103 ) Even in these preliminary remarks it is clear that the cause for concern is the unregulated and indiscriminate character of a dissemination . Through the metaphor of pornography as social toxin , Victorian jurists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : the medical and pedagogical specification of pornography as a pathological agent invading bourgeois homes and schools and whose emblem was the masturbatory child ; and the Malthusian campaigns and moral reform movements // which identified cheap pornography ? along with advertisements for abortificients , lotteries , drink and incest ? as a threat to the procreative behaviour , well-being and public decency of the popular classes . Negotiating and systematising these infra-legal specifications of pornography , Victorian obscenity law emerged not as a monolithic repression of sexual expression but as a sophisticated and discriminating mechanism of regulation . Tactics of suppression were involved , certainly , but always as part of larger strategies of distribution . Chief Justice Cockburn 's famous dictum in Hicklin : I think the test of obscenity is this , whether the tendency of the matter charged as obscenity is to deprave and corrupt those whose minds are open to such immoral influences , and into whose hands a publication of this sort may fall . ( Regina v. Hicklin , p. 371 ) should , therefore , no longer be read as a self-condemnatory expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see it as indicative of the law 's regulatory role in . a broader machinery of dissemination in which erotica were differentially treated according to an infra-legal specification of types of susceptible persons and dangerous places . At one end of the scale we find the uncontrolled urban haunts and resorts of the popular classes ? above all London 's Holywell Street ? which were pictured as centres of pornographic contagion . At the other end we find the cultural milieus of the household and the school , specifically ? yet ambivalently ? targetted by sexual medicine and pedagogy as places where pornography silently attacked the minds and bodies of bourgeois youth . Lord Campbell 's introduction of seize and forfeiture provisions into the law in 1857 was solely directed at policing the distribution of cheap pornography . As to the erotic literature directed at the literary middle-class , Lord Campbell said ? with reference to Dumas ' The Lady of the Camellias ? that he did not wish to create a category of offences in which this book might be included , although it certainly was of a polluting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion and of an improved taste that the circulation of such works could be put a stop to ; but he was glad to inform their Lordships that there was a society for the Encouragement of Pure Literature , of which his noble friend , the Duke of Argyll was president ' ( Parliamentary Debates , 1857 , p. 1152 ) . Far from prosecuting an inflexible suppression of biblio-erotics , Victorian obscenity law was in fact responsible for systematising the channels of // its distribution . As the initial threshold of pornography 's juridification began to diversify in accordance with the array of infra-legal instrumentalities aimed at pornography , so too did the legal specification of the boundary between private ethics and public morality . From a very early date the law did not attempt to draw this line along a single axis based on harms caused to a general human subject or reader . Rather it allowed the threshold to float according to expert medical and other norms defining particular categories of person and social milieu . Deploying its sanctions in a variable fashion along this floating threshold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policing that constituted in effect a form of commercial regulation of an illegal economy . At the same time it created a tolerated zone for the specialised pornography of perversions as long as its distribution remained private , that is , restricted to adult bourgeois males . Finally , we can note that the deployment of obscenity law in the pornographic field imposes definite limits on the degree to which , and the directions in which , this law can be reformed . We are now better placed to see why the weapons used by the reforming jurists of the 1960s ? the aesthetic distinction between art and pornography and the philosophical-legal distinction between law and morality ? were so quickly blunted by the actual machinery of obscenity law . Wielded on the assumption that it would be possible to cut sexual ethics free from the law with a single blow ? a blow directed by the goal of an ideal psycho-aesthetic maturity ? this reformist weaponry was harmless against a mechanism in which the thresholds between morality and law , art and pornography , private and public , floated according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law itself . Somewhat ironically , the reform movement 's campaign to rescue literature from the Procrustean bed of the law ' was confronted by the depth of the law 's own role in the deployment of literature , not least in producing and maintaining the channelled patterns of dissemination for nineteenthcentury erotica . Of importance in this regard was the creation of the private circuit of distribution for the pornography of perversions , which differentiated the form and consumption of that pornography from both the popular pornography of the streets and the educative novel of the bourgeois home and school . In this way the law became a precise condition of possibility for the literary milieu . This was so particularly with the containing of a permitted biblio-erotics to the private sphere of specialised ethical and erotic capacities , an arrangement which , as we shall see , had a profound effect on the form of the public ' educative novel . Given the law 's constitutive role in actual deployments of printed literature , there can be no question of simply withdrawing the law from the // domain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was because of this organisation of the literary field that a figure like D. H. Lawrence could take as his project the transgression of the limits of erotic expression and the aesthetic discovery of the long repressed ' truth of our sexuality . As we shall show in Chapter 4 , Lawrence was simply the first to exploit a possibility created by the legally-buttressed systematisation of the pornographic field : that is , to merge the pornographic novel 's perverse characterology and micro-technics of delectation ' with the dialectics of self-discovery and aesthetic maturation characteristic of the educative Bildungsroman . Far from being the exemplary explorer of a sexual truth beyond the law , Lawrence was arguably the product of a distinctive and specialised nineteenth-century juridical patterning of the cultural field . Notwithstanding that the novel of sexual education was in an important sense the product of a juridified cultural field , its appearance nonetheless triggered a change in the legal arrangements for this field . In joining the austere public dialectic of Romantic aesthetic education to the delectable private auto-erotics of the pornography of perversions , novelists like Lawrence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artefact moving at a tangent to the previous main lines of literary dissemination . As long as this remained merely a local mutation in advanced middle-class aesthetics and ethics ? an eroticising of the old elite practice of Romantic self-culture ? the problem could be contained within the existing organisation of the field . Hence Lawrence 's banned ' novels in fact circulated in the private zone of tolerated erotica throughout the 1920s and 1930s . Under these circumstances the existing infra-legal specification of the pathological character of pornography ? its typology of susceptible persons and dangerous places ? could remain intact . However , once it was decided to publish such works in cheap unexpurgated editions aimed at a general market something had to give . The liberal attempt to replace the medical with an aesthetic specification of pornography was the outcome of precisely these developments . The decision to publish , however , was less an exemplary aesthetic challenge to the repressive ' powers of the law than a sign that the forms of infra-legal regulation of biblio-erotics were in the process of changing . We can simply note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hegemony of sexual medicine was being displaced by a new pedagogical deployment of sexually educative novels in the school system . If , then , it was proposed to replace the pathological conception of pornography with one which treated it as nothing more than the sign of a certain psychological and aesthetic immaturity , this was not an indication that culture itself had reached a level of maturity such that sex could be safely left to the privacy of the individual // conscience . Rather , it indicated that the ethical dialectics of desire and norm , fantasy and utility , had themselves acquired a socially regulative deployment in the educational apparatus . Here an expanded circulation of educative erotica became possible , indeed imperative , as public policy , in keeping with the wider pedagogical distribution of specific ethical-sexual competences to the young . The new deployment , however , remained within the field in which these competences varied along specific distributive channels . The legal threshold of obscenity continued to float . For example , in 1979 in the United Kingdom the Report of the Committee on Obscenity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no work consisting solely of printed matter should be liable to legal prosecution or restriction for obscenity . It did so on the ground that readers had to choose to read such works ? an act which , it was argued , placed them in the extralegal domain of the private conscience . This recommendation is of course a direct inversion . of Justice Reynolds ' decision that Curll was guilty because the speed and immediacy of print pre-empted choice and placed it and its consumption in the public.domain . This should occasion no perturbation of the old judge 's spirit , however . Far from signalling the abolition of the threshold between private and public , ethics and the law , the Williams recommendation simply registers one of its characteristic migrations . We shall see in Chapter 6 that the Williams Report in fact re-invests the notion of a coercive immediacy that defines the public ' domain ? this time in photographic images ? on the basis of calculating the kind of audiences susceptible to this pornographic coercion of imagination ' . The scope of the exercise of private conscience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social distribution of particular ethical and cultural competences and with assessments of the effects of particular communicational technologies . Hence , so too must all attempts to reform obscenity law by differentiating material that can be left to individual morality from that which should be legally regulated . 3 Nineteenth-Century English Obscenity Law BEYOND CENSORSHIP The historical episode is perhaps ending during which published sexual writing was an important object of legal regulation . The legislative limits of the episode are set by the Obscene Publications Act of 1857 ( Lord Campbell 's Act ) and the Obscene Publications Act of 1959 , the key statutory construction being Regina v. Hicklin which in 1868 established as the test of obscenity a publication 's tendency to deprave and corrupt ' . During this episode , legal regulation of the publication of sexual writing was found both plausible and necessary . By the late 1970s , to judge from the Williams Report , this was no longer so : The printed word should be neither restricted nor prohibited since its nature makes it neither immediately offensive nor capable of involving the harms we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ( 1979 , p. 160 ) . If opinions such as this indicate a closing of the episode on philosophical grounds , others refer to more general shifts in cultural conditions . Thus , buoyed with aesthetic and psychoanalytic hope , Stephen Marcus argues that we are coming to the end of the era in which pornographers had a historical meaning and even a historical function ' ( Marcus , 1974 , p. 285 ) . For Charles Rembar ( 1968 ) , however , the appeal of written obscenity is at an end simply because the young no longer get excited that way . In Chapter 2 we suggested why , in writing the history of this episode , our intention is to avoid the censorship model ' exemplified not only in classic literary historical works such as Thomas ( 1969 ) but also in recent legal scholarship , for instance Robertson ( 1979 ) . Censorship histories accord a purely negative and extrinsic role to law as impeding the literary expression of human sexuality . We have begun to suspect that in practice things were somewhat less straightforward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural artefacts . And as for making a clean break between literature ' and the Procrustean bed of the law ' , this might not be possible once it is seen that these two fields have shared a deep reciprocity in organising the cultural environment responsible for the distribution of sexual sensibilities using print . Our counter-history will not employ the tactic of invoking a universal 57 // sexual self as the driving but always secret force behind works written across the span from Tudor to contemporary times . Such a tactic is the sign of over-commitment to an epic narrative of censorship as the key to the nature and history of obscenity law . Under Origins of Censorship ' , Robertson ( 1979 , p. 20 ) thus takes his readers back to Ezekiel , Aristophanes and Ovid before returning to modem times by way of the Puritan 's legacy of shame and guilt about sexual pleasure which was never quite eradicated from the national conscience and which created consumer demand for the new pornography ' . Doubtless a glow of historical pedigree comes with the claim to be part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which sexual expression is made emblematic ) , but this is at the price of losing the specificity not only of different regimens of sexuality but also of the historical discontinuities that mark the different regimes of English obscenity law . The problem is exemplified by the title which Thomas chooses for his concluding chapter : The Twentieth Century : " Plus ca change . . . " ' , as it is by Robertson 's ( 1979 , p. 16 ) claim that the only lesson we learn from the legal history of censorship is that the more the law changes , the more the social reality remains the same ' . It remains to be seen , of course , where our own political calculations are concerned , whether our historical analysis will avoid the fatalism which seems to be the condition of approaching obscenity law through an undiscriminating censorship and personal liberties narrative . Our aim ? unlike Marcus ( 1964 ) , Robertson ( 1979 ) and Gay ( 1984 ) ? is not to indict the supposed hypocrisy and repressiveness of the Victorians and , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law-enforcement . Instead , much of this chapter is expended on historical description of what in fact were the particular forms of institutional arrangements , infra-legal fields of knowledge , ethical practices and governmental measures that made the Obscene Publications Act 1857 and the 1868 Hicklin judgement intelligible to contemporaries . In our view , the chance of reconstructing in some detail the terms of intelligibility of nineteenth-century legal regulation of obscene publications more than compensates for losing the utopian option of participation trans-historical struggle for sexual emancipation supposedly achieved through the blossoming of sexual literature and the withering away of obscenity law . This means rejecting the approach of studies as diverse as Rolph ( 1969 ) , Pearsall ( 1976 ) and Heath ( 1982 ) . Let us begin by turning the negativity of the censorship model on its head and asking : Is it possible that obscenity law played a positive role in the regulation of nineteenth-century sexualities and pornographies ? // MORAL TOXINS AND SOCIAL HARMS A major obstacle to the study of nineteenth-century obscenity law is the almost universal knowingness about it which is demonstrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1857 and the deprave and corrupt ' test which gave the Act its construction simply bespeak philistinism and ignorance , notably in their failure to respect the difference between art and pornography . They also , it is said , bespeak hypocrisy and irrationality in the failure to distinguish the immoral from the socially harmful . Read in this light , the words and actions of nineteenthcentury legislators , jurists , law enforcers and law reformers become the very exemplars of error , prejudice and illiberalism . Such knowingness is , however , not without some problems of its own . It assumes that the two distinctions which have come to lie at the heart of current concerns with pornography ? the one between art and pornography and the other between the immoral and the harmful ? should have governed nineteenth-century arrangements too . We shall therefore dispense with this anachronistic notion , incapable as it is of doing descriptive justice to the historical variability of the field in which pornography has emerged , rather than laying claim to know the truth about pornography . Approached in this less anachronistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ignorance and hypocrisy which later commentators have come to prize so highly in the Victorians . That law begins to look less flawed and self-condemnatory . In fact , to anticipate the argument , it is not the voice of ignorance and unreason which we shall recover and listen to , but that of a once powerful , rational and highly specialised domain of knowledge , law and government . This particular sphere of legal and governmental reason , in which the object of knowledge was inseparable from the objectives and norms of a particular system of social supervision , was identified with the notion of police ' . Following Oestreich ( 1982 ) , we use the term police ' more broadly than is usual in the Anglo-Saxon context . The continental etymology of the term stems from policy ' , and in early modern absolutist states it was used to name the general administration of all areas of life : economic , cultural , religious , social and political . In England , Colquhoun 's ( 1797 ) Treatise on the Police of the Metropolis uses the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadly-based police programmes such as Colquhoun 's ? covering everything from the medicalisation of prostitution to the regulation of food vendors ? were not legislatively enacted in England or America . However , by the early nineteenth century less co-ordinated developments in a variety // of regulatory milieus ? public health , education , welfare , domestic economy ? were linking up to form a broad network of social policing . Police ' in the narrower sense of police forces emerged in this same context . We use the term in both the broad and narrow senses , as the context will make clear . It was in the context of this network that conservative judges like Lord Campbell and progressive social reformers like Elizabeth Blackwell could come together in a common concern with the medical , moral and pedagogical harms caused in the street and the home by cheap auto-erotic literature . This was a commodity whose uncontrolled circulation and consumption threatened to corrupt the regenerate body and mind of the population . To have done nothing- to control this circulation and consumption would have been to remain passive in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ourselves : the Obscene Publications Act of 1857 and the Hicklin judgement of 1868 mark the formal alliance of law to the network of social police . To describe the 1857 Act , modern aesthetic and philosophical habits of mind are unhelpful ; what is needed is a sense of the objectives , knowledge and norms which informed this network and provided the historical context in which Victorian obscenity law was intelligible . Introduced as a private member 's Bill ? the government , through the Lord Chancellor , Lord Cranworth , was of the view that no additional legislation was required and left the matter to Lord Campbell , the Lord Chief Justice ? the Obscene Publications Act of 1857 , also known as Lord Campbell 's Act , was the British Parliament 's first incursion into the field of obscene publication . ' Lord Campbell 's motive was to establish an effective machinery for the legal destruction of obscene publications under the provisions for the existing common law offence of obscene libel . This new machinery was to work largely through summary procedures administered by magistrates and justices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets . ' The object was a statute whose provisions were directed exclusively to works written for the single purpose of corrupting the morals of youth and of a nature calculated to shock the common feelings of decency in a well regulated mind ... Such were the works of people who designedly and industriously manufactured books and prints with the intention of corrupting morals . ( 146 Hansard Parliamentary Debates , 3rd series 1857 , pp. 327 ff . ) The mid-Victorian legislature did not pass Lord Campbell 's Bill with open acclamation and expressions of complete support . On the contrary , parliamentary and extra-parliamentary opposition to the proposal ranged from the // Lord Chancellor ? in Lord Cranford 's view the existing law was adequate to the task ? to organs of the legal profession such as The Justice of the Peace , which voiced a characteristic criticism of the extensive powers of search and seizure which the Bill sought to grant to complainants and to the police : Surely it could never have been intended that the complainant and the police constable should be enabled to exercise such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that the latter should be the sole judge of whether the things which he may seize are of a kind and nature of those sworn to by the complainant .... We most strongly object to such a power being given to any constable , or , indeed , to any authority whatever , until the things seized have been judicially condemned as being obscene within the meaning of the Act ; after which an officer of the court which condemns them might be entrusted to destroy them before one or more witnesses . ( The Justice.of the Peace ( 1857 ) , 21 , p. 467 , quoted in Manchester , 1988 , p. 230 ) This commentator was evidently in no doubt that the strengthening of the street-policing powers proposed by Lord Campbell 's Bill was a distinctly new and , from the viewpoint of the legal profession , problematic step in the regulation of pornography . Hence the concern to recall that regulation to the embrace of the judicial process in the strict sense , rather than to endorse the granting to the police of a potentially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence of what were deemed adequate safeguards over the responsible exercise of that power . Such evidence indicates what was at most a muted enthusiasm , and in some quarters a definite lack of enthusiasm , for this private member 's Bill , the legislative history of which underscores both the diversity of regulative mechanisms and agencies , and the fact that the law itself had a limited role in such regulation . As to our specific interest in the status of serious literature and its treatment under the provisions of the Act , contemporary concern among members of the legal profession extended to the possible mis-application of the provisions of the Bill to what could be held to be reputable works of art and literature . The Law Times commented as follows , at the moment of debate on the Bill : The Obscene Publications Bill of Lord Campbell ought to have been deferred for maturer deliberation in another session .... Who would be // safe with such a weapon in the hands of fanatics ? .... We do not fear its use by sensible men , but its abuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but probable , that two justices will be found to hold pictures , and statuary , and books , which lovers of art look upon as art , to be obscene ' within the meaning of the Act , injurious to morals and offensive to decency . What is to restrain them from doing that which they will conscientiously believe to be a duty and putting down ' the , to them , obnoxious objects ? We fear that Lord Campbell has not sufficiently reflected upon this . ( Law Times ( 1857 ) , quoted in Manchester , 1988 , p. 235 ) A variation in the capacity to judge what is obscene is here located within the legal profession itself . A certain concern was also expressed in the House on the demarcation between obscene publications and works of literary merit , Lord Brougham seeking to ensure that works of some of our most eminent poets ' ( Hansard , Lords , 11 May 1857 , CXLV , p. 329 ) would not suffer prosecution . Lord Campbell , however , shared the Victorian reverence for great Books ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Campbell that his proposals were in no way meant to interfere with literature and the arts . And so he produced a copy of La Dame aux Camelias and announced that , much as he disapproved of the book , he had no wish to see such publications banned by the new law . ( Thomas , 1969 , pp. 262 ? 3 ) This gesture came at the report stage . As to enforcement of the Act once it became law , ' invoking the Act against literary or artistic works . . . proved to be the exception rather than the rule , and for the most part such works suffered no disability before the law ' ( Manchester , 1988 , p. 237 ) . This assessment by Manchester is of the essence ; yet his account of how it was that obscenity law and serious literature came into a more intimate contact later in the century perpetuates the notion of a repressive official morality bent on censoring an expressive literary culture . Such an account and such a notion need to be radically revised if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter we enquire how and why towards the end of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth it became possible for works of literary merit to fall foul of nineteenth-century obscenity law , it will not be a matter of of taking an ironic distance from the supposed hypocrisy of the makers of the law ( Robertson , 1979 , p. 29 ) , nor of representing the Act of 1857 as **26;2264;TOOLONG // tally uncertain in its definition of obscenity ( Williams Report , 1979 , p. 168 ) . The fact is that at this point in its history obscenity law was too discriminating in its application to be reduced to a single mask for hypocrites ; as for pornography , it was a readily recognised commodity . The 1857 Act created no new offence , its purpose being to give magistrates authority to destroy matter which , in their judgement , was obscene . In practical terms , this authorisation established a machinery for policing pornography : a summary procedure allowing the routine seizure and destruction of offending publications . The police , armed with a magistrate 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Where this was found , it could now be seized and brought before the magistrate , who could then issue a summons to the occupier of the premises , requiring cause to be shown why the matter should not be destroyed . Although no criminal penalty was imposed , the printer , publisher or bookseller whose stock was seized risked having that stock destroyed by order of the court . As Robertson observes , the burden of proving that the material was not obscene lay on the bookseller ' . And he adds an important detail : To put a pornographer in prison , the prosecutor had to give the publisher the option of trial by jury and had to prove the obscenity of his books beyond a reasonable doubt . The House of Commons inserted two further safeguards before enacting the Bill : a right of appeal to a judge at Quarter Sessions and a requirement that the prosecutor prove that the offending book was actually for sale to the public . Lord Campbell acquiesced in these amendments , and looked forward to a time when Holywell Street would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughfare through which any modest woman might pass ' . ( Robertson , 1979 , pp. 28 ? 9 ) This reference to street life is more than an incidental image in Lord Campbell 's speech . The law endows police and magistrates with powers to be exercised in the meaner streets of the metropolis and other urban centres , powers whose enforcement will enjoy a significant autonomy from the specifically judicial regulation of pornography . That the spheres of the law of obscenity and the policing of pornography overlap yet diverge illustrates the fact that we are dealing with a field in which the law plays a limited , albeit a definite role . In Parliament , John Roebuck MP characterised Lord Campbell 's Bill as an attempt to make people virtuous by Act of Parliament ' ( Hansard , 12 August 1857 , CXLVII , p. 1475 ) , expressing his doubt that legislation could // determine moral conduct where vulnerability to or taste for obscene publications were concerned . Here a different limit to law is evoked , an appeal to an unbridgeable gap between law and morality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ploy , as arguments for the liberalisation of obscenity law in the 1960s were to testify . However , during the nineteenth century , public legislation and private moral taste were brought into a new proximity through the emergence of social policing with its new technologies of governmental concern , investigation and supervision . Against this background of the medical , civil and assistantial network , Lord Campbell 's Bill emerges as a police ' measure , conditioned by the gradual emergence of an urban police force , and directed at a cheap pornography which by the available criteria of the time was rationally judged to constitute a threat to the moral and physical well-being of the urban popular classes . The Act met with variable success . Late in 1857 Lord Campbell noted in his diary that its success has been most brilliant ' . Holywell Street , he wrote , had been so decisively transformed by the policing initiative that some shops had closed while others had shifted to the alternative trade staple of moral and religious books ' ( quoted in Manchester , 1988 , pp. 228 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorous enforcement accorded an initial efficacy to the move to give additional powers for the Suppression of the Trade in Obscene Books , Prints , Drawings , and other Obscene Articles ' as set out in the Preamble to the Act . Yet by the late 1860s ? in a much-cited characterisation of Holywell Street first recorded in the Saturday Review of 5 December 1868 ? the dunghill is in full heat and steaming with all of its old pestilence ' . At the time of the Hicklin judgement , the picture is therefore one of a reduced level of policing of popular pornography , or at least of a fluctuating pattern of concern with the traffic . It would be unwise to read too much into alleged failures of the Act . As a police measure , its objective was not to extirpate the publication of pornography as an illegal act but to regulate it in accordance with the objectives of a social and moral policing of the population . In this regard , the periodic failures of the measure in fact serve as testimony to the ongoing vitality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulatory drive . If the sensibility of certain categories of person to certain types of printed matter was being transformed into a concern of policing , this was not due to the ascendancy of a censorious and hypocritical morality on the part of the Victorians . Rather , it was a result of the fact that ? having crossed into the space of governmental concern and supervision through the development of a new technology of watchfulness ? the taste for pornography was becoming the target of two initially distinct but soon intersecting agencies . First , a metaphorics of contagion and a mapping of dangerous places ' . // These were the product of a whole series of voluntary and state investigations of the city which traced the distribution and disposition of the population in terms of a set of overlapping threats to its health , decency , good order and well-being . It was in the context of such moral topographies ' that cheaply-printed pornography could appear as a noxious substance and a contagious threat to insufficiently socialised and self-protecting sensibilities . Second , the specialist knowledges of moral psychology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's warnings concerning the consumption of pornography by children ? moral danger and physical pathology were linked at the level of the individual mind and body . This was achieved through a moral physiology which in effect transformed medical pathology into a source of admonitory images used for an ethical discipline of the self while simultaneously bringing the latter within the confessional sphere of the doctor-patient relationship . It was here , primarily in the context of the great anti-masturbation campaigns directed at the bourgeois family , that the failure to resist the incitements of erotic words and images became intelligible in terms of a general debilitation of body and soul . Lord Campbell 's references to poison and obscene publications regain their historical intelligibility when read against these dual agencies : Flrom a trial which had taken place before him on Saturday , he had learned with horror and alarm that a sale of poison more deadly than prussic acid , strychnine or arsenic ? the sale of obscene publications and indecent books ? was openly going on . ( Parliamentary Debates , 1857 , p. 103 ) The reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Victorian mentality which erroneously conflated moral distaste with physical harm . Joining the metaphorics of moral contagion aimed at the urban popular classes to the medical specification of the middle-class individual 's moral pathology , this formulation indicates the emergence of a powerful social apparatus ? a new configuration of the pornographic field ? in which the taste for erotic literature indeed became a then quite proper object of governmental intervention and legal regulation . Not so long ago it was easy for us to smile knowingly at this repressive ' and unscientific ' stigmatisation of erotica . Today these smiles are fading . The recent return of the rhetoric of pornography as a social harm suggests that current changes represent mutations in the regulatory apparatus which first emerged in the nineteenth century , not its definitive superseding . In // other words , pornography 's power to join moral and physical harm was not a chimera of Victorian ignorance and irrationality . It was a sign of the pivotal place that erotic words and images came to occupy at the juncture where the policing of the streets met the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Obscene Publications Act of 1857 gained its definitive construction when , in 1868 , Lord Campbell 's successor as Lord Chief Justice , Sir Alexander Cockburn , made some observations on the distinguishing features of that species of publication liable to the charge of criminal obscenity . These observations became ubiquitous ? in England , the United States , Canada and Australia ? as the standard test used in proceedings relating to the common law offence of obscene libel . They were also to acquire a statutory existence ? in an only slightly altered form ? as the test for obscenity under the English Obscene Publications Act of 1959 . Familiar though they are , the terms of Cockburn 's dictum are so central to any reconstruction of English obscenity law that quotation is imperative : I think the test of obscenity is this , whether the tendency of the matter charged as obscenity is to deprave and corrupt those whose minds are open to such immoral influences , and into whose hands a publication of this sort may fall . ( Regina v. Hicklin , p. 371 ) As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The case involved a destruction order made in the Wolverhampton magistrates court , an appeal against that order to Quarter Sessions , and a review of the ruling of the Quarter Sessions by the Queen 's Bench Division of the High Court . The detail is as follows : under the forfeiture and destruction provisions of the 1857 Act , the Wolverhampton Justices authorised police seizure of a pamphlet , The Confessional Unmasked : Showing the Depravity of the Romish Priesthood , the Iniquity of the Confessional , and the Questions put to Females in Confession . The title recalls a specific literary arrangement we have already noted : the unforeseen exchange between spiritual confession and profane detailing of sexual possibilities . The Justices were responding to a complaint by a police officer acting at the direction of the Borough Watch Committee . 252 copies of the pamphlet were seized and after inspection by the local Justices ? Benjamin Hicklin // among them ? their destruction was ordered on the grounds that the text was in part obscene . The publication was not new , having seen a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Catholic theologians Dens and Liguori , together with shorter selections from Bailly and Cabassutius , focussed on the practice of confession . They were printed in Latin on one side of the page , with English translations facing . The character of the extracts was not uniform , some dealing with doctrinal and casuistical matters and others , in a manner that the magistrates had no hesitation in finding obscene , with the conditions of females in confession ' . There was also a preface in which , as in the commentary on the extracts , the editor attacked Catholic practices and beliefs : In the later part of the pamphlet I have given a few extracts without abridgement , to shew into what minute and disgusting details these holy men have entered . This alone has been my object , and not the filling of the work with obscenity ' ( Regina v. Hicklin , p. 362n ) . The copies seized came from the stock of an edition of The Confessional Unmasked that , together with the plates from which it was printed , had been bought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strange who had been sent down for three months by Lord Campbell in 1857 for selling obscene literature ' ( Thomas , 1969 , p. 264 ) . The buyers were the Protestant Electoral Union , a society committed to protect the Protestant tradition and to resist Catholicism in England . A member of the Protestant Electoral Union , a Wolverhampton metal broker Henry Scott , had then purchased copies from the Union 's head office in London . Scott , a person of respectable position and character ' ( Regina v. Hicklin , p. 362 ) , was the subject of the prosecution when the pamphlets were seized in his dwelling house . Faced with the detail of the sexual confessions illustrating the immorality of Catholic practice , the Justices moved to have the material destroyed as an obscene libel . Scott , however , appealed against the destruction order , taking his case to the Quarter Sessions where the Recorder found that publication of the pamphlet was redeemed by its moral objective , a religious conviction that was in no sense indictable . Scott 's intention , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to promote the case of the Protestant Electoral Union by exposing the iniquity of the confessional ' . Nonetheless , recognising the legal implications of the case , the Prosecution asked the Recorder to put the matter up for consideration by a Queen 's Bench Divisional Court . The ruling of the Wolverhampton Justices was therefore quashed , conditional on confirmation by the Court of Queen 's Bench that , on the stated facts , Scott 's possession , sale and distribution of The Confessional Unmasked was not a misdemeanour within the meaning of the Obscene // Publications Act 1857 . Such confirmation was not , however , forthcoming . Lord Cockburn and his fellow judges unanimously affirmed the original destruction order . Despite the cardinal importance of Hicklin ? the Williams Report ( 1979 , p. 169 ) comments that the test thus enunciated had a tremendous effect ' ? errors have crept into accounts of it . Tribe ( 1973 , p. 65 ) has Hicklin as the Quarter Assizes Recorder , although it was of course the Recorder who quashed Hicklin 's original destruction order ; also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives Immorality ' in place of Iniquity ' ( p. 64 ) . Thomas ( 1969 , p. 264 ) , perhaps determined to miss no chance of depicting the repression of literature by law , makes Scott a Wolverhampton bookseller ' , not a metal broker . Even the Williams Report ( 1979 , p. 169 ) , having decided to mention the location from which The Confessional Unmasked was seized , misleadingly refers to the premises ' of Henry Scott , when in fact the raid had been on his dwelling-house , thus losing the sense of Scott as metal broker acting as concerned private citizen rather than as someone operating commercially from premises ' . More than detailed rectifications of fact , however , a sense of the legalcultural environment of Hicklin is required if we are to grasp the contemporary intelligibility of Cockburn 's celebrated dictum . Histories of obscenity law usually accord Hicklin its importance in terms of dire and nefarious consequences , a characteristic account describing it for instance as one passing judicial comment which has survived the passage of time and which returns regularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the common-law world ' ( Robertson , 1979 , p. 30 ) . Putting aside its hyperbole , we can nonetheless take from this remark a pertinent fact . Cockburn 's epochal definition of obscenity was indeed , in the context of the judgement as a whole , just one passing judicial comment ' . Re-reading the legal text , we find no sense whatsoever that a definition of obscenity was what everyone was looking for . It was the moral and religious aspect of the work in question which had led the Quarter Sessions to seek the higher court 's review of the ruling . That aspect , and Scott 's expressed intention in publishing the pamphlet , focusses the reasoning of the Queen 's Bench judges . In other words , even though the 1857 Act had passed into law unaccompanied by any statutory definition of obscenity , the judgement in Hicklin does not , in the first instance , read like a calculated piece of statutory interpretation.3 Obscenity ' is not recognised as being problematic in its reference or in need of legal definition . The celebrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? is lodged inside a substantial paragraph in which , both before and after the definition , Cockburn wrestles with the problem of Scott 's intent . Nor does // the Lord Chief Justice offer any elaboration of the terms of his definition , other than to reiterate , later in his comments , what he has already said : I can not suppose but that they had that intention which constitutes the criminality of the act , at any rate that they knew perfectly well that this work must have the tendency which , in point of law , makes it an obscene publication , namely the tendency to corrupt the minds and morals of those into whose hands it might come . ( Regina v. Hicklin , p. 373 ) None of Cockburn 's fellow judges shows any sign of recognising something epochal ? or even something useful and needed ? in these definitions of obscenity . This is not surprising . The Queen 's Bench had not been asked to rule on whether The Confessional Unmasked was or was not obscene . The point at issue was whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication . The Lord Chief Justice cites precedents to support the rule whereby when the act is in itself unlawful . . . the proof of its justification or excuses lies in the defendant ; and in failure thereof , the law implies a criminal intent ' ( p. 364 ) and every man , if he be a rational man , must be considered to intend that which must necessarily follow from what he does ' ( p. 369 ) . Noting his disagreement with the Recorder , the Lord Chief Justice then comments : I think that if there be an infraction of the law the intention to break the law must be inferred , and the criminal character of the publication is not affected or qualified by there being some ulterior object in view ( which is the immediate and primary object of the parties ) of a different and of an honest character . ( p. 370 ) As an explicit construction of the 1857 Statute , Hicklin is in one sense rather thin . The Wolverhampton Justices had no doubt that their destruction order fell within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Cockburn refers to sections of the Act but in a quite unproblematic way , to confirm that under the Statute the mere possession or sale of a work in a certain sense obscene ' is not in itself sufficient for an indictment , but that the circumstantial intention must be established : the question is therefore quo animo was the publication ' ( pp. 367 ? 8 ) . Justice Blackburn opened his comments by confirming that the Statute was for the more effectually preventing the sale of obscene books ' . He read the first section of the Act and then outlined the procedures to be followed in a prosecution : // Now what the magistrate or justices are to be satisfied of is that the belief of the complainant is well founded , and also that any of such articles so published for any of the purposes aforesaid , are of such a character and description that the publication of them would be a misdemeanour , and that the publication in the manner alleged would be proper to be prosecuted ; and having satisfied themselves in respect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seizure of the works . And then the justices in petty sessions are also in effect to be satisfied of the three same things ; first , that the articles complained of have been kept for any of the purposes aforesaid , and that they are of the character stated in the warrant , that is , that they are of such a character that it would be a misdemeanour to publish them ; and that it would not only be a misdemeanour to publish them , but that it would be proper to be prosecuted as such ; and then , and only then , are they to order them to be destroyed . I think that with respect to the last clause , that the object of the legislature was to guard against the vexatious prosecution of publishers of old and recognised standard works , in which there may be some obscene or mischievous matter . ( pp. 373 ? 4 ) The final remark raises the possibility that the concept of obscenity might have been in need of definition , but on balance the judge 's words seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision of the Statute . Later he recalls Regina v. Moxon , the prosecution for blasphemous libel half a century earlier involving Shelley 's Queen Mab , but only to distance himself from that judgement ( I believe , as everybody knows , that it was prosecution instituted merely for the purpose of vexation and annoyance . ' ) . The judge then reflects on the 1857 Act and offers the reassurance that I think the legislature put in that provision in order to prevent proceedings in such cases ' ( p. 374 ) . In other words , for the Bench , adequate statutory provision had been made to distinguish between obscene and non-obscene writings . No hint is given that the drawing of that boundary requires an explicit act of interpretation . Justice Blackburn makes no further mention of the Statute , but comments instead on the all-important issue of intention in terms identical to those of the Lord Chief Justice . Only in a remark of Justice Mellor on the subject matter of the pamphlet ? confessional practices ? might some doubt concerning the obscenity of the item @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if it may be discussed at all ( and I think it undoubtedly may ) , is such that it can not be discussed without to a certain extent producing authorities for the assertion that the confessional // would be a mischievous thing to be introduced into this kingdom ; and therefore it appears to me very much a question of degree , and if the matter were left to the jury it would depend very much on the opinion which the jury might form of that degree in such a publication as the present . ( p. 378 ) Perhaps there is a suggestion in this hint that erotic writing can not even be cited for the purposes of discussion without provoking a certain incitatory effect , a point made in Chapter 2 , it being a peculiarity of pornography that even as an object of knowledge and judgement it can not be entirely detached from the excitation of the knower or the judge . The text of Hicklin thus provides little evidence that the judges of the Queen 's Bench saw therhselves confounded by the absence of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , historians of obscenity must be suspected of anachronism . It is certainty , not doubt , which characterises the court 's handling of obscenity . There was no doubt because obscene publication was defined not in the abstract but concretely and circumstantially by its mode and place of dissemination , that is , by its demographic targets . However , in talking of certainty , it remains important not to imply that the judges were locked into some iron-clad ideology which blinded them to the reality of ( what has since become ) the slippery concept of obscenity . The question is rather : What allowed the judges of the Queen 's Bench in 1868 to be so certain about obscenity that definition of the concept occupied so little of their time ? From the historical viewpoint , this certainty calls for explanation , not denunciation . The multiple answers to the question of why the court in Hicklin was so unconcerned with the definition of obscenity do not turn on a crude sociological characterisation of the judges as the mere vehicles of a class mentality functionally determined by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanations involving the specialist infra-legal knowledges ? sexual medicine and moral psychology ? which informed the network of policing agencies . The criteria and classifications which at the time of Hicklin organised knowledge of moral character no longer provide us with an admissible characterology , except perhaps at the level of our common sense , that sedimentation of former knowledges . The Wolverhampton justices , the Recorder of Quarter Sessions and the Judges of Queen 's Bench could identify obscenity ' without hesitation because of their capacity to work within the knowledge that morality was positively connected to health and that , in those who lacked the appropriate prophylactic preparation , moral health was damaged by exposure to obscene words and images . The ' de72 On Pornography prave and corrupt ' formulation of Hicklin was anything but idiosyncratic . What was known and applied was the social-medical norm which helped organise that world of which Lord Cockburn and Elizabeth Blackwell were exemplary denizens . Sexual medicine , as suggested in Chapter 2 , linked bodily health to the purity of the mind and the pathology of the individual to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained but not yet lost its power to harm ? a power which it is perhaps regaining among us today . It was also known that not all individuals or populations were equally vulnerable to the harms defined and treated by the moral physiologists . Hicklin specifies those whose minds are open to such immoral influences , and into whose hands a publication of this sort may fall ' . More than a specification of the attributes defining what will count as a vulnerable person , the second element of this formulation is an indication of a certain social space in which that person 's vulnerability will be most exposed to exploitation by the distributors of pornography . It is not just that the minds and hands in question are weak , but that in certain specified places pornography falls ? more noxiously and purposively than the gentle rain from heaven ? into those minds and hands . These places are the streets of the city where the vulnerable were directly exposed to the harms of pornography . Here ? cognisant of the medical-moral norm we have described ? the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures not necessarily juridical in form ) to manage the reading of the popular classes . Given her expressed concern , Dr Blackwell would have required no less . Precisely this concern is visible in the emphasis placed in Hicklin on the circumstances of the harming done by exposure to obscene publication : This work The Confessional Unmasked . . . is sold at the corners of streets , and in all directions , and of course it falls into the hands of persons in all classes , young and old , and the minds of those hitherto pure are exposed to the danger of contamination and pollution from the impurity it contains . ( p. 372 ) Earlier , the court had made the following explicit observation on the circumstantial nature of obscene publication : A medical treatise , with illustrations necessary for the information of those for whose education or information the work is intended , may , in a certain sense , be obscene , and yet not the subject for indictment ; but it can never be that these prints may be exhibited for anyone , boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immunity must depend upon the circumstances of the publication . ( p. 367 ) // This is a recognition that serious works ? medical treatises or literature ? might indeed fall within the scope of obscenity statutes when distributed to those whose taste was not fully formed ( schoolchildren ) or in a form calculated to exploit ' those classes outside the precincts of ethical tutelage ( cheap reprints sold on the streets ) . No doubt some people today are inclined to mock this demographics of moral vulnerability and even the notion of vulnerability itself , despite the feminist assault on such complacency . For our part , we remain more hesitant to dismiss out of hand the nineteenth-century capacity to identify moral offence and personal harm occasioned by pornography to certain categories of person in certain cultural circumstances . The deprave and corrupt ' criterion for obscenity does not reduce to paternalist and bourgeois moral prejudice . It is not so empty of real content . On the contrary , it is perhaps too full ? of the moral , medical , psychological , demographic and administrative knowledges from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was oriented . That law presents moral-medical aetiologies more complex than we can immediately comprehend . Since 1868 , an edifice has been built upon the words of Lord Cockburn and his colleagues . Lodged in early textbooks such as Stephen 's Digest of the Criminal Law and Archbold 's Criminal Pleading , the tendency to deprave and corrupt ' became the standard criminal law test for obscene publications . ' The important task now is to sketch its career without collapsing the historical variations of obscenity law and the policing of pornography into a single story of personal right , human sexuality and literary expression struggling against the dark forces of law and censorship . That would be a story of repression , not a history of legal regulation and policing . Given this safeguard , there is some chance of restoring to obscenity law its positive but limited place in the mid-nineteenth-century complex of state and private programmes for collective and individual welfare , a complex in which distinct strategies to regulate pornography converged , sometimes in unexpected ways . VARIABLE OBSCENITY One sign of the practical and para-judicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ array of instruments and institutions which supported that policing . The Obscene Publications Act of 1857 and the Hicklin dictum were not the only mechanisms for regulating obscene publication . Other nineteenth-century statutes relating to obscenity included the Vagrancy Acts of 1824 and 1838 , the Metropolitan Police Act of 1839 , the Libel Act of 1843 , the Theatres Act of 1843 , the Town Police // Causes Act of 1847 , the Post Office Act of 1870 , the Public Health Act of 1875 , the Customs Consolidation Act of 1876 , the Post Office ( Protection ) Act of 1884 , and the Indecent Advertisements Act of 1889 . Merely to list these titles suggests something of the heterogeneous character of the administration of pornography . This unplanned regulatory concert can be schematised as a graduated scale , at one end of which are minor offences involving indecent handbills , sandwich-boards , placards and shop-window displays . These are tried in courts of summary jurisdiction by magistrates and justices and carry relatively light sentences to a maximum of forty shillings or one month in prison . Such offences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the streets , and are dealt with by the police , often in an informal manner by the issuing of warnings . The police develop their own tests and classificatory mechanisms . The offenders ? shopkeepers , street corner sellers , itinerant pedlars ? appear to have accepted this policing as part of the particular commercial system within which they operated . At the other end of the scale are the common law provisions . Here , obscene publication is constituted as a serious misdemeanour , handled under the criteria and procedures built up by the courts since the early eighteenth century . Obscene publication is here less a street offence subject to policing by the local constable than the descendant of the common-law delict of obscene libel which , as we have already noted , emerged when an obscene libel which defamed no one was recognised to be a corruption of the morality of everyone , and when with Curll 's case in 1727 the Sedley precedent was imported into the newly-expanding domain of print publication and dissemination . At this high end of the scale lie the ceremonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grossly indecent ' materials . How does the Obscene Publications Act of 1857 relate to this spectrum ? The Act retained the existing common law offence of obscene libel . It classified the conditions under which the police could enter and search premises , and seize and destroy materials found to be obscene . Proof of exhibition and sale had to be obtained by police or informants purchasing materials , following which the magistrate or justices could issue the search warrant . The police as prosecutor could then seize the materials , returning with them to the magistrate who , unless a change of mind had occurred since the issue of the search warrant , could issue a destruction order . This summary procedure was embodied in the Act for use by the police against street pornography . However , the Act also allowed an appeal by a defendant to a judge at Quarter Sessions and provided for jury trial under the common law . It thus connected , at least in theory , the routine policing of the streets and the // ceremonial trial of condemned works , where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of public morality was to be . Across this bridge it became possible for the objectives and norms of moral policing to meet up with laws governing public morality and health . It was here that classics ' could become caught up in the regulation of the circulation of socially harmful and dangerous commodities . This connection is manifested in the text of Hicklin . In a single sweep , reference is made on the one hand to what the boys and girls . . . see as they pass ' and to the works sold at the corners of streets ' ( Regina v. Hicklin , pp. 367 , 372 ) ; and , on the other , to the dignity of Juvenal and Chaucer , Milton and Dryden , Byron and Bayle before an appropriately respectful law ( p. 365 ) . If taken to imply that serious works could appear only at the common law end of our scale , this listing of classics is misleading . On the contrary , the evidence of prosecutions demonstrates that established literary works had no uniform condition of existence under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edition ' circuit , Boccaccio , Balzac , Maupassant and Zola could become objects of routine street corner policing . In Regina v. Thomson , for instance , a London bookseller was in 1900 charged with having published a certain lewd , wicked , bawdy , and obscene libel in the form of a book entitled The Heptameron of Margaret Queen of Navarre ' . The publication had come to the attention of the Metropolitan Police , for whom Inspector Arrow testified . In opening for the prosecution , R. D. Muir suggested that though it was a classic in the French language it was not a classic in the English language ' . However , more than with a matter of incompatible national literary canons , in the words of the Common Sergeant 's summing up of the case to the Central Criminal Court jury the court had to deal with the time and circumstances under which the book was put forth ' : If it had been in a library to which students had access , no one would deny that the book was properly there and properly kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p. 457 ) . Some half-century before it dawned on literary theorists , the police were thus aware that the meaning and effects of literature varied with the circumstances of its consumption and the cultural capacities of its users . As we shall see in Chapter 6 , this pragmatic dependence of obscenity on the variable strategies of its policing would later pose major difficulties for its jurisprudential definition , codification and reform . In the event , Margaret Queen of Navarre was found fit to read . Earlier , in 1888 , action had been taken against Henry Vizetelly , the London publisher of translations of Gautier , Flaubert , Daudet , Maupassant and Zola . If the Vizetelly prosecution is the first example of the successful use of the 1857 Act against works which might be deemed to be of literary merit , two comments are appropriate . If it took more than thirty years from // the passage of the Act or twenty years from Hicklin for there to occur this first example of the law being successfully invoked against literary works , a question must be raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscenity law . Robertson ( 1979 , p. 30 ) claims that , airmed at last with a definition of obscenity , Victorian prosecutors proceeded to destroy many examples of fine literature ' . Set against the fact of a single successful literary prosecution in the twenty central years of the Victorian era , such indignation and hyperbole is simply wrong . Yet the standard account is what underpins the received historiography of obscenity law . As if indifferent to what actually happened , the censorship ' story endlessly returns to a fundamental and unchanging dichotomy between literary subjectivity and the generalised repressive agency of obscenity law depicted as blanket censorship . The second comment concerns the way the conduct to which obscenity law applies ? publication ? is habitually represented as an invariant and transparent adjunct of subjectivity . Literature and publication have their histories . What counts as literature has changed , as have the uses made of published writings . It is therefore anachronistic to set a fourteenth-century collection of satirical folk-novellas and a nineteenth-century naturalist novel alongside one another as literature ' , imagine their prosecution and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Victorian obscenity law . In the following chapter , therefore , we consider the possibility that with writings such as those of Zola or ? more particularly ? of D. H. Lawrence , serious literature had entered into a new and unforeseen relation with sexuality and the pornographic genre . For the moment it is enough to note that the aesthetic ( and ethical ) certainty implied by Robertson 's phrase ? many examples of fine literature ' ? may turn out to be quite misplaced . As we have seen , for the police the difference between lascivious material and improving literature was not inherent . It depended on where and to whom the literature was disseminated , how and by whom it was used . In showing a pair of clean and pragmatic pair of heels to modern reader-response theories , the nineteenth-century policing of erotic writing is also more subtle and flexible than twentieth-century attempts to write the history of obscenity law in terms of the censorship of a putatively self-evident and constant phenomenon called literature ' . THE LAW AND THE POLICE To the suggestion that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we can imagine a response that ties this rarity to a widespread adoption of procedures of self-censorship by authors of // sexually expressive works in the face of the law of obscenity . In the following chapter , we shall give some good reasons why such a response is ill-conceived . For now , however , this response is useful insofar as it directs attention to the possibility of a diversity of regulatory mechanisms . And indeed , when we look , we find a miscellany of agencies , private and public . The Proclamation Society was founded in 1787 by William Wilberforce , following a royal Proclamation for the Encouragement of Piety and Virtue ; and for preventing and punishing Vice , Profaneness , and Immorality ' . The Society for the Suppression of Vice and the Encouragement of Religion and Virtue superseded the Proclamation Society in 1801 , enjoying a long and active career as the Vice Society . In the 1860s , the Duke of Argyll 's Society for Pure Literature was active , while in 1886 from the National Vigilance Committee there emerged the National Vigilance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This incorporated the Society for the Suppression of Vice , the Minors ' Protection Committee and the Belgian Traffic Committee , and merged in 1891 with the Central Vigilance Society . As with the array of nineteenth-century statutory provisions , there is no uniformity of concern between or indeed within these civic societies and their endeavours . Just as Elizabeth Blackwell 's pathologising of exposure to erotic writing and imagery now seems to jar with her feminist and socialist aspirations , so Wilberforce 's attack on such writing does not sit easily with his attack on slavery , at least for the modem assumption that unless emancipation is general we do not properly have emancipation . The same is true of the National Vigilance Association with its actions against literature on the one hand ? it was instrumental in bringing the 1888 Vizetelly prosecution ? and its work against child prostitution and enforced incest on the other . The law was not , however , hostage to these civic societies . While all of the nearly forty prosecutions for obscene libel brought by the Vice Society up to 1817 were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be made available to private citizens to seize persons distributing or selling obscene materials was not accorded when the Metropolitan Police Act of 1839 passed into law . Indeed , despite the increased powers made available by this statute and the Obscene Publications Act of 1857 , the authorities appear to have been reluctant to set the law in motion , and without such official assistance , the civic bodies were inadequate to the task they set themselves . In. part because of the increasing dissemination of pornography by mail , police interest fluctuated . Cases were brought from time to time but not with sufficient frequency to prevent the bookshop trade from re-establishing itself around Holywell Street ' ( Manchester , 1988 , pp. 232 ? 3 ) .5 Again , too much should not be read into the supposed failure of regulatory // initiatives whose object was to channel , not to eradicate , pornographic materials . Nor should we forget that such basic practical determinants of legal action in relation to obscene publication as the locus of entitlement to prosecute ? are charges to be brought by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of criminal prosecution ? ? were not yet codified into their modem form . The miscellany of agencies in the field is further attested by a document which affords an excellent overview of nineteenth-century arrangements . Between March and June 1908 , a Joint Select Committee of the Commons and the Lords inquired into the laws on lotteries and literature , pictures and advertisements relating to things indecent and immoral ' , and in late July 1908 brought down its Report from the Joint Select Committee on Lotteries and Indecent Advertisements ( hereafter , the 1908 Report ) . A single committee to review laws relating to lotteries and to obscenity is today unlikely ; however , the configuration of the Committee 's brief exemplifies the particular series ' in which obscene publications could intelligibly be placed at that time . Obscene publication was located among other street dangers to be regulated for the sake of the moral and physical well-being of urban populations . Within the one sweep of concern came lotteries which took the family man 's wages , advertisements for female ailments ' ? Dr Paterson 's famous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on by simple means in a few hours ' ( 1908 Report , p. 42 ) ? advertisements of the Malthusian kind ' , that is for birth control and abortificients , and exhibitions of indecent pictures through bioscopes and mutoscopes ' : The exhibition . . . was prosecuted on a Sunday night at the Elephant and Castle , and at the very least estimate the number of persons , boys and girls , there was over 300 . They are indulging in all sorts of indecent acts among themselves , and two were looking round picking out the different machines which bore the most seductive titles and which they thought contained the worst pictures ? a boy and girl each spying on the payment of 1/2d. in the same machine , touching one another in an indecent manner , and making use of very indecent language . ( pp. 44 ? 5 ) The diverse issues before the Committee illustrate the interlocking objectives of medical , social and pedagogical policing and define the series as the system of police developed for the regulation of city populations.6 The scale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous section is evident in the 1908 Report . Constables on the beat use specified criteria to recognise and deal with offences under the Vagrancy Acts of 1824 and 1838 , the Metropolitan Police Act of 1839 , the Town // Police Causes Act of 1847 and various local acts and by-laws . Evidence on this aspect of policing is given by Commissioners of the Metropolitan Police , by the Chief Constables of Liverpool , Manchester , Hull and Dublin , and by the Director of Public Prosecutions . Reference is also made to the Obscene Publications Act of 1857 and the common law on obscene libel . The Head Constable of Liverpool identifies the difference between routine street policing practices and the statutory and common law provisions in explaining how his officers police obscene and indecent materials . Where indecent advertisements are found , instructions are given to the ordinary constable on the street ' on how to handle matters himself , exercising a not insignificant measure of discretion . But the Head Constable then adds : Of course , with regard to the Obscene Publications Act 1857 , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are no more instructions issued to the police on the street on the subject , except that they would report anything which seemed to them suspicious ' ( p. 640 ) . Drawing a distinction between routine street policing and the ceremony of jury trial does not imply that the police acted entirely independently of the law . The point ? as the detail of the 1908 Report demonstrates ? is that police regulation of pornography had its relative autonomy and developed its specific criteria and norms as appropriate to its circumstances . Hence the pragmatic and incorrigible tests that the police had locally developed for use by the constables , as instanced by Chief Inspector Drew : I would like at this point to inform your Lordship 's Committee , what in the opinion of the police is the difference between a photograph of an obscene nude person , and one which might be considered indecent , although not obscene , and that is where the hair is clearly shown on the private parts . ( p. 436 ) There is not room in this practical instruction to constables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerns of the jury trial . Analogously , the Chief Constable of Manchester commented on his regularly using the same stipendiary magistrate for the granting of summonses under the 1857 Act : We always apply to him because you get a uniform practice by applying to one man ; on indecency publications , I always go to the Stipendiary , so that you get a uniform practice ' ( p. 964 ) . This evidences the desirability of a predictable and uniform practice ' at street level . By contrast , the outcome of jury trial would be quite uncertain . Other testimony points towards this high ' end of the scale . Thus a Mr Corfe , concerned citizen and author of letters to the papers , correspondent with the Headmaster 's Conference on the matter of their Memorial to the // Railway Companies concerning literature available through station bookstalls , is of the opinion that English novels have become so indecent of late years as to be even worse than the French ones ' ( p. 539 ) . Indeed , three of them ? Three Weeks , Cynthia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about as bad as they can be ' ( p. 540 ) . Still other testimonies range between the concerns of street policing and high moral principle , as when William Coote of the National Vigilance Society , freshly returned from Paris ? he had attended an International Conference on indecent literature , books and pictures ? expresses his anxiety over indecent exhibitions , displays of rubber goods in shop windows , living statuary ' and an Anatomical Museum in London 's Oxford Street . Most importantly , it is the police ? through the Head Constable of Liverpool ? who draw attention to the variable character of the distinction between serious works and popular pornography : I think you must consider the circumstances of the case ? the circumstances of how the thing is advertised , how it is distributed , and so on ; for instance , we had a case before His Majesty 's Judge of Assize last year , a case of some indecent photographs , and the learned counsel who was defending the prisoner drew rather a red-herring across the scent by alluding to the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balzac , but the judge said : Balzac 's works are classic , and they would not be regarded as indecent . ' I do not think he would have used that expression if he had known that the particular edition of the Contes Drolatiques , which was found there , were penny editions of certain of those stories , mostly sold to dirty-minded little boys . In the same way , there is the Decameron of Boccaccio ; I think it would be very undesirable if that were split up into penny editions , although regarded as a classic , perhaps it may be all right . ( p. 652 ) The Head Constable 's point is not that there is no distinction between the classic and the pornographic . It is , rather , that this distinction is subordinate to a more important consideration : the need to calculate the effects of literary matter relative to the circumstances of its consumption by particular social-moral categories of person . This policeman 's working assumption ? as we have said , it anticipates literary theory by some half a century ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art and pornography . The status of a piece of literature depends upon the aesthetic and ethical abilities and disposition of its audiences or ? in other words ? on the actual uses to which particular categories of person put it . This is precisely the point made by many feminists today about the masculine use of erotic // literature . The Head Constable gives an exemplary circumstantial definition of what would count as obscene ( the classics in penny part-editions circu-lating in the streets ) and what would not ( the classics in whole editions in the hands of competent readers ) . It was along these variable and discretion-ary boundaries that obscenity law adjusted itself to uses of pornography which differed according to the uneven distribution of erotic interests and cultural capacities . The 1908 Report is an index of the state of relations between obscenity law and serious literature at the end of the nineteenth century . The Commit-tee 's final recommendation makes explicit reference to the matter of such literature : A provision should also be inserted to exempt from the operations of the Act any book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Commit-tee consider that it would be almost impossible to devise any definition which would cover this exception . In their opinion the decision in such cases should be left to the discretion of the Magistrate ; but they believe that , if a provision such as they recommend were inserted into the Act , a Magistrate would be enabled to take into consideration all the circum-stances of the case , and would be free from a supposed obligation merely to decide upon the decency or the indecency of the particular literary or artistic work brought to his notice . ( p. 46 ) This eschewing of definition and the wide margins allowed for circum-stance and discretion confirm our account of police objectives as sensitive to context . The provision was not in fact made law , nor was the recommen-dation for a single consolidated statute with explicit definitions . Nonethe-less , the Committee 's move towards exemption for literary and artistic merit points to the developments later in the twentieth century . In the 1908 Report the problem of erotic literature occupies a marginal position . No men of letters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it did the same for medical men and registered chemists acting bona fide . It also left the task of recognising what was pornographic and what was literary and artistic to the police , magistrates and justices . Given their predominant pattern of distribution , Three Weeks , Cynthia in the Wilderness and The Sands of Pleasure would tend to be unproblematically recognised as part of that socially harmful and thus criminal merchandise which also included gambling games , advertisements for contraceptives and abortion devices , images in mutoscopes and French postcards , a verita-ble canon of unseemly artefacts aimed at the moral harm and financial exploitation of the vulnerable . Circumstantially located here , erotic writings // could scarcely call in their defence upon a general and unconditional right of aesthetic self-expression , any more than rubber goods can do today . While literature is not a focus of the 1908 Report , obscenity law too fails to occupy the central ground . Or , more precisely , it does not have that central ground ? the government of the national population 's moral and physical welfare ? entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consolidated statute on obscenity be enforceable by summary jurisdiction rests on the assertion reiterated by witness after witness that the common law provisions for dealing with obscene publications are inappropriate , and that the offender should be dealt with summarily rather than only on indictment before a jury . There is an element here of the notion ? dear to enforcers ? that cheap , fast and easy judgement is best . These reiterations endorse a shift away from jury trial , for example in the specific recommendation that punishments should be calculated to fall below the level at which defendants could claim trial by jury . In addition , other agencies of regulation of obscene publication make a substantial appearance in the 1908 Report . Civic rather than legal , these agencies and their presence draw attention to the ordering of commercial and personal conduct by means other than the criminalisation of pornography . These extra-legal agencies signal that at the threshold of the twentieth century a multi-institutional fabric regulated conduct across the cultural field in which lotteries , abortificients , pornography and overindulgence in mutoscopes could constitute a coherent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility to deal . Agencies other than law and police were also involved , formulating routine instructions for staff having to deal with offending materials . The Committee received evidence on the routine guidelines issued to postmasters by the Postmaster-General on the handling of illegal materials . ' Indeed , the Postmaster-General envisaged an extension of his regulatory powers and sought a new power to open suspect mail : It is very difficult to deal with either lotteries or indecent matter , so long as the letters relating to them are put in sealed covers . There are very stringent provisions in the Post Office Acts against opening or delaying any letter , and every officer of the Post Office has to make a declaration when he is appointed that he will not open or delay , or suffer to be opened or delayed , contrary to his duty , any letter or thing sent by the post . ( p. 76 ) At issue is the locus of authority to take regulatory action . At the time of the 1908 Report , the Postmaster-General had no authority of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Home Secretary . Signs of emerging boundary disputes are visible in the following exchange between the Committee Chairman and the Solicitor to the Post Office : Have you anything in your Post Office at all corresponding with the Bureau of Chemistry in the Washington Post Office ? ? No , I do not think we have . May I ask what the Bureau of Chemistry does ? The Bureau of Chemistry analyses a certain number of matters or goods which are brought to their notice , and if under the report made to the Post Office they appear not to come up to the qualifications that are claimed for them by the advertisers the postmaster refuses to transmit these goods at all . ( pp. 82 ? 3 ) The Solicitor then confirms that the British Post Office has no machinery comparable to the US Bureau of Chemistry . Asked whether he favoured the establishment of some such agency , he replies : I should hardly have thought it was necessary to have a Chemical Department to deal with these questions . Such a thing would be primarily to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An exchange of this kind testifies to the emergence of new agencies from technical fields of knowledge in which criteria and tests are developed for identifying harmful materials ( here pharmaceuticals ) . These new agencies construct their own boundaries of judgement ? the Solicitor retreats to the established legal arrangement when confronted by the prospect of a Chemical Department ' . With the Post Office too , the fact of variable judgement arises , Mr Muskett , legal adviser to the Commissioner of Police , complaining that the Post Office have expressed the view that a number of photographs of nude women which came into their hands accidentally from a person who is now being prosecuted , were not obscene , whereas in my judgement they are exactly similar in every way to photographs which have always been regarded by the police authorities as obscene , and which have formed the subject of a large number of successful prosecutions . ( p. 334 ) This statement of the discrepancy between the pragmatic criteria and forms of judgement deployed by two interested agencies underlines the heterogeneous character of the regulatory fabric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nineteenth century . The regulation of obscene publication , it is clear , did not fall wholly within the field of criminal law . On the contrary , this regulation was // diversified and marked by irregularities , boundary shifts , disputed loci of authority . The 1908 Report demonstrates the continuing role of extra-legal agencies ? both professional enterprises and amateur consciences ? in the regulation of obscene publication . Newspapers , for instance , were confronted with the issue since ? like the national and international postal service ? they enhanced the circulation of obscene publications , rendering regulation more difficult . Thus the newspaper proprietors and distributors also functioned as regulators : Personal representations have been made to the proprietors of more than one newspaper and to Messrs Smith and Son and Wyman and Sons , the great newsagents , in order to prevent them selling certain papers which either admittedly deal with indecent matters , or have actually been convicted of doing so . Favourable replies have been received from both those firms . . . ( p. 237 ) The regulation of obscene publication here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the domain of the Smiths and Wymans , the Boots and the Mudies , that is , into the domain of self-regulating book and newspaper wholesalers and retailers , and the circulating libraries . Across this wide array of regulators and modes of regulating the problem of pornography is generally defined in terms of a social harm to he handled according to the then available medical-moral criteria . These , as we have seen , were marked by an acute awareness of the circumstantial character of this harm . The 1908 Report provides a picture of an English public whose reading is organised differentially , within a complex network of social regulation . It is not only professional administrators like Mr Byrne , Assistant Undersecretary of State in the Home Department , whose reference to the great newsagents ' we have just quoted , who are active in this network . More than once the Committee is informed of bodies such as the Headmasters ' Association and the Headmasters ' Conference ( pp. 191 , 518 ? 9 ) , and their intervention with the railway companies concerning the literature available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by W. H. Smith and Sons ) . While the headmasters were policing the booksellers , the Billposters Association ( p. 558 ) , Watch Committees ( p. 645 ) , the afore-mentioned National Vigilance Society ( pp. 719 ff. ) , the Church of England Men 's Society ( p. 735 ) , the Ancient Society of Hibernians ( p. 750 ) and the ever-alert Paris Vigilance Society were all at work on obscene publication and its channels of distribution and consumption . So , in the late nineteenth century , the edifice of the common law was being lapped by a rising tide of other regulatory agencies ? private and // public , religious and administrative , ethical and commercial . The fact that censorship historians have , for their own ends , been transfixed by the grand but rare ceremonies of the courtroom should not blind us to the equally powerful but more organic and diverse regulatory currents flowing through the capillaries of the social body . An inconspicuous reference in the 1908 Report thus signals a mode of regulating individual conduct contrasting absolutely with public legal sanction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Mr Hawke advised the Committee of his idea for curbing illicit lotteries run through the post by allowing the Postmaster General to refuse to deliver any open or closed communications which he has reason to believe contain matters relating to lotteries contravening this Act , and , unless proof to the contrary can be shown by the persons interested , such communications shall be destroyed , and any lottery remittance therein shall be retained for the benefit of the Rowland Hill Memorial Benevolent Fund . Postmen are always wanting money ; it is a great institution , and , my Lord Chairman , there is this to be said , that these poor postmen have to go through the valley of temptation with regard to these sorts of things , and if they were stimulated to put a stop to it , and if their fund for the decrepit and old amongst them were benefitted , I hope it might do some good . ( pp. 589 ? 90 ) Mr Hawke 's regulatory superannuation scheme did not see the light of day . But his image of poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the promise of benevolent funds the individual self-discipline that makes a postal service possible , offers a polar opposite to the image of judicial gravitas presiding at the ceremonial criminal trial where , in relation to a certain publication , court and jury symbolically embody the community pronouncing on the state of public morality . Michel Foucault 's History of Sexuality tells of the invasion of the law by norms , and of the overlapping of the old juridical monarchy by new methods of power whose operation is not ensured by right but by technique , not by law but by normalization , not by punishment but by control , methods that are employed on all levels and in forms that go beyond the state and its apparatus . We have been engaged for centuries in a type of society in which the juridical is increasingly incapable of coding power , of serving as its system of representation . ( Foucault , 1979 , pp. 88 ? 9 ) // Not by law but by normalization , not by punishment but by control ' : this could be the slogan of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 1908 Report : the police , the Post Office , the Bureau of Chemistry , the newspapers and the newsagents , the booksellers and the headmasters , the Billposters ' Association and the National Vigilance Society . Later , Foucault clarifies his proposition : I do not mean to say that the law fades into the background or that the institutions of justice tend to disappear , but rather that the law operates more and more as a norm , and that the juridical institution is increasingly incorporated into a continuum of apparatuses ( medical , administrative , and so on ) whose functions are for the most part regulatory . ( p. 144 ) In its characteristic dialect , Foucault 's aligning of the law with the ' continuum of apparatuses ' invites us to find a historical instance in the spectrum of interlocking measures for dealing with what constituted ? according to governmental objectives and norms ? the social problem of pornography . In nineteenth-century England , obscenity law thus found itself in regulatory partnership with a miscellany of other agencies . Given the multiple nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject of power behind it all ? Victorian moralism , capital , patriarchy , the law , censorship ? is to create and to pursue a shadow , a chimera . It is to risk describing nothing , when all the time the task should be to describe the actual agents which organised and managed the pornographic field . HISTORICISING OBSCENITY LAW The theme culled from Foucault recalls the matter of how published obscenity was brought within the common law sphere in the first place . Literary histories of obscenity law ? the work of what . we have termed censorship historians ' ? identify the person who creates and the person who is prosecuted . This identification is manifest in the attachment of postRomantic criticism to the figure of the transgressive author ( or text ) , said to embody the whole impetus of human development against the repressive powers of law and state . This identification is so profoundly established that these literary histories do not pause to digest the fact that the bulk of obscenity prosecutions have been of printers , publishers and booksellers , not of writers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not as a writer , that an individual was first convicted of obscene publication . In Chapter 2 we noted that in // 1727 , with Rex v. Curll , the court of King 's Bench created the offence of obscene libel , conceptualised as a disturbing of the King 's peace by virtue of an obscene publication which does harm to public morality . ' In 1724 , the London printer , bookseller , pamphleteer , journalist , publicist , employer of hacks , pirate and pornographer Edmund Curll was charged in relation to the publication of Venus in the Cloister ; or , the Nun in her Smock , an English translation of Jean Barrin 's Venus dans le cloitre , together with certain other works . For the first time , obscene publication appeared within the purview of the common law , entering the criminal justice system and thereby gaining a new social generality as the object of governmental responsibility . With the sentencing of Curll in 1727 , obscene publication gained legal recognition as a danger which , left unchecked by the custodial and legal powers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In effect , the judges in Curll 's case adopted a new disposition of public morality , transferring a specific form of immorality from sin to crime and shifting its control from religious to legal regulation . This shift marked a significant mutation in the existing division of jurisdiction between the temporal or common law courts and the spiritual or ecclesiastical courts which , hitherto , had dealt with matters pertaining to personal morality and sex ( hence their popular appellation as the Bawdy Courts ) .9 The spiritual courts had traditionally carried the responsibility for dealing with personal ' offences pro custodia morum of the community and pro salute animae of the offender , that is , for the sake of reforming the sinner . The judges did not slip obscene publication across this jurisdictional boundary without a deal of debate about the existing demarcation of competence between the different courts and about the indications and counterindications of such precedents as were to hand , notably Rex v. Sir Charles Sedley 1663 and Regina v. Read 1707 . A solid tussle was conducted within the terms of a specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of precedent . This is just one sign that the judges ' action was anything but automatic and driven by Puritan morality or by a reflex repression of sexual expressivity . Curll 's defence to the charge ran within established boundaries and rested , one would think , on a solid precedent in Read . In 1707 the King 's Bench had quashed a conviction on the grounds that a written publication which did not defame some actual person was not a criminal matter . As Curll 's counsel said of Read : There was an information for a libel in writing an obscene book called The Fifteen Plagues of a Maidenhead , and after conviction it was moved in arrest of judgement that this was not punishable in the Temporal // Courts ; and the opinion of Chief Justice Holt was so strong with the objection , that the prosecutor never thought fit to stir it again . ( Rex v. Curll , pp. 849 ? 50 ) Yet this defence failed against an evidently successful analogy drawn by the Attorney General : just as particular acts of fornication are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are ' ( p. 850 ) , so the action of obscene publication ? if it tends to disturb the civil order of society ' or reflect upon morality ? should be considered by the court in the same terms as the running of a bawdy house . In this unforeseen reorganisation of the institutions of moral regulation , the common law courts acquired a new responsibility : regulation of the field of obscene publication . In its early modern configuration , this field was organised around an equally unforeseen yet potent liaison between certain literate products of a confessional practice concerned with instilling an ever more detailed sense of the erotic and the sinful , and a commercial book trade beginning to exploit that same developing erotic sensitivity but for ends quite other than grace . The once specialist genre of libertine anticlerical crotica was thereby redirected to a new audience , as English translation and publication established new circulations for works such as Venus dons le cloitre . In Chapter 2 , in considering the question of this new audience , we thus suggested that what pushed Cull 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the formation of a new and less specialised public with a disposition for pornography in English . This particular expansion of government and criminal law into the area of public morality did not involve an abstract specification of the existence of a public with a propensity for corruption . Without the definite means of becoming corrupt , in other words without the communications technology of the book and without the dissemination of a particular cultural competence ? print literacy ? a public which might be corrupted by obscene publications could not actually exist . Hence the significance of one judge 's observation that ' the spiritual Courts punish only personal spiritual defamation by words ; if it is reduced to writing , it is a temporal offence ' ( p. 850 ) . More pointed still is the contrast drawn by Justice Reynolds between Sedley , where Sir Charles had only exposed himself to the people then present , who might choose whether they would look upon him or not ' , and the action of Curll , whose book goes all over the kingdom ' ( p. 851 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the judges ' suspicion that print exercises a certain type of direct impact upon its readers , swings the case against Curll . This had not been the decision in Read , and the // divergence of these two decisions at common law , separated by only twenty years , says something of the instability of the pornographic field from the very start . The court in Curll thus set itself to weigh up whether a publication of obscene literature , the distribution and reading of Venus in the Cloister , could disturb the King 's peace as surely as the actions of Sedley , friend of Rochester , had been found to do in 1663 . In the earlier case , along with the public display of nakedness on the balcony , the defendant had , as Chief Justice Fortescue remarked in Curll , exercised a physical force in throwing out bottles and pissing down upon the people 's heads . Aside from the telling contrast with our own times when , in the Williams Report ( 1979 ) , books fall by their essential nature as writing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are excluded on the grounds of the coercive immediacy of their impact , what is the historical and theoretical interest of Curll 's case for subsequent law on obscenity ? 1 ? The judges in Curll realised a complex piece of lawmaking which ? as the offence of obscene libel ? was to endure in English criminal law for 232 years , until the Obscene Publications Act of 1959 . The creation of this new offence and the judicial initiative to use the criminal law for the moral government of the kingdom were contingent on an unpredictable conjunction of legal and cultural factors : the Sedley precedent whereby the common law declared itself competent ? as custos morum of all the king 's subjects ? to indict on the grounds of a subversion of public morals ; the rise of the distribution of printed works and a rapid expansion of the cultural capacity ? discursive literacy ? needed to consume them ; the emergence of a less specialist interest in erotic writings and the formation of a system of supply , for instance by a pornographer , printer and bookseller such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal ' interest . It is in this conjunction of otherwise unrelated factors ? legal , governmental , cultural , technological and commercial ? that the contingency of the early modern pornographic field is displayed . Set against this background of unplanned circumstances , the attempt to account for the first emergence of the crime of obscene publication in terms of some general movement of consciousness of which the law was the pliant instrument ? typically an access of Puritan ' repressiveness ? promises only a loss of historical specificity and a reduced descriptive capacity . Certainly , an expansion of the sphere of government occurred through the mechanism of the criminal law . But this unanticipated reorganisation of the institutions regulating public morality resulted from a characteristic piece of common law innovation , building up from gritty example and particularity of circumstance . The court was confronted by the possibility of a crime involving a disturbance of the peace where there was no use of physical force and a libel where no // one was libelled . The question of how such an act could have become intelligible as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for analysis in terms of quite local circumstances , not grand philosophical schemes . In Curll 's case , a printed and published writing was recognised as constituting an obscene libel and made the object of a criminal sanction on the grounds that ? left unchecked ? such a publication would harm public morality and disturb the social balance by libelling the honour of the king through an exposure of his subjects to the imperious force of printed obscenity . By the time of the Obscene Publications Act of 1857 and Hicklin in 1868 , things are very different . By then , a work counted as obscene is treated as a toxic substance having a tendency . . . to deprave and corrupt those whose minds are open to such immoral influences , and into whose hands a publications of this sort may fall ' . If the publication is dangerous enough to be deemed a social risk and thus made subject to preventive legal regulatory measures , it is no longer as an action liable to disturb the king 's peace . Rather , it has become a dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes from what is deemed a category of vulnerable and non-competent persons to deviate from known norms of moral and physical health . What nineteenth-century obscenity law targetted as an essential object of governmental responsibility was no longer an act of sedition endangering the social balance , but a dangerous poison inducing moral and medical harm . To underscore such transformations is to break with the received pattern of historiography that has been imposed on English obscenity law . We have in mind accounts such as St John-Stevas ( 1956 ) , Hyde ( 1964 ) , Rolph ( 1969 ) , Thomas ( 1969 ) and Robertson ( 1979 ) . These are unitary narratives which construct a history of the legal relations of erotic writing in terms of a single trans-historical struggle between repressive external controls ? censorship , obscenity law , police ? and an essential subjectivity which seeks individual expression in writing the truth about sex . What is the problem with such accounts ? It is not just that they write the history backwards from the present as if a single logic , a single dark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Robertson , 1979 ) or from ancient Greece to the First Amendment and Arthur Schlesigner Jr ( Widmer , 1970 ) . More importantly , the received historiography does no justice to the substantive changes in the social organisation of subjectivity . The medicalised morality and moralised medicine which created and so minutely managed the nineteenth-century sexual personality ? and thus directly informed the obscenity law of that time and cultural milieu ? register a high degree of historical particularity . In our present study , historical transformations of subjectivity are taken as a necessary starting point for any attempt to put the // record straight concerning the objectives and norms of obscenity law . The difference should be clear between a history which recognises the historically distinctive but impermanent arrangement of sexual , moral , medical and legal attributes in nineteenth-century England and one ? the received historiography of the censorship historians ? that assumes a timeless sexual subject upon which , except at rare moments of emancipation , more or less the same censorious law eternally impinges in more or less the same repressive manner . No doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both origin and destiny for the traditional history of erotic writing , whether for the author behind the work , the reader in front of it or the historian wanting to write his or her single story of repression . By contrast , we have emphasised the historical and cultural differences between a crime of obscene publication defined within a series comprising sin , sedition , disturbance of the king 's peace , print technology and a crime of obscene publication defined within a series comprising moral offence , medical harm , abortificients , lotteries , the Post Office , unregulated poisons and mutoscopes allowing universal access . In foregrounding the fact of historical difference , we directly confront those two traditional periodisations of English obscenity law which tie the emergence of that law either to the alleged excess of puritan moral conscientiousness or to the supposedly overweaning power of Victorian moralism . In each case , the received historiography underestimates the technical complexity and historical particularity of the legal-cultural arrangements , just as it underestimates the possibility ? if , that is , it even suspects it ? that western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a specialised cultural artefact into which so much work has gone . Not the least important element of this work has been a remarkable alteration in the relations between literature and sex . It is to this theme ? a quite unforeseen transformation of the concerns and content of aesthetic literature and the problems which this transformation posed for obscenity law ? that we now turn . 4 Literary Erotics Nothing is more obdurate to artistic treatment than the carnal , but it has to be got in , I 'm sure : everything has to be got in .. . E. M. Forster , 1983 19201 TENDER IMAGINATIONS In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries a significant development occurred , one which was unforeseen in earlier legislation and policing . Serious literary works began to come under the eye of police employing routine tests for obscenity , and on occasion were the cause for obscenity proceedings in the courts . How is this development to be understood ? When , how and to what extent did serious literature enter the field of discourses concerned with sex , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and abilities ? We can begin by separating out two relevant instances . In the nineteenth century , the educative novel and the erotic novel were defined through different channels of distribution which were maintained , partly , by law . The genre of curious ' or perverse pornography was confined to a tolerated specialist zone , which added an erotic space , a habitus ' of secrecy , to the definition of a true ( that is , hidden ) self identified with the activity of reading erotica . At that time , biblio-erotic techniques were set apart from the educative fictions of the cultivated classes . While this was the case , the law on obscenity would remain largely indifferent to questions of literary merit . The conditions for significant conflict to occur between artistic value and the criminal harms associated with obscenity did not yet exist , a fact reflected in nineteenth-century law 's untroubled distinction between pornography and literature . Of course , as noted in the preceding chapter , police routinely tested the obscenity of works normally viewed as literature but republished in editions designed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market . This , however , neither collapsed the distinction between literature and pornography nor undermined the medical-legal policing of obscenity as a social pathology . Different types of publication were regulated and channelled according to a working knowledge of audiences that was maintained into the twentieth century . In general , obscene publications were easily recognisable as a particular form 92 // and use of print literacy ? and not just for the law ? by the matter they contained , their mode of distribution and their sites of sale.2 The educative novel was not a target in nineteenth-century campaigns against obscenity . It is equally important to note that serious literary writing , including criticism , was not among the array of infra-legal ' disciplines which guided the law in administering that area . The limited political opposition to Lord Campbell 's Bill which was voiced in Parliament was not matched by widescale criticisms defending literary projects and rights , of the sort which would become familiar in connection with twentieth-century obscenity law . Generally , novelists , editors and critics felt no need to mobilise opinion in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the contrary , the literary establishment shared the concerns of the legislature . Consider , in this regard , the letter written by Charles Dickens to Wilkie Collins in 1867 , concerning certain scenes in a novel which had become embroiled in controversy , Griffith Gaunt , or Jealousy , written.by Charles Reade ( who had initiated suits against critics attacking his novel 's treatment of adultery , bigamy and seduction ) . With a clear sense of the difference between the serious novel and Holywell Street literature ' or pornography , Dickens defends Reade 's work against critics who have treated it as no different from the latter . However , he is also aware that there are different kinds of audience and distribution , and in this regard Dickens 's views accord with those of the police . What is to be made of a book depends in part on the capacities , dispositions and habits of those who read it and the uses to which they may put it . As the editor of a widely circulating periodical , Dickens recognises that if literature can improve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? I have read Charles Reade 's book , and here follows my state of mind ? as a witness ? respecting it . I have read it with strongest interest and admiration . I regard it as the work of a highly accomplished writer and a good man ; a writer with a brilliant fancy and a graceful and tender imagination . I could name no other living writer who could , in my opinion , write such a story nearly so well . As regards a so-called critic who should decry such a book as Holywell Street literature , and the like , I should have merely to say of him that I could desire no stronger proof of his incapacity in , and his unfitness for , the post to which he has elected himself . Cross-examined , I should feel myself in danger of being put on unsafe ground , and should try to set my wits against the cross-examiner , to keep well off it . But if I were reminded ( as I probably should be , supposing the // evidence to be allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periodical of large circulation in which the Plaintiff himself had written , and if I had had read to me in court those passages about Gaunt 's going up to his wife 's bed drunk and that last child 's being conceived , and was asked whether , as Editor , I would have passed those passages , whether written by the Plaintiff or anybody else , I should be obliged to reply No . Asked why ? I should say that what was pure to an artist might be impurely suggestive to inferior minds ( of which there must necessarily be many among a large mass of readers ) , and that I should have called the writer 's attention to the likelihood of those passages being perverted in such quarters . ( David Paroissien ( ed. ) 1985 , p. 358 , footnotes omitted ) Like the Chief Constable of Liverpool , Dickens was attuned to the fact of differences in the social distribution of ethical culture and hence to the circumstantial character of literary value . In a case where erotic passages in a serious novel might prove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular audience , Dickens accepts without hesitation the role of aesthetic policeman . The writer and publisher of educative literature , in contrast to the pornographer , must attempt to communicate edifying sentiments and conducts . The project of a writer such as Dickens could be said to help manage sexuality ' only if we understand by this term a way of cultivating moral norms and manners which displays no interest in setting up sexual acts or erotic pleasures as containing an ultimate truth , central to the recovery and expression of personal identity.3 By the 1920s , the relation of some serious literature to obscenity law had become sensitised and vexed , not only for the literati but also for those administering the law . The regulation of obscenity ? including the relation of its customary object , pornography , to their own enterprise ? had now appeared on the agenda of advanced literary intellectuals . They responded in various ways . E. M. Forster was sufficiently interested in accommodating erotic writing in the novel to compose his study of homosexuality , Maurice , in 1913 ? 4 , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1920 he wrote to Siegfried Sassoon the avowal , cited at the head of this chapter , to achieve an artistic treatment of the carnal . James Joyce recorded that in Ulysses , a work attracting legal attention in England ( Robertson , 1979 , pp. 35 , 38 ) and in the USA where its publication was permitted in 1934 in US v. Ulysses , he was experimenting with the grossly masturbatory prose of " dirty " books ' ( Charney , 1981 , p. 51 ) . D. H. Lawrence , of course , wrote many erotic works and apologias for them and , in // 1915 , a Bow Street magistrate ordered the destruction of one thousand copies of The Rainbow while in 1929 several of his pictures were seized by police at an exhibition . Lady Chatterley 's Lover opened its episode with the policing of pornography in 1928 as soon as it was written , Lawrence avoiding prosecution by having it printed in Italy and mailed to private subscribers in England . This book circulated in the same manner as pornography and was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection , it was open to piracy . A certain set of circumstances allowed a writer such as Lawrence to occupy an ambiguous status : on the one hand he could produce works that were likely to be prosecuted for obscenity ; on the other , he could figure as a progressive author entitled to comment ethically on social problems including the soundness of obscenity law itself . The mid-nineteenth century had no equivalent to this contradictory persona . In order to understand what made such as figure possible , we need to reconstruct the peculiar conditions under which literary discourse and literary careers could become marked by so intense an interest in sex . Of course it was not that literature had never spoken of sex before . As a theme , sex is no doubt continuous from the classical period onwards . This does not mean , however , that the sex being spoken of and the manner in which the speaking was done ( by whom , to whom , and for what purposes ) remained constant . In Chapter 2 we outlined the emergence of a personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of erotic self-interrogation in early modem Europe . Paul Veyne has argued that , as the inheritors and masters of such techniques , modern writers address their sexuality and their audience in a manner quite unlike their classical forebears : The problem of individualism in literature gets posed more often in terms of pragmatics than content . Romanticism did not discover unknown continents of the human soul . It won the right to talk about oneself for no other reason than to express , in one 's own name , truths that may have already been known , tossing into the balance the weight of personal testimony , even if it was repetitive . All of which presupposes a civilisation where every soul is held to be interesting , if it is undisguised . Greek civilization , however , was as yet unaware of the anxiety of confession , doubt , or self-exploration . Greek souls did not publicise their turmoils . If error or faults were to be published as something important , they had to stop being something negative and become , like sin , integral parts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) // During the Romantic period it became possible for authors and readers to orient themselves around the personal experience of sex . This was due to the emergence of an ethical culture that created individuals who routinely related to their selves ' by problematising their sex . As a profane relay for this interrogation-incitement of the flesh , pornographic writing , we have argued , maintained an ambivalent and fugitive existence during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries . Having emerged when the techniques of auto-erotic inwardness were unexpectedly caught up in a new technology of mass communication , pornographic writing was initially balanced precariously on the cusp of private ethical and public legal regulation and was bathed in the strange half-light where the sciences of pathological sexuality embraced a literature that intensifies sexuality by pathologising it . So when , at the end of the nineteenth century , serious literature began to experiment with the techniques of pornographic writing and to dice with obscenity law , it opened itself to the whole unstable play of forces that formed the pornographic field . Serious sexual literature emerged thanks not to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complex interaction with an existing field of sexual techniques , problematisations and disciplines which already had a role in constructing sexualities . In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , literature came to play a distinct part of its own in organising sexuality . This was not because it reflected the intrinsic nature of sexuality more accurately than other discourses had been able to do . It was simply that a certain kind of literature provided the techniques through which a particular group of writers and readers would be able to transform ? aesthetically ? a certain deployment of sexuality . In this way , early in the twentieth century , sexualised literature became the locus and the medium for a highly specialised use of sex . For a little band equipped with the cultural capacity to make them into serious ethical endeavours , erotic writing and reading became the instruments for a novel kind of work on the self . What made this new role of literature possible ? Two general factors were in play . First , as we suggested in Chapter 2 , an aesthetic mode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereafter by a highly educated minority ? converged with various disciplinary knowledges and problematisations of sex . Second , in a particular development of this aesthetic interest , the serious novel took over techniques of erotic writing , especially from pornography , revalorising these as a true ( because secret ) means of shaping and knowing the self . From these factors emerged a re-organisation of literary interest , identifiable in the Lawrentian project to realise and publish the truth of sex . We shall examine these general factors in more detail below , but let us note for // the moment that this literary incursion into the territory of explicit sexual representations was powerful enough to blur the existing boundary between social genres . The distinction between pornography and serious literature observed by the law was no longer respected by a hybrid form of the novel which had become both literary and pornographic . This shift created a new uncertainty in the regulation of pornography . Pornographic elements began to surface in the educative novel , that much more widely disseminated social relay of norms of conduct and sentiment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and express erotic feeling . It was this literary intensification of the erotic and perverse which posed problems for legal regulation . Advocates of serious works about sex claimed that they should not be subject to legal interference ( cf. The Revaluation of Obscenity ' , in Ellis , 1931 , pp. 103-42 ) . At the same time , many of them agreed that pornography , the very form from which they were now borrowing , was harmful and should be legally controlled ( see , for example , Lawrence , 1936 , p. 175 and the reviews by V. S. Pritchett and E. M. Forster reprinted in Draper , ed. , 1970 , pp. 287 ? 8 , 508 ? 9 ) . The nascent interest of the literati in using the educative novel as a means of forming sexual identity depended on their social access to a special practice of reading . This was the practice , developed by the Romantics , in which literature is used to intensify and reconcile the antagonism between the reader 's sensual and moral sides , in pursuit of a commodious , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest were anything but universal . Once on the market , serious erotica was thus available to readers not interested or schooled in applying such a method . The same text might therefore have an aesthetic use for some and a more plainly pornographic use for others . To investigate these issues further , we can consider two very different contributions on the problem of obscenity which were made in the 1920s to a Faber and Faber pamphlet series , The Criterion Miscellany . The inclusion of these texts on obscenity in the literary project of the . Criterion is itself a sign of the interest which literary publishers and writers had developed in this problem by this time . D. H. Lawrence 's Pornography and Obscenity ' ( first published in 1929 ) was to become a definitive statement for proponents of liberal and libertarian positions on obscenity , law and literature.4 Implicit in the essay is the new aestheticising of sex : individuals must allow themselves to be more open to the profound meanings of sex ? at once sensuous and spiritual ? which conventional morality suppresses . Alongside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the censorship historians , Lawrence imagines a period before Puritan repression when literature expressed sexual experience in a spontaneous unity of feeling and thought . // In accordance with the invariable schema of Romantic historicism , he makes the recovery of this unity a fundamental goal . Of course , once the literati began to experiment in the serious novel with the techniques of auto-erotic writing and reading borrowed from pornography , it became necessary for them to distinguish their own interests from the common uses of erotica . To this end , they used the aesthetic dialectic as a means of problematising their own sexuality . This is evident in Lawrence 's apologia for serious sexual literature . In his distinction between true creative literature and pornography , we see the aesthetic and medical conceptions of sex combine . In sexual writing worthy of the name of literature , it is said , we find a natural , fresh openness about sex , whereas pornography is the distortion of sex brought about by the tyranny of moral norms over experience ( p. 177 ) . Pornography is the dissociation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and into sentimental fantasy on the other , in which there is no real object , there is only subject ' ( p. 180 ) . This non-dialectical exploitation of sex is underworld , it does n't come into the open ' ( p. 175 ) . In that statement which was to become axiomatic for literary criticism , pornography is the attempt to insult sex , to do dirt on it ' ( p. 175 ) and hence do dirt ' on life . Pornography is said to be a morbid obsession with the body and its organs and functions , in which all moral and spiritual understanding of sexuality is extinguished . At the same time , it is an obsessive moralisation of bodily sensuality in which the latter is denied all normal expression and assumes perverse forms . In Lawrence 's idiosyncratic appropriation of psychoanalysis , pornography is a form of regression at once physical and psychical , in which the sex flow and the excrement flow ' become identical and the profound controlling instincts collapse ' ( p. 176 ) . This inner collapse is the dirty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invariable stimulant to the vice of self-abuse , onanism , masturbation , call it what you will . . . which is the one thoroughly secret act of the human being ' ( pp. 177-8 ) . Lawrence is as convinced as any nineteenth-century ? medical or legal authority that pornography is harmful to physical and moral health . According to him , the established powers of law , literature and the press , the grey ones left over from the nineteenth century ' ( p. 185 ) , collude with the vast mob of the general public ' to create perpetual censorship of anything that would militate against the lie of purity and the dirty little secret ' ( p. 186 ) . However , any notion that might be drawn from this that there was formal censorship of literature in this period is incorrect , as we shall see from the second Criterion text we consider . Rather , this type of statement belongs to a strategy of saying that suppression and censorship exist , in order to justify a project which promises to bring liberation by truly expressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realisation of sex is the path towards this freedom . The problem ' of obscenity and pornography has a utopian solution : the dialectic of mind and body , consciousness and being , manifested in sex , will diffuse itself and eventually allow the complete development of self and human culture . We return to this solution shortly . Our other essayist is the Right Honourable the Viscount Brentford , Sir William Joynson Hicks . For those working in aesthetic terms , his Do We Need a Censor ? ' , published in 1929 soon after his departure from the office of Home Secretary , will doubtless be dismissed as a bureaucratic justification for a philistine policy repressing artistic freedom ( see , for instance , Edward D. McDonald 's Introduction ' in Lawrence , 1936 , p. xvi ) . But we shall read the text positively as a summary of practice followed in a complex transitional period in the policing of pornography . Brentford defends the existing procedures by which pornography is regulated as a harmful substance . Those whose minds are open to immoral influence ' ( Brentford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young , although harms to adults are implied , for instance in connection with the international postal traffic in obscene materials : Those who object to all forms of censorship can not , I imagine , realise the extent of the traffic which goes on in filthy literature , and still more filthy photographs . In the course of my administration at the Home Office I had to place an embargo on pictures coming into this country of such a character that , whatever artistic merit they might possess , I am quite sure that not one hundred people in the country would be prepared to support or even excuse them . I know , from the examination of letters passing to certain shops on the continent , the nature of the traffic , the kind of person who indulges in it , and the harm that is done in consequence : is the Executive to allow this evil to go unchecked ? ( p. 12 ) This executive ' concern was with policing readily identifiable obscene and indecent materials and their various distributions , including importation of printed matter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious literature was not the order of the day . At the same time , however , Brentford records a new problem for obscenity regulation , which is evident in reactions to legal proceedings against a small number of books and in the charge that he had tried to establish a dictatorship in the realm of literature and morals ' and to ban works which in the world of letters were held to have literary merit ( p. 5 ) . He acknowledges that a case has been constructed , through the press , literary circles and other enterprises such as the World League for Sexual Reform ( comprising sexologists , psychologists , authors // and public figures ) , against the policing of literary and artistic works relating to sexuality . Significantly , he concedes that serious works about sex may have artistic merit . This , however , does not solve the problem , as he notes with reference to an unnamed literary work : The merits of the book may be as great as its admirers claim ? and I confess I found it to contain much that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but surely its merits were not strictly material to the issue ; it was the demerits of the book which I was asked by the publishers to consider ? not whether it possessed something of greatness , but whether it would tend to corrupt and deprave the public mind . ( p. 19 ) The object of corrupt and deprave ' , the public mind ' , is less specific than earlier legal references to vulnerable classes of individuals . But it makes the point that literary works on sex , however well-intentioned , can and do have a circulation and use that is not just literary . As feminists would later argue , literature 's merit is rendered immaterial ' by what appears , on balance , to be its demerit . Placing restrictions on a certain artistic style of sexual writing ? specifically , on its public circulation ? is simply seen as the lesser of two evils , compared with tolerating a known medical and moral harm . This ranking of criteria is to be reversed by the time of the Obscene Publications Act of 1959 ( see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of aesthetic education could perhaps be counted on to have produced a comparatively generalised ability among readers to recognise literary merit and in some measure to oversee their own reading of sexual fiction . In the first decades of our century , however , it was not at all evident that an aesthetic schooling of the sensibility had provided for the population at large a viable alternative to the medical-legal regulation of pornography and obscenity . ' It is noteworthy that Brentford does not argue to introduce new obscenity laws or strengthen existing ones . He holds that the law in its application to frankly pornographic matter has well served its purpose ' ( p. 11 ) . He defends the Home Secretary 's powers to violate the confidentiality of His Majesty 's mail , by referring to the scale of the traffic in vicious publications ' imported through the post ( pp. 12 ? 13 ) . He supports the status quo , in which there is no official vetting of books on publication . Questionable books are sent to the Home Office with a complaint from the public that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for advice whether there are grounds for thinking the publication would constitute , or has constituted , an infringement of the law ( p. 15 ) . Brentford states that there is a censorship of stage plays , under the separate jurisdiction of the Lord Chamberlain ( p. 8 ) , and a voluntary censorship of films , but that there is in England no // censorship of books ' in the sense of a scrutiny by some central authority of the whole output ' in order to impose some standard ( p. 9 ) . He maintains that juridical regulation is generally less appropriate than executive consultation and self-regulation within the book trade ? a task , we can recall , that figures like Dickens needed no persuasion to undertake . And , against Lawrence 's painting of him as a literary censor , Brentford argues that to create a censor of books by a government department would be most undesirable ' ( p. 10 ) . We see , then , that in the regulatory field there existed , on the one hand , a range of police measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests for obscenity , interception of mail , customs control and cooperation with other governments to control the traffic in pornography . On the other hand , in relation to works with a degree of serious artistic intent , there was advice on publication , publishers ' selfregulation , the discretion of booksellers , the possibility of complaint , a degree of tolerance and , very rarely , prosecution for obscenity . Of course , some serious artistic and literary works were seized by police , but their regulation still generally involved various players . The Rainbow , for example , was the cause of a police summons which its publishers did not oppose ( The Times , 15 November 1915 , in Draper ( 1970 ) , pp. 102 ? 3 ) . We are thus reminded that the regulation of pornography and obscenity involved a mix of agencies , procedures and jurisdictions ? administrative , judicial , commercial and ethical ? which were not bound together by any single force such as a Puritanical will to repress sex and impede enlightenment , but which directed the distribution of various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and imperatives . Within this context , the tensions between serious literature and obscenity law in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , where they occurred , do not signify that the former was at last winning through to show the truth of sex . Rather , they indicate that educative literature was branching out into an aesthetic use of erotica , appropriating elements of pornography for consumption by a coterie which formed only an insignificant fraction within the legal , administrative and still partly medical typology of audiences . Our discussion of these two Criterion pieces shows how anachronistic is the assumption that literary aesthetics was a neutral and universal knowledge of the truth of sex which could have solved the problem of pornography ( as an effect caused by the repression of sex ) if only the law had dared open its eyes . Literary erotics comprised a specific and limited distribution of literate techniques and ethical culture . It was the method used by the members of a coterie to read themselves into distinction . Lawrence could afford himself the luxury of condemning as pornographic ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular English hymns ' // ( 1936 , p. 174 ) ? works hardly like to trouble constables on their beat . But even if legal administrators had wished to use the criterion promoted by Lawrence ? the aestheticising of sex ? to decide the regulation of pornography , they could not have done so effectively , for it was far too specialised to gain any general purchase . HIDE AND SEEK By the early twentieth century , then , new relations were forming between literature , pornography and the sexual sciences ' . The introduction of the erotic and perverse into the educative novel allowed certain individuals and groups to carry out aesthetic self-culture through the cultivation of a sexuality that ? or so they told themselves ? was repressed , fugitive and the key to personal identity . Providing a new facility to eroticise body and conscience , and forming a circuit between the sexologies and pornography , serious sexual literature comprised an optional ? primarily ethical ? mechanism for organising sexual identity even as it also constituted a new object of policing , since it could be harmful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument that serious sexual literature has had no essential function such as representing the truth of sex , but has played an uneven and contingent role in forming and regulating sexualities . This argument may be pursued by considering in greater detail the two sets of conditions which allowed literary and sexual organisations of the self to converge : a particular interaction between literature and sexology , and a literary appropriation of pornography . In relation to the first of these , a major precondition of the sexualisation of serious literature was the success of sexual medicine in making health , understood in sexual terms , central to the new norms of management of personal life . We recall from Foucault ( 1979 , pp. 65 ? 6 ) that the nineteenthcentury medical organisation of sexuality postulated that sex was an ' inexhaustible and polymorphous ' causal power and that there was a latency intrinsic to sexuality ' . Given the former , sex could be and was entertained as the cause of almost any species of physical and moral problem . Sexual causes and effects were thought to manifest fundamental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an individual life . It became possible to individuate persons with reference to norms of healthy sexual development and deviations from them . This medical individualisation , Foucault argues , implanted perversions . In contrast to an earlier classification of sexual transgressions in terms of acts , in which a binary opposition of licit and illicit was adequate , these new knowledges focussed on the // nature of the being of the actors , creating new types of personality requiring to be investigated , measured and understood ( pp. 36 ? 49 ) . So , for example , in contrast to the sodomite once defined primarily by his illicit act , the nineteenth-century homosexual came to be identified as a complex personality with a past , a case history , and a childhood ' , and a problematic future , a being with a specific character to be fathomed by being identified with a certain inversion of the masculine and the feminine ( p. 43 ) . The implantation of perversions thus intensified and consolidated multiple sexualities , such that the medical schemata of sexual kinds were at once mechanisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which came to be lived out by individuals ( p. 48 ) . If the causal powers of sex were ubiquitous , they were also obscure , since they promised to reveal a self whose truth was directly proportional to its reclusiveness . The medical-moral expert emerged as one who could bring to light that which was hidden in the individual and comprehend the mysterious workings of latent sexual natures . In the secularisation of confession which Foucault identifies ( pp. 53 ? 73 ) , sex became the deep and elusive cause which must be spoken ? in all the detail it may be necessary to hear ? by the individual who is the object of medical and moral concern . This strategy of confession constituted sex as the always partly hidden problem within the self which must be turned over and over . Confessional medicine intensified the interest of the very sensations , thoughts , acts and desires which it sought to know and regulate . If this form of speaking about sex was therapeutic , it was also pathogenic . It complicated and deepened the meanings which sexual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-improvement , sexual medicine made for volatile sensibilities . This is reflected in concerns such as the fear that over-mothering ' would bring out a latent homosexuality in the sons of middle-class families . Exposure to sexual-medical influences made it possible for individuals to internalise various norms and feel new kinds of anxiety , alarm , pain , guilt , failure and embarrassment , and to engage in new kinds of introspection . The pages of William Acton 's The Functions and Disorders of the Reproductive Organs in Childhood , Youth , Adult Age , and Advanced Life ( 1865 ) , for instance , give an insight into this pathogenic dimension of Victorian medicine . Appealing to colleagues to humanise their practice by considering the physiological , emotional and moral issues of sex , Acton publishes his work precisely in order to exert some good and practical influence on public health and public morals ' ( Preface ) . Yet the cases , anecdotes , testimonials and advice on cures which he publishes show that his male patients and readers could literally worry themselves sick in ways that would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masturba104 On Pornography tion and similar problems such as marital excess and hypochondriacal feelings about sex ( pp. 69 ? 81 , 102 ? 15 ) . Sexual medicine enjoyed a significant popular print dissemination in the Victorian period . ' Books , manuals , pamphlets and lectures played a major role in laicising sexual-medical knowledges and forms of judgement . In particular , the concerns of sexual medicine became part of the habitus ' of middle-class reading households . Individuals were sensitised to the problem and value of their own and others ' health , within a framework of relations between parent and child , and wife and husband . For instance , in the dense web of causes and effects , individuals were alerted not only to the harmful effects of masturbation but also the unconscious possible causes of this apparent evil ? a flawed upbringing ? an inner compulsion ? a bad diet or regimen ? ? such that the whole fabric of everyday life could be brought under careful scrutiny ( Acton , 1865 , pp. 1 ? 75 ) . The confessional arrangement of sexual medicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encouraged to read the signs of the body for themselves , to seek and find in its bearing , gestures and appearance so many indices of a state of health and of personal and social aptitude . Literature on masturbation , for instance , urged parents to police the activity , not necessarily by extracting verbal confessions but by recognising the signs of its presence and establishing a watchful and supposedly therapeutic environment . In Mcm 's Strength and Woman 's Beauty , P. H. Chevasse , MD , writes that the confirmed masturbator ' bears the impress of nature 's penalty in his manner and upon his face ' ( 1879 , p. 392 ) . Similarly , in The Science of a New Life , John Cowan , MD , cites another writer , Lallemand , on the effects of self-abuse , in a subsection entitled Signs in the boy , girl or man , that he who runs may read ' : The slow and progressive derangement of his or her health , the diminished energy of application , the languid movement , the stooping gait , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rising , livid and sunken eye , and many other symptoms , will fix the attention of every intelligent and competent guardian of youth . ( 19701874 , p. 362 ) In general , then , the techniques of secular confession and observation comprised a style of physical and moral self-management to be exercised within middle-class domestic life . The literary production and consumption of a writer like D. H. Lawrence , with all its minute observation of sexualities , would have been impossible had this broader , hermeneutic discursifying ' // of sex and consciencising ' of persons not occurred in popular sexual medicine . The second major factor which made serious sexual literature possible was a highly localised transformation of sexual knowledges into aesthetic practice , involving a new application of the Romantic dialectic of thought and feeling ( and its avatars such as mind and body , morality and the senses , norm and experience ) . Lawrentian ' writing and reading were made possible by a programme of aesthetic self-fashioning which was the elite province of an upper middle-class coterie . We can illustrate this through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carpenter . Others have analysed his writings and politics , and Emile Delavenay ( 1971 ) has traced connections between Carpenter and Lawrence . Sheila Rowbotham analyses Carpenter 's project as a sexual personal politics linked to a tradition of ethical or romantic socialism ( Rowbotham and Weeks , 1977 , pp. 25 ? 138 ) and Chushichi Tsuzuki ( 1980 , p. 3 ) describes that politics as best suited to a local socialist body or such small community ' . Through his public addresses , books and pamphlets , and by maintaining an open intellectual household at Millthorpe , Carpenter advocated a simplification of life ' and established himself as a charismatic mentor figure . Though he tended not to become an adherent to particular party platforms or sectarian organisations , his interests were related to progressive political movements , including Fabianism and feminism , and he drew his audience from advanced socialist and literary circles ( cf. Delavenay , pp. 85 ? 9 ) . The relevant point for us is that his species of political ' idealism was based on a practical endeavour to achieve a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a paradigmatic case of the aesthetic incorporation of sexual disciplines . Carpenter 's writings propagate that technique of dialectical self-shaping which derived from the Romantic practice of culture already described in Chapter 2 above . They are permeated by the strategy of distinguishing and reconciling opposites such as thoughts and feeling , morality and sensuousness , in order to perfect one 's ethical being . They embody a Romantic historicism in which phylogeny imitates ontogeny . In the history of Man ' , there is a first stage in which the knower , the knowledge and the thing known are still undifferentiated ' ( 1907 , p. 54 ) . Instinct is wedded to intelligence , art expresses the whole being , and social life is not yet ruptured by the rise of the ego . As it was for Matthew Arnold , this stage is embodied above all in Hellenic civilisation . Resolutely faithful to his Romantic models , Carpenter proceeds to trace the second stage of this cultural history in which the original unified consciousness is disrupted by the advent of selfconsciousness ; the subject and the object of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to abstract thought ' cast adrift from feeling and immediate experience . Art suffers in this dissociation and grows away from Nature and from actual life . Even within this second stage , though , identified as usual with the long present , the third is anticipated as an integral state of being and knowledge which is the condition of a culture superior to the lost edenic state precisely because it has emerged through the diversifying experience of disunity ( 1907 , Chapter IV , The Three Stages of Consciousness ' ) . This aesthetic paradigm is sexualised in Carpenter 's work . To achieve self-perfection , one must free oneself from purely rational consciousness by accepting the reality of sensuous and bodily experience . At the same time , one must strive to ensure that this experience never becomes merely sensual but is kept in touch with ? and so renews ? the capacity for intelligent and moral reflection ( 1907 , Chapters V and VI , The Self and its Affiliations ' ) . Precisely because sexual feelings are so deeply implicated in life they must be bought into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sexual love is checked and brought into conflict with the other parts of his being ' does the whole nature of man ' ? sexual and moral ? rise into consciousness ( 1905 , p. 11 ) in that process which Carpenter calls love 's coming-of-age ' . The sexual sciences ' and the confessional tactics of self-knowledge operating within them provide new ways in which individuals like Carpenter can identify and seek to reconcile opposing tendencies within the self . Amongst Carpenter 's many adaptations of biological , physiological and psychological theories , the sexualising of the aesthetic is evident in his use of an almost Fourierist model called the Great Sympathetic ' , elaborated by the moral physiologist Davey in 1858 ( Carpenter , 1907 , pp. 113 ? 17 ) . In this model , the dialectical topography of Romantic aesthetics is provided with bodily coordinates . There is an organic seat of the emotions in the nervous ' or ganglionic ' centres , including the solar plexus . Complete emotional sensibility requires the interaction of the organic with the conscious and reflex systems , the latter being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medulla respectively . Carpenter cites Davey 's notion that the Great Sympathetic exercised an architectural power , presiding over the formation and life of the body and the organs ? a power to which even the brain and spinal cord were subordinate ' ( 1907 , pp. 113 ? 4 ) . He speculates that first the motor and then the mental capacities have come to overlie the foundation of organic and emotional life . Modem man has become dominated by mental consciousness , which means one must anticipate a time when the deeper nervous powers , having passed into the region of subconsciousness ' ( p. 116 ) , will be restored in a dynamic fulfilment of all human faculties . Exactly the same sexualisation of the dialectic and use of moral // physiology is to provide the framework for Lawrence , including his criticism of Freudian psychoanalysis for ignoring the true nature of the unconscious as a vital , organic region of experience which underlies all conscious thought and feeling . According to Lawrence , the unconscious is that active spontaneity which rouses in each individual organism at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in polarized connection with the external universe , gradually evolves or elaborates its own individual psyche and corpus , bringing both mind and body forth from itself . ( Lawrence , 1971 , p. 242 ) The nuclei of the nerve centres are centres of spontaneous consciousness ' ( p. 242 ) . Imbalances of the self occur if the will is in discord with the sympathetic centres or if mental impulses destroy spontaneity and the dynamic connection with others ( p. 248 ) . A further feature of this aesthetic construction of sexuality is that the dialectic is mapped onto the polarity of masculine and feminine . Definitions of sexual difference derived from sexual knowledges as diverse as reproductive biology and moral physiology provide aesthetic discourse with the potential to identify the distinction between the masculine and the feminine with that between the rational and the affective . So , for instance , developing the theme that the body grows from a cell in which male and female are originally one and which contains all the possibilities of the self , including the division between male and female tendencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exercise in dialectics , important not just for procreation but for physical and spiritual regenera-tion : In truth it is probable , I think . . . that the spermatozoa pass through the tissues and affect the general body of the female , as well as that the male absorbs minutest cells from the female ; and that generally , even without the actual Sex-act , there is an interchange of vital and ethereal elements ? so that it might be said there is a kind of generation taking place within each of the persons concerned .. . ( Carpenter , 1905 , p. 27 ) In similar terms , Lawrence writes in Fantasia of the Unconscious ( 197 I I. 1 ' 1 ' 31 ? 3 ) that with the hard physiological fact ' of the fusion of the ' lathe ' nucleus ' and the mother nucleus ' is produced the new individual II which is immediately a new self , retaining the polarity of male and female // defined through the play of will and sympathy , power and ductility . This theme of a dialectical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the field of sex reform ? by various others writing before and during Lawrence 's own career . The evolution of human culture ' , it was assumed , would allow the superior union of men and women to occur through the reconciliation of essential masculine and feminine differences in which each individual would find self-realisation : any attempt to make women the equal of men as they merely ' are in the present would therefore be premature , according to some writers at least ( for example , Charles Leland , The Alternate Sex , 1904 ) . In this kind of discourse , sex ' was subsumed into an aesthetic practice of self-culture . From the works of Havelock Ellis on primary , secondary and tertiary sexual characteristics ( 1929 ) to publications like Otto Weininger 's Sex and Character ( 1906 ) , there is an overlap of physiological and moral categories and a major identification of aesthetic oppositions such as reason and emotion with a male/female characterology . In this context , Carpenter 's life and work are exemplary of the way in which certain highlyeducated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of aesthetic self-culture . For such groups , appreciation of the arts is a means of integrating intellectual and sensual being . According to Carpenter ( 1912 , pp. 207ff ) , creativity is the fusion of masculine and feminine traits as revealed in , for example , the works of Michelangelo . This notion is reproduced by Lawrence in such writings as Study of Thomas Hardy ' ( 1936 , pp. 398 ? 516 ) in terms highly reminiscent ? as Delavenay points out ( 1971 , pp. 205 ? 15 ) ? of Carpenter 's argument that literature , including the novel , must revitalise the moral life by exploring the complex polarities and creative androgynous potential of sexual being . ' Before Lawrence even began to write , the apparatus of sexual aesthetics was assembled as the condition of his doing so . A Romantic cultivation of the self had absorbed sexual norms , producing a new personage we might call the sexual aesthete . The dialectic offered a way of developing and mastering the self through an aesthetic stylisation of sex . In Carpenter 's view , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangers of sex could be overcome by the diffusion of this cultural ideal . The key to a free and gracious public life ' is the purification and refinement of the moral nature , a work of conscience which needs no external guide ( Carpenter , 1905 , p. 23 ) . We can see why , for the cognoscenti , sexual content came to be appropriated not as something super-added to the aesthetic but as something inseparable from the form of a creative work and the activity in which the writer or reader problematised sexuality through it . // The other major factor which made it possible for literary-aesthetic and sexual-medical organisations of the self to converge was the literary appropriation of pornography . We have already noted the role of earlymodern pornography as literary device of self-interrogation and excitation , and the directly auto-erotic formation of the conscience and body associated with the use of nineteenth-century perverse ( medicalised ) pornography . It was the apparatus of Romantic aesthetics which allowed serious literature to enter an exchange with the genre of confessional pornography . In this process , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pornographic writing and their auto-erotic potential , thus issuing a challenge to explore supposedly repressed sexualities . Sexual excitation was considered necessary in order to tap dimensions of experience lying beyond the reach of norms and inhibitions . On the other hand , literary aesthetics employed a critical and moralising strategy , by submitting the erotic materials to aesthetic interpretation and judgement . In so doing , it transformed the techniques of pornography by combining them with literary devices used in the serious novel . This balancing act depended on the dialectical ability of the writer and reader ? that is , the ability to treat autoerotic excitation as a necessary moment of de-repression and at the same time to reconcile it with the intellectual and moral imperatives of educative literature . The literary techniques which transformed and were in turn modified by this appropriation of pornography included complex characterisation and psychological narrative , hermeneutic problematisation , poetic or symbolic deepening , and thematic reflection . Literature drew from pornography the stylistic resources of confessional dialogue and eroticising physical description , including the device of presenting sexual experiences and sensations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to refer to bodies and acts . It preserved their auto-erotic interest while modifying it aesthetically in the direction of poetic introspection , complex motivation and sustained inquiry into the enigmatic nature of sex ? a generic transmutation present in the merest description of a lover 's swoon before a rainbow ( Lawrence , 1949 , p. 299 ) . The educative novel , of course , also borrows techniques from sources other than pornography . So , for instance , the devices of poetic or metaphoric deepening are drawn in part from a specialised nineteenth-century tradition of the erotic lyric , where a confessional interest in sexuality was already subject to the dialectic mediation of Romantic aesthetics . This tradition included the verse of Swinburne and Wilde and , in more populist mode , Whitman 's often homoerotic poetic affirmations . We may record Carpenter 's imitation of Whitman in his Towards Democracy ( 1896 ) and // Lawrence 's proselytising for a Whitmanesque free verse of the immediate , instant self ' ( 1936 , p. 222 ) . Lawrence is able to apply devices of lyric writing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way that allows poetic intensification of sexual experiences ( cf. Lady Chatterley 's Lover , 1961 , pp. 138-9 ) . In general , then , Romantic aesthetics permitted a new use of literature : the appropriately trained writer and reader could engage in a sexualisation of the dialectic , and a dialecticisation ' of sex . Writing and reading erotica became a means for individuals to organise a new and special relation to their self , one which required them to identify , differentiate , intensify and harmonise the sensuous and the moral-reflective faculties . Given that within this demanding exercise of conscience one must be alert to the ever-present dangers of falling into a relation to one 's own being that is either too sensual and morally inert or too cerebral and heavily moralised , it is unsurprising that Lawrence was critical not only of pornographers but also of fellow aesthetes like Swinburne . Here was a game , at once self-forming and selfserving , that few of the literati could resist playing . If , on one side , the body of pornography is too basely sensual , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " are purely mental ' ( Lawrence , 1936 , p. 552 ) . In either instance , the discerning of a non-dialectical relation to sex in others is a sign that the beholder , Lawrence , must strive the harder to reconcile the opposed tendencies within himself . It was now-xhe-task of the novelist to reconcile a theory of being and knowing ' with a living sense of being ' ( p. 479 ) . Lawrence 's novels show in some detail the literary appropriation of sexual medicine and pornography . These works reinforce the relation already forged in popular medical knowledges between sexual acts or desires and personalities . In particular they sustain the erotic and excitatory imagery of perversions elaborated in medical and confessional pornography , frequently presenting perverse tendencies at the heart of so-called normal sexuality as that which must be confronted in order fully to know and understand the complex nature of the self . The novels mediate perverse and erotic elements aesthetically . Erotic writing is offered as a means of becoming open to the sensuous potentiality of the self , but the senses must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole of one 's experience . At the same time , the aesthetic dialectic is sexualised . For example , the division of the ethical substance is played out by exploring the imagery of sexual difference , including a conception of sexual inversion that is now used to project and reconcile opposing tendencies within the self . Failures to reconcile the inner tendencies are identified with forms of illness and associated with physiological and erotogenic symptoms . Images of pathology are also used in an apparently positive form , that is , to suggest mental // and sensual tendencies which must be acknowledged and overcome if the self is to be made whole . Lawrence 's novels aesthetically transform the medicalised Victorian middle-class family and its cast of characters described by Foucault ( 1979 , pp. 103-22 ) . Women 's bodies are sexualised , oriented either towards hysteria , frigidity , denial of vitality by intellectual self-consciousness , such that they are seen as castrating in their relation to men ; or towards conductivity of emotion , intuitive being , mysterious fecundity and a potential for life through acceptance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondingly , being subject on the one hand to sensual and mental excess , forms of wilfulness and impotence ; and on the other to release from egoism through the polarity of masculine and feminine , allowing man ' and woman ' to emerge into their own supposedly essential being . These characterisations support narratives of sickness and cure . Readers are asked to identify with situations in which , beginning from a state of moral and physiological fragility , characters find spiritual regeneration in sexual vitality and harmony ; otherwise they intellectualise and sicken , plunging in an auto-erotic spiral towards frigidity , impotence or disintegration . Critics have often commented on the Oedipal pattern of Sons and Lovers ( first published in 1913 ) , authenticating it with notions of authorial experience . Such a pattern can also be seen in more historical terms , however , as part of the specialised technique of the psycho-aesthetic construction of the self . The narrative turns on the difficulties of understanding one 's own desire , passing through incestuous drives towards other possible expressions . It sets up the tension between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the needs and possibilities of the whole self . Paul 's relation to Miriam presents the problem of abstract intimacy , of being too fierce in our what they call purity . . . a sort of dirtiness ' ( 1948 , p. 343 ) ; it is such a matter of the soul , all thought and weary struggle into consciousness ' ( p. 213 ) . His relation with Clara shows the opposite problem . Despite the significance of erotic experience , gradually the passion becomes spiritless , some mechanical effort spoilt their loving , or , when they had splendid moments , they had them separately , and not so satisfactorily ' ( p. 443 ) . In this early novel by Lawrence we already see how the narrative carries an argument that subjectivity must be incomplete , with the individual always caught up in a process of growth and yet possible sickness and perversion found within the polarities of sexual being . The Rainbow ( 1949 , first published in 1915 ) and Women in Love ( 1960 , first published ' in 1921 ) are similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former invokes a myth of organic personal and communal life , in the marriage of Tom and Lydia , against which to measure a // dissociation of consciousness and experience evident in the following generations . This division is known , and may be healed , through the oppositions of the feminine and the masculine , as depicted in the relation of Ursula and Anton . The characterisation of Ursula shows how pornographicmedical elements are mobilised in presenting a narrative of aesthetic and moral growth . It includes , for instance , imagery of female sexual inversion ' . The relationship with Winifred appropriates and adapts the pornographic theme of the novice and her teacher . This wrong turn of the body and mind is incorporated as a necessary false dawn of Ursula 's awakening , in which it is made clear that independent female intellectual activity is barren and perverse : Winifred Inger was also interested in the Women 's Movement ' ( 1949 , p. 343 ) . This characterisation also includes the cathartic violence and pleasure of physically venting frustration in terms deriving from the literature of flagellation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pp. 397 ? 9 ) . In Women in Love , the danger of women becoming merely intellectual is embodied in Hermione , in a satire of so-called Bloomsbury affectation . Hermione is presented as suffering a horrible sickness of dissolution ' within the body and soul ( 1960 , p. 103 ) , as a hysteric in whom the perversion of all capacity for spontaneity leads to a kind of insanity and threat of castration which is seen in her physical attack on Birkin ( pp. 116 ? 19 ) . The relation of Gudrun and Gerald is one in which the partners fail to balance the various elements of the sexual personality and so become self-willed and destructive . The potential of mutuality is demonstrated in the relation of Ursula and Birkin . Here , masculine ' intellectual potency is modified between and within the characters by feminine ' inwardness , permitting the androgynous transcendence of difference ( ' floods of ineffable darkness and ineffable riches ' from a source deeper than the phallic source ' ( p. 354 ) ) . This representation does not exclude moments of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrestling scene between Birkin and Gerald ( pp. 300-11 ) . Broadly , the imagery of masculine and feminine oppositions repeats the eroticisation of the body already discussed in relation to Carpenter , as when Lawrence writes of a new current of passional electrical energy . . . released from the darkest poles of the body and established in perfect circuit ' between the lovers ( p. 353 ) . Lady Chatterley 's Lover ( 1961 , first published in 1928 ) , Lawrence 's most pornographic novel , works with the now familiar combinatory of pathologies . The feminine is defined as a sexual essence which , if repressed , makes women sick . Masculine identity is seen to have been rendered cerebral and impotent . Clifford is representative of those ruined boys through whom Lawrence depicts mental self-consciousness as perverse and Literary Erotics 113 , destructive , making its victim a castrato . These terms provide the logic for a narrative lesson : the woman must free the true female ' in herself through sexual sojourns , letting go the social person ' ( 1961 , p. 126 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be grasped by those flirting with it as a fashionable idea , since this imprisons men and women in their separate egos , as in Connie 's first sexual encounters on the Continent ( cf. pp. 5-9 ) . Connie 's maturation includes her awakening to the phallic potency of Mellors whose characterisation brings into play the pornographic image of the supersexed male . The argument is contained isotopically in Chapter 10 , in a trio of sexual acts . On the first occasion , Mellors achieves orgasm and is blind to Connie 's numbness . On the second , there is growing responsiveness on her part , but a residue of mental resistance , and a separateness in his pleasure . On the third , she is released from self-consciousness by the unconscious ' force of passion . Mellors ' taking of her by surprise is valorised because it is associated with an epiphanal quality in the experience . The real female is said to emerge , not Lady Chatterley ' but Connie ' . Again , the book adapts pornographic elements such as the dialogic relation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which a virile lower-class hero finds out the nymph in an aristocratic Lady ' . We may show in a little more detail how the pathological and perverse inform this novel . The imagery of fixation , including infantile regression and male hysteria , is used to complete the portrayal of Clifford 's impotence . His auto-erotic intimacy with his nurse , Mrs Bolton , is presented as the ultimate stage of his ethical decay . On the other hand , if Connie is to discover the truth of sex she must do so through trial and error , passing through various dangerous psycho-sexual stages . For instance , clitoral orgasm is presented as stubborn gratification in which she resists mutuality , a sign that she is too active and the man too passive , as in her relation with Michaelis . Lawrence 's association of clitorally-oriented intercourse with female masturbation is evident here . In an improvisation on existing erotogenic zonings of the body , the clitoris is pathologised through metaphoric identification with the beak of a bird . The instrument that gratifies the wilful sexuality of the woman can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be tamed by the gamekeeper if the true female ' is to be set free . A culminating act in Connie 's relation with Mellors is anal intercourse . How are we to classify such a scene ? In one sense , it is yet another sodomitic scene in perverse , turkish ' pornography , with a distinct sense of sport in breaking taboos . At the same time , it is the first explicit scene of anal sex in the serious novel . The appeal to sheer sensuality ' is supposed to purify and quicken the mind ' ( p. 259 ) and revitalise physical and // spiritual life . The excitatory writing is taken to be necessary in order to gain access to new depths of being , while the erotic interest is poetically heightened by projecting and resolving through it the metaphysical tensions identified with the relations of male and female . The act is used to signify the upsurge of the most hidden unspoken desire and the final purging of female resistance . Even in this phallic hunting out ' of the last and deepest recess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ myth of androgyny persists : there is no clitoris here . Curiously , anal intercourse is both an esoteric metaphor and a conjugal technique . The reconciliation of the Romantically-divided self in a purifying erotic epiphany transcends the merely social use of sex in the getting of children . Supposedly , in this liberation from all conventional repression of the sexual drive , the masculine and feminine are fully realised and the difference between them is transcended in a new and finally completed form of subjectivity . While we have focussed on how serious educative literature borrows from sexual medicine and pornography , it is also worth noting that it draws on other areas such as psychoanalysis . We recall that , for Freud ( 1977 , pp. 45-87 ) , if the normal psycho-sexual life ' can be constituted , this is because it is knowable through so many points of contact with the perversions . The latter are deviations of the sexual aim which either extend anatomically beyond the regions of the body designed for sexual use , or are fixed in a relation to the sexual object which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final sexual aim ( pp. 61-2 ) . The perverse , the neurotic and the normal are classes of sexual life , outcomes of a development : the ' disposition to perversions ' itself forms a part of what passes as the normal constitution ' ( p. 86 ) . The life ' is seen as an always more or less problematic movement through various stages which involve impulses or wishes that may be repressed and yet remain cathectic . Of interest here , in relation to literary characterology , is the question of whether a special relation holds between the perverse disposition and the particular form of illness adopted ' . Freud retains the possibility that the perversions exist in relation to psychoneurotic constitutions ' which might be distinguished according to the innate preponderance of one or the other of the erotogenic zones or one or the other of the component instincts ' ( p. 86 ) . While the extent to which Freud 's own conception of a dialectical relation between drive and norm is indebted to Romantic aesthetics is clearly a broader question , psychoanalytic discourse can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erotics . In fact Freud 's identification of fixation at the anal stage with the formation of a particular character type is typical of the implanting ' strategies whereby an act in the sexual repertory is turned into the profound and // indelible sign of a pathological personality ? one in which the secret of anal erotism is seen to persist as a never fully repressed element in the organisation and transformation of desire ( see especially Freud , 1977 , pp. 295 ? 302 ) . For its part , Lawrence 's counter-valorisation of this character trait as the repressed truth ( that is , true because repressed ) of a higher sexuality is nothing new either . It is another case of the pornographic inversion of a medical characterology ? one that makes a sexological image of regression over into an image of liberating and norm-breaking transgression and places the attendant charge of perverse pleasure and self-discovery at the service of aesthetic self-cultivation . In all of these instances we should not lose sight of the fact that it is the novel 's manner of addressing and enrolling an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is crucial . The deployment of biblio-erotic technique in the educative novel is the means by which competent readers are forced to relate to themselves as subjects of repressed desires and pleasures . This is the central element of the pact formed between the writers and readers of serious erotic literature . What follows from it is the practice in which readers control and stylise their always newly-discovered sexual selves according to the reconciliatory imperatives of aesthetic self-culture where they have the capacity to do so . The rhetorical organisation of such literature is thus designed to induct readers into a certain aesthetic-erotic experimenting with the self . It is integral to the effect of the anal-erotic episode in Lady Chatterley 's Lover , for example , that its description is highly metaphoric , recondite and suggestive . This is what involves the reader in the confessional stratagem of attributing the truth of sex to that which is most hidden ; to that which must therefore be acknowledged and brought to light in oneself . Literary criticism in this context can be little more than an acting out of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first literary critical publication of the dark secret of Lady Chatterley 's Lover should have been entitled Regina v. Penguin Books Ltd : An Undisclosed Element in the Case ' ( Sparrow , 1966 , pp. 40 ? 58 ) . A FURTHER CHAPTER IN LITERARY EROTICS At this point we can make explicit the difference between our historical analysis of pornography and post-modernist accounts informed by psyclii analytic and Marxian currents . Stephen Heath 's ( 1982 ) The Sexual Ft t 1 representative of such accounts . Heath writes that sexuality ' is a ctihoi.11 system through which the meaning of sex ' ( acts and relations ) and ass K t ated forms of personal identity have been produced in the nineteenth and // twentieth centuries . Knowledges such as sexual medicine , sexology , psychology and psychoanalysis have been central to that system : Sexuality is without the importance ascribed to it in our contemporary society ( Western capitalist ) ; it is without that importance because it does not exist as such , because there is no such thing as sexuality ; what we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' , the construction of something called sexuality ' through a set of representations ? images , discourses , ways of picturing and describing ? that propose and confirm , that make up this sexuality to which we are then referred and held in our lives , a whole sexual fix precisely ; the muchvaunted liberation ' of sexuality , our triumphant emergence from the dark ages ' , is thus not a liberation but a myth , an ideology , the definition of a new mode of conformity ( that can be understood , moreover , in relation to the capitalist system , the production of a commodity sexuality ' ) . ( Heath , 1982 , pp. 2 ? 3 ) At the same time , argues Heath , to say that sexuality does not exist as such is not to deny the reality and complexity of the sexual dimension in contemporary Western culture . It is , rather , to indicate the possibility of displacing its present limited construction as sexuality ' and changing the problematic forms of social relations the latter term involves ( pp. 3 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social knowledges and practices ? including pornography ? which operate in the system of sexuality ' . So , for instance , sexual writing in the novel supports and is supported by the novelistic ' ? Heath 's term for the dispersed forms of narrative and character construction operating within those social knowledges ( Chapter VII ) . The work of Lawrence contributes in a major way to the gaining ground ' of sexuality ' ( p. 125 ) . The problem with this account is that it explains the function of literature and other knowledges through a single , general logic of representation , even though representation ' indicates not a reflection of the real but a construction of meaning for a subject . Heath argues that novelistic sexual narrative appears to open into the truth of experience and make selfrealisation possible , but that in fact it is highly normative and forecloses the possibilities of experience . It acts out a cycle of tension and release , a progression towards orgasm , in a ritual and fundamentally insecure attempt to deny an underlying male lack . Dominant literary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of female difference is // apparently denied by projecting the female as existing for and through the pleasure of the male whose identity thus seems to be confirmed . Complicit with other empiricisms of sexual knowledge , literature thus represses and reproduces the very anxiety which generates it , creating a sexual fix ' in the dual sense that the possibilities of subjective identity are narrowed down into set masculine and feminine forms , and that this drama is repeated compulsively . This ideological function is present in any instance of the system of sexuality , and within literature operates in an historical continuum through such different works as those of Dickens and Lawrence ( see especially Heath 's Chapter VII ) . Literature is thus seen as having an essential relation to sexuality . It is the theatre in which the subject of consciousness experiences an illusory fullness of being . This subject unconsciously opts out of the play of sexual difference whose prolongation is the bliss of deferred identity : the endless anticlimax of selfhood . The progressive liberation envisioned by Heath is described thus : The end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and women free , outside of any commodification of the sexual , removed from any of the violence and alienation of circulation and exchange as agents of sex and orgasm , away from any definition as a sexual identity , the identity of a sex , being fixed to this or that image , this or that norm , to this thing sexuality ' . ( p. 152 ) Literary experimentation is assumed to offer the possibility of un-fixing the categories of language and hence the representations of male ' and female ' and the very principle of sexual identity.9 Heath 's account is representative of a form of poststructuralist theory which has been made possible only by the historical wedding of literature and sexual knowledges officiated over by Romantic aesthetics . In the opposition between fixed sexual identity and undifferentiated or deferred identity ( or between the phallus as principle of representational closure and a feminine principle of otherness or excess ) , and in the play of signification ' achieved by oscillating between or eluding previously defined identifications of sexuality , we find yet another variation upon the dialectical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , norm and desire , which we have already discussed . This more recent specialised use of the dialectic is supposed to provide a liberatory teleology for the subject who must ultimately transcend the ideological experience of sexual difference , uncovering through literature the hidden flux of sexual being . In reproducing this technique of aesthetic subject-formation , postmodernist theorising such as Heath 's begs the question of whether literature has any // necessary or fundamental relation to sexuality . Our analysis shows that serious literature has had a much more contingent relation to sexuality than is allowed for in this type of account . This is why we have displaced the usual concern with whether some particular instance of erotic literature ' gives a true or false , an open or closed representation of sex by describing the conditions that have made a particular literary erotics ' possible . Only under specific historical and cultural circumstances was one literary school able to take over a repertoire of erotic forms of writing ? the techniques of biblio-erotics ? and establish a new conduit for disciplines of sexuality . This event depended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on specific ( medical , pornographic ) conscience-forming uses of literacy , and on the historical aestheticisation of sexuality achieved when certain experimental groups succeeded in integrating the techniques of confession and those of literary self-cultivation . In arguing that the erotic novel became a textbook for disseminating norms of the sexual person , we use norm ' not to oppose it to experience ' or drive ' as occurs within dialectical argument , but to re-situate the aesthetic dialectic itself as biblioerotic ritual for actually organising an individual 's relation to his or her self ? one that is far from outmoded . RULES OF THE GAME The ethical function of serious sexual literature established in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries can be further specified by drawing a contrast with a historically linked use of literacy . In The Use of Pleasure ( 1986 ) , Foucault distinguishes between morality , as a general rule or code of behaviour , and ethics , as the way in which individuals constitute themselves in practice as moral subjects . To show that there may be different ethical practices of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives the example of conjugal fidelity ( pp. 25 ? 32 ) . Practising fidelity can entail different ways of determining the ethical substance , that is , nominating some part of the self over which to become one 's own steward . So for example one might act out of respect for personal obligations , or in order to attain mastery over one 's desires . Then there are different modes of taking individual responsibility in relation to a moral code : one might be moved to act as a member of a community , as heir to a spiritual tradition , or in order to offer an exemplary personal life . Differences occur also in the form of work performed on the self : for instance , fidelity might mean an abrupt renunciation of pleasures or a long vigil over all conceivable movements of desire . Finally there are different ways of // establishing the goal of moral actions : fidelity may be given its importance within a project of self-discipline , as a means of self-purification assuring spiritual salvation , and so on . By participating in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ciphers of a code , they become subjects of moral action . Our point of contrast with Lawrentian writings is found in a mid-Victorian type of manual , which disseminated specialised knowledges ( sexual medicine , biology , moral physiology , psychology ) amongst middle-class reading families , and promoted a capacity for heath-consciousness in relation to sex and norms of domestic management , childbearing , childrearing , diet and hygiene.10 Without ignoring important differences between individual texts , it is evident that the definition of conjugal fidelity was central to the writers of these manuals and their readers , and was related to an ethic of self-restraint . ) For those approaching sexual medicine in the same way as Marcus ( 1964 ) and Gay ( 1984 ) , such writings might seem symptomatic of the dark night of Victorian morality , shrouding and distorting human sexuality . However , these publications can be viewed more positively as part of a programme for shaping and managing-the personal life . Part of this programme was a norm of fidelity which allows us to relativise the conception of love and fidelity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sex . If we confine ourselves to this definition of fidelity in the Victorian manuals , we see that the singling-out of the husband-wife relation bore directly on individuals ' willingness to manage the physical and emotional substance ' of their own sexuality . Addressed specifically as wives , husbands , or as individuals contemplating marriage , readers were asked to become the physicians of their own sexual soul , responsible for understanding the laws which govern the physical and moral life . Only through the wise conduct of partners would the scientific ' knowledge of sexuality bear fruit in the lives of individuals . The kind of work on the self called for was a personal commitment , a continuous care in preparing for marriage , choosing a partner , and building a relationship . In terms of purposes , fidelity was seen as an ongoing labour of love necessary for physical and moral health , such that it was not strange to speak of sexual restraint as paving the way towards a perfect unity of the couple . In Cowan 's The Science of a New Life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , words and actions ' ( Cowan , 1874 1970 , p. 46 ) in order to purify their own character and understand that of others . Cautionary tales and charactersketches are used to encourage examination of desires and motives , and many techniques described to cultivate reciprocity . For instance , while there is a law ' of choice ( Chapter III ) , this can only be made good if // individuals prepare themselves by avoiding unhealthy habits ranging from carelessness in diet to amativeness or self-abuse which ruins partners for marriage ( Chapter IV ) . Similarly , certain forms of thought , speech , feeling and behaviour are to be fostered in a domestically organised space of mutuality : partners should learn to make a full and open confession ' to one another if anything occurs that appears in the remotest way to disturb the harmony of married life ' ( p. 395 ) ; a wife should not cultivate a confidante ; a newly-wed couple should exclude relatives from living in the household in order to establish their own relationship ( p. 400 ) ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of erotic techniques in the husband-wife relation is not seen as necessary in order to achieve the goal of perfect sexual love ' ( p. 48 ) . For Cowan , it is continence which creates the true bond . This view belongs within a broader framework in which the physical and the moral are interrelated in a delicate economy of vital forces . The individual 's health depends on establishing harmony of body , mind and soul in relation to Nature 's laws ' ( p. 49 ) . Within this economy , the smallest physical or moral disturbance can affect the whole self . Sickness of body and mind follows from ignorance of organic laws ' ( p. 107 ) . Yielding to sexual appetite , for example , drains the individual 's powers and causes physical ailments , nervous debility and moral decay ( pp. 95-107 ) . Masturbation and excessive coition are seen as abuses of the sexual system , a system in which two principles of the life-force are involved : First , the semen , which is elaborately secreted from the highest active principle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of giving life to a new being , and which , of a necessity , if re-absorbed into the blood of the individual , is capable , not of giving , but of renewing life . The second principle involved is that of the nervous system . In the exercise of coition through the abnormal development of amativeness , a great quantity of the nervous fluid of the brain is used up . This nervous fluid , when used in legitimate directions , is in a great measure supplied or vitalized by the re-absorbed semen , or rather the cells secreted from the testicle before the zoa-sperms are developed . This being so , the exercise of amativeness uses up the very life-power of the individual , and in doing this the lifeforce of the system is greatly lowered and weakened , laying the body open to all manner of diseases , contagious , inflammatory and chronic , insuring an existence weak and sickly , a life a great and miserable failure , and a death early and painful . ( p. 101 ) For Cowan , then , the storing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selfdiscipline reinforced the whole physical and moral constitution ( cf. Elton // Boyd , MD , 1877 ) . Some other writers maintained that denial of all sexual passion was unwise and that its careful expression was necessary to health ( Acton , 1865 , pp. 106 ? 28 ; Fowler , 1870 , pp. 637 ? 706 ) . This difference was only one of degree . There was general agreement that sexual excess was potentially destructive . According to Cowan , such excess caused a loss of nervous vital power to be communicated through the medium of the great sympathetic system of nerves ' to all muscular departments of the body and the brain which coordinates them ( p. 105 ) . This excess violates physiological laws and can result even in sterility : only through sensible restraint can proper mutuality and healthy reproduction be assured in marriage ( cf. pp. 368 ? 77 ) . Turning now to Lawrentian ' writing , it is evident that the vision of fidelity which it presents is identified with a supposedly repressed potential for erotic experience . The perfecting of love @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dialectically and seek within themselves a vital reconciliation between sensuous and moral faculties . Two points should be made to put the difference between our two instances in perspective . First , although the Lawrentian celebration of pleasure may seem to be diametrically opposed to the law of continence found in the earlier work , it is in fact made possible by and is simply a variant of the economy of the medically sexualised and pathologised body . Whereas for Cowan , undue intensity of the sexual act is dangerous ( p. 369 ) , for Lawrence it is by not intensifying sexual acts that one misuses the vital forces and runs the risk of physiological and psychological damage . Moreover , Lawrence 's pathologising comments on masturbation display his continued reliance on the medical-moral stigmatisation of improper sexual intensities . Second , this erotic supplement is itself a specific norm . The incitement to make erotic mutuality the spiritual hearth of marriage is a late refinement in the formation of middle-class families around a core of affective relationships between husbands and wives . These points can be developed by observing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sexology , closely related to literature , renegotiated what was to count as health and fulfilment in marriage . Foremost among these writers was Havelock Ellis , who identified eroticism as a specific capacity of the self . In The Objects of Marriage , he criticises the view that continence is the only alternative to the animal end of marriage ' , as one which ignores the liberating and harmonising influences , giving wholesome balance and sanity to the whole organism , imparted by a sexual union which is the outcome of the psychic as well as the physical needs ' ( n.d. , pp. 8 ? 9 ) . The need to balance forces within an economy of the body is still there , but now entails recognising that physical // sex activity may prove the stimulus and liberator of our finest and most exalted activities ' . Discovery of eroticism is crucial to the self yet must be kept in balance with all the creative faculties . For the individual who learns to make wise use of pleasures , a deeper spiritual unity is achieved than can possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The differences between Cowan and Ellis show how mobile has been the distinction between the use and abuse of sexual capacities . What remains constant is the sense that any activity delineated in obedience to this sexological distinction becomes a matter of the conscientious management of sex , that vital but fragile substance of the self . In Ellis ' scheme one must still keep vigil over one 's desires , albeit for a new reason : physical and psychical fulfilment might be missed in the very place where it is freshly promised . This kind of liberatory project thus comprises a sharply altered norm and a novel threshold of expectations , bringing its own pathogenic concerns with performance . It is not only apparently perverse subjects who are identifiable as specific temperamental types : sexology dwells amongst the pleasures of the normal ' couple where it establishes the erotic personality ' ( Ellis , 1922 , Chapter IV ) . This personality is supposed to possess the potential for full development of all the faculties according to the familiar aesthetic dialectic ? emotional and intellectual , physical and psychical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moralisation . This dialectical construct is synonymous with what , in a further invocation of Romantic aesthetics , Ellis calls the play function ' of sex : Play is primarily the instinctive work of the brain , but it is brain activity united in the subtlest way to bodily activity . In the play function of sex two forms of activity , physical and psychic , are most exquisitely and variously and harmoniously blended . ( 1922 , p. 132 ) 12 As a second example of scientific ' texts on erotic love , we refer to Theodore Van de Velde 's work , influential in marriage counselling for several decades after being translated into English in the 1920s and early 1930s ) 3 In these eclectic writings , notions of unconscious processes , aggressive and hostile drives , bisexuality and the like borrowed from psychoanalysis are combined with essentialist notions of masculine and feminine differences drawn from moral physiology . In Sex Hostility in Marriage ( 1931 , pp. 41 ? 78 ) , we read that feminine characteristics include constriction of the conscious mind , expansion of the subconscious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of feelings and a need for violent stimuli , qualities supposed to have an organic physiological basis definable from the moment of penetration of the ovum by the // sperm . Masculine characteristics include rationality , logical thought , objective judgement , egocentricity and a form of kinetic energy which complements female potential energy and elasticity ( pp. 29-40 , 80-92 ) . The woman 's submissive , emotional nature is to be moulded by the man who realises her sensitiveness and plasticity ' , her maternal instinct ' and intuitive understanding of the significance of the sexual act and its results ' ( pp. 270-1 ) . Eroticism is a form of insurance , uniting the woman with the man who has given her the love life ' ( p. 271 ) . The perfecting of pleasure , including body and psyche , soul and senses ' , is in turn the best guarantee for the fidelity of the man ' and prevents the dominance of mental life which inwardly threatens masculinity ( pp. 271-2 ) . The pattern is of course very similar to that found in Lady Chatterley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposedly intuitive understanding of sex and her maternal instinct ' which ( in contrast to the earlier medical works we have discussed ) is linked to erotic intensification ( Lawrence , 1961 , pp. 117-20 , 140-1 ) . Van de Velde assumes that happiness can only be attained by accepting and maximising feminine and masculine differences and by confronting the drives not just of attraction but also of repulsion within heterosexuality ( p. 291 ) . Thus hostility in marriage is a " disease " to which everyone is more or less exposed ' ( p. 278 ) . In its milder forms it is part of the normal development of the marriage organism , but is capable in its more serious aspects of destroying this organism ' and indeed of causing real disease ' ( p. 278 ) . This kind of text thus perpetuates well into the twentieth century the notion that there is a precarious economy of the sexual body and mind , involving pathologies and cures ( the latter now identified as mutual erotic expression ) which sexual science ' mirrors to the normal ' couple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medicine of writers such as Cowan and Blackwell is the emphasis placed on particular elements within that economy . A reversal has occurred whereby for Van de Velde ( or Ellis or Lawrence ) it is the absence or neglect of eroticism which is damaging to individual well-being and marital relations . Invoking his communications with mental specialists ' , Van de Velde warns that unsatisfied married sexual life has fatal consequences ' for the mental equilibrium and mental health ' ( 1931 , p. 269 ) . The law of asceticism ' is now referred to as unnatural ( p. 270n. ) : ideal marriage must give sexual passions their full rein ' though without infringing on the natural moral law ' ( p. 270 ) . The distance from the works of Cowan or Blackwell can be measured in the following statement : Even although a marriage , based on feelings of love for one 's neighbour , on insight and understanding , adaptability and goodwill , and on union // and community of interests , may be a marriage without antagonism , even a harmonious marriage ? it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the word . It requires , in addition to all this , in addition to the love as described by St Paul , sexual love . There is no true marriage without erotic love , and no ideal marriage unless the practice of sexual love approach perfection . ( 1931 , p. 268 ) If it was deemed essential for this kind of science ' to explore erotic meaning fully , so it was also for a certain kind of literature.14 For Lawrence and Van de Velde who , in writing , respectively , Lady Chatterley 's Lover and Ideal Marriage : Its Physiology and Technique can both be viewed as marriage reformers , the so-called suppression of the erotic impulse destroys the vital forces just as surely as excess wasted the vital fluids in the view of Victorian physicians . What counts as fidelity has shifted . Being truly married now requires embracing the need to know the secret pleasure of sexual acts . Of course , no one-to-one influence between writers is assumed here . The purpose of the comparison is to map a broader field of exchanges between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their writers and readers particular norms of self-problematisation and self-formation . Between an erotic literature and a literary erotics no sharp line can be drawn . The new practice of literary erotics thus made aesthetic capital out of the investments of knowledge and pleasure in sex which were already developing in neighbouring fields . Under these circumstances , literature ' and sexuality ' happened to converge . There is , however , no necessary relation between them . A D. H. Lawrence ' emerges from the contingent linking of sexual and literary technologies peculiar to modem Western cultures , but not every culture has to have one . Literary erotics provided the means whereby those individuals equipped with the appropriate cultural abilities could construct themselves , through a detailed , continuous problematising of pleasures , as the subjects of their own sexuality . The key strategies which it entailed , the sexualisation of a dialectical work on the self and the transformation of sexual knowledge and pleasure into an aesthetic form of play ' , can be thought of as techniques of the body and practices of the self ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) anthropology of the body and Foucault 's ( 1986 ) history of the soul . That is , they are ways of modelling physical , mental and psychological attributes which are informed by specific cultural techniques and social practices . Seen in this light , literary erotics is a technical and highly specialised organisation of the body and conscience . Forms of conscience , as personal // modes of monitoring conduct , depend upon and vary with definite social relations and techniques ( Hirst and Woolley , 1982 , pp. 136 ? 7 ) . The literary erotics whose emergence we have traced had no exclusive rights over conscience-formation in questions of sexuality . For instance , campaigners for companionate marriage ' , contemporaries of Lawrence and Van de Velde , advocated attitudinal and institutional reforms which would allow a deliberate compromise ' of psychological and sexual needs with economic ones ( allowing an alternative to celibacy , the use of birth control and divorce by mutual consent ) . They envisaged a form of marital companionship based on calculations of the material security of partners in terms which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value on sexual bonding ( see , for example , Judge Ben B. Lindsey , 1928 , and J. A. Goldsmid , 1934 ) . The Lawrentian ' forming of conscience was different from that promoted in household sexual medicine which did not valorise eroticism . Blackwell had argued against the twin assumptions that wives who have reservations about how they are expected to experience pleasure must possess ? according to the type-casting of the frigid woman ? no sexual passion ' , and that women are more tyrannically governed than men by impulses of sex ' because of their physiological and maternal nature ( 1894 , pp. 1 , 44 ? 53 ) . Even in writers such as Cowan , who were not apparently identified with feminism , there was a concern with rights and spaces , accompanied by medical arguments that play down the importance of sexual passion and gratification : a wife was not to be obligated by a husband 's demands.15 Nor did the Lawrentian aestheticising of sex go uncontested . As early as the 1920s Florence Seabury called into question the characterology used by Lawrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is decidedly neurotic in his fear of the ultimate absorption of man . Woman he describes perpetually as a great magnetic womb , fecund , powerful , engulfing . Man he sees as a pitiful struggling creature , ultimately devoured by fierce maternal force ' ( Seabury , 1925 , p. 227 ) . For Seabury , the novelist 's representations of male and female difference derive from cultural , literary and psychological stereotypes which operate more generally to enforce particular roles in marriage , including the definition of women in relation ' to men , and the assumed tendency of Woman ' towards affectivity as opposed to rationality . Sylvia Kopold ( 1925 ) criticises the ideal of comparative variability of the sexes , an idea much used by Lawrence and Ellis , according to which the male is prone to extremes of intelligence and genius , and the female is associated with intuitive stability , average rational powers and the like . She relates perceived male/female differences of this kind to different social trainings , expectations and environments , arguing against founding // educational or political objectives on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature , her criticisms make clear the limits and partiality of the sexological knowledges at work in the Lawrentian model of selffashioning . Yet in the decades that followed , Lawrence 's project would come to stand as an exemplary work of sexual self-discovery and aesthetic selfcultivation . We shall conclude this chapter by analysing how literary sexual ethics became something more than an uncommon pursuit . INTO THE CLASSROOM We have established that using sexual literature to work on the self was initially an art of living refined by a small minority of writers And readers . Contrary to the view that writers like Lawrence had to create the public taste through which they would ultimately win appropriate recognition ( Beal , 1961 , pp. 11 ? 24 ; West , 1950 , Chapter 10 ) , contemporary forms of literary journalism made it possible for them to find a limited public for their specialised adaptation of popular sexual-medical and pornographic materials . A minor industry of small journals and magazines supported esoteric literary and intellectual movements in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries . Such publications helped form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of itself as a circle ' distinguished from middle-class culture by personal taste and social mannerism ( such as the forms of dress and speech associated with the Bloomsbury group ) and by a relative indifference to general public acceptance ( Dorothy Baisch , 1950 ) .16 These publications were in turn dependent on the milieu of the university arts faculties , which in some cases provided their home and in most cases supervised the aesthetic training of their readers and writers . ' The bellettristic audience existing for the circle of writers to which Lawrence belonged was already conversant with sexology , sexual medicine , psychology , and issues of sex reform and ethics . Lawrence read and reviewed works of sexual science ' such as writings by the psychiatrist , Dr Trigant Burrow ( Lawrence , 1936 , pp. 377 ? 82 ) , just as experts in sexology and related fields made use of literary forms ? as is evident in Van de Velde 's mixing of Goethe and genetics ' . Indeed , within these particular circuits of intellectual exchange , no major distinction seems to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on sex , since these were all considered to give access to the central questions and had similar uses as means of inquiring into the self.18 It was only in this context of an intellectual subculture that Lawrence // could carry out the iterative work of posing problems for other published writings , formulate solutions and so create a sense of progress by using literature to investigate sexuality . Thus the novels of John Galsworthy , initially read as social satires and comedies of manners , were tested and found pallid by applying the dialectical-erotic method of reading ( Lawrence , 1936 , pp. 539 ? 50 ) . Lawrence argues that Galsworthy attempts to treat his characters ironically by showing them as merely social ' beings , parasites upon the thought , the feelings , the whole body of life of really living individuals ' ( p. 543 ) , whose own revolt reduces sex to a pose . However , according to Lawrence , the form of Galsworthy 's writing is itself flawed . Sexual emotion is reduced to sentimentalism , the working off on yourself of feelings you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thought is cut off from sensuous awareness , reducing sex to a clever idea on the part of both the novelist and , potentially , the reader . In Lawrence 's view , serious literary works could thus commit the same sin as pornography , namely didacticism ? idealising the body for the sake of social ideologies while covertly goading it into auto-erotic excitement . The challenge was thus to bring literature into line with the individual 's own whole ? sensuous and intellectual ? experience of sexuality . Of course , the dialectical technique could support an aesthetic work on the self without requiring univocal judgements . Many readers exercised themselves over whether Lawrence 's own writings succeeded in giving harmonious form to his explorations of sexuality ( see for example John Middleton Murry ( 1932 ) , and the reviews of and tributes to Lawrence by Murry , T. S. Eliot , Edwin Muir , E. M. Forster and others in Draper ( ed. ) 1970 ) . But this concern underlines the crucial point : initially , Lawrentian writings could make their way in the world courtesy only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1936 , p. 186 ) . Left to their own devices , those who engaged in literary erotics could continue almost indefinitely to operate within their chosen and marginal practice of self-culture . That this is so can be seen from the Lawrentian discourse sustained through the 1930s and beyond by writers such as Frieda Lawrence ( 1934 ) , John Middleton Murry ( 1932 ) , Anais Nin ( 1964 ) , Aldous Huxley ( 1971 ) and Lawrence Durrell ( 1959 ) .19 In the early 1930s , Henry Miller began writing a book on Lawrence whose work he saw as immensely inspiring ( Miller , 1985 , pp. 11 ? 24 ) . In this book , published some fifty years after it was begun , Miller predictably speaks of obscenity as the means of recovering a lost vitality , a vitality he identifies with male erotic power and its dark sensuality , and with a female otherness which can not be grasped through any mere ideology of intellectual and social equality ( pp. 188 ? 90 ) . The radically obscene force of literature , Miller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still try to // make our language betray the truths of sexual experience ( p. 176 ) . No matter how passionate ' this kind of appraisal might be , however , of its own accord it could have made little impact on the broader social and legal regulation of sexuality . The purpose of Lawrentian literature was not , as has often been assumed , to spread cultural values broadly and democratically but to sustain a personalist project of cultural distinction ( in the sense proposed by Bourdieu , 1984 ) . The aesthetic use of sexual literature was a way of cultivating a prestigious taste and distinguishing oneself not only from popular entertainments , but from middle-class tastes and manners such as those associated by Lawrence with the novels of Galsworthy . These other forms could be deemed to fail , in their own ways , to realise sex , that is they could be deemed to be insufficiently dialectical . In this differentiation and distinction there is a confirmation of what Foucault signals as a shift in middle-class concerns with sex that occurred from the late nineteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific , sexual body , a class ' body signifying health , hygiene , descent and race ' ( Foucault , 1979 , p. 124 ) . Once all other social sectors were provided with a sexual body , bourgeois distinction would be measured not by the " sexual " quality of the body , but by the intensity of its repression ' ( p. 129 ) . In the elite practice of literary erotics , the problematic of repression was reproduced in order to achieve a dialectical expression of true sexuality . If this art of knowing and shaping the self through using the techniques of literary erotics was still a localised pursuit amongst the intelligentsia in the first decades of the twentieth century , the situation was gradually changing . These techniques of literary sexual ethics were about to undergo a more general distribution . They would do so , however , not as the cultural manifestation of the dialectic but as part of an eminently institutional process in which they were transformed into mechanisms of popular education . The governmental use of literature in popular education is analysed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 ) ; we need identify here only those factors which permitted a new and greatly expanded role for the technique of self-fashioning elaborated in modern literary erotics . The aesthetic use of literature and criticism developed in Romantic selfculture was , in the early and middle decades of the twentieth century , grafted onto the practices of moral formation already operating in the popular school and teacher training . Since the mid-nineteenth century , these practices had been characterised by an exchange between goals of social regulation and strategies fostering self-expression on the part of the pupil . The environment of the popular school was constructed in such a way as to bring the children 's real-life interests , sentiments and conducts into the // classroom , where their expression would be guided by norms of personal development and welfare . In this space of supervised freedom ' ( Hunter , 1988 , p. 115 ) , the normalising procedure of moral correction was also an individualising one , through which the child was able to be equipped with cultural attributes . It was in this context that the discipline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English promoted self-expression through reading and writing and at the same time made this process a basis for re-shaping the inner life of the child according to norms publicised by contemporary psychological and social knowledges . The lynchpin of English as a pedagogy was the relation in which the teacher was formed as an exemplary figure for the student , at once sympathetic and distant , combining encouragement and surveillance . Inducted into the practice of reading taken over from the specialised Romantic tradition of dialectical criticism , the college-trained teacher could encourage and participate in the pupil 's affective responses , while allowing these to be reflected upon and tested against the formal organisation of the work being read . The text became both a free space in which personal responses could be elicited , and a powerful instrument for intervening in and reshaping the sensibility exposed by those responses . The technique of dialectical reading , once applied by the individual Romantic aesthete to mould the self , now became the support for an institutionalised pedagogic relation between teacher and student . These conditions allowed literary erotics a second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voluntary ( adult ) practice , the ethical inquiry into sexual literature became part of the curriculum , where it apparently offered a way of taking English even further into the real-life interests of the young student . Of course , this use of literature did not tap some natural propensity towards self-expression . Rather , it disseminated through a new channel and on a new scale an aesthetic capacity to make sexuality central to the supervised construction of personal identity . Within this pedagogic use of literature , individuals learn to mediate sexual representations dialectically . On the one hand , readers are encouraged to identify with the text , and hear it speaking to their own feelings and curiosities . On the other , they are brought to appreciate the text 's formal mediations of experience , so that their immediate responses are reflectively deepened and modified . This pedagogic strategy is at work in many critical texts on Lawrence and similar writers by the 1950s . It is evident in , for example , Dorothy van Ghent 's chapter on Sons and Lovers in The English Novel ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a section on Problems for Study and Discussion ' . Van Ghent demonstrates how to read the novel dialectically . Thus , the loose structure of the work is to be appreciated as evidence of its // openness to experience . The novel is said to explore ? without excessive refinement and subtlety of technique ? what the reader may recognise as real problems in life ' ( p. 245 ) , including the organic disturbance ' of sexual polarities and relationships , and the dissociation of intellectual and social life from the natural life-directed condition ' of human experience ( p. 247 ) . At the same time , however , it must be appreciated that the personal and autobiographical meaning is dramatically realised by the novel 's narrative and poetic form . Van Ghent describes Lawrence 's task as follows : He must make us aware ? sensitively aware , not merely conceptually aware ? of the profound life force whose rhythms the natural creature obeys ; and he must make us aware of the terminal individuality ? the absolute otherness ' or outsideness ' ? that is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We must be made aware of these through the feelings of his people , for only in feeling have the biological life force and the sense of identity , either the identity of self of others , any immediacy of reality . He seeks the objective equivalent of feeling in the image . As Francis Fergusson says , Lawrence 's imagination was so concrete that he seems not to distinguish between the reality and the metaphor or symbol which makes it plain to us ' . But the most valid symbols are the most concrete realities . Lawrence 's great gift for the symbolic image was a function of his sensitivity to and passion for the meaning of real things ? for the individual expression that real things have . In other words , his gift for the image arose directly from his vision of life as infinitely creative of individual identities , each whole and separate and to be reverenced as such . ( pp. 247 ? 8 , footnote omitted ) We see the key elements of Romantic dialectics reiterated here : the meaning of the work must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vision must arise directly out of an experience of the concrete reality whose inner meaning they reveal . Within this framework , the reader is called upon at once to identify with the feelings and problems portrayed and ? under the teacher 's watchful eye ? to interpret these critically and aesthetically . This eliciting of affective response and corrective reflection can be seen in the study-guide questions which accompany the essay : CHAPTER 7 . Do you find in the passage , early in the chapter , describing the swinging in the barn , that the swinging itself provides an image expressive of the emotional drives with which this chapter ( ' Lad-andLiterary // Girl Love ' ) is concerned and expressive also of the kind of values with which Lawrence is fundamentally occupied ? . . . Freud suggests that children 's love for swinging is an early erotic expression . How far would you say that Lawrence realizes all these associations in the very simple and natural childhood incident of the swinging in the barn ? ( pp. 457 ? 8 ) CHAPTER 11 . . . Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of failure and of death " ? What part in this failure is played by Miriam 's own idiosyncracies of sensibility , and what part is played by Paul 's attachment to his mother ? ( p. 460 ) CHAPTER 12 . . . How is the scene of the love-making of Paul and Clara in the field expressive of Lawrence 's positive attitude toward values ? Compare this scene with that in the woods where Paul and Miriam make love ( Chapter 11 ) : is there any difference in the use of the darkness symbol ? ( p. 461 ) In this aesthetic alternation of identification and detachment , it is made explicit that the critical approach to literature as a search for the principle of form in the work ' is also implicitly a search for form in the self ' ( Dedication ' ) .20 The same pedagogic imperative works through the criticism of F. R. Leavis.21 Lawrence 's life and work is projected by Leavis as an ideal unity of sensibility and intelligence : There is no profound emotional disorder in Lawrence , no obdurate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is , the servant of the whole integrated psyche . It is the , representative in consciousness of the complex need of the whole being , and is not thwarted or disabled by inner contradictions in him , whether we have him as artist , critic or expositor . It is intensely active in his creative writing : we have on the one hand the technical originality of the creations , and on the other their organic wholeness and vitality . ( Leavis , 1955 , p. 27 ) It is through the work of practical criticism that the reader learns to negotiate immediate responses with the text 's organic wholeness ' ( p. 27 ) , including the interplay of characters , events , images and the formal and sensuous qualities of the language itself . That the search for form in the text is also a patterning of the self is evident from Leavis ' discussion ( pp. 70 ? 2 ) of Lady Chatterley 's Lover . The question of the text 's success or failure is // not a matter of judgement ' ? a fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a means to shape the sensibility of the reader . According to Leavis , this novel shows a didactic tendency in Lawrence . Even though the work reflects a strong , vital instinct for health ' ( p. 71 ) and cleanses the language and hence physical experience which social custom has made obscene , it insists too wilfully on its purpose and thus fails to realise fully its vision : The willed insistence on the words and facts must , it seems to me , whatever the intention , have something unacceptable , something offensive , about it ; it offends , surely , against Lawrence 's own canons ? against the spirit of his creativity and against the moral and emotional ethic that he in essence stands for . ( p. 70 ) Of course , in Leavis ' account the book 's partial failure does not mean for a moment that it should in any formal sense be treated as obscene ' . Rather , it is up to readers to recognise the problem of its offensiveness and come to terms with it for and in themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vision and the realisation , and find the right balance of sensuous immediacy and moral reflection . This art of sexual-aesthetic reading may therefore be treated as a specialised ethos , but one which the reader , like the writer , seems to discover in the forms of an unfulfilled self , provided the dialectical method is correctly followed . Reading a book such as Lady Chatterley 's Lover aesthetically becomes an exercise in which certain individuals learn to manage their own relation to erotica . It is in relation to this practice that the categories of formcontent unity , authorial intention and literary value gain their force in dealing with sexual materials . Within the aesthetic framework , even the apparent failures of a text become part of a greater organic whole , because the dialectical practice of writing and reading builds in the possibility of always working towards a more fully achieved form of understanding . " The same general strategy is found ? perhaps surprisingly ? in the tradition of Marxist literary criticism represented by Raymond Williams . In The English Novel from Dickens to Lawrence ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Romantic historicism , despite a greater sociological emphasis on the conditions of literary production . Supposedly , while it is rooted in immediate historical and class realities , literature is also that transcendent representation of experience and human possibility which reunifies art and life , self and society , against the fragmentation caused by industrial mechanisation . Most importantly , the key to Williams ' understanding of literature is the technique of dialectical reading which continues to operate as a pedagogical norm . The reader is invited to approach LawLiterary // rence 's work as a series of advances and deadlocks , and then renewed advance ' ( p. 170 ) , in which triumphs and failures are of equal importance . Hence Lady Chatterley 's Lover is presented as a work which challenges the reader to participate in the always unfinished task of reconciling the impulse towards form with the impulse towards experience in both literature and the self : Lady Chatterley 's Lover has n't the scale , the sustenance , of the earlier novels . In its single and powerful dimension it is still isolated , still reduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it is a positive flow again , a recovery of energy , a reaching past rigidities , and as such very moving . That he was still to the end reaching out , reaching out as a novelist , is profoundly encouraging . It is what we remember and stick to in and through the difficulties ? common difficulties ? which his development of the novel , his unfinished development , show sic us so clearly . Because it is n't after all an end with Lawrence . It is where in our time we have had to begin . ( Williams , 1984 , p. 184 ) In the light of the historical discontinuity which we have indicated between elite ' and governmental ' distributions of sexual literature , what are we to make of the fact that Lawrence himself wrote on the topic of education in the schools ? Joy and Raymond Williams ( 1973 ) see in Lawrence a prescient figure , discovering for the most part on his own ' ( p. 13 ) the central problems in making the education system more humane . According @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of instruction to a true form of education : he understands the need to connect formal learning to the deepest personal awareness in which affective and intellectual capacities are harmonised , and to foster individuals ' own sense of being by integrating their real life interests within the learning process ( p. 7 ) . This biographic narrative is itself organised within the terms of the dialectical opposition of the didactic and the aesthetic . We might speculate that Lawrence 's own interests were themselves influenced by the teacher training system to which he was exposed , with its well-established emphasis on re-articulating the real-life interests of the child . Certainly , the terms in which Lawrence writes of popular education are entirely aesthetic . His educational ' writings are in fact extemporisings within the marginal art of self-culture . So , for instance , Lawrence writes that the elementary school system must give each person the opportunity to come to his own intrinsic fullness of being ' ( Williams and Williams ( eds ) , p. 136 ) . The means of // doing so is to explore the natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur through play , and balance these impulses with responsiveness to the affective centre of others and awareness of the life of the mind ( pp. 120 ? 94 ) . The realisation of the individual 's potential will be made possible simply by the dialectical reconciliation of mental learning with physical and spontaneous intelligence ( p. 138 ) , the interaction of the emotional and volitional polarities of individual being ( pp. 145 ? 64 ) , and the mutuality of masculine and feminine impulses within the self and within relationships ( pp. 194 ? 203 ) . It is only because the techniques of aesthetic criticism and self-criticism underwent a pedagogic reconstruction and distribution as devices of moral training ? and not because of some prophetic power of Lawrence the individual ? that such statements can in retrospect be celebrated as exemplary . In summary , then , the educational importance which sexual literature has acquired in the twentieth century is the outcome of a process in which an aesthetic technique of self-shaping was adapted and adopted as a practical method of moral training within the governmental sphere . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and crossed boundaries between novelistic , poetic , philosophical , medical and scientific ' writing ) had a self-formative function for an intellectual minority in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , prior to any formal institutional dissemination . Subsequently the techniques of writing and reading associated with that function became caught up in a very different and widespread pedagogic distribution . Of course this distribution dealt with matters other than the use of sexually oriented writing , but it eventually gave a key role to the literary-critical study of serious sexual literature , especially the novel . In the 1908 Report from the Joint Select Committee on Lotteries and Indecent Advertisements , no educationist had argued that access to sexual literature was necessary if the moral training of pupils and their teachers was to be completed . Not many decades later , the educational study of literature became a significant means by which a capacity for individuals to manage their own sexuality , including their relation to erotica , was distributed through the official teacher-training system . As we shall see in the next chapter , this pedagogic deployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aesthetic construction of sexuality to operate as a new infra-legal ' norm in deciding the regulation of pornography. 5 Twentieth-Century English Obscenity Law TRANSITIONS AND UNCERTAINTIES Given the unpredictable exchanges that occurred within the pornographic field from the late nineteenth to the early twentieth centuries , it will be no surprise that a central theme of this chapter is the historical contingency of the treatment of art , literary art in particular , in twentieth-century English obscenity law . Against the mobile background of the never completely formalised relations between the law of obscenity and the social policing of pornography , and of the migration of specialist pornography 's themes and figures into the circuits of a more generally disseminated educative fiction in the guise of ethical techniques for ( sexual ) self-improvement , our plan is to review the English Obscene Publications Act of 1959 and the 1960 case in which the new statute was to have received its definitive construction , Regina v. Penguin Books Ltd. , popularly known as the trial of Lady Chatterley 's Lover . This statute and this trial ? the latter held at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on to the uneven regulatory field within which modern obscenity law has operated . A principal theme of our discussion of the Hicklin judgement was the evident certainty with which the court of Queen 's Bench handled the matter of obscenity . This certainty was a function of the relatively stable pattern presented by the mid-nineteenth century pornographic field . On one side , pornography was routinely delineated by a set of measures designed both to police the moral and physical well-being of the popular classes and to regulate ( while in effect intensifying and differentiating by age and gender ) the sexuality of middle-class family members . It is true , as shown in police comments cited in Chapter 3 , that depending on the circumstances and purposes of its publication and sale , and on the cultural attributes of its audience , the obscenity ? and therefore the regulatory treatment ? of the same work could vary . But this variation was handled as a working norm , not a cause for constant and profound uncertainty as to the nature of obscenity . Nor , importantly , was it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as literary theory is only now claiming to have discovered ? that a book is not the same across different contexts of consumption and use . On the other side , novelistic literature flowed with no apparent difficulty 135 // through differentiated audience channels and book-trade networks which legal ? as well as social and commercial ? regulation had established and maintained . Here it is worth recalling that we are dealing less with the enunciation of a prohibition than the delineation of different channels of dissemination . For our purposes , three interacting sectors of this system are of particular importance . Occupying the centre space ? sometimes serialised in literary and ' improving ' journals targetted on the different members of the middle class household and addressing the gamut of social issues and problems ? were the educative novels of Eliot , Dickens , Thackeray , Collins , the Brontes , Trollope and other writers now considered minor . The general absence of references to sex in these novels ? or its presence only in forms requiring a relatively specialised sensibility to disinter ? is clear enough . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly specialised and esoteric private circulation of curious ' pornography . Often published by subscription , this closed circulation coupled the closetted pursuit of the rare perversity to the bibliophile enthusiasm for the rare publication . ' While addressed exclusively to a minority market of wealthy men , this channel nonetheless witnessed the consolidation of a distinct pornographic literature in English . On the other flank of the educative mainstream channel flowed the popular pornography of the street corner . This comprised the residue of ancient bawdy broadsheets , French and Egyptian postcards , lithographs , selections ' from the classics in penny part-editions , the whole pile moved along by cheap printing and a sub-booktrade network of itinerant pedlars , street hawkers and booksellers centered in Holywell Street in London and other popular sites . This picture is of course schematic . In the category of educative and improving novelistic literature were women novelists and writers of romances , their works being the object of something like a generic contract between these authors and their specific readership . Along the axis of gender further distinctions of audiences could be drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books and pamphlets dealing with sexual medicine and serving as the means of equipping middleclass families ? women in particular ? with the means to manage the sexualities of the married couple and of the child through advice on physiological , moral , hygienic and dietary matters . Such publications ? of which the writings of Drs Elizabeth Blackwell and John Cowan are examples ? relied upon a degree of educated interest and of technical literacy amongst wives and mothers , although husbands and fathers , as well as children , were also addressed . These audiences and these channels of communication evidently overTwentieth-Century // lapped . Nevertheless , this triple division of the literary field remained relatively stable through the nineteenth century . Indeed , the outcry and prosecutions that could follow cases of peddling popular pornography in the precincts of boarding schools or the criticism of the bowdlerising of early classics for the broader educative market testify to the strength of these established boundaries of circulation . ' By the beginning of the twentieth century , however , this earlier organisation was becoming unstable . The new instability was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as described in the previous chapter . A heady cocktail and novel cultural alliance of ethics , sexuality , literature and pornography emerged . In advanced circles , persons were formed for whom the right use of sex could now involve the most directly erotic , indeed the perverse , since this constituted ? when transposed into aesthetic terms ? the challenge to be faced and avowed if one was to sublimate the full truth that could now be attached so uniquely to one 's sex . The history and logic of this specialised cultural practice were outlined in the previous chapter : the truest sex ( and self ) is the most hidden . An exemplary literary demonstration of this logic is involved , we suggested , in the depiction of anal intercourse in the sixteenth chapter of Lady Chatterley ' s Lover . Those equipped with the requisite ethical and aesthetic training were able ? and required ? to recognise and read that perverse incident in a way that for them transposed the sexual into quite another register . Lawrence 's readers thus undertook a specific practice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts with an increasing flow of biblio-erotic pleasure but also with a growing mastery of how to deploy this pleasure as the guiding norm for a guilt-free sexuality and a complete knowledge of one 's self . Readers possessed of these skills ? the ability to reconcile the pulsions of the body and the moral imperatives of reasons ? were not , however , of the social groups routinely touched by the policing of the streets . Rather , they were the little band ' of whom Lawrence had spoken . What then is to be made of the fact that in 1960 Penguin Books printed and warehoused an initial run of 200 000 paperback copies of Lady Chatterley ' s Lover ? This is a question we shall attempt to answer later . To do so we first need to trace the manner in which the sexualising of educative literature threw up a quite new and unpredicted regulatory problem : how was the law to treat the higher uses ' of this eroticised material by a minority ? This problem , variously formulated , surfaces as a juridical and jurisprudential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ network . It was not only that in the early twentieth century erotic writing and reading became an essential instrument for a specialist technique of selfshaping . This technique , together with the culturally distinctive and thus // prestigious persona that was its artefact and objective , acquired a growing audience in the emergent group of teachers and popular intellectuals as well as a vehicle of dissemination in the university and college arts faculties . Newly eroticised , like Van de Velde 's ideal marriage ' , the educative novel now began to cross the nineteenth-century boundary to initiate an unforeseen and uncertain exchange between the formerly disjunct circuits of popular obscenity and of the minority genre of specialist pornography . Confronted with this mutation of the cultural field which it regulates but of which it is also part , obscenity law retreated from its earlier certainty . That certainty had been fitting in circumstances where an unquestioned boundary could be drawn between filth ' and literature ' or between the perverse ' and the educative ' , since these categories were clearly and materially embodied in different circuits of distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , pornographic elements which formerly circulated within the restricted but tolerated private sphere and which , whenever they might appear in public or street literature were proper and legitimate targets of policing , began to appear in potentially large-circulation novels of aesthetic and ethical education . This is the origin of the characteristic dilemma and preoccupation of twentieth-century obscenity law : how to distinguish between art and pornography when these appear together inside mainstream educative culture ? In fact the regulatory field too was to undergo an important mutation . As argued in previous chapters , the policing of the pornographic field had been organised around the notion of a social pathology and its distinctive medical norm : the moral and physical harm caused to vulnerable persons by exposure to obscene writings and images . Both obscenity law and the other policing agencies were oriented to this norm . Without it being a perfect or complete transition , a shift occurred from a regime of regulation based on the policing of a social pathology to a regime of regulation organised around an aesthetic norm . There are undeniable signs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act of 1959 . The signs are also there to see in the arguments advanced by twentieth-century liberal proponents of obscenity law reform ( whose case we consider in the next chapter ) . With the benefit of hindsight , it is clear what was always missing in the reformers ' programme to shift the regulation of obscene publication from law to private moral judgement : an entire population possessed of the ability to use erotica in an appropriately aesthetic manner and into whose own hands the regulation of pornography could thus simply pass . This lack , perhaps , was at least intuited by courts and legislators . As a result , the policing of pornography as a social harm remains on the agenda in this last decade of the twentieth century , if not always as a blanket principle , at least as an express concern relating to the // protection of certain categories of person from certain categories of work in certain circumstances . Our argument should now be clear . If in a variety of ways twentiethcentury obscenity law has recognised the distinctive claims of art and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aesthetic moment ' occurred around the 1960s ? partly commemorated by the Obscene Publications Act 1959 and more completely by the trial of Lady Chatterley 's Lover ? today there are campaigns to withdraw from art a generalised legal immunity.3 How were aesthetic objectives and norms able to surface inside obscenity law ? To answer this question , we must again draw on the history of the interactions between law and police , remaining mindful of the distinction between police-force work with its uses of informal and formal warnings , confiscations and other summary measures and , on the other hand , the array of regulatory and management tactics deployed independently of purely judicial mechanisms , in particular the aesthetic educative programmes whose objective is to equip individuals to be ethically self-regulating in matters of sex . A primary objective will be to discuss the relation between the law 's attempt to draw absolute distinctions between the licit and the illicit and a programme for the pedagogic regulation of pornography , a programme operating an educative distribution of aesthetic norms and wedded thereby to a tactic of variable policing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coordinates . Here is a statute which allows for a work to be obscene yet aesthetic and , because it is aesthetic , legally publishable on the instrumentalist grounds that the publication of works of literary merit is in the public good . In short , a work can be criminally obscene yet publishable in the public good . This is not only a conceptual instability . From a practical or procedural perspective , the arrangement established by the Act depends on a hybrid framework of adjudication combining juries ? the commonsense experience of the community decides upon obscenity ? and experts ? a policing according to specialist knowledge of aesthetic values . The 1908 Report from the Joint Select Committee on Lotteries and Indecent Advertisement had recommended a new consolidated obscenity statute providing complete exemption from prosecution for books with literary merit and repute . Along with this automatic exemption for serious literature , the 1908 Report called for summary jurisdiction for mass-produced and distributed obscenity . This call is intelligible only in circumstances where a distinction between literature and obscene publication remains largely self-evident . Seven years after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosecution under the Obscene Publications Act of 1857 . The Bow                     