@@8098

Fields , James Thomas , 1817-1881 : A TRUE PATRIOT . from Poems , in The North Star ( 1840 ) It is related that when Socrates fell a victim to the passions of a partial tribunal and a deluded people , and all his disciples were terrified into flight , his friend Isocrates had the honorable intrepidity to appear in the streets of Athens with the mourning garb . Ha ! leave ye , in affright , That sad , unmanly sight ,  --  The corse alone ! Have ye not one true heart , That thus from him ye part ? Are all ,  --  all gone ! Reel back , ye cowering slaves ! Blanch , ye Athenian knaves , With pallid fear ! Look where the true man stands ,  --  Look ! for the dead commands , The gray-haired seer ! Gaze on the patriot now , With still unrufled brow , In mourning robes ; Tremble ! he fears ye not  --  Stand back ! he seeks the spot  --  Grief his heart probes ! See how your soil he spurns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Say , can ye longer sleep ? Weep ! guilty cowards , weep ! Weep for the dead . Ay ! let the rushing tear Down every cheek appear , In sorrow driven . Pale are the lips that spoke , Hushed are the tones that woke , Calm thoughts of heaven ! Haste ! matron , maid , and son ,  --  Cry to each slumbering one , " Behold the slain . " Pass on through every street , Bid every voice ye meet Take up the strain ! Go , charge the flying Greek That reverend form to seek , That silent bier ; Let not the city 's walls Hold back your frenzied calls ,  --  The world must hear ! Oh ! ye have crushed the tie Which bound that pulse ; no sigh Can break the spell ; In vain ye crowd around , He hears no sob , no sound , God-like !  --  Farewell ! Boston , Mass . Fields , James Thomas , 1817-1881 : THE DWELLER ON THE MOUNTAINS , TO THE EARLY TRAVELLER . from Poems , in The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning sky Echoes loud the eagle 's cry ; While from many a warbling throat Gaily pours the matin note , Take thy staff and hither run Quick to meet the glorious sun . See along the hills below How the dewy cloudlets go ; Now in lingering groups they play , Now they hide the king of day , Now in fainter wreathes they glide Fading down the mountain side . Backward flung from cliff and stream Harshly rings the piercing scream ;  --  Peasants in the vale around Wake to hear the thrilling sound ;  --  Soon the cottage smoke will rise Curling o'er the ruddy skies . For the last night 's watchful care , Many lips are moved in prayer ,  --  Let us pause in silence now , While with grateful hearts we bow , And among the shadows dim , Hear , oh God ! our morning hymn ! Boston , Mass.                     