@@7928

Whitman , Sarah Helen , 1803-1878 : LINES SUGGESTED BY A PICTURE . from Lines suggested by a picture ( 1840 ) Footnote : 1Kb How calmly beautiful The pencilled scene ! It is the evening hour ,  --  The golden close of an autumnal day . Seen through yon time-worn arch , the parting sun Rests like a weary hunter on the brow Of the far western hills ,  --  and there lingering , To mark the silent flight of his last arrow Through the liquid air . Through the tall Gothic casement pours a flood Of golden glory , streaming o'er the walls , The marble pavement , and the vaulted roof ; While in the far-perspective waving woods , Vineyards , and fields , and trellised cottages Are brightly tinged with the rich sunset glow , And autumn casts her mellow tints o'er all , Deepening the beauty of the quiet scene . The hour , the season , breathe of calm decay , Of life 's brief splendor and approaching gloom , And touchingly accord with that sweet form Of fading loveliness , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enshrined ; The brow of marble beauty , raised to heaven , Is smooth and peaceful as the unclouded front Of sleeping innocence ; yet sober thought , Full of sweet sadness , there asserts her reign ,  --  While the dark eye , once eloquent of love , And fraught with human sympathies , now seems But the calm mirror of that tranquil heaven On which its rapt gaze lingers . Did'st thou find , Sweet sufferer , within those hallowed walls , That heavenly peace which the world can not give ? And did'st thou , through thy solitary hours , Feel that support which those can never know Who cling to broken reeds , and bow before The self-created idols of the heart ? Did thy fond fancy never lead thee back To vanished hours , and pleasures long gone by ;  --  Nor memory linger round those dazzling halls Of regal splendor , where thy dawning charms , Thy dreamlike beauty , and unconscious grace Enthralled a monarch 's heart , and shone awhile The light of courts , a nation 's cynosure ? Could that fond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love ? Ah , when did woman e'er that dream forget ? Man 's love lives but with hope ; while woman 's heart Still echoes to the music of the past ;  --  And never heart was formed more prone than thine To the impulsive , trustful tenderness Of innocence and youth ;  --  its thrilling chords Responded to the burning breath of love , With all the sweet , wild , mournful harmony Which passion wakens in the youthful breast , Ere the rude hand of stern reality , And all the earth-born interests of life , Have marred its music , and its chords unstrung ! Ay , thou hast loved as woman only loves ,  --  A love all sacrifice and suffering ; a star That gathers lustre from the gloom of night ; A martyr 's fond idolatry ; a faith Baptized in tears , to sorrow consecrate ; And still one liquid gem , unmarked before , Seems trembling on that pale and faded cheek ; As if some dream of other days had thrown A passing shadow o'er thy thoughts , and dimmed Heaven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all seems tranquil now , and that warm trace Of recent sorrow lends a touching charm To the deep sanctity and holy rest That breathe o'er all thy beauty , and bespeak A heart resigned ,  --  " not happy , but content ; "  --  A heart , that , like the Dove , long sought its rest In vain o'er earth 's wide waters ,  --  till , at last , Wearied and faint , it wings its homeward way , And folds its pinions in the ark of peace .                     