@@749455

txt //ng for himself the foremost rank in that difficult department of letters , which has been illumined by the labors of a Masdeu , a Casiri , and a Conde . To the materials derived from these sources , I have added some manuscripts of an important character from the library of the Escurial . These , which chiefly relate to the ancient institutions of Peru , formed part of the splendid collection of Lord Kingsborough , which has unfortunately shared the lot of most literary collections , and been dispersed since the death of its noble author . For these I am indebted to that industrious bibliographer , Mr. O. Rich , now resident in London . Lastly , I must not omit to mention my obligations , in another way , to my friend Charles Folsom , Esq. , the learned librarian of the Boston Athenaeum ; whose minute acquaintance with the grammatical structure and the true idiom of our English tongue has enabled me to correct many inaccuracies into which I had fallen in the composition both of this and of my former works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of manuscripts , of the most various character , and from the most authentic sources ; royal grants and ordinances , instructions of the Court , letters of the Emperor to the great colonial officers , municipal records , personal diaries and memoranda , and a mass of private correspondence of the principal actors in this turbulent drama . Perhaps it was the turbulent state of the country which led to a more frequent correspondence between the government at home and the colonial officers . But , whatever be the cause , the collection of manuscript materials in reference to Peru is fuller and more complete than that which relates to Mexico ; so that there is scarcely a nook or corner so obscure , in the path of the adventurer , that some light has not been thrown on it by the written correspondence of the period . The historian has rather had occasion to complain of the embarras des richesses ; for , in the multiplicity of contradictory testimony , it is not always easy to detect the truth , as the multiplicity of cross-lights is apt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present History has been conducted on the same general plan with that of the Conquest of Mexico . In an Introductory Book , I have endeavored to portray the institutions of the Incas , that the reader may be acquainted with the character and condition of that extraordinary race , before he enters on the story of their subjugation . The remaining books are occupied with the narrative of the Conquest . And here , the subject , it must be allowed , notwithstanding the opportunities it presents for the display of character , strange , romantic incident , and picturesque scenery , does not afford so obvious advantages to the historian , as the Conquest of Mexico . Indeed , few subjects can present a parallel with that , for the purposes either of the historian or the poet . The natural development of the story , there , is precisely what would be prescribed by the severest rules of art . The conquest of the country is the great end always in the view of the reader . From the first landing of the Spaniards on the soil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruinous retreat , their rally and final siege , all tend to this grand result , till the long series is closed by the downfall of the capital . In the march of events , all moves steadily forward to this consummation . It is a magnificent epic , in which the unity of interest is complete . In the " Conquest of Peru , " the action , so far as it is founded on the subversion of the Incas , terminates long before the close of the narrative . The remaining portion is taken up with the fierce feuds of the Conquerors , which would seem , from their very nature , to be incapable of being gathered round a central point of interest . To secure this , we must look beyond the immediate overthrow of the Indian empire . The conquest of the natives is but the first step , to be followed by the conquest of the Spaniards ,  --  the rebel Spaniards , themselves ,  --  till the supremacy of the Crown is permanently established over the country . It is not till this period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said to be completed ; and , by fixing the eye on this remoter point , the successive steps of the narrative will be found leading to one great result , and that unity of interest preserved which is scarcely less essential to historic than dramatic composition . How far this has been effected , in the present work , must be left to the judgment of the reader . No history of the conquest of Peru , founded on original documents , and aspiring to the credit of a classic composition , like the " Conquest of Mexico " by Solis , has been attempted , as far as I am aware , by the Spaniards . The English possess one of high value , from the pen of Robertson , whose masterly sketch occupies its due space in his great work on America . It has been my object to exhibit this same story , in all its romantic details ; not merely to portray the characteristic features of the Conquest , but to fill up the outline with the coloring of life , so as to present a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose , I have , in the composition of the work , availed myself freely of my manuscript materials , allowed the actors to speak as much as possible for themselves , and especially made frequent use of their letters ; for nowhere is the heart more likely to disclose itself , than in the freedom of private correspondence . I have made liberal extracts from these authorities in the notes , both to sustain the text , and to put in a printed form those productions of the eminent captains and statesmen of the time , which are not very accessible to Spaniards themselves . M. Amedee Pichot , in the Preface to the French translation of the " Conquest of Mexico , " infers from the plan of the composition , that I must have carefully studied the writings of his countryman , M. de Barante . The acute critic does me but justice in supposing me familiar with the principles of that writer 's historical theory , so ably developed in the Preface to his " Ducs de Bourgogne . " And I have had occasion to admire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by constructing out of the rude materials of a distant time a monument of genius that transports us at once into the midst of the Feudal Ages , - and this without the incongruity which usually attaches to a modernantique . In like manner , I have attempted to seize the characteristic expression of a distant age , and to exhibit it in the freshness of life . But in an essential particular , I have deviated from the plan of the French historian . I have suffered the scaffolding to remain after the building has been completed . In other words , I have shown to the reader the steps of the process by which I have come to my conclusions . Instead of requiring him to take my version of the story on trust , I have endeavored to give him a reason for my faith . By copious citations from the original authorities , and by such critical notices of them as would explain to him the influences to which they were subjected , I have endeavored to put him in a position for judging for himself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reversing , the judgments of the historian . He will , at any rate , by this means , be enabled to estimate the difficulty of arriving at truth amidst the conflict of testimony ; and he will learn to place little reliance on those writers who pronounce on the mysterious past with what Fontenelle calls " a frightful degree of certainty , "  --  a spirit the most opposite to that of the true philosophy of history . Yet it must be admitted , that the chronicler who records the events of an earlier age has some obvious advantages in the store of manuscript materials at his command ,  --  the statements of friends , rivals , and enemies , furnishing a wholesome counterpoise to each other ; and also , in the general course of events , as they actually occurred , affording the best commentary on the true motives of the parties . The actor , engaged in the heat of the strife , finds his view bounded by the circle around him and his vision blinded by the smoke and dust of the conflict : while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more distant and elevated point , though the individual objects may lose somewhat of their vividness , takes in at a glance all the operations of the field . Paradoxical as it may appear , truth rounded on contemporary testimony would seem , after all , as likely to be attained by the writer of a later day , as by contemporaries themselves . Before closing these remarks , I may be permitted to add a few of a personal nature . In several foreign notices of my writings , the author has been said to be blind ; and more than once I have had the credit of having lost my sight in the composition of my first history . When I have met with such erroneous accounts , I have hastened to correct them . But the present occasion affords me the best means of doing so ; and I am the more desirous of this , as I fear some of my own remarks , in the Prefaces to my former histories , have led to the mistake . While at the University , I received an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sight of it . The other , soon after , was attacked by inflammation so severely , that , for some time , I lost the sight of that also ; and though it was subsequently restored , the organ was so much disordered as to remain permanently debilitated , while twice in my life , since , I have been deprived of the use of it for all purposes of reading and writing , for several years together . It was during one of these periods that I received from Madrid the materials for the " History of Ferdinand and Isabella , " and in my disabled condition , with my Transatlantic treasures lying around me , I was like one pining from hunger in the midst of abundance . In this state , I resolved to make the ear , if possible , do the work of the eye . I procured the services of a secretary , who read to me the various authorities ; and in time I became so far familiar with the sounds of the different foreign languages ( to some of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residence abroad ) , that I could comprehend his reading without much difficulty . As the reader proceeded , I dictated copious notes ; and , when these had swelled to a considerable amount , they were read to me repeatedly , till I had mastered their contents sufficiently for the purposes of composition . The same notes furnished an easy means of reference to sustain the text . Still another difficulty occurred , in the mechanical labor of writing , which I found a severe trial to the eye . This was remedied by means of a writing-case , such as is used by the blind , which enabled me to commit my thoughts to paper without the aid of sight , serving me equally well in the dark as in the light . The characters thus formed made a near approach to hieroglyphics ; but my secretary became expert in the art of deciphering , and a fair copy  --  with a liberal allowance for unavoidable blunders  --  was transcribed for the ' use of the printer . I have described the process with more minuteness , as some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operandi under my privations , and the knowledge of it may be of some assistance to others in similar circumstances . Though I was encouraged by the sensible progress of my work , it was necessarily slow . But in time the tendency to inflammation diminished , and the strength of the eye was confirmed more and more . It was at length so far restored , that I could read for several hours of the day though my labors in this way necessarily terminated with the daylight . Nor could I ever dispense with the services of a secretary , or with the writing-case ; for , contrary to the usual experience , I have found writing a severer trial to the eye than reading ,  --  a remark , however , which does not apply to the reading of manuscript ; and to enable myself therefore , to revise my composition more carefully , I caused a copy of the " History of Ferdinand and Isabella " to be printed for my own inspection , before it was sent to the press for publication . Such as I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparation of the " Conquest of Mexico " ; and , satisfied with being raised so nearly to a level with the rest of my species , I scarcely envied the superior good fortune of those who could prolong their studies into the evening , and the later hours of the night . But a change has again taken place during the last two years . The sight of my eye has become gradually dimmed , while the sensibility of the nerve has been so far increased , that for several weeks of the last year I have not opened a volume , and through the whole time I have not had the use of it , on an average , for more than an hour a day . Nor can I cheer myself with the delusive expectation , that , impaired as the organ has become , from having been tasked , probably , beyond its strength , it can ever renew its youth , or be of much service to me hereafter in my literary researches . Whether I shall have the heart to enter , as I had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historical labor , with these impediments , I can not say . Perhaps long habit , and a natural desire to follow up the career which I have so long pursued , may make this , in a manner , necessary , as my past experience has already proved that it is practicable . From this statement  --  too long , I fear , for his patience  --  the reader , who feels any curiosity about the matter , will understand the real extent of my embarrassments in my historical pursuits . That they have not been very light will be readily admitted , when it is considered that I have had but a limited use of my eye , in its best state , and that much of the time I have been debarred from the use of it altogether . Yet the difficulties I have had to contend with are very far inferior to those which fall to the lot of a blind man . I know of no historian , now alive , who can claim the glory of having overcome such obstacles , but the author of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who , to use his own touching and beautiful language , " has made himself the friend of darkness " ; and who , to a profound philosophy that requires no light but that from within , unites a capacity for extensive and various research , that might well demand the severest application of the student . The remarks into which I have been led at such length will , I trust , not be set down by the reader to an unworthy egotism , but to their true source , a desire to correct a misapprehension to which I may have unintentionally given rise myself , and which has gained me the credit with some  --  far from grateful to my feelings , since undeserved  --  of having surmounted the incalculable obstacles which lie in the path of the blind man . Boston , April 2 , 1847 . History Of The Conquest Of Peru by William Hickling Prescott Book 1 Introduction View Of The Civilization Of The Incas Chapter 1 Physical Aspect Of The Country  --  Sources Of Peruvian Civilization  - -  Empire Of The Incas  --  Royal Family  --  Nobility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time of its discovery by the Europeans , the two most advanced in power and refinement were undoubtedly those of Mexico and Peru . But , though resembling one another in extent of civilization , they differed widely as to the nature of it ; and the philosophical student of his species may feel a natural curiosity to trace the different steps by which these two nations strove to emerge from the state of barbarism , and place themselves on a higher point in the scale of humanity .  --  In a former work I have endeavored to exhibit the institutions and character of the ancient Mexicans , and the story of their conquest by the Spaniards . The present will be devoted to the Peruvians ; and , if their history shall be found to present less strange anomalies and striking contrasts than that of the Aztecs , it may interest us quite as much by the pleasing picture it offers of a well-regulated government and sober habits of industry under the patriarchal sway of the Incas . The empire of Peru , at the period of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second degree north to the thirty-seventh degree of south latitude ; a line , also , which describes the western boundaries of the modern republics of Ecuador , Peru , Bolivia , and Chili . Its breadth can not so easily be determined ; for , though bounded everywhere by the great ocean on the west , towards the east it spread out , in many parts , considerably beyond the mountains , to the confines of barbarous states , whose exact position is undetermined , or whose names are effaced from the map of history . It is certain , however , that its breadth was altogether disproportioned to its length.1 The topographical aspect of the country is very remarkable . A strip of land , rarely exceeding twenty leagues in width , runs along the coast , and is hemmed in through its whole extent by a colossal range of mountains , which , advancing from the Straits of Magellan , reaches its highest elevation-indeed , the highest on the American continent  --  about the seventeenth degree south , 2 and , after crossing the line , gradually subsides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isthmus of Panama . This is the famous Cordillera of the Andes , or " copper mountains , " 3 as termed by the natives , though they might with more reason have been called " mountains of gold . " Arranged sometimes in a single line , though more frequently in two or three lines running parallel or obliquely to each other , they seem to the voyager on the ocean but one continuous chain ; while the huge volcanoes , which to the inhabitants of the tableland look like solitary and independent masses , appear to aim only like so many peaks of the same vast and magnificent range . So immense is the scale on which Nature works in these regions , that it is only when viewed from a great distance , that the spectator can , in any degree , comprehend the relation of the several parts to the stupendous whole . Few of the works of Nature , indeed , are calculated to produce impressions of higher sublimity than the aspect of this coast , as it is gradually unfolded to the eye of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where mountain is seen to rise above mountain , and Chimborazo , with its glorious canopy of snow , glittering far above the clouds , crowns the whole as with a celestial diadem.4 The face of the country would appear to be peculiarly unfavorable to the purposes both of agriculture and of internal communication . The sandy strip along the coast , where rain never falls , is fed only by a few scanty streams , that furnish a remarkable contrast to the vast volumes of water which roll down the eastern sides of the Cordilleras into the Atlantic . The precipitous steeps of the sierra , with its splintered sides of porphyry and granite , and its higher regions wrapped in snows that never melt under the fierce sun of the equator , unless it be from the desolating action of its own volcanic fires , might seem equally unpropitious to the labors of the husbandman . And all communication between the parts of the long-extended territory might be thought to be precluded by the savage character of the region , broken up by precipices , furious torrents , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chain , whose depths the eye of the terrified traveller , as he winds along his aerial pathway , vainly endeavors to fathom.5 Yet the industry , we might almost say , the genius , of the Indian was sufficient to overcome all these impediments of Nature . By a judicious system of canals and subterraneous aqueducts , the waste places on the coast were refreshed by copious streams , that clothed them in fertility and beauty . Terraces were raised upon the steep sides of the Cordillera ; and , as the different elevations had the effect of difference of latitude , they exhibited in regular gradation every variety of vegetable form , from the stimulated growth of the tropics , to the temperate products of a northern clime ; while flocks of llamas  --  the Peruvian sheep  --  wandered with their shepherds over the broad , snow-covered wastes on the crests of the sierra , which rose beyond the limits of cultivation . An industrious population settled along the lofty regions of the plateaus , and towns and hamlets , clustering amidst orchards and widespreading gardens , seemed suspended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clouds . 6 Intercourse was maintained between these numerous settlements by means of great roads which traversed the mountain passes , and opened an easy communication between the capital and the remotest extremities of the empire . The source of this civilization is traced to the valley of Cuzco , the central region of Peru , as its name implies.7 The origin of the Peruvian empire , like the origin of all nations , except the very few which , like our own , have had the good fortune to date from a civilized period and people , is lost in the mists of fable , which , in fact , have settled as darkly round its history as round that of any nation , ancient or modern , in the Old World . According to the tradition most familiar to the European scholar , the time was , when the ancient races of the continent were all plunged in deplorable barbarism ; when they worshipped nearly every object in nature indiscriminately ; made war their pastime , and feasted on the flesh of their slaughtered captives . The Sun , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their degraded condition , sent two of his children , Manco Capac and Mama Oello Huaco , to gather the natives into communities , and teach them the arts of civilized life . The celestial pair , brother and sister , husband and wife , advanced along the high plains in the neighborhood of Lake Titicaca , to about the sixteenth degree south . They bore with them a golden wedge , and were directed to take up their residence on the spot where the sacred emblem should without effort sink into the ground . They proceeded accordingly but a short distance , as far as the valley of Cuzco , the spot indicated by the performance of the miracle , since there the wedge speedily sank into the earth and disappeared for ever . Here the children of the Sun established their residence , and soon entered upon their beneficent mission among the rude inhabitants of the country ; Manco Capac teaching the men the arts of agriculture , and Mama Oello 8 initiating her own sex in the mysteries of weaving and spinning . The simple people lent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gathering together in considerable numbers , laid the foundations of the city of Cuzco . The same wise and benevolent maxims , which regulated the conduct of the first Incas , 9 descended to their successors , and under their mild sceptre a community gradually extended itself along the broad surface of the table-land , which asserted its superiority over the surrounding tribes . Such is the pleasing picture of the origin of the Peruvian monarchy , as portrayed by Garcilasso de la Vega , the descendant of the Incas , and through him made familiar to the European reader.10 But this tradition is only one of several current among the Peruvian Indians , and probably not the one most generally received . Another legend speaks of certain white and bearded men , who , advancing from the shores of Lake Titicaca , established an ascendancy over the natives , and imparted to them the blessings of civilization . It may remind us of the tradition existing among the Aztecs in respect to Quetzalcoatl , the good deity , who with a similar garb and aspect came up the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the natives . The analogy is the more remarkable , as there is no trace of any communication with , or even knowledge of , each other to be found in the two nations.11 The date usually assigned for these extraordinary events was about four hundred years before the coming of the Spaniards , or early in the twelfth century.12 But , however pleasing to the imagination , and however popular , the legend of Manco Capac , it requires but little reflection to show its improbability , even when divested of supernatural accompaniments . On the shores of Lake Titicaca extensive ruins exist at the present day , which the Peruvians themselves acknowledge to be of older date than the pretended advent of the Incas , and to have furnished them with the models of their architecture.13 The date of their appearance , indeed , is manifestly irreconcilable with their subsequent history . No account assigns to the Inca dynasty more than thirteen princes before the Conquest . But this number is altogether too small to have spread over four hundred years , and would not carry back the foundations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two centuries and a half , - an antiquity not incredible in itself , and which , it may be remarked , does not precede by more than half a century the alleged foundation of the capital of Mexico . The fiction of Manco Capac and his sister-wife was devised , no doubt , at a later period , to gratify the vanity of the Peruvian monarchs , and to give additional sanction to their authority by deriving it from a celestial origin . We may reasonably conclude that there existed in the country a race advanced in civilization before the time of the Incas ; and , in conformity with nearly every tradition , we may derive this race from the neighborhood of Lake Titicaca ; 14 a conclusion strongly confirmed by the imposing architectural remains which still endure , after the lapse of so many years , on its borders . Who this race were , and whence they came , may afford a tempting theme for inquiry to the speculative antiquarian . But it is a land of darkness that lies far beyond the domain of history.15 The same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to settle on their subsequent annals ; and , so imperfect were the records employed by the Peruvians , and so confused and contradictory their traditions , that the historian finds no firm footing on which to stand till within a century of the Spanish conquest.16 At first , the progress of the Peruvians seems to have been slow , and almost imperceptible . By their wise and temperate policy , they gradually won over the neighboring tribes to their dominion , as these latter became more and more convinced of the benefits of a just and well-regulated government . As they grew stronger , they were enabled to rely more directly on force ; but , still advancing under cover of the same beneficent pretexts employed by their predecessors , they proclaimed peace and civilization at the point of the sword . The rude nations of the country , without any principle of cohesion among themselves , fell one after another before the victorious arm of the Incas . Yet it was not till the middle of the fifteenth century that the famous Topa Inca Yupanqui , grandfather of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spaniards , led his armies across the terrible desert of Atacama , and , penetrating to the southern region of Chili , fixed the permanent boundary of his dominions at the river Maule . His son , Huayna Capac , possessed of ambition and military talent fully equal to his father 's , marched along the Cordillera towards the north , and , pushing his conquests across the equator , added the powerful kingdom of Quito to the empire of Peru.17 The ancient city of Cuzco , meanwhile , had been gradually advancing in wealth and population , till it had become the worthy metropolis of a great and flourishing monarchy . It stood in a beautiful valley on an elevated region of the plateau , which , among the Alps , would have been buried in eternal snows , but which within the tropics enjoyed a genial and salubrious temperature . Towards the north it was defended by a lofty eminence , a spur of the great Cordillera ; and the city was traversed by a river , or rather a small stream , over which bridges of timber , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of communication with the opposite banks . The streets were long and narrow ; the houses low , and those of the poorer sort built of clay and reeds . But Cuzco was the royal residence , and was adorned with the ample dwellings of the great nobility ; and the massy fragments still incorporated in many of the modern edifices bear testimony to the size and solidity of the ancient.18 The health of the city was promoted by spacious openings and squares , in which a numerous population from the capital and the distant country assembled to celebrate the high festivals of their religion . For Cuzco was the " Holy City " ; 19 and the great temple of the Sun , to which pilgrims resorted from the furthest borders of the empire , was the most magnificent structure in the New World , and unsurpassed , probably , in the costliness of its decorations by any building in the Old . Towards the north , on the sierra or rugged eminence already noticed , rose a strong fortress , the remains of which at the present day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traveller.20 It was defended by a single wall of great thickness , and twelve hundred feet long on the side facing the city , where the precipitous character of the ground was of itself almost sufficient for its defence . On the other quarter , where the approaches were less difficult , it was protected by two other semicircular walls of the same length as the preceding . They were separated , a considerable distance from one another and from the fortress ; and the intervening ground was raised so that the walls afforded a breastwork for the troops stationed there in times of assault . The fortress consisted of three towers , detached from one another . One was appropriated to the Inca , and was garnished with the sumptuous decorations befitting a royal residence , rather than a military post . The other two were held by the garrison , drawn from the Peruvian nobles , and commanded by an officer of the blood royal ; for the position was of too great importance to be intrusted to inferior hands . The hill was excavated below the towers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the palaces of the Inca.21 The fortress , the walls , and the galleries were all built of stone , the heavy blocks of which were not laid in regular courses , but so disposed that the small ones might fill up the interstices between the great . They formed a sort of rustic work , being rough-hewn except towards the edges , which were finely wrought ; and , though no cement was used , the several blocks were adjusted with so much exactness and united so closely , that it was impossible to introduce even the blade of a knife between them.22 Many of these stones were of vast size ; some of them being full thirty-eight feet long , by eighteen broad , and six feet thick.23 We are filled with astonishment , when we consider , that these enormous masses were hewn from their native bed and fashioned into shape , by a people ignorant of the use of iron ; that they were brought from quarries , from four to fifteen leagues distant , 24 without the aid of beasts of burden ; were transported across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sierra , and finally adjusted there with the nicest accuracy , without the knowledge of tools and machinery familiar to the European . Twenty thousand men are said to have been employed on this great structure , and fifty years consumed in the building.25 However this may be , we see in it the workings of a despotism which had the lives and fortunes of its vassals at its absolute disposal , and which , however mild in its general character , esteemed these vassals , when employed in its service , as lightly as the brute animals for which they served as a substitute . The fortress of Cuzco was but part of a system of fortifications established throughout their dominions by the Incas . This system formed a prominent feature in their military policy ; but before entering on this latter , it will be proper to give the reader some view of their civil institutions and scheme of government . The sceptre of the Incas , if we may credit their historian , descended in unbroken succession from father to son , through their whole dynasty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the right of inheritance might be claimed by the eldest son of the Coya , or lawful queen , as she was styled , to distinguish her from the host of concubines who shared the affections of the sovereign.26 The queen was further distinguished , at least in later reigns , by the circumstance of being selected from the sisters of the Inca , an arrangement which , however revolting to the ideas of civilized nations , was recommended to the Peruvians by its securing an heir to the crown of the pure heaven-born race , uncontaminated by any mixture of earthly mould.27 In his early years , the royal offspring was intrusted to the care of the amautas , or " wise men , " as the teachers of Peruvian science were called , who instructed him in such elements of knowledge as they possessed , and especially in the cumbrous ceremonial of their religion , in which he was to take a prominent part . Great care was also bestowed on his military education , of the last importance in a state which , with its professions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquisition of empire . In this military school he was educated with such of the Inca nobles as were nearly of his own age ; for the sacred name of Inca  --  a fruitful source of obscurity in their annals  --  was applied indifferently to all who descended by the male line from the founder of the monarchy.28 At the age of sixteen the pupils underwent a public examination , previous to their admission to what may be called the order of chivalry . This examination was conducted by some of the oldest and most illustrious Incas . The candidates were required to show their prowess in the athletic exercises of the warrior ; in wrestling and boxing , in running such long courses as fully tried their agility and strength , in severe fasts of several days ' duration , and in mimic combats , which , although the weapons were blunted , were always attended with wounds , and sometimes with death . During this trial , which lasted thirty days , the royal neophyte fared no better than his comrades , sleeping on the bare ground , going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mode of life , it was supposed , which might tend to inspire him with more sympathy with the destitute . With all this show of impartiality , however , it will probably be doing no injustice to the judges to suppose that a politic discretion may have somewhat quickened their perceptions of the real merits of the heir-apparent . At the end of the appointed time , the candidates selected as worthy of the honors of their barbaric chivalry were presented to the sovereign , who condescended to take a principal part in the ceremony of inauguration . He began with a brief discourse , in which , after congratulating the young aspirants on the proficiency they had shown in martial exercises , he reminded them of the responsibilities attached to their birth and station ; and , addressing them affectionately as " children of the Sun , " he exhorted them to imitate their great progenitor in his glorious career of beneficence to mankind . The novices then drew near , and , kneeling one by one before the Inca , he pierced their ears with a golden bodkin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening had been made large enough for the enormous pendants which were peculiar to their order , and which gave them , with the Spaniards , the name of orejones.29 This ornament was so massy in the ears of the sovereign , that the cartilage was distended by it nearly to the shoulder , producing what seemed a monstrous deformity in the eyes of the Europeans , though , under the magical influence of fashion , it was regarded as a beauty by the natives . When this operation was performed , one of the most venerable of the nobles dressed the feet of the candidates in the sandals worn by the order , which may remind us of the ceremony of buckling on the spurs of the Christian knight . They were then allowed to assume the girdle or sash around the loins , corresponding with the toga virilis of the Romans , and intimating that they had reached the season of manhood . Their heads were adorned with garlands of flowers , which , by their various colors , were emblematic of the clemency and goodness that should grace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an evergreen plant were mingled with the flowers , to show that these virtues should endure without end.30 The prince 's head was further ornamented by a fillet , or tasselled fringe , of a yellow color , made of the fine threads of the vicuna wool , which encircled the forehead as the peculiar insignia of the heir apparent . The great body of the Inca nobility next made their appearance , and , beginning with those nearest of kin , knelt down before the prince , and did him homage as successor to the crown . The whole assembly then moved to the great square of the capital , where songs , and dances , and other public festivities closed the important ceremonial of the huaracu.31 The reader will be less surprised by the resemblance which this ceremonial bears to the inauguration of a Christian knight in the feudal ages , if he reflects that a similar analogy may be traced in the institutions of other people more or less civilized ; and that it is natural that nations , occupied with the one great business of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it was ended , by similar characteristic ceremonies . Having thus honorably passed through his ordeal , the heir-apparent was deemed worthy to sit in the councils of his father , and was employed in offices of trust at home , or , more usually , sent on distant expeditions to practise in the field the lessons which he had hitherto studied only in the mimic theatre of war . His first campaigns were conducted under the renowned commanders who had grown grey in the service of his father ; until , advancing in years and experience , he was placed in command himself , and , like Huayna Capac , the last and most illustrious of his line , carried the banner of the rainbow , the armorial ensign of his house , far over the borders , among the remotest tribes of the plateau . The government of Peru was a despotism , mild in its character , but in its form a pure and unmitigated despotism . The sovereign was placed at an immeasurable distance above his subjects . Even the proudest of the Inca nobility , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could not venture into the royal presence , unless barefoot , and bearing a light burden on his shoulders in token of homage.32 As the representative of the Sun , he stood at the head of the priesthood , and presided at the most important of the religious festivals.33 He raised armies , and usually commanded them in person . He imposed taxes , made laws , and provided for their execution by the appointment of judges , whom he removed at pleasure . He was the source from which every thing flowed , all dignity , all power , all emolument . He was , in short , in the well-known phrase of the European despot , " himself the state . " 34 The Inca asserted his claims as a superior being by assuming a pomp in his manner of living well calculated to impose on his people . His dress was of the finest wool of the vicuna , richly dyed , and ornamented with a profusion of gold and precious stones . Round his head was wreathed a turban of many-colored folds , called the llautu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prince , but of a scarlet color , with two feathers of a rare and curious bird , called the coraquenque , placed upright in it , were the distinguishing insignia of royalty . The birds from which these feathers were obtained were found in a desert country among the mountains ; and it was death to destroy or to take them , as they were reserved for the exclusive purpose of supplying the royal head-gear . Every succeeding monarch was provided with a new pair of these plumes , and his credulous subjects fondly believed that only two individuals of the species had ever existed to furnish the simple ornament for the diadem of the Incas.35 Although the Peruvian monarch was raised so far above the highest of his subjects , he condescended to mingle occasionally with them , and took great pains personally to inspect the condition of the humbler classes . He presided at some of the religious celebrations , and on these occasions entertained the great nobles at his table , when he complimented them , after the fashion of more civilized nations , by drinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the most effectual means taken by the Incas for communicating with their people were their progresses through the empire . These were conducted , at intervals of several years , with great state and magnificence . The sedan , or litter , in which they travelled , richly emblazoned with gold and emeralds , was guarded by a numerous escort . The men who bore it on their shoulders were provided by two cities , specially appointed for the purpose . It was a post to be coveted by no one , if , as is asserted , a fall was punished by death.37 They travelled with ease and expedition , halting at the tambos , or inns , erected by government along the route , and occasionally at the royal palaces , which in the great towns afforded ample accommodations to the whole of the monarch 's retinue . The noble roads which traversed the table-land were lined with people who swept away the stones and stubble from their surface , strewing them with sweet-scented flowers , and vying with each other in carrying forward the baggage from one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to listen to the grievances of his subjects , or to settle some points which had been referred to his decision by the regular tribunals . As the princely train wound its way along the mountain passes , every place was thronged with spectators eager to catch a glimpse of their sovereign ; and , when he raised the curtains of his litter , and showed himself to their eyes , the air was rent with acclamations as they invoked blessings on his head.38 Tradition long commemorated the spots at which he halted , and the simple people of the country held them in reverence as places consecrated by the presence of an Inca.39 The royal palaces were on a magnificent scale , and , far from being confined to the capital or a few principal towns , were scattered over all the provinces of their vast empire.40 The buildings were low , but covered a wide extent of ground . Some of the apartments were spacious , but they were generally small , and had no communication with one another , except that they opened into a common square @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stone of various sizes , like those described in the fortress of Cuzco , rough-hewn , but carefully wrought near the line of junction , which was scarcely visible to the eye . The roofs were of wood or rushes , which have perished under the rude touch of time , that has shown more respect for the walls of the edifices . The whole seems to have been characterized by solidity and strength , rather than by any attempt at architectural elegance.41 But whatever want of elegance there may have been in the exterior of the imperial dwellings , it was amply compensated by the interior , in which all the opulence of the Peruvian princes was ostentatiously displayed . The sides of the apartments were thickly studded with gold and silver ornaments . Niches , prepared in the walls , were filled with images of animals and plants curiously wrought of the same costly materials ; and even much of the domestic furniture , including the utensils devoted to the most ordinary menial services , displayed the like wanton magnificence ! 42 With these gorgeous decorations were mingled richly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which were of so beautiful a texture , that the Spanish sovereigns , with all the luxuries of Europe and Asia at their command , did not disdain to use them.43 The royal household consisted of a throng of menials , supplied by the neighboring towns and villages , which , as in Mexico , were bound to furnish the monarch with fuel and other necessaries for the consumption of the palace . But the favorite residence of the Incas was at Yucay , about four leagues distant from the capital . In this delicious valley , locked up within the friendly arms of the sierra , which sheltered it from the rude breezes of the east , and refreshed by gushing fountains and streams of running water , they built the most beautiful of their palaces . Here , when wearied with the dust and toil of the city , they loved to retreat , and solace themselves with the society of their favorite concubines , wandering amidst groves and airy gardens , that shed around their soft , intoxicating odors , and lulled the senses to voluptuous repose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the luxury of their baths , replenished by streams of crystal water which were conducted through subterraneous silver channels into basins of gold . The spacious gardens were stocked with numerous varieties of plants and flowers that grew without effort in this temperate region of the tropics , while parterres of a more extraordinary kind were planted by their side , glowing with the various forms of vegetable life skilfully imitated in gold and silver ! Among them the Indian corn , the most beautiful of American grains , is particularly commemorated , and the curious workmanship is noticed with which the golden ear was half disclosed amidst the broad leaves of silver , and the light tassel of the same material that floated gracefully from its top.44 If this dazzling picture staggers the faith of the reader , he may reflect that the Peruvian mountains teemed with gold ; that the natives understood the art of working the mines , to a considerable extent ; that none of the ore , as we shall see hereafter , was converted into coin , and that the whole of it passed into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whether for purposes of utility or ornament . Certain it is that no fact is better attested by the Conquerors themselves , who had ample means of information , and no motive for misstatement.  --  The Italian poets , in their gorgeous pictures of the gardens of Alcina and Morgana , came nearer the truth than they imagined . Our surprise , however , may reasonably be excited , when we consider that the wealth displayed by the Peruvian princes was only that which each had amassed individually for himself . He owed nothing to inheritance from his predecessors . On the decease of an Inca , his palaces were abandoned , all his treasures , except what were employed in his obsequies , his furniture and apparel , were suffered to remain as he left them , and his mansions , save one , were closed up for ever . The new sovereign was to provide himself with every thing new for his royal state . The reason of this was the popular belief , that the soul of the departed monarch would return after a time to reanimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should find every thing to which he had been used in life prepared for his reception.45 When an Inca died , or , to use his own language , " was called home to the mansions of his father , the Sun , " 46 his obsequies were celebrated with great pomp and solemnity . The bowels were taken from the body , and deposited in the temple of Tampu , about five leagues from the capital . A quantity of his plate and jewels was buried with them , and a number of his attendants and favorite concubines , amounting sometimes , it is said , to a thousand , were immolated on his tomb.47 Some of them showed the natural repugnance to the sacrifice occasionally manifested by the victims of a similar superstition in India . But these were probably the menials and more humble attendants ; since the women have been known , in more than one instance , to lay violent hands on themselves , when restrained from testifying their fidelity by this act of conjugal martyrdom . This melancholy ceremony was followed by a general mourning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , the people assembled to renew the expressions of their sorrow , processions were made , displaying the banner of the departed monarch ; bards and minstrels were appointed to chronicle his achievements , and their songs continued to be rehearsed at high festivals in the presence of the reigning monarch ,  --  thus stimulating the living by the glorious example of the dead.48 The body of the deceased Inca was skilfully embalmed , and removed to the great temple of the Sun at Cuzco . There the Peruvian sovereign , on entering the awful sanctuary , might behold the effigies of his royal ancestors , ranged in opposite files ,  --  the men on the right , and their queens on the left , of the great luminary which blazed in refulgent gold on the walls of the temple . The bodies , clothed in the princely attire which they had been accustomed to wear , were placed on chairs of gold , and sat with their heads inclined downward , their hands placidly crossed over their bosoms , their countenances exhibiting their natural dusky hue ,  --  less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complexion ,  --  and their hair of raven black , or silvered over with age , according to the period at which they died ! It seemed like a company of solemn worshippers fixed in devotion ,  --  so true were the forms and lineaments to life . The Peruvians were as successful as the Egyptians in the miserable attempt to perpetuate the existence of the body beyond the limits assigned to it by nature.49 They cherished a still stranger illusion in the attentions which they continued to pay to these insensible remains , as if they were instinct with life . One of the houses belonging to a deceased Inca was kept open and occupied by his guard and attendants , with all the state appropriate to royalty . On certain festivals , the revered bodies of the sovereigns were brought out with great ceremony into the public square of the capital . Invitations were sent by the captains of the guard of the respective Incas to the different nobles and officers of the court ; and entertainments were provided in the names of their masters , which displayed all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a display , " says an ancient chronicler , " was there in the great square of Cuzco , on this occasion , of gold and silver plate and jewels , as no other city in the world ever witnessed . " 50 The banquet was served by the menials of the respective households , and the guests partook of the melancholy cheer in the presence of the royal phantom with the same attention to the forms of courtly etiquette as if the living monarch had presided ! 51 The nobility of Peru consisted of two orders , the first and by far the most important of which was that of the Incas , who , boasting a common descent with their sovereign , lived , as it were , in the reflected light of his glory . As the Peruvian monarchs availed themselves of the right of polygamy to a very liberal extent , leaving behind them families of one or even two hundred children , 52 the nobles of the blood royal , though comprehending only their descendants in the male line , came in the course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lineages , each of which traced its pedigree to a different member of the royal dynasty , though all terminated in the divine founder of the empire . They were distinguished by many exclusive and very important privileges ; they wore a peculiar dress ; spoke a dialect , if we may believe the chronicler , peculiar to themselves ; 54 and had the choicest portion of the public domain assigned for their support . They lived , most of them , at court , near the person of the prince , sharing in his counsels , dining at his board , or supplied from his table . They alone were admissible to the great offices in the priesthood . They were invested with the command of armies , and of distant garrisons , were placed over the provinces , and , in short , filled every station of high trust and emolument.55 Even the laws , severe in their general tenor , seem not to have been framed with reference to them ; and the people , investing the whole order with a portion of the sacred character which belonged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incapable of crime.56 The other order of nobility was the Curacas , the caciques of the conquered nations , or their descendants . They were usually continued by the government in their places , though they were required to visit the capital occasionally , and to allow their sons to be educated there as the pledges of their loyalty . It is not easy to define the nature or extent of their privileges . They were possessed of more or less power , according to the extent of their patrimony , and the number of their vassals . Their authority was usually transmitted from father to son , though sometimes the successor was chosen by the people.57 They did not occupy the highest posts of state , or those nearest the person of the sovereign , like the nobles of the blood . Their authority seems to have been usually local , and always in subordination to the territorial jurisdiction of the great provincial governors , who were taken from the Incas.58 It was the Inca nobility , indeed , who constituted the real strength.of the Peruvian monarchy . Attached to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathies and , to a considerable extent , common interests with him . Distinguished by a peculiar dress and insignia , as well as by language and blood , from the rest of the community , they were never confounded with the other tribes and nations who were incorporated into the great Peruvian monarchy . After the lapse of centuries , they still retained their individuality as a peculiar people . They were to the conquered races of the country what the Romans were to the barbarous hordes of the Empire , or the Normans to the ancient inhabitants of the British Isles . Clustering around the throne , they formed an invincible phalanx , to shield it alike from secret conspiracy and open insurrection . Though living chiefly in the capital , they were also distributed throughout the country in all its high stations and strong military posts , thus establishing lines of communication with the court , which enabled the sovereign to act simultaneously and with effect on the most distant quarters of his empire . They possessed , moreover , an intellectual preeminence , which , no less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Indeed , it may be said to have been the principal foundation of their authority . The crania of the Inca race show a decided superiority over the other races of the land in intellectual power ; 59 and it can not be denied that it was the fountain of that peculiar civilization and social polity , which raised the Peruvian monarchy above every other state in South America . Whence this remarkable race came , and what was its early history , are among those mysteries that meet us so frequently in the annals of the New World , and which time and the antiquary have as yet done little to explain . Book 1 Chapter 2 Orders Of The State  --  Provisions For Justice  --  Division Of Lands-Revenues And Registers  --  Great Roads And Posts-Military Tactics And Policy If we are surprised at the peculiar and original features of what may be called the Peruvian aristocracy , we shall be still more so as we descend to the lower orders of the community , and see the very artificial character of their institutions ,  --  as artificial as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different way , quite as repugnant to the essential principles of our nature . The institutions of Lycurgus , however , were designed for a petty state , while those of Peru , although originally intended for such , seemed , like the magic tent in the Arabian tale , to have an indefinite power of expansion , and were as well suited to the most flourishing condition of the empire as to its infant fortunes . In this remarkable accommodation to change of circumstances we see the proofs of a contrivance that argues no slight advance in civilization . The name of Peru was not known to the natives . It was given by the Spaniards , and originated , it is said , in a misapprehension of the Indian name of " river . " 1 However this may be , it is certain that the natives had no other epithet by which to designate the large collection of tribes and nations who were assembled under the sceptre of the Incas , than that of Tavantinsuyu , or " four quarters of the world . " 2 This will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no other name by which to class himself among nations than what is borrowed from a quarter of the globe.3 The kingdom , conformably to its name , was divided into four parts , distinguished each by a separate title , and to each of which ran one of the four great roads that diverged from Cuzco , the capital or navel of the Peruvian monarchy . The city was in like manner divided into four quarters ; and the various races , which gathered there from the distant parts of the empire , lived each in the quarter nearest to its respective province . They all continued to wear their peculiar national costume , so that it was easy to determine their origin ; and the same order and system of arrangement prevailed in the motley population of the capital , as in the great provinces of the empire . The capital , in fact , was a miniature image of the empire.4 The four great provinces were each placed under a viceroy or governor , who ruled over them with the assistance of one or more councils for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their time , at least , in the capital , where they constituted a sort of council of state to the Inca.5 The nation at large was distributed into decades , or small bodies of ten ; and every tenth man , or head of a decade , had supervision of the rest ,  --  - being required to see that they enjoyed the rights and immunities to which they were entitled , to solicit aid in their behalf from government , when necessary , and to bring offenders to justice . To this last they were stimulated by a law that imposed on them , in case of neglect , the same penalty that would have been incurred by the guilty party . With this law hanging over his head , the magistrate of Peru , we may well believe , did not often go to sleep on his post.6 The people were still further divided into bodies of fifty , one hundred , five hundred , and a thousand , with each an officer having general supervision over those beneath , and the higher ones possessing , to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the whole empire was distributed into sections or departments of ten thousand inhabitants , with a governor over each , from the Inca nobility , who had control over the curacas and other territorial officers in the district . There were , also , regular tribunals of justice , consisting of magistrates in each of the towns or small communities , with jurisdiction over petty offences , while those of a graver character were carried before superior judges , usually the governors or rulers of the districts . These judges all held their authority and received their support from the Crown , by which they were appointed and removed at pleasure . They were obliged to determine every suit in five days from the time it was brought before them ; and there was no appeal from one tribunal to another . Yet there were important provisions for the security of justice . A committee of visitors patrolled the kingdom at certain times to investigate the character and conduct of the magistrates ; and any neglect or violation of duty was punished in the most exemplary manner . The inferior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceedings to the higher ones , and these made reports in like manner to the viceroys ; so that the monarch , seated in the centre of his dominions , could look abroad , as it were , to the most distant extremities , and review and rectify any abuses in the administration of the law.7 The laws were few and exceedingly severe . They related almost wholly to criminal matters . Few other laws were needed by a people who had no money , little trade , and hardly any thing that could be called fixed property . The crimes of theft , adultery , and murder were all capital ; though it was wisely provided that some extenuating circumstances might be allowed to mitigate the punishment.8 Blasphemy against the Sun , and malediction of the Inca ,  --  offences , indeed , of the same complexion were also punished with death . Removing landmarks , turning the water away from a neighbor 's land into one 's own , burning a house , were all severely punished . To burn a bridge was death . The inca allowed no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintenance of public order . A rebellious city or province was laid waste , and its inhabitants exterminated . Rebellion against the " Child of the Sun , " was the greatest of all crimes.9 The simplicity and severity of the Peruvian code may be thought to infer a state of society but little advanced ; which had few of those complex interests and relations that grow up in a civilized community , and which had not proceeded far enough in the science of legislation to economize human suffering by proportioning penalties to crimes . But the Peruvian institutions must be regarded from a different point of view from that in which we study those of other nations . The laws emanated from the sovereign , and that sovereign held a divine commission , and was possessed of a divine nature . To violate the law was not only to insult the majesty of the throne , but it was sacrilege . The slightest offence , viewed in this light , merited death ; and the gravest could incur no heavier penalty.10 Yet , in the infliction of their punishments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the victim were not prolonged by the ingenious torments so frequent among barbarous nations.11 These legislative provisions may strike us as very defective , even as compared with those of the semi-civilized races of Anahuac , where a gradation of courts , moreover , with the fight of appeal , afforded a tolerable security for justice . But in a country like Peru , where few but criminal causes were known , the right of appeal was of less consequence . The law was simple , its application easy ; and , where the judge was honest , the case was as likely to be determined correctly on the first hearing as on the second . The inspection of the board of visitors , and the monthly returns of the tribunals , afforded no slight guaranty for their integrity . The law which required a decision within five days would seem little suited to the complex and embarrassing litigation of a modern tribunal . But , in the simple questions submitted to the Peruvian judge , delay would have been useless ; and the Spaniards , familiar with the evils growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too often a ruined man , are loud in their encomiums of this swift-handed and economical justice.12 The fiscal regulations of the Incas , and the laws respecting property , are the most remarkable features in the Peruvian polity . The whole territory of the empire was divided into three parts , one for the Sun , another for the Inca , and the last for the people . Which of the three was the largest is doubtful . The proportions differed materially in different provinces . The distribution , indeed , was made on the same general principle , as each new conquest was added to the monarchy ; but the propertion varied according to the amount of population , and the greater or less amount of land consequently required for the support of the inhabirants.13 The lands assigned to the Sun furnished a revenue to support the temples , and maintain the costly ceremonial of the Peruvian worship and the multitudinous priesthood . Those reserved for the Inca went to support the royal state , as well as the numerous members of his household and his kindred , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lands was divided , per capita , in equal shares among the people . It was provided by law , as we shall see hereafter , that every Peruvian should marry at a certain age . When this event took place , the community or district in which he lived furnished him with a dwelling , which , as it was constructed of humble materials , was done at little cost . A lot of land was then assigned to him sufficient for his own maintenance and that of his wife . An additional portion was granted for every child , the amount allowed for a son being the double of that for a daughter . The division of the soil was renewed every year , and the possessions of the tenant were increased or diminished according to the numbers in his family.14 The same arrangement was observed with reference to the curacas , except only that a domain was assigned to them corresponding with the superior dignity of their stations.15 A more thorough and effectual agrarian law than this can not be imagined . In other countries where such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time , has given way to the natural order of events , and , under the superior intelligence and thrift of some and the prodigality of others , the usual vicissitudes of fortune have been allowed to take their course , and restore things to their natural inequality . Even the iron law of Lycurgus ceased to operate after a time , and melted away before the spirit of luxury and avarice . The nearest approach to the Peruvian constitution was probably in Judea , where , on the recurrence of the great national jubilee , at the close of every half-century , estates reverted to their original proprietors . There was this important difference in Peru ; that not only did the lease , if we may so call it , terminate with the year , but during that period the tenant had no power to alienate or to add to his possessions . The end of the brief term found him in precisely the same condition that he was in at the beginning . Such a state of things might be supposed to be fatal to any thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of improving it , which is natural to the permanent proprietor , and hardly less so to the holder of a long lease . But the practical operation of the law seems to have been otherwise ; and it is probable , that , under the influence of that love of order and aversion to change which marked the Peruvian institutions , each new partition of the soil usually confirmed the occupant in his possession , and the tenant for a year was converted into a proprietor for life . The territory was cultivated wholly by the people . The lands belonging to the Sun were first attended to . They next tilled the lands of the old , of the sick , of the widow and the orphan , and of soldiers engaged in actual service ; in short , of all that part of the community who , from bodily infirmity or any other cause , were unable to attend to their own concerns . The people were then allowed to work on their own ground , each man for himself , but with the general obligation to assist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a young and numerous family , for example  --  might demand it.16 Lastly , they cultivated the lands of the Inca . This was done , with great ceremony , by the whole population in a body . At break of day , they were summoned together by proclamation from some neighboring tower or eminence , and all the inhabitants of the district , men , women , and children , appeared dressed in their gayest apparel , bedecked with their little store of finery and ornaments , as if for some great jubilee . They went through the labors of the day with the same joyous spirit , chanting their popular ballads which commemorated the heroic deeds of the Incas , regulating their movements by the measure of the chant , and all mingling in the chorus , of which the word hailli , or " triumph , " was usually the burden . These national airs had something soft and pleasing in their character , that recommended them to the Spaniards ; and many a Peruvian song was set to music by them after the Conquest , and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it called up recollections of the past , when their days glided peacefully away under the sceptre of the Incas.17 A similar arrangement prevailed with respect to the different manufactures as to the agricultural products of the country . The flocks of llamas , or Peruvian sheep , were appropriated exclusively to the Sun and to the Inca.18 Their number was immense . They were scattered over the different provinces , chiefly in the colder regions of the country , where they were intrusted to the care of experienced shepherds , who conducted them to different pastures according to the change of season . A large number was every year sent to the capital for the consumption of the Court , and for the religious festivals and sacrifices . But these were only the males , as no female was allowed to be killed . The regulations for the care and breeding of these flocks were prescribed with the greatest minuteness , and with a sagacity which excited the admiration of the Spaniards , who were familiar with the management of the great migratory flocks of merinos in their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the wool was deposited in the public magazines . It was then dealt out to each family in such quantities as sufficed for its wants , and was consigned to the female part of the household , who were well instructed in the business of spinning and weaving . When this labor was accomplished , and the family was provided with a coarse but warm covering , suited to the cold climate of the mountains ,  --  for , in the lower country , cotton , furnished in like manner by the Crown , took the place , to a certain extent , of wool ,  - -  the people were required to labor for the Inca . The quantity of the cloth needed , as well as the peculiar kind and quality of the fabric , was first determined at Cuzco . The work was then apportioned among the different provinces . Officers , appointed for the purpose , superintended the distribution of the wool , so that the manufacture of the different articles should be intrusted to the most competent hands.20 They did not leave the matter here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and saw that the work was faithfully executed . This domestic inquisition was not confined to the labors for the Inca . It included , also , those for the several families ; and care was taken that each household should employ the materials furnished for its own use in the manner that was intended , so that no one should be unprovided with necessary apparel.21 In this domestic labor all the female part of the establishment was expected to join . Occupation was found for all , from the child five years old to the aged matron not too infirm to hold a distaff . No one , at least none but the decrepit and the sick , was allowed to eat the bread of idleness in Peru . Idleness was a crime in the eye of the law , and , as such , severely punished ; while industry was publicly commended and stimulated by rewards.22 The like course was pursued with reference to the other requisitions of the government . All the mines in the kingdom belonged to the Inca . They were wrought exclusively for his benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the districts where the mines were situated.23 Every Peruvian of the lower class was a husbandman , and , with the exception of those already specified , was expected to provide for his own support by the cultivation of his land . A small portion of the community , however , was instructed in mechanical arts ; some of them of the more elegant kind , subservient to the purposes of luxury and ornament . The demand for these was chiefly limited to the sovereign and his Court ; but the labor of a larger number of hands was exacted for the execution of the great public works which covered the land . The nature and amount of the services required were all determined at Cuzco by commissioners well instructed in the resources of the country , and in the character of the inhabitants of different provinces.24 This information was obtained by an admirable regulation , which has scarcely a counterpart in the annals of a semi-civilized people . A register was kept of all the births and deaths throughout the country , and exact returns of the actual population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quipus , a curious invention , which will be explained hereafter.25 At certain intervals , also , a general survey of the country was made , exhibiting a complete view of the character of the soil , its fertility , the nature of its products , both agricultural and mineral , - - in short , of all that constituted the physical resources of the empire.26 Furnished with these statistical details , it was easy for the government , after determining the amount of requisitions , to distribute the work among the respective provinces best qualified to execute it . The task of apportioning the labor was assigned to the local authorities , and great care was taken that it should be done in such a manner , that , while the most competent hands were selected , it should not fall disproportionately heavy on any.27 The different provinces of the country furnished persons peculiarly suited to different employments , which , as we shall see hereafter , usually descended from father to son . Thus , one district supplied those most skilled in working the mines , another the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so on.28 The artisan was provided by government with the materials ; and no one was required to give more than a stipulated portion of his time to the public service . He was then succeeded by another for the like term ; and it should be observed , that all who were engaged in the employment of the government  --  and the remark applies equally to agricultural labor  --  were maintained , for the time , at the public expense.29 By this constant rotation of labor , it was intended that no one should be overburdened , and that each man should have time to provide for the demands of his own household . It was impossible  --  in the judgment of a high Spanish authority  --  to improve on the system of distribution , so carefully was it accommodated to the condition and comfort of the artisan.30 The security of the working classes seems to have been ever kept in view in the regulations of the government ; and these were so discreetly arranged , that the most wearing and unwholesome labors , as those of the mines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a striking contrast to his subsequent condition under the Spanish rule.31 A part of the agricultural produce and manufactures was transported to Cuzco , to minister to the immediate demands of the Inca and his Court . But far the greater part was stored in magazines scattered over the different provinces . These spacious buildings , constructed of stone , were divided between the Sun and the Inca , though the greater share seems to have been appropriated by the monarch . By a wise regulation , any deficiency in the contributions of the Inca might be supplied from the granaries of the Sun.32 But such a necessity could rarely have happened ; and the providence of the government usually left a large surplus in the royal depositories , which was removed to a third class of magazines , whose design was to supply the people in seasons of scarcity , and , occasionally , to furnish relief to individuals , whom sickness or misfortune had reduced to poverty ; thus , in a manner , justifying the assertion of a Castilian document , that a large portion of the revenues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one channel or another , into the hands of the people.33 These magazines were found by the Spaniards , on their arrival , stored with all the various products and manufactures of the country ,  --  with maize , coca , quinua , woolen and cotton stuffs of the finest quality , with vases and utensils of gold , silver , and copper , in short , with every article of luxury or use within the compass of Peruvian skill.34 The magazines of grain , in particular , would frequently have sufficed for the consumption of the adjoining district for several years.35 An inventory of the various products of the country , and the quarters whence they were obtained , was every year taken by the royal officers , and recorded by the quipucamayus on their registers , with surprising regularity and precision . These registers were transmitted to the capital , and submitted to the Inca , who could thus at a glance , as it were , embrace the whole results of the national industry , and see how far they corresponded with the requisitions of government.36 Such are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relating to property , as delineated by writers who , however contradictory in the details , have a general conformity of outline . These institutions are certainly so remarkable , that it is hardly credible they should ever have been enforced throughout a great empire , and for a long period of years . Yet we have the most unequivocal testimony to the fact from the Spaniards , who landed in Peru in time to witness their operation ; some of whom , men of high judicial station and character , were commissioned by the government to make investigations into the state of the country under its ancient rulers . The impositions on the Peruvian people seem to have been sufficiently heavy . On them rested the whole burden of maintaining , not only their own order , but every other order in the state . The members of the royal house , the great nobles , even the public functionaries , and the numerous body of the priesthood , were all exempt from taxation.37 The whole duty of defraying the expenses of the government belonged to the people . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formerly existing in most parts of Europe , where the various privileged classes claimed exemption  --  not always with success , indeed  --  from bearing part of the public burdens . The great hardship in the case of the Peruvian was , that he could not better his condition . His labors were for others , rather than for himself . However industrious , he could not add a rood to his own possessions , nor advance himself one hair 's breadth in the social scale . The great and universal motive to honest industry , that of bettering one 's lot , was lost upon him . The great law of human progress was not for him . As he was born , so he was to die . Even his time he could not properly call his own . Without money , with little property of any kind , he paid his taxes in labor.38 No wonder that the government should have dealt with sloth as a crime . It was a crime against the state , and to be wasteful of time was , in a manner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his life for others , might be compared to the convict in a treadmill , going the same dull round of incessant toil , with the consciousness , that , however profitable the results to the state , they were nothing to him . But this is the dark side of the picture . If no man could become rich in Peru , no man could become poor . No spendthrift could waste his substance in riotous luxury . No adventurous schemer could impoverish his family by the spirit of speculation . The law was constantly directed to enforce a steady industry and a sober management of his affairs . No mendicant was tolerated in Peru . When a man was reduced by poverty or misfortune , ( it could hardly be by fault , ) the arm of the law was stretched out to minister relief ; not the stinted relief of private charity , nor that which is doled out , drop by drop , as it were , from the frozen reservoirs of " the parish , " but in generous measure , bringing no humiliation to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the rest of his countrymen.39 No man could be rich , no man could be poor , in Peru ; but all might enjoy , and did enjoy , a competence . Ambition , avarice , the love of change , the morbid spirit of discontent , those passions which most agitate the minds of men , found no place in the bosom of the Peruvian . The very condition of his being seemed to be at war with change . He moved on in the same unbroken circle in which his fathers had moved before him , and in which his children were to follow . It was the object of the Incas to infuse into their subjects a spirit of passive obedience and tranquillity ,  --  a perfect acquiescence in the established order of things . In this they fully succeeded . The Spaniards who first visited the country are emphatic in their testimony , that no government could have been better suited to the genius of the people ; and no people could have appeared more contented with their lot , or more devoted to their government.40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find their doubts removed on a visit to the country . The traveller still meets , especially in the central regions of the table-land , with memorials of the past , remains of temples , palaces , fortresses , terraced mountains , great military roads , aqueducts , and other public works , which , whatever degree of science they may display in their execution , astonish him by their number , the massive character of the materials , and the grandeur of the design . Among them , perhaps the most remarkable are the great roads , the broken remains of which are still in sufficient preservation to attest their former magnificence . There were many of these roads , traversing different parts of the kingdom ; but the most considerable were the two which extended from Quito to Cuzco , and , again diverging from the capital , continued in a southern direction towards Chili . One of these roads passed over the grand plateau , and the other along the lowlands on the borders of the ocean . The former was much the more difficult achievement , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pathless sierras buried in snow ; galleries were cut for leagues through the living rock ; rivers were crossed by means of bridges that swung suspended in the air ; precipices were scaled by stairways hewn out of the native bed ; ravines of hideous depth were filled up with solid masonry ; in short , all the difficulties that beset a wild and mountainous region , and which might appall the most courageous engineer of modern times , were encountered and successfully overcome . The length of the road , of which scattered fragments only remain , is variously estimated , from fifteen hundred to two thousand miles ; and stone pillars , in the manner of European milestones , were erected at stated intervals of somewhat more than a league , all along the route . Its breadth scarcely exceeded twenty feet.41 It was built of heavy flags of freestone , and in some parts , at least , covered with a bituminous cement , which time has made harder than the stone itself . In some places , where the ravines had been filled up with masonry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have gradually eaten a way through the base , and left the superincumbent mass  --  such is the cohesion of the materials  --  still spanning the valley like an arch ! 42 Over some of the boldest streams it was necessary to construct suspension bridges , as they are termed , made of the tough fibres of the maguey , or of the osier of the country , which has an extraordinary degree of tenacity and strength . These osiers were woven into cables of the thickness of a man 's body . The huge ropes , then stretched across the water , were conducted through rings or holes cut in immense buttresses of stone raised on the opposite banks of the river , and there secured to heavy pieces of timber . Several of these enormous cables , bound together , formed a bridge , which , covered with planks , well secured and defended by a railing of the same osier materials on the sides , afforded a safe passage for the traveller . The length of this aerial bridge , sometimes exceeding two hundred feet , caused it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremities , to dip with an alarming inclination towards the centre , while the motion given to it by the passenger occasioned an oscillation still more frightful , as his eye wandered over the dark abyss of waters that foamed and tumbled many a fathom beneath . Yet these light and fragile fabrics were crossed without fear by the Peruvians , and are still retained by the Spaniards over those streams which , from the depth or impetuosity of the current , would seem impracticable for the usual modes of conveyance . The wider and more tranquil waters were crossed on balsas  --  a kind of raft still much used by the natives  --  to which sails were attached , furnishing the only instance of this higher kind of navigation among the American Indians.43 The other great road of the Incas lay through the level country between the Andes and the ocean . It was constructed in a different manner , as demanded by the nature of the ground , which was for the most part low , and much of it sandy . The causeway was raised on a high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a parapet or wall of clay ; and trees and odoriferous shrubs were planted along the margin , regaling the sense of the traveller with their perfumes , and refreshing him by their shades , so grateful under the burning sky of the tropics . In the strips of sandy waste , which occasionally intervened , where the light and volatile soil was incapable of sustaining a road , huge piles , many of them to be seen at this day , were driven into the ground to indicate the route to the traveller.44 All along these highways , caravansaries , or tambos , as they were called , were erected , at the distance of ten or twelve miles from each other , for the accommodation , more particularly , of the Inca and his suite , and those who journeyed on the public business . There were few other travellers in Peru . Some of these buildings were on an extensive scale , consisting of a fortress , barracks , and other military works , surrounded by a parapet of stone , and covering a large tract of ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperial armies , when on their march across the country . The care of the great roads was committed to the districts through which they passed , and a large number of hands was constantly employed under the Incas to keep them in repair . This was the more easily done in a country where the mode of travelling was altogether on foot ; though the roads are said to have been so nicely constructed , that a carriage might have rolled over them as securely as on any of the great roads of Europe.45 Still , in a region where the elements of fire and water are both actively at work in the business of destruction , they must , without constant supervision , have gradually gone to decay . Such has been their fate under the Spanish conquerors , who took no care to enforce the admirable system for their preservation adopted by the Incas . Yet the broken portions that still survive , here and there , like the fragments of the great Roman roads scattered over Europe , bear evidence to their primitive grandeur , and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not too profuse in his panegyric , that " the roads of the Incas were among the most useful and stupendous works ever executed by man . " 46 The system of communication through their dominions was still further improved by the Peruvian sovereigns , by the introduction of posts , in the same manner as was done by the Aztecs . The Peruvian posts , however , established on all the great routes that conducted to the capital , were on a much more extended plan than those in Mexico . All along these routes , small buildings were erected , at the distance of less than five miles asunder , 47 in each of which a number of runners , or chasquis , as they were called , were stationed to carry forward the despatches of government.48 These despatches were either verbal , or conveyed by means of quipus , and sometimes accompanied by a thread of the crimson fringe worn round the temples of the Inca , which was regarded with the same implicit deference as the signet ring of an Oriental despot.49 The chasquis were dressed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all trained to the employment , and selected for their speed and fidelity . As the distance each courier had to perform was small , and as he had ample time to refresh himself at the stations , they tart over the ground with great swiftness , and messages were carried through the whole extent of the long routes , at the rate of a hundred and fifty miles a day . The office of the chasquis was not limited to carrying despatches . They frequently brought various articles for the use of the Court ; and in this way , fish from the distant ocean , fruits , game , and different commodities from the hot regions on the coast , were taken to the capital in good condition , and served fresh at the royal table.50 It is remarkable that this important institution should have been known to both the Mexicans and the Peruvians without any correspondence with one another ; and that it should have been found among two barbarian nations of the New World , long before it was introduced among the civilized nations of Europe.51 By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of the long-extended empire of Peru were brought into intimate relations with each other . And while the capitals of Christendom , but a few hundred miles apart , remained as far asunder as if seas had rolled between them , the great capitals Cuzco and Quito were placed by the high roads of the Incas in immediate correspondence . Intelligence from the numerous provinces was transmitted on the wings of the wind to the Peruvian metropolis , the great focus to which all the lines of communication converged . Not an insurrectionary movement could occur , not an invasion , on the remotest frontier , before the tidings were conveyed to the capital , and the imperial armies were on their march across the magnificent roads of the country to suppress it . So admirable was the machinery contrived by the American despots for maintaining tranquillity throughout their dominions ! It may remind us of the similar institutions of ancient Rome , when , under the Caesars , she was mistress of half the world . A principal design of the great roads was to serve the purposes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military policy , which is quite as well worth studying as their municipal . Notwithstanding the pacific professions of the Incas , and the pacific tendency , indeed , of their domestic institutions , they were constantly at war . It was by war that their paltry territory had been gradually enlarged to a powerful empire . When this was achieved , the capital , safe in its central position , was no longer shaken by these military movements , and the country enjoyed , in a great degree , the blessings of tranquillity and order . But , however tranquil at heart , there is not a reign upon record in which the nation was not engaged in war against the barbarous nations on the frontier . Religion furnished a plausible pretext for incessant aggression , and disguised the lust of conquest in the Incas , probably , from their own eyes , as well as from those of their subjects . Like the followers of Mahomet , bearing the sword in one hand and the Koran in the other , the Incas of Peru offered no alternative but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , their fanaticism  --  or their policy  --  showed itself in a milder form than was found in the descendants of the Prophet . Like the great luminary which they adored , they operated by gentleness more potent than violence.52 They sought to soften the hearts of the rude tribes around them , and melt them by acts of condescension and kindness . Far from provoking hostilities , they allowed time for the salutary example of their own institutions to work its effect , trusting that their less civilized neighbors would submit to their sceptre , from a conviction of the blessings it would secure to them . When this course failed , they employed other measures , but still of a pacific character ; and endeavored by negotiation , by conciliatory treatment , and by presents to the leading men , to win them over to their dominion . In short , they practised all the arts familiar to the most subtle politician of a civilized land to secure the acquisition of empire . When all these expedients failed , they prepared for war . Their levies were drawn from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the character of the people was particularly hardy , more than from others.53 It seems probable that every Peruvian , who had reached a certain age , might be called to bear arms . But the rotation of military service , and the regular drills , which took place twice or thrice in a month , of the inhabitants of every village , raised the soldiers generally above the rank of a raw militia . The Peruvian army , at first inconsiderable , came , with the increase of population , in the latter days of the empire , to be very large , so that their monarchs could bring into the field , as contemporaries assure us , a force amounting to two hundred thousand men . They showed the same skill and respect for order in their military organization , as in other things . The troops were divided into bodies corresponding with our battalions and companies , led by officers , that rose , in regular gradation , from the lowest subaltern to the Inca noble , who was intrusted with the general command.54 Their arms consisted of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncivilized , before the invention of powder ,  --  bows and arrows , lances , darts , a short kind of sword , a battle-axe or partisan , and slings , with which they were very expert . Their spears and arrows were tipped with copper , or , more commonly , with bone , and the weapons of the Inca lords were frequently mounted with gold or silver . Their heads were protected by casques made either of wood or of the skins of wild animals , and sometimes richly decorated with metal and with precious stones , surmounted by the brilliant plumage of the tropical birds . These , of course , were the ornaments only of the higher orders . The great mass of the soldiery were dressed in the peculiar costume of their provinces , and their heads were wreathed with a sort of turban or roll of different-colored cloths , that produced a gay and animating effect . Their defensive armor consisted of a shield or buckler , and a close tunic of quilted cotton , in the same manner as with the Mexicans . Each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , high above all , displayed the glittering device and the rainbow ,  --  the armorial ensign of the Incas , intimating their claims as children of the skies.55 By means of the thorough system of communication established in the country , a short time sufficed to draw the levies together from the most distant quarters . The army was put under the direction of some experienced chief , of the blood royal , or , more frequently , headed by the Inca in person . The march was rapidly performed , and with little fatigue to the soldier ; for , all along the great routes , quarters were provided for him , at regular distances , where he could find ample accommodations . The country is still covered with the remains of military works , constructed of porphyry or granite , which tradition assures us were designed to lodge the Inca and his army.56 At regular intervals , also , magazines were established , filled with grain , weapons , and the different munitions of war , with which the army was supplied on its march . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magazines , which were furnished from the stores of the Incas , were always well filled . When the Spaniards invaded the country , they supported their own armies for a long time on the provisions found in them.57 The Peruvian soldier was forbidden to commit any trespass on the property of the inhabitants whose territory lay in the line of march . Any violation of this order was punished with death.58 The soldier was clothed and fed by the industry of the people , and the Incas rightly re-solved that he should not repay this by violence . Far from being a tax on the labors of the husbandman , or even a burden on his hospitality , the imperial armies traversed the country , from one extremity to the other , with as little inconvenience to the inhabitants , as would be created by a procession of peaceful burghers , or a muster of holiday soldiers for a review . From the moment war was proclaimed , the Peruvian monarch used all possible expedition in assembling his forces , that he might anticipate the movements of his enemies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , from the neglect of such a principle of combination , that the several nations of the country , who might have prevailed by confederated strength , fell one after another under the imperial yoke . Yet , once in the field the Inca did not usually show any disposition to push his advantages to the utmost , and urge his foe to extremity . In every stage of the war , he was open to propositions for peace ; and although he sought to reduce his enemies by carrying off their harvests and distressing them by famine , he allowed his troops to commit no unnecessary outrage on person or property . " We must spare our enemies , " one of the Peruvian princes is quoted as saying , " or it will be our loss , since they and all that belong to them must soon be ours . " 59 It was a wise maxim , and , like most other wise maxims , founded equally on benevolence and prudence . The Incas adopted the policy claimed for the Romans by their countryman , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vanquished than by their victories.60 In the same considerate spirit , they were most careful to provide for the security and comfort of their own troops ; and , when a war was long protracted , or the climate proved unhealthy , they took care to relieve their men by frequent reinforcements , allowing the earlier recruits to return to their homes.61 But while thus economical of life , both in their own followers and in the enemy , they did not shrink from sterner measures when provoked by the ferocious or obstinate character of the resistance ; and the Peruvian annals contain more than one of those sanguinary pages which can not be pondered at the present day without a shudder . It should be added , that the beneficent policy , which I have been delineating as characteristic of the Incas , did not belong to all ; and that there was more than one of the royal line who displayed a full measure of the bold and unscrupulous spirit of the vulgar conqueror . The first step of the government , after the reduction of a country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Temples were erected , and placed under the care of a numerous priesthood , who expounded to the conquered people the mysteries of their new faith , and dazzled them by the display of its rich and stately ceremonial.62 Yet the religion of the conquered was not treated with dishonor . The Sun was to be worshipped above all ; but the images of their gods were removed to Cuzco and established in one of the temples , to hold their rank among the inferior deities of the Peruvian Pantheon . Here they remained as hostages , in some sort , for the conquered nation , which would be the less inclined to forsake its allegiance , when by doing so it must leave its own gods in the hands of its enemies.63 The Incas provided for the settlement of their new conquests , by ordering a census to be taken of the population , and a careful survey to be made of the country , ascertaining its products , and the character and capacity of its soil.64 A division of the territory was then made on the same principle with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portions were assigned to the Sun , the sovereign , and the people . The amount of the last was regulated by the amount of the population , but the share of each individual was uniformly the same . It may seem strange , that any people should patiently have acquiesced in an arrangement which involved such a total surrender of property . But it was a conquered nation that did so , held in awe , on the least suspicion of meditating resistance , by armed garrisons , who were established at various commanding points throughout the country.65 It is probable , too , that the Incas made no greater changes than was essential to the new arrangement , and that they assigned estates , as far as possible , to their former proprietors . The curacas , in particular , were confirmed in their ancient authority ; or , when it was found expedient to depose the existing curaca , his rightful heir was allowed to succeed him.66 Every respect was shown to the ancient usages and laws of the land , as far as was compatible with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remembered , that the conquered tribes were , many of them , too little advanced in civilization to possess that attachment to the soil which belongs to a cultivated nation.67 But , to whatever it be referred , it seems probable that the extraordinary institutions of the Incas were established with little opposition in the conquered territories.68 Yet the Peruvian sovereigns did not trust altogether to this show of obedience in their new vassals ; and , to secure it more effectually , they adopted some expedients too remarkable to be passed by in silence. - Immediately after a recent conquest , the curacas and their families were removed for a time to Cuzco . Here they learned the language of the capital , became familiar with the manners and usages of the court , as well as with the general policy of government , and experienced such marks of favor from the sovereign as would be most grateful to their feelings , and might attach them most warmly to his person . Under the influence of these sentiments , they were again sent to rule over their vassals , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain there as a guaranty for their own fidelity , as well as to grace the court of the Inca.69 Another expedient was of a bolder and more original character . This was nothing less than to revolutionize the language of the country . South America , like North , was broken up into a great variety of dialects , or rather languages , having little affinity with one another . This circumstance occasioned great embarrassment to the government in the administration of the different provinces , with whose idioms they were unacquainted . It was determined , therefore , to substitute one universal language , the Quichua ,  --  the language of the court , the capital , and the surrounding country ,  --  the richest and most comprehensive of the South American dialects . Teachers were provided in the towns and villages throughout the land , who were to give instruction to all , even the humblest classes ; and it was intimated at the same time , that no one should be raised to any office of dignity or profit , who was unacquainted with this tongue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital became familiar with this dialect in their intercourse with the Court and , on their return home , set the example of conversing in it among themselves . This example was imitated by their followers , and the Quichua gradually became the language of elegance and fashion , in the same manner as the Norman French was affected by all those who aspired to any consideration in England , after the Conquest . By this means , while each province retained its peculiar tongue , a beautiful medium of communication was introduced , which enabled the inhabitants of one part of the country to hold intercourse with every other , and the Inca and his deputies to communicate with all . This was the state of things on the arrival of the Spaniards . It must be admitted , that history furnishes few examples of more absolute authority than such a revolution in the language of an empire , at the bidding of a master.70 Yet little less remarkable was another device of the Incas for securing the loyalty of their subjects . When any portion of the recent conquests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncommon to cause a part of the population , amounting , it might be , to ten thousand inhabitants or more , to remove to a distant quarter of the kingdom , occupied by ancient vassals of undoubted fidelity to the crown . A like number of these last was transplanted to the territory left vacant by the emigrants . By this exchange , the population was composed of two distinct races , who regarded each other with an eye of jealousy , that served as an effectual check on any mutinous proceeding . In time , the influence of the well affected prevailed , supported , as they were , by royal authority , and by the silent working of the national institutions , to which the strange races became gradually accustomed . A spirit of loyalty sprang up by degrees in their bosoms , and , before a generation had passed away , the different tribes mingled in harmony together as members of the same community.71 Yet the different races continued to be distinguished by difference of dress ; since , by the law of the land , every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ province.72 Neither could the colonist , who had been thus unceremoniously transplanted , return to his native district for , by another law , it was forbidden to any one to change his residence without license.73 He was settled for life . The Peruvian government ascribed to every man his local habitation , his sphere of action , nay , the very nature and quality of that action . He ceased to be a free agent ; it might be almost said , that it relieved him of personal responsibility . In following out this singular arrangement , the Incas showed as much regard for the comfort and convenience of the colonist as was compatible with the execution of their design . They were careful that the mitimaes , as these emigrants were styled , should be removed to climates most congenial with their own . The inhabitants of the cold countries were not transplanted to the warm , nor the inhabitants of the warm countries to the cold.74 Even their habitual occupations were consulted , and the fisherman was settled in the neighborhood of the ocean , or the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as were best adapted to the culture with which he was most familiar.75 And , as migration by many , perhaps by most , would be regarded as a calamity , the government was careful to show particular marks of favor to the mitimaes , and , by various privileges and immunities , to ameliorate their condition , and thus to reconcile them , if possible , to their lot.76 The Peruvian institutions , though they may have been modified and matured under successive sovereigns , all bear the stamp of the same original ,  --  were all cast in the same mould . The empire , strengthening and enlarging at every successive epoch of its history , was , in its latter days , but the development , on a great scale , of what it was in miniature at its commencement , as the infant germ is said to contain within itself all the ramifications of the future monarch of the forest . Each succeeding Inca seemed desirous only to tread in the path , and carry out the plans , of his predecessor . Great enterprises , commenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a third . Thus , while all acted on a regular plan , without any of the eccentric or retrograde movements which betray the agency of different individuals , the state seemed to be under the direction of a single hand , and steadily pursued , as if through one long reign , its great career of civilization and of conquest . The ultimate aim of its institutions was domestic quiet . But it seemed as if this were to be obtained only by foreign war . Tranquillity in the heart of the monarchy , and war on its borders , was the condition of Peru . By this war it gave occupation to a part of its people , and , by the reduction and civilization of its barbarous neighbors , gave security to all . Every Inca sovereign , however mild and benevolent in his domestic rule , was a warrior , and led his armies in person . Each successive reign extended still wider the boundaries of the empire . Year after year saw the victorious monarch return laden with spoils , and followed by a throng @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a Roman triumph . The whole of its numerous population poured out to welcome him , dressed in the gay and picturesque costumes of the different provinces , With banners waving above their heads , and strewing branches and flowers along the path of the conqueror . The Inca , borne aloft in his golden chair on the shoulders of his nobles , moved in solemn procession , under the triumphal arches that were thrown across the way , to the great temple of the Sun . There , without attendants ,  --  for all but the monarch were excluded from the hallowed precincts ,  --  the victorious prince , stripped of his royal insignia , barefooted , and with all humility , approached the awful shrine , and offered up sacrifice and thanksgiving to the glorious Deity who presided over the fortunes of the Incas . This ceremony concluded , the whole population gave itself up to festivity ; music , revelry , and dancing were heard in every quarter of the capital , and illuminations and bonfires commemorated the victorious campaign of the Inca , and the accession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we see much of the character of a religious festival . Indeed , the character of religion was impressed on all the Peruvian wars . The life of an Inca was one long crusade against the infidel , to spread wide the worship of the Sun , to reclaim the benighted nations from their brutish superstitions , and impart to them the blessings of a well-regulated government . This , in the favorite phrase of our day , was the " mission " of the Inca . It was also the mission of the Christian conqueror who invaded the empire of this same Indian potentate . Which of the two executed his mission most faithfully , history must decide . Yet the Peruvian monarchs did not show a childish impatience in the acquisition of empire . They paused after a campaign , and allowed time for the settlement of one conquest before they undertook another ; and , in this interval , occupied themselves with the quiet administration of their kingdom , and with the long progresses , which brought them into nearer intercourse with their people . During this interval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves to the strange institutions of their masters . They learned to appreciate the value of a government which raised them above the physical evils of a state of barbarism , secured them protection of person , and a full participation in all the privileges enjoyed by their conquerors ; and , as they became more familiar with the peculiar institutions of the country , habit , that second nature , attached them the more strongly to these institutions , from their very peculiarity . Thus , by degrees , and without violence , arose the great fabric of the Peruvian empire , composed of numerous independent and even hostile tribes , yet , under the influence of a common religion , common language , and common government , knit together as one nation , animated by a spirit of love for its institutions and devoted loyalty to its sovereign . What a contrast to the condition of the Aztec monarchy , on the neighboring continent , which , composed of the like heterogeneous materials , without any internal principle of cohesion , was only held together by the stern pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Peruvian monarchy should have fared no better than its rival , in its conflict with European civilization , will appear in the following pages . Book 1 Chapter 3 Peruvian Religion  --  Deities  --  Gorgeous Temples  --  Festivals-Virgins Of The Sun  --  Marriage It is a remarkable fact , that many , if not most , of the rude tribes inhabiting the vast American continent , however disfigured their creeds may have been in other respects by a childish superstition , had attained to the sublime conception of one Great Spirit , the Creator of the Universe , who , immaterial in his own nature , was not to be dishonored by an attempt at visible representation , and who , pervading all space , was not to be circumscribed within the walls of a temple . Yet these elevated ideas , so far beyond the ordinary range of the untutored intellect , do not seem to have led to the practical consequences that might have been expected ; and few of the American nations have shown much solicitude for the maintenance of a religious worship , or found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with progress in civilization , ideas more akin to those of civilized communities were gradually unfolded ; a liberal provision was made , and a separate order instituted , for the services of religion , which were conducted with a minute and magnificent ceremonial , that challenged comparison , in some respects , with that of the most polished nations of Christendom . This was the case with the nations inhabiting the table-land of North America , and with the natives of Bogota , Quito , Peru , and the other elevated regions on the great Southern continent . It was , above all , the case with the Peruvians , who claimed a divine original for the founders of their empire , whose laws all rested on a divine sanction , and whose domestic institutions and foreign wars were alike directed to preserve and propagate their faith . Religion was the basis of their polity , the very condition , as it were , of their social existence . The government of the Incas , in its essential principles , was a theocracy . Yet , though religion entered so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people , their mythology , that is , the traditionary legends by which they affected to unfold the mysteries of the universe , was exceedingly mean and puerile . Scarce one of their traditions  --  except the beautiful one respecting the founders of their royal dynasty  --  is worthy of note , or throws much light on their own antiquities , or the primitive history of man . Among the traditions of importance is one of the deluge , which they held in common with so many of the nations in all parts of the globe , and which they related with some particulars that bear resemblance to a Mexican legend.1 Their ideas in respect to a future state of being deserve more attention . They admitted the existence of a soul hereafter , and connected with this a belief in the resurrection of the body . They assigned two distinct places for the residence of the good and of the wicked , the latter of which they fixed in the centre of the earth . The good they supposed were to pass a luxurious life of tranquillity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The wicked were to expiate their crimes by ages of wearisome labor . They associated with these ideas a belief in an evil principle or spirit , bearing the name of Cupay , whom they did not attempt to propitiate by sacrifices , and who seems to have been only a shadowy personification of sin , that exercised little influence over their conduct.2 It was this belief in the resurrection of the body , which led them to preserve the body with so much solicitude , by a simple process , however , that , unlike the elaborate embalming of the Egyptians , consisted in exposing it to the action of the cold , exceedingly dry , and highly rarefied atmosphere of the mountains.3 As they believed that the occupations in the future world would have great resemblance to those of the present , they buried with the deceased noble some of his apparel , his utensils , and , frequently , his treasures ; and completed the gloomy ceremony by sacrificing his wives and favorite domestics , to bear him company and do him service in the happy regions beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more frequently , oblong shape , penetrated by galleries running at right angles to each other , were raised over the dead , whose dried bodies or mummies have been found in considerable numbers , sometimes erect , but more often in the sitting posture , common to the Indian tribes of both continents . Treasures of great value have also been occasionally drawn from these monumental deposits , and have stimulated , speculators to repeated excavations with the hope of similar good-fortune . It was a lottery like that of searching after mines , but where the chances have proved still more against the adventurers.5 The Peruvians , like so many other of the Indian races , acknowledged a Supreme Being , the Creator and Ruler of the Universe , whom they adored under the different names of Pachacamac and Viracocha.6 No temple was raised to this invisible Being , save one only in the valley which took its name from the deity himself , not far from the Spanish city of Lima . Even this temple had existed there before the country came under the sway of the Incas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remote parts of the land ; a circumstance which suggests the idea , that the worship of this Great Spirit , though countenanced , perhaps , by their accommodating policy , did not originate with the Peruvian princes.7 The deity whose worship they especially inculcated , and which they never failed to establish wherever their banners were known to penetrate , was the Sun . It was he , who , in a particular manner , presided over the destinies of man ; gave light and warmth to the nations , and life to the vegetable world ; whom they reverenced as the father of their royal dynasty , the founder of their empire ; and whose temples rose in every city and almost every village throughout the land , while his altars smoked with burnt offerings ,  --  a form of sacrifice peculiar to the Peruvians among the semi-civilized nations of the New World.8 Besides the Sun , the Incas acknowledged various objects of worship in some way or other connected with this principal deity . Such was the Moon , his sister-wife ; the Stars , revered as part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , Venus , known to the Peruvians by the name of Chasca , or the " youth with the long and curling locks , " was adored as the page of the Sun , whom he attends so closely in his rising and in his setting . They dedicated temples also to the Thunder and Lightning , 9 in whom they recognized the Sun 's dread ministers , and to the Rainbows whom they worshipped as a beautiful emanation of their glorious deity.10 In addition to these , the subjects of the Incas enrolled among their inferior deities many objects in nature , as the elements , the winds , the earth , the air , great mountains and rivers , which impressed them with ideas of sublimity and power , or were supposed in some way or other to exercise a mysterious influence over the destinies of man.11 They adopted also a notion , not unlike that professed by some of the schools of ancient philosophy , that every thing on earth had its archetype or idea , its mother , as they emphatically styled it , which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spiritual essence.12 But their system , far from being limited even to these multiplied objects of devotion , embraced within its ample folds the numerous deities of the conquered nations , whose images were transported to the capital , where the burdensome charges of their worship were defrayed by their respective provinces . It was a rare stroke of policy in the Incas , who could thus accommodate their religion to their interests.13 But the worship of the Sun constituted the peculiar care of the Incas , and was the object of their lavish expenditure . The most ancient of the many temples dedicated to this divinity was in the Island of Titicaca , whence the royal founders of the Peruvian line were said to have proceeded . From this circumstance , this sanctuary was held in peculiar veneration . Every thing which belonged to it , even the broad fields of maize , which Surrounded the temple , and formed part of its domain , imbibed a portion of its sanctity . The yearly produce was distributed among the different public magazines , in small quantities to each , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Happy was the man who could secure even an ear of the blessed harvest for his own granary ! 14 But the most renowned of the Peruvian temples , the pride of the capital , and the wonder of the empire , was at Cuzco , where , under the munificence of successive sovereigns , it had become so enriched , that it received the name of Coricancha , or " the Place of Gold . " It consisted of a principal building and several chapels and inferior edifices , covering a large extent of ground in the heart of the city , and completely encompassed by a wall , which , with the edifices , was all constructed of stone . The work was of the kind already described in the other public buildings of the country , and was so finely executed , that a Spaniard , who saw it in its glory , assures us , he could call to mind only two edifices in Spain , which , for their workmanship , were at all to be compared with it.15 Yet this substantial , and , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! The interior of the temple was the most worthy of admiration . It was literally a mine of gold . On the western wall was emblazoned a representation of the deity , consisting of a human countenance , looking forth from amidst innumerable rays of light , which emanated from it in every direction , in the same manner as the sun is often personified with us . The figure was engraved on a massive plate of gold of enormous dimensions , thickly powdered with emeralds and precious stones.16 It was so situated in front of the great eastern portal , that the rays of the morning sun fell directly upon it at its rising , lighting up the whole apartment with an effulgence that seemed more than natural , and which was reflected back from the golden ornaments with which the walls and ceiling were everywhere in crusted . Gold , in the figurative language of the people was " the tears wept by the sun , " 17 and every part of the interior of the temple glowed with burnished plates and studs of the precious metal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were of the same costly material ; and a broad belt or frieze of gold , let into the stonework , encompassed the whole exterior of the edifice.18 Adjoining the principal structure were several chapels of smaller dimensions . One of them was consecrated to the Moon , the deity held next in reverence , as the mother of the Incas . Her effigy was delineated in the same manner as that of the Sun , on a vast plate that nearly covered one side of the apartment . But this plate , as well as all the decorations of the building , was of silver , as suited to the pale , silvery light of the beautiful planet . There were three other chapels , one of which was dedicated to the host of Stars , who formed the bright court of the Sister of the Sun ; another was consecrated to his dread ministers of vengeance , the Thunder and the Lightning ; and a third , to the Rainbow , whose many-colored arch spanned the walls of the edifice with hues almost as radiant as its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apartments , for the accommodation of the numerous priests who officiated in the services of the temple.19 All the plate , the ornaments , the utensils of every description , appropriated to the uses of religion , were of gold or silver . Twelve immense vases of the latter metal stood on the floor of the great saloon , filled with grain of the Indian corn ; 20 the censers for the perfumes , the ewers which held the water for sacrifice , the pipes which conducted it through subterraneous channels into the buildings , the reservoirs that received it , even the agricultural implements used in the gardens of the temple , were all of the same rich materials . The gardens , like those described , belonging to the royal palaces , sparkled with flowers of gold and silver , and various imitations of the vegetable kingdom . Animals , also , were to be found there ,  --  among which the llama , with its golden fleece , was most conspicuous ,  --  executed in the same style , and with a degree of skill , which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excellence of the material.21 If the reader sees in this fairy picture only the romantic coloring of some fabulous El Dorado , he must recall what has been said before in reference to the palaces of the Incas , and consider that these " Houses of the Sun , " as they were styled , were the common reservoir into which flowed all the streams of public and private benefaction throughout the empire . Some of the statements , through credulity , and others , in the desire of exciting admiration , may be greatly exaggerated ; but , in the coincidence of contemporary testimony , it is not easy to determine the exact line which should mark the measure of our skepticism . Certain it is , that the glowing picture I have given is warranted by those who saw these buildings in their pride , or shortly after they had been despoiled by the cupidity of their countrymen . Many of the costly articles were buried by the natives , or thrown into the waters of the rivers and the lakes ; but enough remained to attest the unprecedented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their nature portable were speedily removed , to gratify the craving of the Conquerors , who even tore away the solid cornices and frieze of gold from the great temple , filling the vacant places with the cheaper , but  --  since it affords no temptation to avarice  --  more durable , material of plaster . Yet even thus shorn of their splendor , the venerable edifices still presented an attraction to the spoiler , who found in their dilapidated walls an inexhaustable quarry for the erection of other buildings . On the very ground once crowned by the gorgeous Coricancha rose the stately church of St. Dominic , one of the most magnificent structures of the New World . Fields of maize and lucerne now bloom on the spot which glowed with the golden gardens of the temple ; and the friar chants his orisons within the consecrated precincts once occupied by the Children of the Sun.22 Besides the great temple of the Sun , there was a large number of inferior temples and religious houses in the Peruvian capital and its environs , amounting , as is stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanctified spot , venerated not only as the abode of the Incas , but of all those deities who presided over the motley nations of the empire . It was the city beloved of the Sun ; where his worship was maintained in its splendor ; " where every fountain , pathway , and wall , " says an ancient chronicler , " was regarded as a holy mystery . " 24 And unfortunate was the Indian noble who , at some period or other of his life , had not made his pilgrimage to the Peruvian Mecca . Other temples and religious dwellings were scattered over the provinces ; and some of them constructed on a scale of magnificence , that almost rivalled that of the metropolis . The attendants on these composed an army of themselves . The whole number of functionaries , including those of the sacerdotal order , who officiated at the Coricancha alone , was no less than four thousand.25 At the head of all , both here and throughout the land , stood the great High-Priest , or Villac Vmu , as he was called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and was usually chosen from his brothers or nearest kindred . He was appointed by the monarch , and held his office for life ; and he , in turn , appointed to all the subordinate stations of his own order . This order was very numerous . Those members of it who officiated in the House of the Sun , in Cuzco , were taken exclusively from the sacred race of the Incas . The ministers in the provincial temples were drawn from the families of the curacas ; but the office of high-priest in each district was reserved for one of the blood royal . It was designed by this regulation to preserve the faith in its purity , and to guard against any departure from the stately ceremonial which it punctiliously prescribed.26 The sacerdotal order , though numerous , was not distinguished by any peculiar badge or costume from the rest of the nation . Neither was it the sole depository of the scanty science of the country , nor was it charged with the business of instruction , nor with those parochial duties , if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact with the great body of the people ,  --  as was the case in Mexico . The cause of this peculiarity may probably be traced to the existence of a superior order , like that of the Inca nobles , whose sanctity of birth so far transcended all human appointments , that they in a manner engrossed whatever there was of religious veneration in the people . They were , in fact , the holy order of the state . Doubtless , any of them might , as very many of them did , take on themselves the sacerdotal functions ; and their own insignia and peculiar privileges were too well understood to require any further badge to separate them from the people . The duties of the priest were confined to ministration in the temple . Even here his attendance was not constant , as he was relieved after a stated interval by other brethren of his order , who succeeded one another in regular rotation . His science was limited to an acquaintance with the fasts and festivals of his religion , and the appropriate ceremonies which distinguished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was no easy acquisition ; for the ritual of the Incas involved a routine of observances , as complex and elaborate as ever distinguished that of any nation , whether pagan or Christian . Each month had its appropriate festival , or rather festivals . The four principal had reference to the Sun , and commemorated the great periods of his annual progress , the solstices and equinoxes . Perhaps the most magnificent of all the national solemnities was the feast of Raymi , held at the period of the summer solstice , when the Sun , having touched the southern extremity of his course , retraced his path , as if to gladden the hearts of his chosen people by his presence . On this occasion , the Indian nobles from the different quarters of the country thronged to the capital to take part in the great religious celebration . For three days previous , there was a general fast , and no fire was allowed to be lighted in the dwellings . When the appointed day arrived , the Inca and his court , followed by the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great square to greet the rising of the Sun . They were dressed in their gayest apparel , and the Indian lords vied with each other in the display of costly ornaments and jewels on their persons , while canopies of gaudy feather-work and richly tinted stuffs , borne by the attendants over their heads , gave to the great square , and the streets that emptied into it , the appearance of being spread over with one vast and magnificent awning . Eagerly they watched the coming of their deity , and , no sooner did his first yellow rays strike the turrets and loftiest buildings of the capital , than a shout of gratulation broke forth from the assembled multitude , accompanied by songs of triumph , and the wild melody of barbaric instruments , that swelled louder and louder as his bright orb , rising above the mountain range towards the east , shone in full splendor on his votaries . After the usual ceremonies of adoration , a libation was offered to the great deity by the Inca , from a huge golden vase , filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , after the monarch had tasted it himself , he dispensed among his royal kindred . These ceremonies completed , the vast assembly was arranged in order of procession , and took its way towards the Coricancha.27 As they entered the street of the sacred edifice , all divested themselves of their sandals , except the Inca and his family , who did the same on passing through the portals of the temple , where none but these august personages were admitted.28 After a decent time spent in devotion , the sovereign , attended by his courtly train , again appeared , and preparations were made to commence the sacrifice . This , with the Peruvians , consisted of animals , grain , flowers , and sweet-scented gums ; sometimes of human beings , on which occasions a child or beautiful maiden was usually selected as the victim . But such sacrifices were rare , being reserved to celebrate some great public event , as a coronation , the birth of a royal heir , or a great victory . They were never followed by those cannibal repasts familiar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquered by the Incas . Indeed , the conquests of these princes might well be deemed a blessing to the Indian nations , if it were only from their suppression of cannibalism , and the diminution , under their rule , of human sacrifices.29 At the feast of Raymi , the sacrifice usually offered was that of the llama ; and the priest , after opening the body of his victim , sought in the appearances which it exhibited to read the lesson of the mysterious future . If the auguries were unpropitious , a second victim was slaughtered , in the hope of receiving some more comfortable assurance . The Peruvian augur might have learned a good lesson of the Roman ,  --  to consider every omen as favorable , which served the interests of his country.30 A fire was then kindled by means of a concave mirror of polished metal , which , collecting the rays of the sun into a focus upon a quantity of dried cotton , speedily set it on fire . It was the expedient used on the like occasions in ancient Rome , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sky was overcast , and the face of the good deity was hidden from his worshippers , which was esteemed a bad omen , fire was obtained by means of friction . The sacred flame was intrusted to the care of the Virgins of the Sun , and if , by any neglect , it was suffered to go out in the course of the year , the event was regarded as a calamity that boded some strange disaster to the monarchy.31 A burnt offering of the victims was then made on the altars of the deity . This sacrifice was but the prelude to the slaughter of a great number of llamas , part of the flocks of the Sun , which furnished a banquet not only for the Inca and his Court , but for the people , who made amends at these festivals for the frugal fare to which they were usually condemned . A fine bread or cake , kneaded of maize flour by the fair hands of the Virgins of the Sun , was also placed on the royal board , where the Inca , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generous goblets of the fermented liquor of the country , and the long revelry of the day was closed at night by music and dancing . Dancing and drinking were the favorite pastimes of the Peruvians . These amusements continued for several days , though the sacrifices terminated on the first .  --  Such was the great festival of Raymi ; and the recurrence of this and similar festivities gave relief to the monotonous routine of toil prescribed to the lower orders of the community.32 In the distribution of bread and wine at this high festival , the orthodox Spaniards , who first came into the country , saw a striking resemblance to the Christian communion ; 33 as in the practice of confession and penance , which , in a most irregular form , indeed , seems to have been used by the Peruvians , they discerned a coincidence with another of the sacraments of the Church.34 The good fathers were fond of tracing such coincidences , which they considered as the contrivance of Satan , who thus endeavored to delude his victims by counterfeiting the blessed rites of Christianity.35 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw in such analogies the evidence , that some of the primitive teachers of the Gospel , perhaps an apostle himself , had paid a visit to these distant regions , and scattered over them the seeds of religious truth.36 But it seems hardly necessary to invoke the Prince of Darkness , or the intervention of the blessed saints , to account for coincidences which have existed in countries far removed from the light of Christianity , and in ages , indeed , when its light had not yet risen on the world . It is much more reasonable to refer such casual points of resemblance to the general constitution of man , and the necessities of his moral nature.37 Another singular analogy with Roman Catholic institutions is presented by the Virgins of the Sun , the " elect , " as they were called , 38 to whom I have already had occasion to refer . These were young maidens , dedicated to the service of the deity , who , at a tender age , were taken from their homes , and introduced into convents , where they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who had grown grey within their walls.39 Under these venerable guides , the holy virgins were instructed in the nature of their religious duties . They were employed in spinning and embroidery , and , with the fine hair of the vicuna wove the hangings for the temples , and the apparel for the Inca and his household.40 It was their duty , above all , to watch over the sacred fire obtained at the festival of Raymi . From the moment they entered the establishment , they were cut off from all connection with the world , even with their own family and friends . No one but the Inca , and the Coya or queen , might enter the consecrated precincts . The greatest attention was paid to their morals , and visitors were sent every year to inspect the institutions , and to report on the state of their discipline.41 Woe to the unhappy maiden who was detected in an intrigue ! By the stern law of the Incas , she was to be buried alive , her lover was to be strangled , and the town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the ground , and " sowed with stones , " as if to efface every memorial of his existence.42 One is astonished to find so close a resemblance between the institutions of the American Indian , the ancient Roman , and the modern Catholic ! Chastity and purity of life are virtues in woman , that would seem to be of equal estimation with the barbarian and with the civilized .  --  Yet the ultimate destination of the inmates of these religious houses was materially different . The great establishment at Cuzco consisted wholly of maidens of the royal blood , who amounted , it is said , to no less than fifteen hundred . The provincial convents were supplied from the daughters of the curacas and inferior nobles , and , occasionally , where a girl was recommended by great personal attractions , from the lower classes of the people.43 The " Houses of the Virgins of the Sun " consisted of low ranges of stone buildings , covering a large extent of ground , surrounded by high walls , which excluded those within entirely from observation . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were embellished in the same sumptuous and costly manner as the palaces of the Incas , and the temples ; for they received the particular care of government , as an important part of the religious establishment.44 Yet the career of all the inhabitants of these cloisters was not confined within their narrow walls . Though Virgins of the Sun , they were brides of the Inca , and , at a marriageable age , the most beautiful among them were selected for the honors of his bed , and transferred to the royal seraglio . The full complement of this amounted in time not only to hundreds , but thousands , who all found accommodations in his different palaces throughout the country . When the monarch was disposed to lessen the number of his establishment , the concubine with whose society he was willing to dispense returned , not to her former monastic residence , but to her own home ; where , however humble might be her original condition , she was maintained in great state , and , far from being dishonored by the situation she had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's bride.45 The great nobles of Peru were allowed , like their sovereign , a plurality of wives . The people , generally , whether by law , or by necessity stronger than law , were more happily limited to one . Marriage was conducted in a manner that gave it quite as original a character as belonged to the other institutions of the country . On an appointed day of the year , all those of a marriageable age  --  which , having reference to their ability to take charge of a family , in the males was fixed at not less than twentyfour years , and in the women at eighteen or twenty  --  were called together in the great squares of their respective towns and villages , throughout the empire . The Inca presided in person over the assembly of his own kindred , and taking the hands of the different couples who were to be united , he placed them within each other , declaring the parties man and wife . The same was done by the curacas towards all persons of their own or inferior degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of marriage in Peru . No one was allowed to select a wife beyond the community to which he belonged , which generally comprehended all his own kindred ; 46 nor was any but the sovereign authorized to dispense with the law of nature  --  or at least , the usual law of nations  --  so far as to marry his own sister.47 No marriage was esteemed valid without the consent of the parents ; and the preference of the parties , it is said , was also to be consulted ; though , considering the barriers imposed by the prescribed age of the candidates , this must have been within rather narrow and whimsical limits . A dwelling was got ready for the new-married pair at the charge of the district , and the prescribed portion of land assigned for their maintenance . The law of Peru provided for the future , as well as for the present . It left nothing to chance .  --  The simple ceremony of marriage was followed by general festivities among the friends of the parties , which lasted several days ; and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as there were few families who had not someone of their members or their kindred personally interested , there was one universal bridal jubilee throughout the empire.48 The extraordinary regulations respecting marriage under the Incas are , eminently characteristic of the genius of the government ; which , far from limiting itself to matters of public concern , penetrated into the most private recesses of domestic life , allowing no man , however humble , to act for himself , even in those personal matters in which none but himself , or his family at most , might be supposed to be interested . No Peruvian was too low for the fostering vigilance of government . None was so high that he was not made to feel his dependence upon it in every act of his life . His very existence as an individual was absorbed in that of the community . His hopes and his fears , his joys and his sorrows , the tenderest sympathies of his nature , which would most naturally shrink from observation , were all to be regulated by law . He was not allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government of the Incas was the mildest ,  --  but the most searching of despotisms . Book 1 Chapter 4 Education  --  **28;0;TOOLONG  --  Aqueducts-Guano  - -  Important Esculents " Science was not intended for the people ; but for those of generous blood . Persons of low degree are only puffed up by it , and rendered vain and arrogant . Neither should such meddle with the affairs of government ; for this would bring high offices into disrepute , and cause detriment to the state.1 Such was the favorite maxim , often repeated , of Tupac Inca Yupanqui , one of the most renowned of the Peruvian sovereigns . It may seem strange that such a maxim should ever have been proclaimed in the New World , where popular institutions have beer established on a more extensive scale than was ever before witnessed ; where government rests wholly on the people ; and education  --  at least , in the great northern division of the continent  --  is mainly directed to qualify the people for the duties of government . Yet this maxim was strictly conformable to the genius of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its habitual policy ; since , while it watched with unwearied solicitude over its subjects , provided for their physical necessities , was mindful of their morals , and showed , throughout , the affectionate concern of a parent for his children , it yet regarded them only as children , who were never to emerge from the state of pupilage , to act or to think for themselves , but whose whole duty was comprehended in the obligation of implicit obedience . Such was the humiliating condition of the people under the Incas : while the numerous families of the blood royal enjoyed the benefit of all the light of education , which the civilization of the country could afford ; and , long after the Conquest , the spots continued to be pointed out where the seminaries had existed for their instruction . These were placed under the care of the amautas , or " wise men , " who engrossed the scanty stock of science  --  if science it could be called  --  possessed by the Peruvians , and who were the sole teachers of youth . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the instruction of the young nobility , his own kindred . Several of the Peruvian princes are said to have built their palaces in the neighborhood of the schools , in order that they might the more easily visit them and listen to the lectures of the amautas , which they occasionally reinforced by a homily of their own.2 In these schools , the royal pupils were instructed in all the different kinds of knowledge in which their teachers were versed , with especial reference to the stations they were to occupy in after-life . They studied the laws , and the principles of administering the government , in which many of them were to take part . They were initiated in the peculiar rites of their religion , most necessary to those who were to assume the sacerdotal functions . They learned also to emulate the achievements of their royal ancestors by listening to the chronicles compiled by the amautas . They were taught to speak their own dialect with purity and elegance ; and they became acquainted with the mysterious science of the quipus , which supplied the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another , and of transmitting them to future generations.3 The quipu was a cord about two feet long , composed of different colored threads tightly twisted together , from which a quantity of smaller threads were suspended in the manner of a fringe . The threads were of different colors and were tied into knots . The word quipu , indeed , signifies a knot . The colors denoted sensible objects ; as , for instance , white represented silver , and yellow , gold . They sometimes also stood for abstract ideas . Thus , white signified peace , and red , war . But the quipus were chiefly used for arithmetical purposes . The knots served instead of ciphers , and could be combined in such a manner as to represent numbers to any amount they required . By means of these they went through their calculations with great rapidity , and the Spaniards who first visited the country bear testimony to their accuracy.4 Officers were established in each of the districts , who , under the title of quipucamayus , Or " keepers of the quipus , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important matters . One had charge of the revenues , reported the quantity of raw material distributed among the laborers , the quality and quantity of the fabrics made from it , and the amount of stores , of various kinds , paid into the royal magazines . Another exhibited the register of births and deaths , the marriages , the number of those qualified to bear arms , and the like details in reference to the population of the kingdom . These returns were annually forwarded to the capital , where they were submitted to the inspection of officers acquainted with the art of deciphering these mystic records . The government was thus provided with a valuable mass of statistical information , and the skeins of many-colored threads , collected and carefully preserved , constituted what might be called the national archives.5 But , although the quipus sufficed for all the purposes of arithmetical computation demanded by the Peruvians , they were incompetent to represent the manifold ideas and images which are expressed by writing , Even here , however , the invention was not without its use . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even of abstract ideas , to a very limited extent , as above noticed , it afforded great help to the memory by way of association . The peculiar knot or color , in this way , suggested what it could not venture to represent ; in the same manner-to borrow the homely illustration of an old writer  --  as the number of the Commandment calls to mind the Commandment itself . The quipus , thus used , might be regarded as the Peruvian system of mnemonics . Annalists were appointed in each of the principal communities , whose business it was to record the most important events which occurred in them . Other functionaries of a higher character , usually the amautas , were intrusted with the history of the empire , and were selected to chronicle the great deeds of the reigning Inca , or of his ancestors.6 The narrative , thus concocted , could be communicated only by oral tradition ; but the quipus served the chronicler to arrange the incidents with method , and to refresh his memory . The story , once treasured up in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was repeated by the amauta to his pupils , and in this way history , conveyed partly by oral tradition , and partly by arbitrary signs , was handed down from generation to generation , with sufficient discrepancy of details , but with a general conformity of outline to the truth . The Peruvian quipus were , doubtless , a wretched substitute for that beautiful contrivance , the alphabet , which , employing a few simple characters as the representatives of sounds , instead of ideas , is able to convey the most delicate shades of thought that ever passed through the mind of man . The Peruvian invention , indeed , was far below that of the hieroglyphics , even below the rude picture-writing of the Aztecs ; for the latter art , however incompetent to convey abstract ideas , could depict sensible objects with tolerable accuracy . It is evidence of the total ignorance in which the two nations remained of each other , that the Peruvians should have borrowed nothing of the hieroglyphical system of the Mexicans , and this , notwithstanding that the existence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnished them with the very material used by the Aztecs for the construction of their maps.7 It is impossible to contemplate without interest the struggles made by different nations , as they emerge from barbarism , to supply themselves with some visible symbols of thought ,  --  that mysterious agency by which the mind of the individual may be put in communication with the minds of a whole community . The want of such a symbol is itself the greatest impediment to the progress of civilization . For what is it but to imprison the thought , which has the elements of immortality , within the bosom of its author , or of the small circle who come in contact with him , instead of sending it abroad to give light to thousands , and to generations yet unborn ! Not only is such a symbol an essential element of civilization , but it may be assumed as the very criterion of civilization ; for the intellectual advancement of a people will keep pace pretty nearly with its facilities for intellectual communication . Yet we must be careful not to underrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppose that the quipus were as awkward an instrument , in the hand of a practised native , as they would be in ours . We know the effect of habit in all mechanical operations , and the Spaniards bear constant testimony to the adroitness and accuracy of the Peruvians in this . Their skill is not more surprising than the facility with which habit enables us to master the contents of a printed page , comprehending thousands of separate characters , by a single glance , as it were , though each character must require a distinct recognition by the eye , and that , too , without breaking the chain of thought in the reader 's mind . We must not hold the invention of the quipus too lightly , when we reflect that they supplied the means of calculation demanded for the affairs of a great nation , and that , however insufficient , they afforded no little help to what aspired to the credit of literary composition . The office of recording the national annals was not wholly confined to the amautas . It was assumed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most brilliant incidents for their songs or ballads , which were chanted at the royal festivals and at the table of the Inca.8 In this manner , a body of traditional minstrelsy grew up , like the British and Spanish ballad poetry , by means of which the name of many a rude chieftain , that might have perished for want of a chronicler , has been borne down the tide of rustic melody to later generations . Yet history may be thought not to gain much by this alliance with poetry ; for the domain of the poet extends over an ideal realm peopled with the shadowy forms of fancy , that bear little resemblance to the rude realities of life . The Peruvian annals may be deemed to show somewhat of the effects of this union , since there is a tinge of the marvellous spread over them down to the very latest period , which , like a mist before the reader 's eye , makes it difficult to distinguish between fact and fiction . The poet found a convenient instrument for his purposes in the beautiful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken by the Incas for propagating their language throughout their empire . Thus naturalized in the remotest provinces , it became enriched by a variety of exotic words and idioms , which , under the influence of the Court and of poetic culture , if I may so express myself , was gradually blended , like some finished mosaic made up of coarse and disjointed materials , into one harmonious whole . The Quichua became the most comprehensive and various , as well as the most elegant , of the South American dialects.9 Besides the compositions already noticed , the Peruvians , it is said , showed some talent for theatrical exhibitions ; not those barren pantomimes which , addressed simply to the eye , have formed the amusement of more than one rude nation . The Peruvian pieces aspired to the rank of dramatic compositions , sustained by character and dialogue , founded sometimes on themes of tragic interest , and at others on such as , from their light and social character , belong to comedy.10 Of the execution of these pieces we have now no means of judging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unformed people . But , whatever may have been the execution , the mere conception of such an amusement is a proof of refinement that honorably distinguishes the Peruvian from the other American races , whose pastime was war , or the ferocious sports that reflect the image of it . The intellectual character of the Peruvians , indeed , seems to have been marked rather by a tendency to refinement than by those hardier qualities which insure success in the severer walks of science . In these they were behind several of the semi-civilized nations of the New World . They had some acquaintance with geography , so far as related to their own empire , which was indeed extensive ; and they constructed maps with lines raised on them to denote the boundaries and localities , on a similar principle with those formerly used by the blind . In astronomy , they appear to have made but moderate proficiency . They divided the year into twelve lunar months , each of which , having its own name , was distinguished by its appropriate festival.11 They had , also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nine , or ten days , is uncertain . As their lunar year would necessarily fall short of the true time , they rectified their calendar by solar observations made by means of a number of cylindrical columns raised on the high lands round Cuzco , which served them for taking azimuths ; and , by measuring their shadows , they ascertained the exact times of the solstices . The period of the equinoxes they determined by the help of a solitary pillar , or gnomon , placed in the centre of a circle , which was described in the area of the great temple , and traversed by a diameter that was drawn from east to west . When the shadows were scarcely visible under the noontide rays of the sun , they said that " the god sat with all his light upon the column . " 12 Quito which lay immediately under the equator , where the vertical rays of the sun threw no shadow at noon , was held in especial veneration as the favored abode of the great deity . The period of the equinoxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the golden chair of the Sun , and , both then and at the solstices , the columns were hung with garlands , and offerings of flowers and fruits were made , while high festival was kept throughout the empire . By these periods the Peruvians regulated their religious rites and ceremonial , and prescribed the nature of their agricultural labors . The year itself took its departure from the date of the winter solstice.13 This meagre account embraces nearly all that has come down to us of Peruvian astronomy . It may seem strange that a nation , which had proceeded thus far in its observations , should have gone no farther ; and that , notwithstanding its general advance in civilization , it should in this science have fallen so far short , not only of the Mexicans , but of the Muyscas , inhabiting the same elevated regions of the great southern plateau with themselves . These latter regulated their calendar on the same general plan of cycles and periodical series as the Aztecs , approaching yet nearer to the system pursued by the people of Asia.14 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boasted children of the Sun , would have made a particular study of the phenomena of the heavens , and have constructed a calendar on principles as scientific as that of their semi-civilized neighbors . One historian , indeed , assures us that they threw their years into cycles of ten , a hundred , and a thousand years , and that by these cycles they regulated their chronology.15 But this assertion  --  not improbable in itself  --  rests on a writer but little gifted with the spirit of criticism , and is counter-balanced by the silence of every higher and earlier authority , as well as by the absence of any monument , like those found among other American nations , to attest the existence of such a calendar . The inferiority of the Peruvians may be , perhaps , in part explained by the fact of their priesthood being drawn exclusively from the body of the Incas , a privileged order of nobility , who had no need , by the assumption of superior learning , to fence themselves round from the approaches of the vulgar . The little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a key to unlock the mysteries of the heavens , and the false system of astrology which he built upon it gave him credit as a being who had something of divinity in his own nature . But the Inca noble was divine by birth . The illusory study of astrology , so captivating to the unenlightened mind , engaged no share of his attention . The only persons in Peru , who claimed the power of reading the mysterious future , were the diviners , men who , combining with their pretensions some skill in the healing art , resembled the conjurors found among many of the Indian tribes . But the office was held in little repute , except among the lower classes , and was abandoned to those whose age and infirmity disqualified them for the real business of life.16 The Peruvians had knowledge of one or two constellations , and watched the motions of the planet Venus , to which , as we have seen , they dedicated altars . But their ignorance of the first principles of astronomical science is shown by their ideas of eclipses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the planet ; and when the moon labored under one of these mysterious infirmities , they sounded their instruments , and filled the air with shouts and lamentations , to rouse her from her lethargy . Such puerile conceits as these form a striking contrast with the real knowledge of the Mexicans , as displayed in their hieroglyphical maps , in which the true cause of this phenomenon is plainly depicted.17 But , if less successful in exploring the heavens , the Incas must be admitted to have surpassed every other American race in their dominion over the earth . Husbandry was pursued by them on principles that may be truly called scientific . It was the basis of their political institutions . Having no foreign commerce , it was agriculture that furnished them with the means of their internal exchanges , their subsistence , and their revenues . We have seen their remarkable provisions for distributing the land in equal shares among the people , while they required every man , except the privileged orders , to assist in its cultivation . The Inca himself did not disdain to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ festivals , he proceeded to the environs of Cuzco , attended by his Court , and , in the presence of all the people , turned up the earth with a golden plough ,  --  or an instrument that served as such ,  --  thus consecrating the occupation of the husbandman as one worthy to be followed by the Children of the Sun.18 The patronage of the government did not stop with this cheap display of royal condescension , but was shown in the most efficient measures for facilitating the labors of the husbandman . Much of the country along the sea-coast suffered from want of water , as little or no rain fell there , and the few streams , in their short and hurried course from the mountains , exerted only a very limited influence on the wide extent of territory . The soil , it is true , was , for the most part , sandy and sterile ; but many places were capable of being reclaimed , and , indeed , needed only to be properly irrigated to be susceptible of extraordinary production . To these spots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , executed on a noble scale . They consisted of large slabs of freestone nicely fitted together without cement , and discharged a volume of water sufficient , by means of latent ducts or sluices , to moisten the lands in the lower level , through which they passed . Some of these aqueducts were of great length . One that traversed the district of Condesuyu measured between four and five hundred miles . They were brought from some elevated lake or natural reservoir in the heart of the mountains , and were fed at intervals by other basins which lay in their route along the slopes of the sierra . In this descent , a passage was sometimes to be opened through rocks ,  --  and this without the aid of iron tools ; impracticable mountains were to be turned ; rivers and marshes to be crossed ; in short , the same obstacles were to be encountered as in the construction of their mighty roads . But the Peruvians seemed to take pleasure in wrestling with the difficulties of nature . Near Caxamarca , a tunnel is still visible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outlet to the waters of a lake , when these rose to a height in the rainy season that threatened the country with inundation.19 Most of these beneficent works of the Incas were suffered to go to decay by their Spanish conquerors . In some spots , the waters are still left to flow in their silent , subterraneous channels , whose windings and whose sources have been alike unexplored . Others , though partially dilapidated , and closed up with rubbish and the rank vegetation of the soil , still betray their course by occasional patches of fertility . Such are the remains in the valley of Nasca , a fruitful spot that lies between long tracts of desert ; where the ancient water-courses of the Incas , measuring four or five feet in depth by three in width , and formed of large blocks of uncemented masonry , are conducted from an unknown distance . The greatest care was taken that every occupant of the land through which these streams passed should enjoy the benefit of them . The quantity of water alloted to each was prescribed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw that it was faithfully applied to the irrigation of the ground.20 The Peruvians showed a similar spirit of enterprise in their schemes for introducing cultivation into the mountainous parts of their domain . Many of the hills , though covered with a strong soil , were too precipitous to be tilled . These they cut into terraces , faced with rough stone , diminishing in regular gradation towards the summit ; so that , while the lower strip , or anden , as it was called by the Spaniards , that belted round the base of the mountain , might comprehend hundreds of acres , the upper-most was only large enough to accommodate a few rows of Indian corn.21 Some of the eminences presented such a mess of solid rock , that , after being hewn into terraces , they were obliged to be covered deep with earth , before they could serve the purpose of the husbandman . With such patient toil did the Peruvians combat the formidable obstacles presented by the face of their country ! Without the use of tools or the machinery familiar to the European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in large masses , and under a common direction , they were enabled by indefatigable perseverance to achieve results , to have attempted which might have filled even the European with dismay.22 In the same spirit of economical husbandry which redeemed the rocky sierra from the curse of sterility , they dug below the arid soil of the valleys , and sought for a stratum where some natural moisture might be found . These excavations , called by the Spaniards hoyas , or " pits , " were made on a great scale , comprehending frequently more than an acre , sunk to the depth of fifteen or twenty feet , and fenced round within by a wall of adobes , or bricks baked in the sun . The bottom of the excavation , well prepared by a rich manure of the sardines ,  --  a small fish obtained in vast quantities along the coast ,  --  was planted with some kind or grain or vegetable.23 The Peruvian farmers were well acquainted with the different kinds of manures , and made large use of them ; a circumstance rare in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practised by the rude tribes of America . They made great use of guano , the valuable deposit of sea-fowl , that has attracted so much attention , of late , from the agriculturists both of Europe and of our own country , and the stimulating and nutritious properties of which the Indians perfectly appreciated . This was found in such immense quantities on many of the little islands along the coast , as to have the appeaarnce of lofty hills , which , covered with a white saline incrustation , led the Conquerors to give them the name of the sierra nevada , or " snowy mountains . " The Incas took their usual precautions for securing the benefits of this important article to the husbandman . They assigned the small islands on the coast to the use of the respective districts which lay adjacent to them . When the island was large , it was distributed among several districts , and the boundaries for each were clearly defined . All encroachment on the rights of another was severely punished . And they secured the preservation of the fowl by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of England protected their own game . No one was allowed to set foot on the island during the season for breeding , under pain of death ; and to kill the birds at any time was punished in the like manner.24 With this advancement in agricultural science , the Peruvians might be supposed to have had some knowledge of the plough , in such general use among the primitive nations of the eastern continent . But they had neither the iron ploughshare of the Old World , nor had they animals for . draught , which , indeed , were nowhere found in the New . The instrument which they used was a strong , sharp-pointed stake , traversed by a horizontal piece , ten or twelve inches from the point , on which the ploughman might set his foot and force it into the ground . Six or eight strong men were attached by ropes to the stake , and dragged it forcibly along ,  --  pulling together , and keeping time as they moved by chanting their national songs , in which they were accompanied by the women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their rakes . The mellow soil offered slight resistance ; and the laborer. , by long practice , acquired a dexterity which enabled him to turn up the ground to the requisite depth with astonishing facility . This substitute for the plough was but a clumsy contrivance ; yet it is curious as the only specimen of the kind among the American aborigines , and was perhaps not much inferior to the wooden instrument introduced in its stead by the European conquerors .25 It was frequently the policy of the Incas , after providing a deserted tract with the means for irrigation , and thus fitting it for the labors of the husbandman , to transplant there a colony of mitimaes , who brought it under cultivation by raising the crops best suited to the soil . While the peculiar character and capacity of the lands were thus consulted , a means of exchange of the different products was afforded to the neighboring provinces , which , from the formation of the country , varied much more than usual within the same limits . To facilitate these agricultural exchanges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month in some of the most populous places , where , as money was unknown , a rude kind of commerce was kept up by the barter of their respective products . These fairs afforded so many holidays for the relaxation of the industrious laborer.26 Such were the expedients adopted by the Incas for the improvement of their territory ; and , although imperfect , they must be allowed to show an acquaintance with the principles of agricultural science , that gives them some claim to the rank of a civilized people . Under their patient and discriminating culture , every inch of good soil was tasked to its greatest power of production ; while the most-unpromising spots were compelled to contribute something to the subsistence of the people . Everywhere the land teemed with evidence of agricultural wealth , from the smiling valleys along the coast to the terraced steeps of the sierra , which , rising into pyramids of verdure , glowed with all the splendors of tropical vegetation . The formation of the country was particularly favorable , as already remarked , to an infinite variety of products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various elevations , which , more remarkable , even , than those in Mexico , comprehend every degree of latitude from the equator to the polar regions . Yet , though the temperature changes in this region with the degree of elevation , it remains nearly the same in the same spots throughout the year ; and the inhabitant feels none of those grateful vicissitudes of season which belong to the temperate latitudes of the globe . Thus , while the summer lies in full power on the burning regions of the palm and the cocoa-tree that fringe the borders of the ocean , the broad surface of the table-land blooms with the freshness of perpetual spring , and the higher summits of the Cordilleras are white with everlasting winter . The Peruvians turned this fixed variety of climate , if I may so say , to the best account by cultivating the productions appropriate to each ; and they particularly directed their attention to those which afforded the most nutriment to man . Thus , in the lower level were to be found the cassavatree and the banana , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the primeval curse  --  if it were not rather a blessing  --  of toiling for his sustenance.27 As the banana faded from the landscape , a good substitute was found in the maize , the great agricultural staple of both the northern and southern divisions of the American continent ; and which , after its exportation to the Old World , spread so rapidly there , as to suggest the idea of its being indigenous to it.28 The Peruvians were well acquainted with the different modes of preparing this useful vegetable , though it seems they did not use it for bread , except at festivals ; and they extracted a sort of honey from the stalk , and made an intoxicating liquor from the fermented grain , to which , like the Aztecs , they were immoderately addicted.29 The temperate climate of the table-land furnished them with the maguey , agave Americana , many of the extraordinary qualities of which they comprehended , though not its most important one of affording a material for paper . Tobacco , too , was among the products of this elevated region . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was known , by using it only for medicinal purposes , in the form of snuff.30 They may have found a substitute for its narcotic qualities in the coco ( Erythroxylum Peruvianurn ) , or cuca , as called by the natives . This is a shrub which grows to the height of a man . The leaves when gathered are dried in the sun , and , being mixed with a little lime , form a preparation for chewing , much like the betel-leaf of the East.31 With a small supply of this cuca in his pouch , and a handful of roasted maize , the Peruvian Indian of our time performs his wearisome journeys , day , after day , without fatigue , or , at least , without complaint . Even food the most invigorating is less grateful to him than his loved narcotic . Under the Incas , it is said to have been exclusively reserved for the noble orders . If so , the people gained one luxury by the Conquest ; and , after that period , it was so extensively used by them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colonial revenue of Spain.32 Yet , with the soothing charms of an opiate , this weed so much vaunted by the natives , when used to excess , is said to be attended with all the mischievous effects of habitual intoxication.33 Higher up on the slopes of the Cordilleras , beyond the limits of the maize and of the quinoa ,  --  a grain bearing some resemblance to rice , and largely cultivated by the Indians ,  --  was to be found the potato , the introduction of which into Europe has made an era in the history of agriculture . Whether indigenous to Peru , or imported from the neighboring country of Chili , it formed the great staple of the more elevated plains , under the Incas , and its culture was continued to a height in the equatorial regions which reached many thousand feet above the limits of perpetual snow in the temperate latitudes of Europe.34 Wild specimens of the vegetable might be seen still higher , springing up spontaneously amidst the stunted shrubs that clothed the lofty sides of the Cordilleras till these gradually subsided into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , like a golden carpet , was unrolled around the base of the mighty cones , that rose far into the regions of eternal silence , covered with the snows of centuries.35 Book 1 Chapter 5 Peruvian Sheep  --  Great Hunts  --  Manufactures  --  Mechanical Skill  - -  Architecture  --  Concluding Reflections A Nation which had made such progress in agriculture might be reasonably expected to have made , also , some proficiency in the mechanical arts  --  especially when , as in the case of the Peruvians , their agricultural economy demanded in itself no inconsiderable degree of mechanical skill . Among most nations , progress in manufactures has been found to have an intimate connection with the progress of husbandry . Both arts are directed to the same great object of supplying the necessaries , the comforts , or , in a more refined condition of society , the luxuries of life ; and when the one is brought to a perfection that infers a certain advance in civilization , the other must naturally find a corresponding development under the increasing demands and capacities of such a state . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devotion to the more humble occupations of industry which bound them to their native soil , bore greater resemblance to the Oriental nations , as the Hindoos and Chinese , than they bore to the members of the great Anglo-Saxon family whose hardy temper has driven them to seek their fortunes on the stormy ocean , and to open a commerce with the most distant regions of the globe . The Peruvians , though lining a long extent of sea-coast , had no foreign commerce . They had peculiar advantages for domestic manufacture in a material incomparably superior to anything possessed by the other races of the Western continent . They found a good substitute for linen in a fabric which , like the Aztecs , they knew how to weave from the tough thread of the maguey . Cotton grew luxuriantly on the low , sultry level of the coast , and furnished them with a clothing suitable to the milder latitudes of the country . But from the llama and the kindred species of Peruvian sheep they obtained a fleece adapted to the colder climate of the tableand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a well-informed writer , " than the down of the Canadian beaver , the fleece of the brebis des Calmoucks , or of the Syrian goat . " 1 Of the four varieties of the Peruvian sheep , the llama , the one most familiarly known , is the least valuable on account of its wool . It is chiefly employed as a beast of burden , for which , although it is somewhat larger than any of the other varieties , its diminutive size and strength would seem to disqualify it . It carries a load of little more than a hundred pounds , and can not travel above three or four leagues in a day . But all this is compensated by the little care and cost required for its management and its maintenance . It picks up an easy subsistence from the moss and stunted herbage that grow scantily along the withered sides and the steeps of the Cordilleras . The structure of its stomach , like that of the camel , is such as to enable it to dispense with any supply of water for weeks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a claw or pointed talon to enable it to take secure hold on the ice , never requires to be shod ; and the load laid upon its back rests securely in its bed of wool , without the aid of girth or saddle . The llamas move in troops of five hundred or even a thousand , and thus , though each individual carries but little , the aggregate is considerable . The whole caravan travels on at its regular pace , passing the night in the open air without suffering from the coldest temperature , and marching in perfect order , and in obedience to the voice of the driver . It is only when overloaded that the spirited little animal refuses to stir , and neither blows nor caresses can induce him to rise from the ground . He is as sturdy in asserting his rights on this occasion , as he is usually docile and unresisting.2 The employment of domestic animals distinguished the Peruvians from the other races of the New World . This economy of human labor by the substitution of the brute is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained by the substitution of machinery for both . Yet the ancient Peruvians seem to have made much less account of it than their Spanish conquerors , and to have valued the llama , in common with the other animals of that genus , chiefly for its fleece . Immense herds of these " large cattle , " as they were called , and of the " smaller cattle , " 3 or alpacas , were held by the government , as already noticed , and placed under the direction of shepherds , who conducted them from one quarter of the country to another , according to the changes of the season . These migrations were regulated with all the precision with which the code of the mesta determined the migrations of the vast merino flocks in Spain ; and the Conquerors , when they landed in Peru , were amazed at finding a race of animals so similar to their own in properties and habits , and under the control of a system of legislation which might seem to have been imported from their native land.4 But the richest store @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but from the two other species , the huanacos and the vicunas , which roamed in native freedom over the frozen ranges of the Cordilleras ; where not unfrequently they might be seen scaling the snow-covered peaks which no living thing inhabits save the condor , the huge bird of the Andes , whose broad pinions bear him up in the atmosphere to the height of more than twenty thousand feet above the level of the sea.5 In these rugged pastures , " the flock without a fold " finds sufficient sustenance in the ychu , a species of grass which is found scattered all along the great ridge of the Cordilleras , from the equator to the southern limits of Patagonia . And as these limits define the territory traversed by the Peruvian sheep , which rarely , if ever , venture north of the line , it seems not improbable that this mysterious little plant is so important to their existence , that the absence of it is the principal reason why they have not penetrated to the northern latitudes of Quito and New Granada.6 But , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cordilleras , the Peruvian peasant was never allowed to hunt these wild animals , which were protected by laws as severe as were the sleek herds that grazed on the more cultivated slopes of the plateau . The wild game of the forest and the mountain was as much the property of the government , as if it had been inclosed within a park , or penned within a fold.7 It was only on stated occasions , at the great hunts , which took place once a year , under the personal superintendence of the Inca or his principal officers , that the game was allowed to be taken . These hunts . were not repeated in the same quarter of the country oftener than once . in four years , that time might be allowed for the waste occasioned by them to be replenished . At the appointed time , all those living in the district and its neighborhood , to the number , it might be , of fifty or sixty thousand men , 8 were distributed round , so as to form a cordon of immense extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be hunted over . The men were armed with long poles and spears , with which they beat up game of every description lurking in the woods , the valleys , and the mountains , killing the beasts of prey without mercy , and driving the others , consisting chiefly of the deer of the country , and the huanacos and vicunas , towards the centre of the wide-extended circle ; until , as this gradually contracted , the timid inhabitants of the forest were concentrated on some spacious plain , where the eye of the hunter might range freely over his victims , who found no place for shelter or escape . The male deer and some of the coarser kind of the Peruvian sheep were slaughtered ; their skins were reserved for the various useful manufactures to which they are ordinarily applied , and their flesh , cut into thin slices , was distributed among the people , who converted it into charqui , the dried meat of the country , which constituted then the sole , as it has since the principal , animal food of the lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , amounting usually to thirty or forty thousand , or even a larger number , after being carefully sheared , were suffered to escape and regain their solitary haunts among the mountains . The wool thus collected was deposited in the royal magazines , whence , in due time , it was dealt out to the people . The coarser quality was worked up into garments for their own use , and the finer for the Inca ; for none but an Inca noble could wear the fine fabric of the vicuna.10 The Peruvians showed great skill in the manufacture of different articles for the royal household from this delicate material , which , under the name of vigonia wool , is now familiar to the looms of Europe . It was wrought into shawls , robes , and other articles of dress for the monarch , and into carpets , coverlets , and hangings for the imperial palaces and the temples . The cloth was finished on both sides alike ; 11 the delicacy of the texture was such as to give it the lustre of silk ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the European artisan.12 The Peruvians produced also an article of great strength and durability by mixing the hair of animals with wool ; and they were expert in the beautiful feather-work , which they held of less account than the Mexicans from the superior quality of the materials for other fabrics , which they had at their command.13 The natives showed a skill in other mechanical arts similar to that displayed by their manufactures of cloth . Every man in Peru was expected to be acquainted with the various handicrafts essential to domestic comfort . No long apprenticeship was required for this , where the wants were so few as among the simple peasantry of the Incas . But , if this were all , it would imply but a very moderate advancement in the arts . There were certain individuals , however , carefully trained to those occupations which minister to the demands of the more opulent classes of society . These occupations , like every other calling and office in Peru , always descended from father to son.14 The division of castes , in this particular , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If this arrangement be unfavorable to originality , or to the development of the peculiar talent of the individual , it at least conduces to an easy and finished execution by familiarizing the artist with the practice of his art from childhood.15 The royal magazines and the huacas or tombs of the Incas have been found to contain many specimens of curious and elaborate workmanship . Among these are vases of gold and silver , bracelets , collars , and other ornaments for the person ; utensils of every description , some of fine clay , and many more of copper ; mirrors of a hard , polished stone , or burnished silver , with a great variety of other articles made frequently on a whimsical pattern , evincing quite as much ingenuity as taste or inventive talent.16 The character of the Peruvian mind led to imitation , in fact , rather than invention , to delicacy and minuteness of finish , rather than to boldness or beauty of design . That they should have accomplished these difficult works with such tools as they possessed , is truly wonderful . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substances , both of which they did emeralds and other precious stones , is not easy to explain . Emeralds they obtained in considerable quantity from the barren district of Atacames , and this inflexible material seems to have been almost as ductile in the hands of the Peruvian artist as if it had been made of clay.17 Yet the natives were unacquainted with the use of iron , though the soil was largely impregnated with it.18 The tools used were of stone , or more frequently of copper . But the material on which they relied for the execution of their most difficult tasks was formed by combining a very small portion of tin with copper.19 This composition gave a hardness to the metal which seems to have been little inferior to that of steel . With the aid of it , not only did the Peruvian artisan hew into shape porphyry and granite , but by his patient industry accomplished works which the European would not have ventured to undertake . Among the remains of the monuments of Cannar may be seen movable rings in the muzzles of animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is worthy of remark , that the Egyptians , the Mexicans , and the Peruvians , in their progress towards civilization , should never have detected the use of iron , which lay around them in abundance ; and that they should each , without any knowledge of the other , have found a substitute for it in such a curious composition of metals as gave to their tools almost the temper of steel ; 21 a secret that has been lost  --  or , to speak more correctly , has never been discovered-by the civilized European . I have already spoken of the large quantity of gold and silver wrought into various articles of elegance and utility for the Incas ; though the amount was inconsiderable , in comparison with what could have been afforded by the mineral riches of the land , and with what has since been obtained by the more sagacious and unscrupulous cupidity of the white . man . Gold was gathered by the Incas from the deposits of the streams . They extracted the ore also in considerable quantities from the valley of Curimayo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ places ; and the silver mines of Porco , in particular , yielded them considerable returns . Yet they did not attempt to penetrate into the bowels of the earth ' by sinking a shaft , but simply excavated a cavern in the steep sides of the mountain , or , at most , opened a horizonal vein of moderate depth . They were equally deficient in the knowledge of the best means of detaching the precious metal from the dross with which it was united , and had no idea of the virtues of quicksilver ,  --  a mineral not rare in Peru , as an amalgam to effect this decomposition.22 Their method of smelting the ore was by means of furnaces built in elevated and exposed situations , where they might be fanned by the strong breezes of the mountains . The subjects of the Incas , in short , with all their patient perseverance , did little more than penetrate below the crust , the outer rind , as it were , formed over those golden caverns which lie hidden in the dark depths of the Andes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate for all their demands . For they were not a commercial people , and had no knowledge of money.23 In this they differed from the ancient Mexicans , who had an established currency of a determinate value . In one respect , however , they were superior to their American rivals , since they made use of weights to determine the quantity of their commodities , a thing wholly unknown to the Aztecs . This fact is ascertained by the discovery of silver balances , adjusted with perfect accuracy , in some of the tombs of the Incas.24 But the surest test of the civilization of a people  --  at least , as sure as any  - -  afforded by mechanical art is to be found in their architecture , which presents so noble a field for the display of the grand and the beautiful , and which , at the same time , is so intimately connected with the essential comforts of life . There is no object on which the resources of the wealthy are more freely lavished , or which calls out more effectually the inventive talent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual genius in creations of surpassing excellence , but it is the great monuments of architectural taste and magnificence that are stamped in a peculiar manner by the genius of the nation . The Greek , the Egyptian , the Saracen , the Gothic ,  --  what a key do their respective styles afford to the character and condition of the people ! The monuments of China , of Hindostan , and of Central America are all indicative of an immature period , in which the imagination has not been disciplined by study , and which , therefore , in its best results , betrays only the illregulated aspirations after the beautiful , that belong to a semi-civilized people . The Peruvian architecture , bearing also the general characteristics of an imperfect state of refinement , had still its peculiar character ; and so uniform was that character , that the edifices throughout the country seem to have been all cast in the same mould.25 They were usually built of porphyry or granite ; not unfrequently of brick . This , which was formed into blocks or squares of much larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth mixed up with reeds or tough grass , and acquired a degree of hardness with age that made it insensible alike to the storms and the more trying sun of the tropics.26 The walls were of great thickness , but low , seldom reaching to more than twelve or fourteen feet in height . It is rare to meet with accounts of a building that rose to a second story.27 The apartments had no communication with one another , but usually opened into a court ; and , as they were unprovided with windows , or apertures that served for them , the only light from without must have been admitted by the doorways . These were made with the sides approaching each other towards the top , so that the lintel was considerably narrower than the threshold , a peculiarity , also , in Egyptian architecture . The roofs have for the most part disappeared with time . Some few survive in the less ambitious edifices , of a singular bell-shape , and made of a composition of earth and pebbles . They are supposed , however , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wood or straw . It is certain that some of the most considerable stone-buildings were thatched with straw . Many seem to have been constructed without the aid of cement ; and writers have contended that the Peruvians were unacquainted with the use of mortar , or cement of any kind.28 But a close , tenacious mould , mixed with lime , may be discovered filling up the interstices of the granite in some buildings ; and in others , where the wellfitted blocks leave no room for this coarser material , the eye of the antiquary has detected a fine bituminous glue , as hard as the rock itself.29 The greatest simplicity is observed in the construction of the buildings . which are usually free from outward ornament ; though in some the huge stones are shaped into a convex form with great regularity , and adjusted with such nice precision to one another , that it would be impossible , but for the flutings , to determine the line of junction . In others , the stone is rough , as it was taken from the quarry , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fitted to each other . There is no appearance of columns or of arches ; though there is some contradiction as to the latter point . But it is not to be doubted , that , although they may have made some approach to this mode of construction by the greater or less inclination of the walls , the Peruvian architects were wholly unacquainted with the true principle of the circular arch reposing on its key-stone.30 The architecture of the Incas is characterized , says an eminent traveller , " by simplicity , symmetry , and solidity . " 31 It may seem unphilosophical to condemn the peculiar fashion of a nation as indicating want of taste , because its standard of taste differs from our own . Yet there is an incongruity in the composition of the Peruvian buildings which argues a very imperfect acquaintance with the first principles of architecture . While they put together their bulky masses of porphyry and granite with the nicest art , they were incapable of mortising their timbers , and , in their ignorance of iron , knew no better way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maguey . In the same incongruous spirit , the building that was thatched with straw , and unilluminated by a window , was glowing with tapestries of gold and silver ! These are the inconsistencies of a rude people , among whom the arts are but partially developed . It might not be difficult to find examples of like inconsistency in the architecture and domestic arrangements of our Anglo-Saxon , and , at a still later period of our Norman ancestors . Yet the buildings of the Incas were accommodated to the character of the climate , and were well fitted to resist those terrible convulsions which belong to the land of volcanoes . The wisdom of their plan is attested by the number which still survive , while the more modern constructions of the Conquerors have been buried in ruins . The hand of the Conquerors , indeed , has fallen heavily on these venerable monuments , and , in their blind and superstitious search for hidden treasure , has caused infinitely more ruin than time or the earthquake.32 Yet enough of these monuments still remain to invite the researches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situations have been hitherto examined . But , by the testimony of travellers , many more are to be found in the less frequented parts of the country ; and we may hope they will one day call forth a kindred spirit of enterprise to that which has so successfully explored the mysterious recesses of Central America and Yucatan . I can not close this analysis of the Peruvian institutions without a few reflections on their general character and tendency , which , if they involve some repetition of previous remarks , may , I trust , be excused , from my desire to leave a correct and consistent impression on the reader . In this survey , we can not but be struck with the total dissimilarity between these institutions and those of the Aztecs ,  --  the other great nation who led in the march of civilization on this western continent , and whose empire in the northern portion of it was as conspicuous as that of the Incas in the south . Both nations came on the plateau , and commenced their career of conquest , at dates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other.33 And it is worthy of notice , that , in America , the elevated region along the crests of the great mountain ranges should have been the chosen seat of civilization in both hemispheres . Very different was the policy pursued by the two races in their military career . The Aztecs , animated by the most ferocious spirit , carried on a war of extermination , signalizing their triumphs by the sacrifice of hecatombs of captives ; while the Incas , although they pursued the game of conquest with equal pertinacity , preferred a milder policy , substituting negotiation and intrigue for violence , and dealt with their antagonists so that their future resources should not be crippled , and that they should come as friends , not as foes , into the bosom of the empire . Their policy toward the conquered forms a contrast no less striking to that pursued by the Aztecs . The Mexican vassals were ground by excessive imposts and military conscriptions . No regard was had to their welfare , and the only limit to oppression was the power of endurance . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to feel every hour that they were not part and parcel of the nation , but held only in subjugation as a conquered people . The Incas , on the other hand , admitted their new subjects at once to all the rights enjoyed by the rest of the community ; and , though they made them conform to the established laws and usages of the empire , they watched over their personal security and comfort with a sort of parental solicitude . The motley population , thus bound together by common interest , was animated by a common feeling of loyality , which gave greater strength and stability to the empire , as it became more and more widely extended ; while the various tribes who successively came under the Mexican sceptre , being held together only by the pressure of external force , were ready to fall asunder the moment that that force was withdrawn . The policy of the two nations displayed the principle of fear as contrasted with the principle of love . The characteristic features of their religious systems had as little resemblance to each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sanguinary spirit of the terrible war-god who presided over it , and their frivolous ceremonial almost always terminated with human sacrifice and cannibal orgies . But the rites of the Peruvians were of a more innocent cast , as they tended to a more spiritual worship . For the worship of the Creator is most nearly approached by that of the heavenly bodies , which , as they revolve in their bright orbits , seem to be the most glorious symbols of his beneficence and power . In the minuter mechanical arts , both showed considerable skill ; but in the construction of important public works , of roads , aqueducts , canals , and in agriculture in all its details , the Peruvians were much superior . Strange that they should have fallen so far below their rivals in their efforts after a higher intellectual culture , in astronomical science , more especially , and in the art of communicating thought by visible symbols . When we consider the greater refinement of the Incas , their inferiority to the Aztecs in these particulars can be explained only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indebted for their science to the race who preceded them in the land ,  --  that shadowy race whose origin and whose end are alike veiled from the eye of the inquirer , but who possibly may have sought a refuge from their ferocious invaders in those regions of Central America the architectural remains of which now supply us with the most pleasing monuments of Indian civilization . It is with this more polished race , to whom the Peruvians seem to have borne some resemblance in their mental and moral organization , that they should be compared . Had the empire of the Incas been permitted to extend itself with the rapid strides with which it was advancing at the period of the Spanish conquest , the two races might have come into conflict , or , perhaps , into alliance with one another . The Mexicans and Peruvians , so different in the character of their peculiar civilization , were , it seems probable , ignorant of each other 's existence ; and it may appear singular , that , during the simultaneous continuance of their empires , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass so imperceptibly from one people to another , should not have found their way across the interval which separated the two nations . They furnish an interesting example of the opposite directions which the human mind may take in its struggle to emerge from darkness into the light of civilization , A closer resemblance  --  as I have more than once taken occasion to notice  --  may be found between the Peruvian institutions and some of the despotic governments of Eastern Asia ; those governments where despotism appears in its more mitigated form , and the whole people , under the patriarchal sway of its sovereign , seem to be gathered together like the members of one vast family . Such were the Chinese , for example , whom the Peruvians resembled in their implicit obedience to authority , their mild yet somewhat stubborn temper , their solicitude for forms , their reverence for ancient usage , their skill in the minuter manufactures , their imitative rather than inventive cast of mind , and their invincible patience , which serves instead of a more adventurous spirit for the execution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the natives of Hindostan in their division into castes , their worship of the heavenly bodies and the elements of nature , and their acquaintance with the scientific principles of husbandry . To the ancient Egyptians , also , they bore considerable resemblance in the same particulars , as well as in those ideas of a future existence which led them to attach so much importance to the permanent preservation of the body . But we shall look in vain in the history of the East for a parallel to the absolute control exercised by the Incas over their subjects . In the East , this was rounded on physical power ,  --  on the external resources of the government . The authority of the Inca might be compared with that of the Pope in the day of his might , when Christendom trembled at the thunders of the Vatican , and the successor of St. Peter set his foot on the necks of princes . But the authority of the Pope was founded on opinion . His temporal power was nothing . The empire of the Incas rested on both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that of the Jews ; for , though the sanction of the law might be as great among the latter , the law was expounded by a human lawgiver , the servant and representative of Divinity . But the Inca was both the lawgiver and the law . He was not merely the representative of Divinity , or , like the Pope , its vicegerent , but he was Divinity itself . The violation of his ordinance was sacrilege . Never was there a scheme of government enforced by such terrible sanctions , or which bore so oppressively on the subjects of it . For it reached not only to the visible acts , but to the private conduct , the words , the very thoughts , of its vassals . It added not a little to the efficacy of the government , that , below the sovereign , there was an order of hereditary nobles of the same divine original with himself , who , placed far below himself , were still immeasurably above the rest of the community , not merely by descent , but , as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exclusive depositaries of power , and , as their long hereditary training made them familiar with their vocation , and secured them implicit deference from the multitude , they became the prompt and well-practised agents for carrying out the executive measures of the administration . All that occurred throughout the wide extent of his empire  --  - such was the perfect system of communication  --  passed in review , as it were , before the eyes of the monarch , and a thousand hands , armed with irresistible authority , stood ready in every quarter to do his bidding . Was it not , as we have said , the most oppressive , though the mildest , of despotisms ? It was the mildest , from the very circumstance , that the transcendent rank of the sovereign , and the humble , nay , superstitious , devotion to his will make it superfluous to assert this will be acts of violence or rigor . The great mass of the people may have appeared to his eyes as but little removed above the condition of the brute , formed to minister to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he regarded them with feelings of commiseration , like those which a kind master might feel for the poor animals committed to his charge , or  --  to do justice to the beneficent character attributed to many of the Incas  --  that a parent might feel for his young and impotent offspring . The laws were carefully directed to their preservation and personal comfort . The people were not allowed to be employed on works pernicious to their health , nor to pine  - -  a sad contrast to their subsequent destiny  --  under the imposition of tasks too heavy for their powers . They were never made the victims of public or private extortion ; and a benevolent forecast watched carefully over their necessities , and provided for their relief in seasons of infirmity , and for their sustenance in health . The government of the Incas , however arbitrary in form , was in its spirit truly patriarchal . Yet in this there was nothing cheering to the dignity of human nature . What the people had was conceded as a boon , not as a right . When a nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resigned every personal right , even the rights dearest to humanity . Under this extraordinary polity , a people advanced in many of the social refinements , well skilled in manufactures and agriculture , were unacquainted , as we have seen , with money . They had nothing that deserved to be called property . They could follow no craft , could engage in no labor , no amusement , but such as was specially provided by law . They could not change their residence or their dress without a license from the government . They could not even exercise the freedom which is conceded to the most abject in other countries , that of selecting their own wives . The imperative spirit of despotism would not allow them to be happy or miserable in any way but that established by law . The power of free agency  --  the inestimable and inborn right of every human being  --  was annihilated in Peru . The astonishing mechanism of the Peruvian polity could have resulted only from the combined authority of opinion and positive power in the ruler to an extent unprecedented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have so successfully gone into operation , and so long endured , in opposition to the taste , the prejudices , and the very principles of our nature , is a strong proof of a generally wise and temperate administration of the government . The policy habitually pursued by the Incas for the prevention of evils that might have disturbed the order of things is well exemplified in their provisions against poverty and idleness . In these they rightly discerned the two great causes of disaffection in a populous community . The industry of the people was secured not only by their compulsory occupations at home , but by their employment on those great public works which covered every part of the country , and which still bear testimony in their decay to their primitive grandeur . Yet it may well astonish us to find , that the natural difficulty of these undertakings , sufficiently great in itself , considering the imperfection of their tools and machinery , was inconceivably enhanced by the politic contrivance of government . The royal edifices of Quito , we are assured by the Spanish conquerors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which were carried all the way along the mountain roads from Cuzco , a distance of several hundred leagues.35 The great square of the capital was filled to a considerable depth with mould brought with incredible labor up the steep slopes of the Cordilleras from the distant shores of the Pacific Ocean.36 Labor was regarded not only as a means , but as an end , by the Peruvian law . With their manifold provisions against poverty the reader has already been made acquainted . They were so perfect , that , in their wide extent of territory ,  --  much of it smitten with the curse of barrenness ,  --  no man , however humble , suffered from the want of food and clothing . Famine , so common a scourge in every other American nation , so common at that period in every country of civilized Europe , was an evil unknown in the dominions of the Incas . The most enlightened of the Spaniards who first visited Peru , struck with the general appearance of plenty and prosperity , and with the astonishing order with which every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their expressions of admiration . No better government , in their opinion , could have been devised for the people . Contented with their condition , and free from vice , to borrow the language of an eminent authority of that early day , the mild and docile character of the Peruvians would have well fitted them to receive the teachings of Christianity , had the love of conversion , instead of gold , animated the breasts of the Conquerors.37 And a philosopher of a later time , warmed by the contemplation of the picture  --  which his own fancy had colored  --  - of public prosperity and private happiness under the rule of the Incas , pronounces " the moral man in Peru far superior to the European . " 38 Yet such results are scarcely reconcilable with the theory of the government I have attempted to analyze . Where there is no free agency , there can be no morality . Where there is no temptation , there can be little claim to virtue . Where the routine is rigorously prescribed by law , the law , and not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if that government is the best , which is felt the least , which encroaches on the natural liberty of the subject only so far as is essential to civil subordination , then of all governments devised by man the Peruvian has the least real . claim to our admiration . It is not easy to comprehend the genius and the full import of institutions so opposite to those of our own free republic , where every man , however humble his condition , may aspire to the highest honors of the state ,  --  may select his own career , and carve out his fortune in his own way ; where the light of knowledge , instead of being concentrated on a chosen few , is shed abroad like the light of day , and suffered to fall equally on the poor and the rich ; where the collision of man with man wakens a generous emulation that calls out latent talent and tasks the energies to the utmost ; where consciousness of independence gives a feeling of self-reliance unknown to the timid subjects of a despotism ; where , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  not as in Peru , where man seemed to be made only for the government . The New World is the theatre in which these two political systems , so opposite in their character , have been carried into operation . The empire of the Incas has passed away and left no trace . The other great experiment is still going on ,  --  the experiment which is to solve the problem , so long contested in the Old World , of the capacity of man for self-government . Alas for humanity , if it should fail ! The testimony of the Spanish conquerors is not uniform m respect to the favorable influence exerted by the Peruvian institutions on the character of the people . Drinking and dancing are said to have been the pleassures to which they were immoderately addicted . Like the slaves and serfs in other lands , whose position excluded them from more serious and ennobling occupations , they found a substitute in frivolous or sensual indulgence . Lazy , luxurious , and licentious , are the epithets bestowed on them by one of those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not too friendly to the Indian.39 Yet the spirit of independence could hardly be strong in a people who had no interest in the soil , no personal rights to defend ; and the facility with which they yielded to the Spanish invader  --  after every allowance for their comparative inferiority  --  argues a deplorable destitution of that patriotic feeling which holds life as little in comparison with freedom . But we must not judge too hardly of the unfortunate native , because he quailed before the civilization of the European . We must not be insensible to the really great results that were achieved by the government of the Incas . We must not forget , that , under their rule , the meanest of the people enjoyed a far greater degree of personal comfort , at least , a greater exemption from physical suffering , than was possessed by similar classes in other nations on the American continent ,  --  greater , probably , than was possessed by these classes in most of the countries of feudal Europe . Under their sceptre , the higher orders of the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a cultivated community . The foundations of a regular government were laid , which , in an age of rapine , secured to its subjects the inestimable blessings of tranquillity and safety . By the well-sustained policy of the Incas , the rude tribes of the forest were gradually drawn from their fastnesses , and gathered within the folds of civilization ; and of these materials was constructed a flourishing and populous empire , such as was to be found in no other quarter of the American continent . The defects of this government were those of overrefinement in legislation ,  --  the last defects to have been looked for , certainly , in the American aborigines . Note . I have not thought it necessary to swell this Introduction by an inquiry into the origin of the Peruvian civilization , like that appended to the history of the Mexican . The Peruvian history doubtless suggests analogies with more than one nation in the East , some of which have been briefly adverted to in the preceding pages ; although these analogies are adduced there not as evidence of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally spring up among different nations under the same phase of civilization . Such coincidences are neither so numerous nor so striking as those afforded by the Aztec history . The correspondence presented by the astronomical science of the Mexicans is alone of more importance than all the rest , Yet the light of analogy , afforded by the institutions of the Incas , seems to point , as far as it goes , towards the same direction ; and as the investigation could present but little substantially to confirm , and still less to confute , the views taken in the former disquisition , I have not thought it best to fatigue the reader with it . Two of the prominent authorities on whom I have relied in this Introductory portion of the work , are Juan de Sarmiento and the Licentiate Ondegardo . Of the former I have been able to collect no information beyond what is afforded by his own writings . In the title prefixed to his manuscript , he is styled President of the Council of the Indies , a post of high authority , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of information , that entitle his opinions on colonial topics to great deference . These means of information were much enlarged by Sarmiento 's visit to the colonies , during the administration of Gasca . Having conceived the design of compiling a history of the ancient Peruvian institutions , he visited Cuzco , as he tells us , in 1550 , and there drew from the natives themselves the materials for his narrative . His position gave him access to the most authentic sources of knowledge , and from the lips of the Inca nobles , the best instructed of the conquered race , he gathered the traditions of their national history and institutions . The quipus formed , as we have seen , an imperfect system of mnemonics , requiring constant attention , and much inferior to the Mexican hieroglyphics . It was only by diligent instruction that they were made available to historical purposes ; and this instruction was so far neglected after the Conquest , that the ancient annals of the country would have perished with the generation which was the sole depositary of them , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholars , like Sarmiento , who saw the importance , at this critical period , of cultivating an intercourse with the natives , and drawing from them their hidden stores of information . To give still further authenticity to his work , Sarmiento travelled over the country , examined the principal objects of interest with his own eyes , and thus verified the accounts of the natives as far as possible by personal observation . The result of these labors was his work entitled , " Relacion de la sucesion y govierno de las Yngas Senores naturales que fueron de las Provincias del Peru y otras cosas tocantes a aquel Reyno , para el Iltmo . Senor Dn Juan Sarmiento , Presidente del Consejo Rl de Indias . " It is divided into chapters , and embraces about four hundred folio pages in manuscript . The introductory portion of the work is occupied with the traditionary tales of the origin and early period of the Incas ; teeming , as usual , in the antiquities of a barbarous people , with legendary fables of the most wild and monstrous character . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labors of the antiquarian , who endeavors to unravel the allegorical web which a cunning priesthood had devised as symbolical of those mysteries of creation that it was beyond their power to comprehend . But Sarmiento happily confines himself to the mere statement of traditional fables , without the chimerical ambition to explain them . From this region of romance , Sarmiento passes to the institutions of the Peruvians , describes their ancient polity , their religion , their progress in the arts , especially agriculture ; and presents , in short , an elaborate picture of the civilization which they reached under the Inca dynasty . This part of his work , resting , as it does , on the best authority , confirmed in many instances by his own observation , is of unquestionable value , and is written with an apparent respect for truth , that engages the confidence of the reader . The concluding portion of the manuscript is occupied with the civil history of the country . The reigns of the early Incas , which lie beyond the sober province of history . he despatches with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fortunately of the greatest princes who occupied the Peruvian throne , he is more diffuse . This was comparatively firm ground for the chronicler , for the events were too recent to be obscured by the vulgar legends that gather like moss round every incident of the older time . His account stops with the Spanish invasion : for this story , Sarmiento felt , might be safely left to his contemporaries who acted a part in it , but whose taste and education had qualified them but indifferently for exploring the antiquities and social institutions of the natives . Sarmiento 's work is composed in a simple , perspicuous style , without that ambition of rhetorical display too common with his countrymen . He writes with honest candor , and while he does ample justice to the merits and capacity of the conquered races , be notices with indignation the atrocities of the Spaniards and the demoralizing tendency of the Conquest . It may be thought , indeed , that he forms too high an estimate of the attainments of the nation under the Incas . And it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afforded of an original civilization , he became enamoured of his subject , and thus exhibited it in colors somewhat too glowing to the eye of the European . But this was an amiable failing , not too largely shared by the stern Conquerors , who subverted the institutions of the country , and saw little to admire in it , save its gold . It must be further admitted , that Sarmiento has no design to impose on his reader , and that he is careful to distinguish between what he reports on hearsay , and what on personal experience . The Father of History himself does not discriminate between these two things more carefully . Neither is the Spanish historian to be altogether vindicated from the superstition which belongs to his time ; and we often find him referring to the immediate interposition of Satan those effects which might quite as well be charged on the perverseness of man . But this was common to the age , and to the wisest men in it ; and it is too much to demand of a man to be wiser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that , in an age when superstition was too often allied with fanaticism , he seems to have had no tincture of bigotry in his nature . His heart opens with benevolent fulness to the unfortunate native ; and his language , while it is not kindled into the religious glow of the missionary , is warmed by a generous ray of philanthropy that embraces the conquered , no less than the conquerors , as his brethren . Notwithstanding the great value of Sarmiento 's work for the information it affords of Peru under the Incas , it is but little known , has been rarely consulted by historians , and still remains among the unpublished manuscripts which lie , like uncoined bullion , in the secret chambers of the Escurial . The other authority to whom I have alluded , the Licentiate Polo de Ondegardo , was a highly respectable jurist , whose name appears frequently in the affairs of Peru . I find no account of the period when he first came into the country . But he was there on the arrival of Gasca , and resided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the artful Cepeda endeavored to secure the signatures of the inhabitants to the instrument proclaiming the sovereignty of his chief , we find Ondegardo taking the lead among those of his profession in resisting it . On Gasca 's arrival , he consented to take a commission in his army . At the close of the rebellion he was made corregidor of La Plata , and subsequently of Cuzco , in which honorable station he seems to have remained several years . In the exercise of his magisterial functions , he was brought into familiar intercourse with the natives , and had ample opportunity for studying their laws and ancient customs . He conducted himself with such prudence and moderation , that he seems to have won the confidence not only of his countrymen but of the Indians ; while the administration was careful to profit by his large experience in devising measures for the better government of the colony . The Relaciones , so often cited in this History , were prepared at the suggestion of the viceroys , the first being addressed to the Marques de Canete , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Conde de Nieva . The two cover about as much ground as Sarmiento 's manuscript ; and the second memorial , written so long after the first , may be thought to intimate the advancing age of the author , in the greater carelessness and diffuseness of the composition . As these documents are in the nature of answers to the interrogatories propounded by government- the range of topics might seem to be limited within narrower bounds than the modern historian would desire . These queries , indeed , had particular reference to the revenues , tributes ,  --  the financial administration , in short , of the Incas ; and on these obscure topics the communication of Ondegardo is particularly full . But the enlightened curiosity of government embraced a far wider range ; and the answers necessarily implied an acquaintance with the domestic policy of the Incas , with their laws , social habits , their religion , science , and arts , in short , with all that make up the elements of civilization . Ondegardo 's memoirs , therefore , cover the whole ground of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these various subjects , Ondegardo displays both acuteness and erudition . He never shrinks from the discussion , however difficult ; and while he gives his conclusions with an air of modesty , it is evident that he feels conscious of having derived his information through the most authentic channels . He rejects the fabulous with disdain ; decides on the probabilities of such facts as he relates , and candidly exposes the deficiency of evidence . Far from displaying the simple enthusiasm of the well-meaning but credulous missionary , he proceeds with the cool and cautious step of a lawyer accustomed to the conflict of testimony and the uncertainty of oral tradition . This circumspect manner of proceeding , and the temperate character of his judgments , entitle Ondegardo to much higher consideration as an authority than most of his countrymen who have treated of Indian antiquities . There runs through his writings a vein of humanity , shown particularly in his tenderness to the unfortunate natives , to whose ancient civilization he does entire , but not extravagant , justice ; while , like Sarmiento , he fearlessly denounces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark reproach they had brought on the honor of the nation . But while this censure forms the strongest ground for condemnation of the Conquerors , since it comes from the lips of a Spaniard like themselves , it proves , also , that Spain in this age of violence could send forth from her bosom wise and good men who refused to make common cause with the licentious rabble around them . Indeed , proof enough is given in these very memorials of the unceasing efforts of the colonial government , from the good viceroy Mendoza downwards , to secure protection and the benefit of a mild legislation to the unfortunate natives . But the iron Conquerors , and the colonist whose heart softened only to the touch of gold , presented a formidable barrier to improvement . Ondegardo 's writings are honorably distinguished by freedom from that superstition which is the debasing characteristic of the times ; a superstition shown in the easy credit given to the marvellous , and this equally whether in heathen or in Christian story ; for in the former the eye of credulity could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the latter the hand of the Almighty . It is this ready belief in a spiritual agency , whether for good or for evil , which forms one of the most prominent features in the writings of the sixteenth century . Nothing could be more repugnant to the true spirit of philosophical inquiry or more irreconcilable with rational criticism . Far from betraying such weakness , Ondegardo writes in a direct and business-like manner , estimating things for what they are worth by the plain rule of common-sense . He keeps the main object of his argument ever in view , without allowing himself , like the garrulous chroniclers of the period , to be led astray into a thousand rambling episodes that bewilder the reader and lead to nothing . Ondegardo 's memoirs deal not only with the antiquities of the nation , but with its actual condition , and with the best means for redressing the manifold evils to which it was subjected under the stern rule of its conquerors . His suggestions are replete with wisdom , and a merciful policy , that would reconcile the interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vassal . Thus , while his contemporaries gathered light from his suggestions as to the present condition of affairs , the historian of later times is no less indebted to him for information in respect to the past . His manuscript was freely consulted by Herrera and the reader , as he peruses the pages of the learned historian of the Indies , is unconsciously enjoying the benefit of the researches of Ondegardo . His valuable Relaciones thus had their uses for future generations , though they have never been admitted to the honors of the press . The copy in my possession , like that of Sarmiento 's manuscript , for which I am indebted to that industrious bibliographer , Mr. Rich formed part of the magnificent collection of Lord Kingsborough ,  --  a name ever to be held in honor by the scholar for his indefatigable efforts to illustrate the antiquities of America . Ondegardo 's manuscripts , it should be remarked , do not bear his signature . But they contain allusions to several actions of the writer 's life , which identify them , beyond any reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Simancas is a duplicate copy of the first memorial , Relacion Primera , though , like the one in the Escurial , without its author 's name . Munoz assigns it to the pen of Gabriel de Rojas , a distinguished cavalier of the Conquest . This is clearly an error ; for the author of the manuscript identifies himself with Ondegardo , by declaring , in his reply to the fifth interrogatory , that he was the person who discovered the mummies of the Incas in Cuzco ; an act expressly referred both by Acosta and Garcilasso , to the Licentiate Polo de Ondegardo , when corregidor of that city .  --  Should the savans of Madrid hereafter embrace among the publications of valuable manuscripts these Relaciones , they should be careful not to be led into an error here , by the authority of a critic like Munoz whose criticism is rarely at fault . History of the Conquest of Peru by William Hickling Prescott Book 2 Discovery of Peru Chapter 1 Ancient And Modern Science  --  Art Of Navigation  --  Maritime Discovery  - -  Spirit Of The Spaniards  --  Possessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may exist as to the comparative merle of the ancients and the moderns in the arts , in poetry , eloquence , and all that depends on imagination , there can be no doubt that in science the moderns have eminently the advantage . It could not be otherwise . In the early ages of the world , as in the early period of life , there was the freshness of a morning existence , when the gloss of novelty was on every thing that met the eye ; when the senses , not blunted by familiarity , were more keenly alive to the beautiful , and the mind , under the influence of a healthy and natural taste , was not perverted by philosophical theory ; when the simple was necessarily connected with the beautiful , and the epicurean intellect , sated by repetition , had not begun to seek for stimulants in the fantastic and capricious . The realms of fancy were all untravelled , and its fairest flowers had not been gathered , nor its beauties despoiled , by the rude touch of those who affected to cultivate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earth by the cold and conventional rules of criticism , but was permitted to take its flight far and wide over the broad expanse of creation . But with science it was otherwise . No genius could suffice for the creation of facts ,  --  hardly for their detection . They were to be gathered in by painful industry ; to be collected from careful observation and experiment . Genius , indeed , might arrange and combine these facts into new forms , and elicit from their combinations new and important inferences ; and in this process might almost rival in originality the creations of the poet and the artist . But if the processes of science are necessarily slow , they are sure . There is no retrograde movement in her domain . Arts may fade , the Muse become dumb , a moral lethargy may lock up the faculties of a nation . the nation itself may pass away and leave only the memory of its existence but the stores of science it has garnered up will endure for ever . As other nations come upon the stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of art and of imagination , productions of an older time , will lie as an obstacle in the path of improvement . They can not be built upon ; they occupy the ground which the new aspirant for immortality would cover . The whole work is to be gone over again , and other forms of beauty  --  whether higher or lower in the scale of merit , but unlike the past  --  must arise to take a place by their side . But , in science , every stone that has been laid remains as the foundation for another . The coming generation takes up the work where the preceding left it . There is no retrograde movement . The individual nation may recede , but science still advances . Every step that has been gained makes the ascent easier for those who come after . Every step carries the patient inquirer after truth higher and higher towards heaven , and unfolds to him , as he rises , a wider horizon , and new and more magnificent views of the universe . Geography partook of the embarrassments which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ages of the world . The knowledge of the earth could come only from an extended commerce ; and commerce is founded on artificial wants or an enlightened curiosity , hardly compatible with the earlier condition of society . In the infancy of nations , the different tribes , occupied with their domestic feuds , found few occasions to wander beyond the mountain chain or broad stream that formed the natural boundary of their domains . The Phoenicians , it is true , are said to have sailed beyond the Pillars of Hercules , and to have launched out on the great western ocean . But the adventures of these ancient voyagers belong to the mythic legends of antiquity , and ascend far beyond the domain of authentic record . The Greeks , quick and adventurous . skilled in mechanical art , had many of the qualities of successful navigators , and within the limits of their little inland sea ranged fearlessly and freely . But the conquests of Alexander did more to extend the limits of geographical science , and opened an acquaintance with the remote countries of the East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparison with the movements of the unencumbered traveller . The Romans were still less enterprising than the Greeks , were less commercial in their character . The contributions to geographical knowledge grew with the slow acquisitions of empire . But their system was centralizing in its tendency ; and instead of taking an outward direction and looking abroad for discovery , every part of the vast imperial domain turned towards the capital at its head and central point of attraction . The Roman conqueror pursued his path by land , not by sea . But the water is the great highway between nations , the true element for the discoverer . The Romans were not a maritime people . At the close of their empire , geographical science could hardly be said to extend farther than to an acquaintance with Europe ,  --  and this not its more northern division ,  --  together with a portion of Asia and Africa ; while they had no other conception of a world beyond the western waters than was to be gathered from the fortunate prediction of the poet.1 Then followed the Middle Ages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though in their darkness were matured those seeds of knowledge , which , in fulness of time , were to spring up into new and more glorious forms of civilization . The organization of society became more favorable to geographical science . Instead of one overgrown , lethargic empire , oppressing every thing by its colossal weight , Europe was broken up into various independent communities , many of which , adopting liberal forms of government , felt all the impulses natural to freemen ; and the petty republics on the Mediterranean and the Baltic sent forth their swarms of seamen in a profitable commerce , that knit together the different countries scattered along the great European waters . But the improvements which took place in the art of navigation , the more accurate measurement of time , and , above all , the discovery of the polarity of the magnet , greatly advanced the cause of geographical knowledge . Instead of creeping timidly along the coast , or limiting his expeditions to the narrow basins of inland waters , the voyager might now spread his sails boldly on the deep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the illimitable waste . The consciousness of this power led thought to travel in a new direction ; and the mariner began to look with earnestness for another path to the Indian Spice-islands than that by which the Eastern caravans had traversed the continent of Asia . The nations on whom the spirit of enterprise , at this crisis , naturally descended , were Spain and Portugal , placed , as they were , on the outposts of the European continent , commanding the great theatre of future discovery . Both countries felt the responsibility of their new position . The crown of Portugal was constant in its efforts , through the fifteenth century , to find a passage round the southern point of Africa into the Indian Ocean ; though so timid was the navigation , that every fresh headland became a formidable barrier ; and it was not till the latter part of the century that the adventurous Diaz passed quite round the Stormy Cape , as he termed it , but which John the Second , with happier augury , called the Cape of Good Hope . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this discovery to spread his sails in the Indian seas , Spain entered on her glorious career , and sent Columbus across the western waters . The object of the great navigator was still the discovery of a route to India , but by the west instead of the east . He had no expectation of meeting with a continent in his way , and , after repeated voyages , he remained in his original error , dying , as is well known , in the conviction that it was the eastern shore of Asia which he had reached . It was the same object which directed the nautical enterprises of those who followed in the Admiral 's track ; and the discovery of a strait into the Indian Ocean was the burden of every order from the government , and the design of many an expedition to different points of the new continent , which seemed to stretch its leviathan length along from one pole to the other . The discovery of an Indian passage is the true key to the maritime movements of the fifteenth and the first half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea that gave the character to the enterprise of the age . It is not easy at this time to comprehend the impulse given to Europe by the discovery of America . It was not the gradual acquisition of some border territory , a province or a kingdom that had been gained , but a New World that was now thrown open to the Europeans . The races of animals , the mineral treasures , the vegetable forms , and the varied aspects of nature , man in the different phases of civilization , filled the mind with entirely new sets of ideas , that changed the habitual current of thought and stimulated it to indefinite conjecture . The eagerness to explore the wonderful secrets of the new hemisphere became so active , that the principal cities of Spain were , in a manner , depopulated , as emigrants thronged one after another to take their chance upon the deep.2 It was a world of romance that was thrown open ; for , whatever might be the luck of the adventurer , his reports on his return were tinged with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his countrymen , and nourished the chimerical sentiments of an age of chivalry . They listened with attentive ears to tales of Amazons which seemed to realize the classic legends of antiquity , to stories of Patagonian giants , to flaming pictures of an El Dorado , where the sands sparkled with gems , and golden pebbles as large as birds ' eggs were dragged in nets out of the rivers . Yet that the adventurers were no impostors , but dupes , too easy dupes of their own credulous fancies , is shown by the extravagant character of their enterprises ; by expeditions in search of the magical Fountain of Health , of the golden Temple of Doboyba , of the golden sepulchres of Zenu ; for gold was ever floating before their distempered vision , and the name of Castilla del Oro , Golden Castile , the most unhealthy and unprofitable region of the Isthmus , held out a bright promise to the unfortunate settler , who too frequently , instead of gold , found there only his grave . In this realm of enchantment , all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with their defenceless bodies and rude weapons , were no match for the European warrior armed to the teeth in mail . The odds were as great as those found in any legend of chivalry , where the lance of the good knight overturned hundreds at a touch . The perils that lay in the discoverer 's path , and the sufferings he had to sustain , were scarcely inferior to those that beset the knight-errant . Hunger and thirst and fatigue , the deadly effluvia of the morass with its swarms of venomous insects , the cold of mountain snows , and the scorching sun of the tropics , these were the lot of every cavalier who came to seek his fortunes in the New World . It was the reality of romance . The life of the Spanish adventurer was one chapter more  --  and not the least remarkable  --  in the chronicles of knight-errantry . The character of the warrior took somewhat of the exaggerated coloring shed over his exploits . Proud and vainglorious , swelled with lofty anticipations of his destiny , and an invincible confidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no toil could tire him . The greater the danger , indeed , the higher the charm ; for his soul revelled in excitement , and the enterprise without peril wanted that spur of romance which was necessary to rouse his energies into action . Yet in the motives of action meaner influences were strangely mingled with the loftier , the temporal with the spiritual . Gold was the incentive and the recompense , and in the pursuit of it his inflexible nature rarely hesitated as to the means . His courage was sullied with cruelty , the cruelty that flowed equally  --  strange as it may seem  --  from his avarice and his religion ; religion as it was understood in that age ,  --  the religion of the Crusader . It was the convenient cloak for a multitude of sins , which covered them even from himself . The Castilian , too proud for hypocrisy , committed more cruelties in the name of religion than were ever practised by the pagan idolater or the fanatical Moslem . The burning of the infidel was a sacrifice acceptable to Heaven , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foulest offences . It is a melancholy and mortifying consideration , that the most uncompromising spirit of intolerance  --  the spirit of the Inquisitor at home , and of the Crusader abroad-should have emanated from a religion which preached peace upon earth and good-will towards man ! What a contrast did these children of Southern Europe present to the Anglo-Saxon races who scattered themselves along the great northern division of the western hemisphere ! For the principle of action with these latter was not avarice , nor the more specious pretext of proselytism ; but independence  --  - independence religious and political . To secure this , they were content to earn a bare subsistence by a life of frugality and toil . They asked nothing from the soil , but the reasonable returns of their own labor . No golden visions threw a deceitful halo around their path and beckoned them onwards through seas of blood to the subversion of an unoffending dynasty . They were content with the slow but steady progress of their social polity . They patiently endured the privations of the wilderness , watering the tree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their brow , till it took deep root in the land and sent up its branches high towards the heavens ; while the communities of the neighboring continent , shooting up into the sudden splendors of a tropical vegetation , exhibited , even in their prime , the sure symptoms of decay . It would seem to have been especially ordered by Providence that the discovery of the two great divisions of the American hemisphere should fall to the two races best fitted to conquer and colonize them . Thus the northern section was consigned to the Anglo-Saxon race , whose orderly , industrious habits found an ample field for development under its colder skies and on its more rugged soil ; while the southern portion , with its rich tropical products and treasures of mineral wealth , held out the most attractive bait to invite the enterprise of the Spaniard . How different might have been the result , if the bark of Columbus had taken a more northerly direction , as he at one time meditated , and landed its band of adventurers on the shores of what is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nautical enterprise which filled the maritime communities of Europe in the sixteenth century , the whole extent of the mighty continent , from Labrador to Terra del Fuego , was explored in less than thirty years after its discovery ; and in 1521 , the Portuguese Maghellan , sailing under the Spanish flag , solved the problem of the strait , and found a westerly way to the long sought Spice-islands of India ,  --  greatly to the astonishment of the Portuguese , who , sailing from the opposite direction , there met their rivals , face to face , at the antipodes . But while the whole eastern coast of the American continent had been explored , and the central portion of it colonized ,  - -  even after the brilliant achievement of the Mexican conquest ,  --  - the veil was not yet raised that hung over the golden shores of the Pacific . Floating rumors had reached the Spaniards , from time to time , of countries in the far west , teeming with the metal they so much coveted ; but the first distinct notice of Peru was about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the discoverer of the Southern Sea , was weighing some gold which he had collected from the natives . A young barbarian chieftain , who was present , struck the scales with his fist , and , scattering the glittering metal around the apartment , exclaimed ,  --  - " If this is what you prize so much that you are willing to leave your distant homes , and risk even life itself for it , I can tell you of a land where they eat and drink out of golden vessels , and gold is as cheap as iron is with you . " It was not long after this startling intelligence that Balboa achieved the formidable adventure of scaling the mountain rampart of the Isthmus which divides the two mighty oceans from each other ; when , armed with sword and buckler , he rushed into the waters of the Pacific , and cried out , in the true chivalrous vein , that " he claimed this unknown sea with all that it contained for the king of Castile , and that he would make good the claim against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ! " 3 All the broad continent and sunny isles washed by the waters of the Southern Ocean ! Little did the bold cavalier comprehend the full import of his magnificent vaunt . On this spot he received more explicit tidings of the Peruvian empire , heard proofs recounted of its civilization , and was shown drawings of the llama , which , to the European eye , seemed a species of the Arabian camel . Bat , although he steered his caravel for these golden realms , and even pushed his discoveries some twenty leagues south of the Gulf of St. Michael , the adventure was not reserved for him . The illustrious discoverer was doomed to fall a victim to that miserable jealousy with which a little spirit regards the achievements of a great one . The Spanish colonial domain was broken up into a number of petty governments , which were dispensed sometimes to court favorites , though , as the duties of the post , at this early period , were of an arduous nature , they were more frequently reserved for men of some practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original contract with the Crown , had jurisdiction over the territories discovered by himself , embracing some of the principal islands , and a few places on the continent . This jurisdiction differed from that of other functionaries , inasmuch as it was hereditary ; a privilege found in the end too considerable for a subject , and commuted , therefore , for a title and a pension . These colonial governments were multiplied with the increase of empire , and by the year 1524 , the period at which our narrative properly commences , were scattered over the islands , along the Isthmus of Darien , the broad tract of Terra Firma , and the recent conquests of Mexico . Some of these governments were of no great extent . Others , like that of Mexico , were of the dimensions of a kingdom ; and most had an indefinite range for discovery assigned to them in their immediate neighborhood , by which each of the petty potentates might enlarge his territorial sway , and enrich his followers and himself . This politic arrangement best served the ends of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of enterprise . Thus living on their own little domains at a long distance from the mother country , these military rulers held a sort of vice-regal sway , and too frequently exercised it in the most oppressive and tyrannical manner ; oppressive to the native , and tyrannical towards their own followers . It was the natural consequence , when men , originally low in station , and unprepared by education for office , were suddenly called to the possession of a brief , but in its nature irresponsible , authority . It was not till after some sad experience of these results , that measures were taken to hold these petty tyrants in check by means of regular tribunals , or Royal Audiences , as they were termed , which , composed of men of character and learning , might interpose the arm of the law , or , at least , the voice of remonstrance , for the protection of both colonist and native . Among the colonial governors , who were indebted for their situation to their rank at home , was Don Pedro Arias de Avila @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ married to a daughter of Dona Beatriz de Bobadilla , the celebrated Marchioness of Moya , best known as the friend of Isabella the Catholic . He was a man of some military experience and considerable energy of character . But , as it proved , he was of a malignant temper ; and the base qualities , which might have passed unnoticed in the obscurity of private life , were made conspicuous , and perhaps created in some measure , by sudden elevation to power ; as the sunshine , which operates kindly on a generous soil , and stimulates it to production , calls forth from the unwholesome marsh only foul and pestilent vapors . This man was placed over the territory of Castilla del Oro , the ground selected by Nunez de Balboa for the theatre of his discoveries . Success drew on this latter the jealousy of his superior , for it was crime enough in the eyes of Pedrarias to deserve too well . The tragical history of this cavalier belongs to a period somewhat earlier than that with which we are to be occupied . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , though brief , forms one of the most brilliant passages in the annals of the American conquerors.4 But though Pedrarias was willing to cut short the glorious career of his rival , he was not insensible to the important consequences of his discoveries . He saw at once the unsuitableness of Darien for prosecuting expeditions on the Pacific , and , conformably to the original suggestion of Balboa , in 1519 , he caused his rising capital to be transferred from the shores of the Atlantic to the ancient site of Panama , some distance east of the present city of that name.5 This most unhealthy spot , the cemetery of many an unfortunate colonist , was favorably situated for the great object of maritime enterprise ; and the port , from its central position , afforded the best point of departure for expeditions , whether to the north or south , along the wide range of undiscovered coast that lined the Southern Ocean . Yet in this new and more favorable position , several years were suffered to elapse before the course of discovery took the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or rather west , in ' obedience to the orders of government , which had ever at heart the detection of a strait that , as was supposed , must intersect some part or other of the long-extended Isthmus . Armament after armament was fitted out with this chimerical object ; and Pedrarias saw his domain extending every year farther and farther without deriving any considerable advantage from his acquisitions . Veragua , Costa Rica , Nicaragua , were successively occupied ; and his brave cavaliers forced a way across forest and mountain and warlike tribes of savages , till , at Honduras , they came in collision with the companions of Cortes , the Conquerors of Mexico , who had descended from the great northern plateau on the regions of Central America , and thus completed the survey of this wild and mysterious land . It was not till 1522 that a regular expedition was despatched in the direction south of Panama , under the conduct of Pascual de Andagoya , a cavalier of much distinction in the colony . But that officer penetrated only to the Puerto de Pinas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad state of his health compelled him to reembark and abandon his enterprise at its commencement.6 Yet the floating rumors of the wealth and civilization of a mighty nation at the South were continually reaching the ears and kindling the dreamy imaginations of the colonists ; and it may seem astonishing that an expedition in that direction should have been so long deferred . But the exact position and distance of this fairy realm were matter of conjecture . The long tract of intervening country was occupied by rude and warlike races ; and the little experience which the Spanish navigators had already had of the neighboring coast and its inhabitants , and still more , the tempestuous character of the seas  --  for their expeditions had taken place at the most unpropitious seasons of the year  --  enhanced the apparent difficulties of the undertaking , and made even their stout hearts shrink from it . Such was the state of feeling in the little community of Panama for several years after its foundation . Meanwhile , the dazzling conquest of Mexico gave a new impulse to the ardor of discovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the colony , in whom the spirit of adventure triumphed over every consideration of difficulty and danger that obstructed the prosecution of the enterprise . One among them was selected as fitted by his character to conduct it to a successful issue . That man was Francisco Pizarro ; and as he held the same conspicuous post in the Conquest of Peru that was occupied by Cortes in that of Mexico it will be necessary to take a brief review of his early history . Book 2 Chapter 2 Francisco Pizarro  --  His Early History  --  First Expedition To The South  - -  Distresses Of The Voyagers  --  Sharp Encounters  --  Return To Panama  - -  Almagro 's Expedition 1524-1525 Francisco Pizarro was born at Truxillo , a city of Estremadura , in Spain . The period of his birth is uncertain ; but probably it was not far from 1471.1 He was an illegitimate child , and that his parents should not have taken pains to perpetuate the date of his birth is not surprising . Few care to make a particular record of their transgressions . His father , Gonzalo Pizarro , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction in the Italian campaigns under the Great Captain , and afterwards in the wars of Navarre . His mother , named Francisca Gonzales , was a person of humble condition in the town of Truxillo.2 But little is told of Francisco 's early years , and that little not always deserving of credit . According to some , he was deserted by both his parents , and left as a foundling at the door of one of the principal churches of the city . It is even said that he would have perished , had he not been nursed by a sow.3 This is a more discreditable fountain of supply than that assigned to the infant Romulus . The early history of men who have made their names famous by deeds in after-life , like the early history of nations , affords a fruitful field for invention . It seems certain that the young Pizarro received little care from either of his parents , and was suffered to grow up as nature dictated . He was neither taught to read nor write , and his principal occupation was that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not suit the stirring spirit of Pizarro , as he grew older , and listened to the tales , widely circulated and se captivating to a youthful fancy , of the New World . He shared in the popular enthusiasm , and availed himself of a favorable moment to abandon his ignoble charge , and escape to Seville , the port where the Spanish adventurers embarked to seek their fortunes in the West . Few of them could have turned their backs on their native land with less cause for regret than Pizarro.4 In what year this important change in his destiny took place we are not informed . The first we hear of him in the New World is at the island of Hispaniola , in 1510 , where he took part in the expedition to Uraba in Terra Firma , under Alonzo de Ojeda , a cavalier whose character and achievements find no parallel but in the pages of Cervantes . Hernando Cortes , whose mother was a Pizarro , and related , it is said , to the father of Francis , was then in St. Domingo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevented by a temporary lameness . Had he gone , the fall of the Aztec empire might have been postponed for some time longer , and the sceptre of Montezuma have descended in peace to his posterity . Pizarro shared in the disastrous fortunes of Ojeda 's colony , and , by his discretion , obtained so far the confidence of his commander , as to be left in charge of the settlement , when the latter returned for supplies to the islands . The lieutenant continued at his perilous post for nearly two months , waiting deliberately until death should have thinned off the colony sufficiently to allow the miserable remnant to be embarked in the single small vessel that remained to it.5 After this , we find him associated with Balboa , the discoverer of the Pacific , and cooperating with him in establishing the settlement at Darien . He had the glory of accompanying this gallant cavalier in his terrible march across the mountains , and of being among the first Europeans , therefore , whose eyes were greeted with the long-promised vision of the Southern Ocean . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself to the fortunes of Pedrarias , and was employed by that governor in several military expeditions , which , if they afforded nothing else , gave him the requisite training for the perils and privations that lay in the path of the future Conqueror of Peru . In 1515 , he was selected , with another cavalier named Morales , to cross the Isthmus and traffic with the natives on the shores of the Pacific . And there , while engaged in collecting his booty of gold and pearls from the neighbouring islands , as his eye ranged along the shadowy line of coast till it faded in the distance , his imagination may have been first fired with the idea of , one day , attempting the conquest of the mysterious regions beyond the mountains . On the removal of the seat of government across the Isthmus to Panama , Pizarro accompanied Pedrarias , and his name became conspicuous among the cavaliers who extended the line of conquest to the north over the martial tribes of Veragua . But all these expeditions , whatever glory they may have brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at the age of fifty , the captain Pizarro found himself in possession only of a tract of unhealthy land in the neighborhood of the capital , and of such repartimientos of the natives as were deemed suited to his military services.6 The New World was a lottery , where the great prizes were so few that the odds were much against the player ; yet in the game he was content to stake health , fortune , and , too often , his fair fame . Such was Pizarro 's situation when , in 1522 , Andagoya returned from his unfinished enterprise to the south of Panama , bringing back with him more copious accounts than any hitherto received of the opulence and grandeur of the countries that lay beyond.7 It was at this time , too , that the splendid achievements of Cortes made their impression on the public mind , and gave a new impulse to the spirit of adventure . The southern expeditions became a common topic of speculation among the colonists of Panama . But the region of gold , as it lay behind the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscurity . No idea could be formed of its actual distance ; and the hardships and difficulties encountered by the few navigators who had sailed in that direction gave a gloomy character to the undertaking , which had hitherto deterred the most daring from embarking in it . There is no evidence that Pizarro showed any particular alacrity in the cause . Nor were his own funds such as to warrant any expectation of success without great assistance from others . He found this in two individuals of the colony , who took too important a part in the subsequent transactions not to be particularly noticed . One of them , Diego de Almagro , was a soldier of fortune somewhat older , it seems probable , than Pizarro ; though little is known of his birth , and even the place of it is disputed . It is supposed to have been the town of Almagro in New Castile , whence his own name , for want of a better source was derived ; for , like Pizarro , he was a foundling.8 Few particulars are known of him till @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of those whom the working of turbulent times first throws upon the surface ,  --  less fortunate , perhaps , than if left in their original obscurity . In his military career , Almagro had earned the reputation of a gallant soldier . He was frank and liberal in his disposition , somewhat hasty and ungovernable in his passions , but , like men of a sanguine temperament , after the first sallies had passed away , not difficult to be appeased . He had , in short , the good qualities and the defects incident to an honest nature , not improved by the discipline of early education or self-control . The other member of the confederacy was Hernando de Luque , a Spanish ecclesiastic , who exercised the functions of vicar at Panama , and had formerly filled the office of schoolmaster in the Cathedral of Darien . He seems to have been a man of singular prudence and knowledge of the world ; and by his respectable qualities had acquired considerable influence in the little community to which he belonged , as well as the control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present enterprise . It was arranged among the three associates , that the two cavaliers should contribute their little stock towards defraying the expenses of the armament , but by far the greater part of the funds was to be furnished by Luque . Pizarro was to take command of the expedition , and the business of victualling and equipping the vessels was assigned to Almagro . The associates found no difficulty in obtaining the consent of the governor to their undertaking . After the return of Andagoya , he had projected another expedition , but the officer to whom it was to be intrusted died . Why he did not prosecute his original purpose , and commit the affair to an experienced captain like Pizarro , does not appear . He was probably not displeased that the burden of the enterprise should be borne by others , so long as a good share of the profits went into his own coffers . This he did not overlook in his stipulations.9 Thus fortified with the funds of Luque , and the consent of the governor , Almagro was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vessels were purchased , the larger of which had been originally built by Balboa , for himself , with a view to this same expedition . Since his death , it had lain dismantled in the harbor of Panama . It was now refitted as well as circumstances would permit , and put in order for sea , while the stores and provisions were got on board with an alacrity which did more credit , as the event proved , to Almagro 's zeal than to his forecast . There was more difficulty in obtaining the necessary complement of hands ; for a general feeling of distrust had gathered round expeditions in this direction , which could not readily be overcome . But there were many idle hangers-on in the colony , who had come out to mend their fortunes , and were willing to take their chance of doing so , however desperate . From such materials as these , Almagro assembled a body of somewhat more than a hundred men ; 10 and every thing being ready , Pizarro assumed the command , and , weighing anchor , took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the middle of November , 1524 .. Almagro was to follow in a second vessel of inferior size , as soon as it could be fitted out.11 The time of year was the most unsuitable that could have been selected for the voyage ; for it was the rainy season , when the navigation to the south , impeded by contrary winds , is made doubly dangerous by the tempests that sweep over the coast . But this was not understood by the adventurers . After touching at the Isle of Pearls , the frequent resort of navigators , at a few leagues ' distance from Panama , Pizarro hold his way across the Gulf of St. Michael , and steered almost due south for the Puerto de Pinas , a headland in the province of Biruquete , which marked the limit of Andagoya 's voyage . Before his departure , Pizarro had obtained all the information which he could derive from that officer in respect to the country , and the route he was to follow . But the cavalier 's own experience had been too limited to enable him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pinas , the little vessel entered the river Biru , the misapplication of which name is supposed by some to have given rise to that of the empire of the Incas.12 After sailing up this stream for a couple of leagues , Pizarro came to anchor , and disembarking his whole force except the sailors , proceeded at the head of it to explore the country . The land spread out into a vast swamp , where the heavy rains had settled in pools of stagnant water , and the muddy soil afforded no footing to the traveller . This dismal morass was fringed with woods , through whose thick and tangled undergrowth they found it difficult to penetrate and emerging from them , they came out on a hilly country , so rough and rocky in its character , that their feet were cut to the bone , and the weary soldier , encumbered with his heavy mail or thick-padded doublet of cotton , found it difficult to drag one foot after the other . The heat at times was oppressive ; and , fainting with toil and famished for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from mere exhaustion . Such was the ominous commencement of the expedition to Peru . Pizarro , however , did not lose heart . He endeavored to revive the spirits of his men , and besought them not to be discouraged by difficulties which a brave heart would be sure to overcome , reminding them of the golden prize which awaited those who persevered . Yet it was obvious that nothing was to be gained by remaining longer in this desolate region . Returning to their vessel , therefore , it was suffered to drop down the river and proceed along its southern course on the great ocean . After coasting a few leagues , Pizarro anchored off a place not very inviting in its appearance , where he took in a supply of wood and water . Then , stretching more towards the open sea , he held on in the same direction towards the south . But in this he was baffled by a succession of heavy tempests , accompanied with such tremendous peals of thunder and floods of rain as are found only in the terrible storms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , swelling into mountain billows , threatened every moment to overwhelm the crazy little bark , which opened at every seam . For ten days the unfortunate voyagers were tossed about by the pitiless elements , and it was only by incessant exertions  --  the exertions of despair  --  that they preserved the ship from foundering . To add to their calamities , their provisions began to fail , and they were short of water , of which they had been furnished only with a small number of casks ; for Almagro had counted on their recruiting their scanty supplies , from time to time , from the shore . Their meat was wholly consumed , and they were reduced to the wretched allowance of two ears of Indian corn a day for each man . Thus harassed by hunger and the elements , the battered voyagers were too happy to retrace their course and regain the port where they had last taken in supplies of wood and water . Yet nothing could be more unpromising than the aspect of the country . It had the same character of low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while thick-matted forests , of a depth which the eye could not penetrate , stretched along the coast to an interminable length . It was in vain that 840 the wearied Spaniards endeavored to thread the mazes of this tangled thicket , where the creepers and flowering vines , that shoot up luxuriant in a hot and humid atmosphere , had twined themselves round the huge trunks of the forest-trees , and made a network that could be opened only with the axe . The rain , in the mean time , rarely slackened , and the ground , strewed with leaves and saturated with moisture , seemed to slip away beneath their feet . Nothing could be more dreary and disheartening than the aspect of these funereal forests ; where the exhalations from the overcharged surface of the ground poisoned the air , and seemed to allow no life , except that , indeed , of myriads of insects , whose enamelled wings glanced to and fro , like sparks of fire , in every opening of the woods . Even the brute creation appeared instinctively to have shunned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ description was seen by the wanderers . Silence reigned unbroken in the heart of these dismal solitudes ; at least , the only sounds that could be heard were the plashing of the rain-drops on the leaves , and the tread of the forlorn adventurers.13 Entirely discouraged by the aspect of the country , the Spaniards began to comprehend that they had gained nothing by changing their quarters from sea to shore , and they felt the most serious apprehensions of perishing from famine in a region which afforded nothing but such unwholesome berries as they could pick up here and there in the woods . They loudly complained of their hard lot , accusing their commander as the author of all their troubles , and as deluding them with promises of a fairy land , which seemed to recede in proportion as they advanced . It was of no use , they said , to contend against fate , and it was better to take their chance of regaining the port of Panama in time to save their lives , than to wait where they were to die of hunger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than these , before returning to Panama , bankrupt in credit , an object of derision as a vainglorious dreamer , who had persuaded others to embark in an adventure which he had not the courage to carry through himself . The present was his only chance . To return would be ruin . He used every argument , therefore , that mortified pride or avarice could suggest to turn his followers from their purpose ; represented to them that these were the troubles that necessarily lay in the path of the discoverer ; and called to mind the brilliant successes of their countrymen in other quarters , and the repeated reports , which they had themselves received , of the rich regions along the coast , of which it required only courage and constancy on their part to become the masters . Yet , as their present exigencies were pressing , he resolved to send back the vessel to the Isle of Pearls , to lay in a fresh stock of provisions for his company , which might enable them to go forward with renewed confidence . The distance was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all be relieved from their perilous position . The officer detached on this service was named Montenegro ; and taking with him nearly half the company , after receiving Pizarro 's directions , he instantly weighed anchor , and steered for the Isle of Pearls . On the departure of his vessel , the Spanish commander made an attempt to explore the country , and see if some Indian settlement might not be found , where he could procure refreshments for his followers . But his efforts were vain , and no trace was visible of a human dwelling ; though , in the dense and impenetrable foliage of the equatorial regions , the distance of a few rods might suffice to screen a city from observation . The only means of nourishment left to the unfortunate adventurers were such shell-fish as they occasionally picked up on the shore , or the bitter buds of the palm-tree , and such berries and unsavory herbs as grew wild in the woods . Some of these were so poisonous , that the bodies of those who ate them swelled up and were tormented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miserable diet , pined away from weakness and actually died of starvation . Yet their resolute leader strove to maintain his own cheerfulness and to keep up the drooping spirits of his men . He freely shared with them his scanty stock of provisions , was unwearied in his endeavors to procure them sustenance , tended the sick , and ordered barracks to be constructed for their accommodation , which might , at least , shelter them from the drenching storms of the season . By this ready sympathy with his followers in their sufferings , he obtained an ascendency over their rough natures , which the assertion of authority , at least in the present extremity , could never have secured to him . Day after day , week after week , had now passed away , and no tidings were heard of the vessel that was to bring relief to the wanderers . In vain did they strain their eyes over the distant waters to catch a glimpse of their coming friends . Not a speck was to be seen in the blue distance , where the canoe of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the white man was not yet spread . Those who had borne up bravely at first now gave way to despondency , as they felt themselves abandoned by their countrymen on this desolate shore . They pined under that sad feeling which " maketh the heart sick . " More than twenty of the little band had already died , and the survivors seemed to be rapidly following.14 At this crisis reports were brought to Pizarro of a light having been seen through a distant opening in the woods . He hailed the tidings with eagerness , as intimating the existence of some settlement in the neighborhood ; and , putting himself at the head of a small party , went in the direction pointed out , to reconnoitre . He was not disappointed , and , after extricating himself from a dense wilderness of underbrush and foliage , he emerged into an open space , where a small Indian village was planted . The timid inhabitants , on the sudden apparition of the strangers , quitted their huts in dismay ; and the famished Spaniards , rushing in , eagerly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different articles of food , chiefly maize and cocoanuts . The supply , though small , was too seasonable not to fill them with rapture . The astonished natives made no attempt at resistance . But , gathering more confidence as no violence was offered to their persons , they drew nearer the white men , and inquired , " Why they did not stay at home and till their own lands , instead of roaming about to rob others who had never harmed them ? " 15 Whatever may have been their opinion as to . the question of right , the Spaniards , no doubt , felt then that it would have been wiser to do so . But the savages wore about their persons gold ornaments of some size , though of clumsy workmanship . This furnished the best reply to their demand . It was the golden bait which lured the Spanish adventurer to forsake his pleasant home for the trials of the wilderness . From the Indians Pizarro gathered a confirmation of the reports he had so often received of a rich country lying farther south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the mountains , they told him , there dwelt a mighty monarch whose dominions had been invaded by another still more powerful , the Child of the Sun.16 It may have been the invasion of Quito that was meant , by the valiant Inca Huayna Capac , which took place some years previous to Pizarro 's expedition . At length , after the expiration of more than six weeks , the Spaniards beheld with delight the return of the wandering bark that had borne away their comrades , and Montenegro sailed into port with an ample supply of provisions for his famishing countrymen . Great was his horror at the aspect presented by the latter , their wild and haggard countenances and wasted frames ,  --  so wasted by hunger and disease , that their old companions found it difficult to recognize them . Montenegro accounted for his delay by incessant head winds and bad weather ; and he himself had also a doleful tale to tell of the distress to which he and his crew had been reduced by hunger , on their passage to the Isle of Pearls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have been occupied , that enable one to comprehend the extremity of suffering to which the Spanish adventurer was subjected in the prosecution of his great work of discovery . Revived by the substantial nourishment to which they had so long been strangers , the Spanish cavaliers , with the buoyancy that belongs to men of a hazardous and roving life , forgot their past distresses in their eagerness to prosecute their enterprise . Reembarking therefore on board his vessel , Pizarro bade adieu to the scene of so much suffering , which he branded with the appropriate name of Puerto de la Hambre , the Port of Famine , and again opened his sails to a favorable breeze that bore him onwards towards the south . Had he struck boldly out into the deep , instead of hugging the inhospitable shore , where he had hitherto found so little to recompense him , he might have spared himself the repetition of wearisome and unprofitable adventures , and reached by a shorter route the point of his destination . But the Spanish mariner groped his way along these unknown coasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lest some fruitful region or precious mine might be overlooked , should a single break occur in the line of survey . Yet it should be remembered , that , though the true point of Pizarro 's destination is obvious to us , familiar with the topography of these countries , he was wandering in the dark , feeling his way along , inch by inch , as it were , without chart to guide him , without knowledge of the seas or of the bearings of the coast , and even with no better defined idea of the object at which he aimed than that of a land teeming with gold , that lay somewhere at the south ! It was a hunt after an El Dorado ; on information scarcely more circumstantial or authentic than that which furnished the basis of so many chimerical enterprises in this land of wonders . Success only , the best argument with the multitude , redeemed the expeditions of Pizarro from a similar imputation of extravagance . Holding on his southerly course under the lee of the shore , Pizarro , after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of country , or at least one less encumbered with wood , which rose by a gradual swell , as it receded from the coast . He landed with a small body of men , and , advancing a short distance into the interior , fell in with an Indian hamlet . It was abandoned by the inhabitants , who , on the approach of the invaders , had betaken themselves to the mountains ; and the Spaniards , entering their deserted dwellings , found there a good store of maize and other articles of food , and rude ornaments of gold of considerable value . Food was not more necessary for their bodies than was the sight of gold , from time to time , to stimulate their appetite for adventure . One spectacle , however , chilled their blood with horror . This was the sight of human flesh , which they found roasting before the fire , as the barbarians had left it , preparatory to their obscene repast . The Spaniards , conceiving that they had fallen in with a tribe of Caribs , the only race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cannibals , retreated precipitately to their vessel.17 They were not steeled by sad familiarity with the spectacle , like the Conquerors of Mexico . The weather , which had been favorable , now set in tempestuous , with heavy squalls , accompanied by incessant thunder and lightning , and the rain , as usual in these tropical tempests , descended not so much in drops as in unbroken sheets of water . The Spaniards , however , preferred to take their chance on the raging element rather than remain in the scene of such brutal abominations . But the fury of the storm gradually subsided , and the little vessel held on her way along the coast , till , coming abreast of a bold point of land named by Pizarro Punts Quemada , he gave orders to anchor . The margin of the shore was fringed with a deep belt of mangrove-trees , the long roots of which , interlacing one another , formed a kind of submarine lattice-work that made the place difficult of approach . Several avenues , opening through this tangled thicket , led Pizarro to conclude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the greater part of his force , to explore the interior . He had not penetrated more than a league , when he found his conjecture verified by the sight of an Indian town of larger size than those he had hitherto seen , occupying the brow of an eminence , and well detended by palisades . The inhabitants , as usual , had fled ; but left in their dwellings a good supply of provisions and some gold trinkets , which the Spaniards made no difficulty of appropriating to themselves . Pizarro 's flimsy bark had been strained by the heavy gales it had of late encountered , so that it was unsafe to prosecute the voyage further without more thorough repairs than could be given to her on this desolate coast . He accordingly determined to send her back with a few hands to be careened at Panama , and meanwhile to establish his quarters in his present position , which was so favorable for defence . But first he despatched a small party under Montenegro to reconnoitre the country , and , if possible , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a warlike race . They had left their habitations in order to place their wives and children in safety . But they had kept an eye on the movements of the invaders , and , when they saw their forces divided , they resolved to fall upon each body singly before it could communicate with the other . So soon , therefore , as Montenegro had penetrated through the defiles of the lofty hills , which shoot out like spurs of the Cordilleras along this part of the coast , the Indian warriors , springing from their ambush , sent off a cloud of arrows and other missiles that darkened the air , while they made the forest ring with their shrill warwhoop . The Spaniards , astonished at the appearance of the savages , with their naked bodies gaudily painted , and brandishing their weapons as they glanced among the trees and straggling underbrush that choked up the defile , were taken by surprise and thrown for a moment into disarray . Three of their number were killed and several wounded . Yet , speedily rallying , they returned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pizarro 's troops do not seem to have been provided with muskets on this expedition ,  --  and then gallantly charging the enemy , sword in hand , succeeded in driving them back into the fastnesses of the mountains . But it only led them to shift their operations to another quarter , and make an assault , , n Pizarro before he could be relieved by his lieutenant . Availing themselves of their superior knowledge of the passes , they reached that commander 's quarters long before Montenegro , who had commenced a countermarch in the same direction . And issuing from the woods , the bold savages saluted the Spanish garrison with a tempest of darts and arrows , some of which found their way through the joints of the harness and the quilted mail of the cavaliers . But Pizarro was too well practised a soldier to be off his guard . Calling his men about him , he resolved not to abide the assault tamely in the works , but to sally out , and meet the enemy on their own ground . The barbarians , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spaniards burst forth with their valiant leader at their head . But , soon returning with admirable ferocity to the charge , they singled out Pizarro , whom , by his bold bearing and air of authority , they easily recognized as the chief ; and , hurling at him a storm of missiles , wounded him , in spite of his armour , in no less than seven places.18 Driven back by the fury of the assault directed against his own person , the Spanish commander retreated down the slope of the hill , still defending himself as he could with sword and buckler , when his foot slipped and he fell . The enemy set up a fierce yell of triumph , and some of the boldest sprang forward to despatch him . But Pizarro was on his feet in an instant , and , striking down two of the foremost with his strong arm , held the rest at bay till his soldiers could come to the rescue . The barbarians , struck with admiration at his valor , began to falter , when Montenegro luckily coming on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rear , completed their confusion ; and , abandoning the field , they made the best of their way into the recesses of the mountains . The ground was covered with their slain ; but the victory was dearly purchased by the death of two more Spaniards and a long list of wounded . A council of war was then called . The position had lost its charm in the eyes of the Spaniards , who had met here with the first resistance they had yet experienced on their expedition . It was necessary to place the wounded in some secure spot , where their injuries could be attended to . Yet it was not safe to proceed farther , in the crippled state of their vessel . On the whole , it was decided to return and report their proceedings to the governor ; and , though the magnificent hopes of the adventurers had not been realized , Pizarro trusted that enough had been done to vindicate the importance of the enterprise , and to secure the countenance of Pedrarias for the further prosecution of it.19 Yet Pizarro could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present state of the undertaking , before the governor . He determined , therefore , to be set on shore with the principal part of his company at Chicarea , a place on the main land , at a short distance west of Panama From this place , which he reached without any further accident , he despatched the vessel , and in it his treasurer , Nicolas de Ribera , with the gold he had collected , and with instructions to lay before the governor in full account of his discoveries , and the result of the expedition . While these events were passing , Pizarro 's associate , Almagro , had been busily employed in fitting out another vessel for the expedition at the port of Panama . It was not till long after his friend 's departure that he was prepared to follow him . With the assistance of Luque , he at length succeeded in equipping a small caravel and embarking a body of between sixty and seventy adventurers , mostly of the lowest order of the colonists . He steered in the track of his comrade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . By a signal previously concerted of notching the trees , he was able to identify the spots visited by Pizarro ,  - -  Puerto de Pinas , Puerto de la Hambre , Pueblo Quemado  --  touching successively at every point of the coast explored by his countrymen , though in a much shorter time . At the last-mentioned place he was received by the fierce natives with the same hostile demonstrations as Pizarro , though in the present encounter the Indians did not venture beyond their defences . But the hot blood of Almagro was so exasperated by this check , that he assaulted the place and carried it sword in hand , setting fire to the outworks and dwellings , and driving the wretched inhabitants into the forests . His victory cost him dear . A wound from a javelin on the head caused an inflammation in one of his eyes , which , after great anguish , ended in the loss of it . Yet the intrepid adventurer did not hesitate to pursue his voyage , and , after touching at several places on the coast , some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he reached the mouth of the Rio de San Juan , about the fourth degree of north latitude . He was struck with the beauty of the stream , and with the cultivation on its borders , which were sprinkled with Indian cottages showing some skill in their construction , and altogether intimating a higher civilization than any thing he had yet seen . Still his mind was filled with anxiety for the fate of Pizarro and his followers . No trace of them had been found on the coast for a long time , and it was evident they must have foundered at sea , or made their way back to Panama . This last he deemed most probable ; as the vessel might have passed him unnoticed under the cover of the night , or of the dense fogs that sometimes hang over the coast . Impressed with this belief , he felt no heart to continue his voyage of discovery , for which , indeed , his single bark , with its small complement of men , was altogether inadequate . He proposed , therefore , to return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Isle of Pearls , and there learned the result of his friend 's expedition , and the place of his present residence . Directing his course , at once , to Chicama , the two cavaliers soon had the satisfaction of embracing each other , and recounting their several exploits and escapes . Almagro returned even better freighted with gold than his confederate , and at every step of his progress he had collected fresh confirmation of the existence of some great and opulent empire in the South . The confidence of the two friends was much strengthened by their discoveries ; and they unhesitatingly pledged themselves to one another to die rather than abandon the enterprise.20 The best means of obtaining the levies requisite for so formidable an undertaking  --  more formidable , as it now appeared to them , than before  - -  were made the subject of long and serious discussion . It was at length decided that Pizarro should remain in his present quarters , inconvenient and even unwholesome as they were rendered by the humidity of the climate , and the pestilent swarms of insects that filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay the case before the governor , and secure , if possible , his good-will towards the prosecution of the enterprise . If no obstacle were thrown in their way from this quarter , they might hope , with the assistance of Luque , to raise the necessary supplies ; while the results of the recent expedition were sufficiently encouraging to draw adventurers to their standard in a community which had a craving for excitement that gave even danger a charm , and which held life cheap in comparison with gold . Book 2 Chapter 3 The Famous Contract-Second Expedition  --  Ruiz Explores The Coast  - -  Pizarro 's Sufferings In The Forests  --  Arrival Of New Recruits-Fresh Discoveries And Disasters  --  Pizarro On The Isle Of Gallo 1526  --  1527 On his arrival at Panama , Almagro found that events had taken a turn less favorable to his views than he had anticipated . Pedrarias , the governor , was preparing to lead an expedition in person against a rebellious officer in Nicaragua ; and his temper , naturally not the most amiable , was still further soured by this defection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a long and perilous march . When , therefore , Almagro appeared before him with the request that he might be permitted to raise further levies to prosecute his enterprise , the governor received him with obvious dissatisfaction , listened coldly to the narrative of his losses , turned an incredulous ear to his magnificent promises for the future , and bluntly demanded an account of the lives , which had been sacrificed by Pizarro 's obstinacy , but which , had they been spared , might have stood him in good stead in his present expedition to Nicaragua . He positively declined to countenance the rash schemes of the two adventurers any longer , and the conquest of Peru would have been crushed in the bud , but for the efficient interposition of the remaining associate , Fernando de Luque . This sagacious ecclesiastic had received a very different impression from Almagro 's narrative , from that which had been made on the mind of the irritable governor . The actual results of the enterprise in gold and silver , thus far , indeed , had been small , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expectations . But , in another point of view , they were of the last importance ; since the intelligence which the adventurers had gained in every successive stage of their progress confirmed , in the strongest manner , the previous accounts , received from Andogoya and others , of a rich Indian empire at the south , which might repay the trouble of conquering it as well as Mexico had repaid the enterprise of Cortes . Fully entering , therefore , into the feelings of his military associates , he used all his influence with the governor to incline him to a more favorable view of Almagro 's petition ; and no one in the little community of Panama exercised greater influence over the councils of the executive than Father Luque , for which he was indebted no less to his discretion and acknowledged sagacity than to his professional station . But while Pedrarias , overcome by the arguments or importunity of the churchman , yielded a reluctant assent to the application , he took care to testify his displeasure with Pizarro , on whom he particularly charged the loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in command in the proposed expedition . This mortification sunk deep into Pizarro 's mind . He suspected his comrade , with what reason does not appear , of soliciting this boon from the governor . A temporary coldness arose between them , which subsided , in outward show , at least , on Pizarro 's reflecting that it was better to have this authority conferred on a friend than on a stranger , perhaps an enemy . But the seeds of permanent distrust were left in his bosom , and lay waiting for the due season to ripen into a fruitful harvest of discord.1 Pedrarias had been originally interested in the enterprise , at least , so far as to stipulate for a share of the gains , though he had not contributed , as it appears , a single ducat towards the expenses . He was at length , however , induced to relinquish all right to a share of the contingent profits . But , in his manner of doing so , he showed a mercenary spirit , better becoming a petty trader than a high officer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him the sum of one thousand pesos de oro in requital of his good-will , and they eagerly closed with his proposal , rather than be encumbered with his pretensions . For so paltry a consideration did he resign his portion of the rich spoil of the Incas ! 2 But the governor was not gifted with the eye of a prophet . His avarice was of that short-sighted kind which defeats itself . He had sacrificed the chivalrous Balboa just as that officer was opening to him the conquest of Peru , and he would now have quenched the spirit of enterprise , that was taking the same direction , in Pizarro and his associates . Not long after this , in the following year , he was succeeded in his government by Don Pedro de los Rios , a cavalier of Cordova . It was the policy of the Castilian Crown to allow no one of the great colonial officers to occupy the same station so long as to render himself formidable by his authority.3 It had , moreover , many particular causes of disgust with Pedrarias . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with ample instructions for the good of the colony , and especially of the natives , whose religious conversion was urged as a capital object , and whose personal freedom was unequivocally asserted , as loyal vassals of the Crown . It is but justice to the Spanish government to admit that its provisions were generally guided by a humane and considerate policy , which was as regularly frustrated by the cupidity of the colonist , and the capricious cruelty of the conqueror . The few remaining years of Pedrarias were spent in petty squabbles , both of a personal and official nature ; for he was still continued in office , though in one of less consideration than that which he had hitherto filled . He survived but a few years , leaving behind him a reputation not to be envied , of one who united a pusillanimous spirit with uncontrollable passions ; who displayed , notwithstanding , a certain energy of character , or , to speak more correctly , an impetuosity of purpose , which might have led to good results had it taken a right direction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the direction he took was rarely of service to his country or to himself . Having settled their difficulties with the governor , and obtained his sanction to their enterprise , the confederates lost no time in making the requisite preparations for it . Their first step was to execute the memorable contract which served as the basis of their future arrangements ; and , as Pizarro 's name appears in this , it seems probable that that chief had crossed over to Panama so soon as the favorable disposition of Pedrarias had been secured.4 The instrument , after invoking in the most solemn manner the names of the Holy Trinity and Our Lady the Blessed Virgin , sets forth , that , whereas the parties have full authority to discover and subdue the countries and provinces lying south of the Gulf , belonging to the empire of Peru , and as Fernando de Luque had advanced the funds for the enterprise in bars of gold of the value of twenty thousand pesos , they mutually bind themselves to divide equally among them the whole of the conquered territory . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference to Luque , who , it is declared , is to be entitled to one third of all lands , repartimientos , treasures of every kind , gold , silver , and precious stones , - - to one third even of all vassals , rents , and emoluments arising from such grants as may be conferred by the Crown on either of his military associates , to be held for his own use , or for that of his heirs , assigns , or legal representative . The two captains solemnly engage to devote themselves exclusively to the present undertaking until it is accomplished ; and , in case of failure in their part of the covenant , they pledge themselves to reimburse Luque for his advances , for which all the property they possess shall be held responsible , and this declaration is to be a sufficient warrant for the execu. tion of judgment against them , in the same manner as if it had proceed . ed from the decree of a court of justice . The commanders , Pizarro and Almagro , made oath , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep this covenant , swearing it on the missal , on which they traced with their own hands the sacred emblem of the cross . To give still greater efficacy to the compact , Father Luque administered the sacrament to the parties , dividing the consecrated wafer into three portions , of which each one of them partook ; while the bystanders , says an historian , were affected to tears by this spectacle of the solemn ceremonial with which these men voluntarily devoted themselves to a sacrifice that seemed little short of insanity.5 The instrument , which was dated March 10 , 1526 , was subscribed by Luque , and attested by three respectable citizens of Panama , one of whom signed on behalf of Pizarro , and the other for Almagro ; since neither of these parties , according to the avowal of the instrument , was able to subscribe his own name.6 Such was the singular compact by which three obscure individuals coolly carved out and partitioned among themselves , an empire of whose extent , power , and resources , of whose situation , of whose existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The positive and unhesitating manner in which they speak of the grandeur of this empire , of its stores of wealth , so conformable to the event , but of which they could have really known so little , forms a striking contrast with the general skepticism and indifference manifested by nearly every other person , high and low , in the community of Panama.7 The religious tone of the instrument is not the least remarkable feature in it , especially when we contrast this with the relentless policy , pursued by the very men who were parties to it , in their conquest of the country . " In the name of the Prince of Peace , " says the illustrious historian of America , " they ratified a contract of which plunder and bloodshed were the objects . " 8 The reflection seems reasonable . Yet , in criticizing what is done , as well as what is written , we must take into account the spirit of the times.9 The invocation of Heaven was natural , where the object of the undertaking was , in part , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , into the theory , at least , of the Spanish conquests in the New World . That motives of a baser sort mingled largely with these higher ones , and in different proportions according to the character of the individual , no one will deny . And few are they that have proposed to themselves a long career of action without the intermixture of some vulgar personal motive ,  --  fame , honors , or emolument . Yet that religion furnishes a key to the American crusades , however rudely they may have been conducted , is evident from the history of their origin ; from the sanction openly given to them by the Head of the Church ; from the throng of self-devoted missionaries , who followed in the track of the conquerors to garner up the rich harvest of souls ; from the reiterated instructions of the Crown , the great object of which was the conversion of the natives ; from those superstitious acts of the iron-hearted soldiery themselves , which , however they may be set down to fanaticism , were clearly too much in earnest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was indeed a fiery cross that was borne over the devoted land , scathing and consuming it in its terrible progress ; but it was still the cross , the sign of man 's salvation , the only sign by which generations and generations yet unborn were to be rescued from eternal perdition . It is a remarkable fact , which has hitherto escaped the notice of the historian , that Luque was not the real party to this contract . He represented another , who placed in his hands the funds required for the undertaking . This appears from an instrument signed by Luque himself and certified before the same notary that prepared the original contract . The instrument declares that the whole sum of twenty thousand pesos advanced for the expedition was furnished by the Licentiate Gaspar de Espinosa , then at Panama ; that the vicar acted only as his agent and by his authority ; and that , in consequence , the said Espinosa and no other was entitled to a third of all the profits and acquisitions resulting from the conquest of Peru . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same who had witnessed the original contract , was dated on the 6th of August , 1531.10 The Licentiate Espinosa was a respectable functionary , who had filled the office of principal alcalde in Darien , and since taken a conspicuous part in the conquest and settlement of Tierra Firme . He enjoyed much consideration for his personal character and station ; and it is remarkable that so little should be known of the manner in which the covenant , so solemnly made , was executed in reference to him . As in the case of Columbus , it is probable that the unexpected magnitude of the results was such as to prevent a faithful adherence to the original stipulation ; and yet , from the same consideration , one can hardly doubt that the twenty thousand pesos of the bold speculator must have brought him a magnificent return . Nor did the worthy vicar of Panama , as the history will show hereafter , go without his reward . Having completed these preliminary arrangements , the three associates lost no time in making preparations for the voyage . Two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those employed on the former occasion . Stores were laid in , as experience dictated , on a larger scale than before , and proclamation was made of " an expedition to Peru . " But the call was not readily answered by the skeptical citizens of Panama . Of nearly two hundred men who had embarked on the former cruise , not more than three fourths now remained.11 This dismal mortality , and the emaciated , poverty-stricken aspect of the survivors , spoke more eloquently than the braggart promises and magnificent prospects held out by the adventurers . Still there were men in the community of such desperate circumstances , that any change seemed like a chance of bettering their condition . Most of the former company also , strange to say , felt more pleased to follow up the adventure to the end than to abandon it , as they saw the light of a better day dawning upon them . From these sources the two captains succeeded in mustering about one hundred and sixty men , making altogether a very inadequate force for the conquest of an empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better supply of ammunition and military stores than before , though still on a very limited scale . Considering their funds , the only way of accounting for this must be by the difficulty of obtaining supplies at Panama , which , recently founded , and on the remote coast of the Pacific , could be approached only by crossing the rugged barrier of mountains , which made the transportation of bulky articles extremely difficult . Even such scanty stock of materials as it possessed was probably laid under heavy contribution , at the present juncture , by the governor 's preparations for his own expedition to the north . Thus indifferently provided , the two captains , each in his own vessel , again took their departure from Panama , under the direction of Bartholomew Ruiz , a sagacious and resolute pilot , well experienced in the navigation of the Southern Ocean . He was a native of Moguer , in Andalusia , that little nursery of nautical enterprise , which furnished so many seamen for the first voyages of Columbus . Without touching at the intervening points of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they stood farther out to sea , steering direct for the Rio de San Juan , the utmost limit reached by Almagro . The season was better selected than on the former occasion , and they were borne along by favorable breezes to the place of their destination , which they reached without accident in a few days . Entering the mouth of the river , they saw the banks well lined with Indian habitations ; and Pizarro , disembarking , at the head of a party of soldiers , succeeded in surprising a small village and carrying off a considerable booty of gold ornaments found in the dwellings , together with a few of the natives.12 Flushed with their success , the two chiefs were confident that the sight of the rich spoil so speedily obtained could not fall to draw adventurers to their standard in Panama ; and , as they felt more than ever the necessity of a stronger force to cope with the thickening population of the country which they were now to penetrate , it was decided that Almagro should return with the treasure and beat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other vessel , should reconnoitre the country towards the south , and obtain such information as might determine their future movements . Pizarro , with the rest of the force , would remain in the neighborhood of the river , as he was assured by the Indian prisoners , that not far in the interior was an open reach of country , where he and his men could find comfortable quarters . This arrangement was instantly put in execution . We will first accompany the intrepid pilot in his cruise towards the south . Coasting along the great continent , with his canvas still spread to favorable winds , the first place at which Ruiz cast anchor was off the little island of Gallo , about two degrees north . The inhabitants , who were not numerous , were prepared to give him a hostile reception ,  --  for tidings of the invaders had preceded them along the country , and even reached this insulated spot . As the object of Ruiz was to explore , not conquer , he did not care to entangle himself in hostilities with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he weighed anchor , and ran down the coast as far as what is now called the Bay of St. Matthew . The country , which , as he advanced , continued to exhibit evidence of a better culture as well as of a more dense population than the parts hitherto seen , was crowded , along the shores , with spectators , who gave no signs of fear or hostility . They stood gazing on the vessel of the white men as it glided smoothly into the crystal waters of the bay , fancying it , says an old writer , some mysterious being descended from the skies . Without staying long enough on this friendly coast to undeceive the simple people , Ruiz , standing off shore , struck out into the deep sea ; but he had not sailed far in that direction , when he was surprised by the sight of a vessel , seeming in the distance like a caravel of considerable size , traversed by a large sail that carried it sluggishly over the waters . The old navigator was not a little perplexed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have been before him in these latitudes , and no Indian nation , yet discovered , not even the civilized Mexican , was acquainted with the use of sails in navigation . As he drew near , he found it was a large vessel , or rather raft , called balsa by the natives , consisting of a number of huge timbers of a light , porous wood , tightly lashed together , with a frail flooring of reeds raised on them by way of deck . Two masts or sturdy poles , erected in the middle of the vessel , sustained a large square-sail of cotton , while a rude kind of rudder and a movable keel , made of plank inserted between the logs , enabled the mariner to give a direction to the floating fabric , which held on its course without the aid of oar or paddle.13 The simple architecture of this craft was sufficient for the purposes of the natives , and indeed has continued to answer them to the present day ; for the balsa , surmounted by small thatched huts or cabins , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passengers and luggage on the streams and along the shores of this part of the South American continent . On coming alongside , Ruiz found several Indians , both men and women , on board , some with rich ornaments on their persons , besides several articles wrought with considerable skill in gold and silver , which they were carrying for purposes of traffic to the different places along the coast . But what most attracted his attention was the woollen cloth of which some of their dresses were made . It was of a fine texture , delicately embroidered with figures of birds and flowers , and dyed in brilliant colors . He also observed in the boat a pair of balances made to weigh the precious metals.14 His astonishment at these proofs of ingenuity and civilization , so much higher than anything he had ever seen in the country , was heightened by the intelligence which he collected from some of these Indians . Two of them had come from Tumbez , a Peruvian port , some degrees to the south ; and they gave him to understand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flocks of the animals from which the wool was obtained , and that gold and silver were almost as common as wood in the palaces of their monarch . The Spaniards listened greedily to reports which harmonized so well with their fond desires . Though half distrusting the exaggeration , Ruiz resolved to detain some of the Indians , including the natives of Tumbez , that they might repeat the wondrous tale to his commander , and at the same time , by learning the Castilian , might hereafter serve as interpreters with their countrymen . The rest of the party he suffered to proceed without further interruption on their voyage . Then holding on his course , the prudent pilot , without touching at any other point of the coast , advanced as far as the Punta de Pasado , about half a degree south , having the glory of being the first European who , sailing in this direction on the Pacific , had crossed the equinoctial line . This was the limit ' of his discoveries ; on reaching which he tacked about , and standing away to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks , in regaining the spot where he had left Pizarro and his comrades.15 It was high time ; for the spirits of that little band had been sorely tried by the perils they had encountered . On the departure of his vessels , Pizarro marched into the interior , in the hope of finding the pleasant champaign country which had been promised him by the natives . But at every step the forests seemed to grow denser and darker , and the trees towered to a height such as he had never seen , even in these fruitful regions , where Nature works on so gigantic a scale.16 Hill continued to rise above hill , as he advanced , rolling onward , as it were , by successive waves to join that colossal barrier of the Andes , whose frosty sides , far away above the clouds , spread out like a curtain of burnished silver , that seemed to connect the heavens with the earth . On crossing these woody eminences , the forlorn adventurers would plunge into ravines of frightful depth , where the exhalations of a humid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which shone through the deep glooms in every conceivable variety of color . Birds . especially of the parrot tribe , mocked this fantastic variety of nature with tints as brilliant as those of the vegetable world . Monkeys chattered in crowds above their heads , and made grimaces like the fiendish spirits of these solitudes ; while hideous reptiles , engendered in the slimy depths of the pools , gathered round the footsteps of the wanderers . Here was seen the gigantic boa , coiling his unwieldy folds about the trees , so as hardly to be distinguished from their trunks , till he was ready to dart upon his prey ; and alligators lay basking on the borders of the streams , or , gliding under the waters , seized their incautious victim before he was aware of their approach.17 Many of the Spaniards perished miserably in this way , and others were waylaid by the natives , who kept a jealous eye on their movements , and availed themselves of every opportunity to take them at advantage . Fourteen of Pizarro 's men were cut off at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stream.18 Famine came in addition to other troubles , and it was with difficulty that they found the means of sustaining life on the scanty fare of the forest ,  - -  occasionally the potato , as it grew without cultivation , or the wild cocoa-nut , or , on the shore , the salt and bitter fruit of the mangrove ; though the shore was less tolerable than the forest , from the swarms of mosquitos which compelled the wretched adventurers to bury their bodies up to their very faces in the sand . In this extremity of suffering , they thought only of return ; and all schemes of avarice and ambition  --  except with Pizarro and a few dauntless spirits  --  were exchanged for the one craving desire to return to Panama . It was at this crisis that the pilot Ruiz returned with the report of his brilliant discoveries ; and , not long after , Almagro sailed into port with his vessel laden with refreshments , and a considerable reinforcement of volunteers . The voyage of that commander had been prosperous . When he arrived at Panama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pedro de los Rios ; and he came to anchor in the harbor , unwilling to trust himself on shore , till he had obtained from Father Luque some account of the dispositions of the executive . These were sufficiently favorable ; for the new governor had particular instructions fully to carry out the arrangements made by his predecessor with the associates . On learning Almagro 's arrival , he came down to the port to welcome him , professing his willingness to afford every facility for the execution of his designs . Fortunately , just before this period , a small body of military adventurers had come to Panama from the mother country , burning with desire to make their fortunes in the New World . They caught much more eagerly than the old and wary colonists at the golden bait held out to them ; and with their addition , and that of a few supernumerary stragglers who hung about the town , Almagro found himself at the head of a reinforcement of at least eighty men , with which , having laid in a fresh supply of stores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Juan . The arrival of the new recruits all eager to follow up the expedition , the comfortable change in their circumstances produced by an ample supply of refreshments , and the glowing pictures of the wealth that awaited them in the south , all had their effect on the dejected spirits of Pizarro 's followers . Their late toils and privations were speedily forgotten , and , with the buoyant and variable feelings incident to a freebooter 's life , they now called as eagerly on their commander to go forward in the voyage , as they had before called on him to abandon it . Availing themselves of the renewed spirit of enterprise , the captains embarked on board their vessels , and , under the guidance of the veteran pilot , steered in the same track he had lately pursued . But the favorable season for a southern course , which in these latitudes lasts but a few months in the year , had been suffered to escape . The breezes blew steadily towards the north , and a strong current , not far from shore , set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tempests , and the unfortunate voyagers were tossed about , for many days , in the boiling surges , amidst the most awful storms of thunder and lightning , until , at length , they found a secure haven in the island of Gallo , already visited by Ruiz . As they were now too strong in numbers to apprehend an assault , the crews landed , and , experiencing no molestation from the natives , they continued on the island for a fortnight , refitting their damaged vessels , and recruiting themselves after the fatigues of the ocean . Then , resuming their voyage , the captains stood towards the south until they reached the Bay of St. Matthew . As they advanced along the coast , they were struck , as Ruiz had been before , with the evidences of a higher civilization constantly exhibited in the general aspect of the country and its inhabitants . The hand of cultivation was visible in every quarter . The natural appearance of the coast , too , had something in it more inviting ; for , instead of the eternal labyrinth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coils under the water , as if to waylay and entangle the voyager , the low margin of the sea was covered with a stately growth of ebony , and with a species of mahogany , and other hard woods that take the most brilliant and variegated polish . The sandal-wood , and many balsamic trees of unknown names , scattered their sweet odors far and wide , not in an atmosphere tainted with vegetable corruption , but on the pure breezes of the ocean , bearing health as well as fragrance on their wings . Broad patches of cultivated land intervened , disclosing hill-sides covered with the yellow maize and the potato , or checkered , in the lower levels , with blooming plantations of cacao.19 The villages became more numerous ; and , as the vessels rode at anchor off the port of Tacamez , the Spaniards saw before them a town of two thousand houses or more , laid out into streets , with a numerous population clustering around it in the suburbs.20 The men and women displayed many ornaments of gold and precious stones about their persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Incas claimed a monopoly of jewels for themselves and the nobles on whom they condescended to bestow them . But , although the Spaniards had now reached the outer limits of the Peruvian empire , it was not Peru , but Quito , and that portion of it but recently brought under the sceptre of the Incas , where the ancient usages of the people could hardly have been effaced under the oppressive system of the American despots . The adjacent country was , moreover , particularly rich in gold , which , collected from the washings of the streams , still forms one of the staple products of Barbacoas . Here , too , was the fair River of Emeralds , so called from the quarries of the beautiful gem on its borders , from which the Indian monarchs enriched their treasury.21 The Spaniards gazed with delight on these undeniable evidences of wealth , and saw in the careful cultivation of the soil a comfortable assurance that they had at length reached the land which had so long been seen in brilliant , though distant , perspective before them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the warlike spirit of the people , who , conscious of their own strength , showed no disposition to quail before the invaders . On the contrary , several of their canoes shot out , loaded with warriors , who , displaying a gold mask as their ensign , hovered round the vessels with looks of defiance , and , when pursued , easily took shelter under the lee of the land.22 A more formidable body mustered along the shore , to the number , according to the Spanish accounts , of at least ten thousand warriors , eager , apparently , to come to close action with the invaders . Nor could Pizarro , who had landed with a party of his men in the hope of a conference with the natives , wholly prevent hostilities ; and it might have gone hard with the Spaniards , hotly pressed by their resolute enemy so superior in numbers , but for a ludicrous accident reported by the historians as happening to one of the cavaliers . This was a fall from his horse , which so astonished the barbarians , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the same being into two , that , filled with consternation , they fell back , and left a way open for the Christians to regain their vessels ! 23 A council of war was now called . It was evident that the forces of the Spaniards were unequal to a contest with so numerous and well-appointed a body of natives ; and , even if they should prevail here , they could have no hope of stemming the torrent which must rise against them in their progress  --  for the country was becoming more and more thickly settled , and towns and hamlets started into view at every new headland which they doubled . It was better , in the opinion of some ,  --  the faint-hearted , - to abandon the enterprise at once , as beyond their strength . But Almagro took a different view of the affair . " To go home , " he said , " with nothing done , would be ruin , as well as disgrace . There was scarcely one but had left creditors at Panama , who looked for payment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be to deliver themselves at once into their hands . It would be to go to prison . Better to roam a freeman , though in the wilderness , than to lie bound with fetters in the dungeons of Panama.24 The only course for them , " he concluded , " was the one lately pursued . Pizarro might find some more commodious place where he could remain with part of the force while he himself went back for recruits to Panama . The story they had now to tell of the riches of the land , as they had seen them with their own eyes , would put their expedition in a very different light , and could not fail to draw to their banner as many volunteers as they needed . " But this recommendation , however judicious , was not altogether to the taste of the latter commander , who did not relish the part , which constantly fell to him , of remaining behind in the swamps and forests of this wild country . " It is all very well , " he said to Almagro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough , careering to and fro in your vessel , or snugly sheltered in a land of plenty at Panama ; but it is quite another matter for those who stay behind to droop and die of hunger in the wilderness.25 To this Almagro retorted with some heat , professing his own willingness to take charge of the brave men who would remain with him , if Pizarro declined it . The controversy assuming a more angry and menacing tone , from words they would have soon come to blows , as both , laying their hands on their swords , were preparing to rush on each other , when the treasurer Ribera , aided by the pilot Ruiz , succeeded in pacifying them . It required but little effort on the part of these cooler counsellors to convince the cavaliers of the folly of a conduct which must at once terminate the expedition in a manner little creditable to its projectors . A reconciliation consequently took place , sufficient , at least in outward show , to allow the two commanders to act together in concert . Almagro 's plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the most secure and convenient spot for Pizarro 's quarters . Several days were passed in touching at different parts of the coast , as they retraced their course ; but everywhere the natives appeared to have caught the alarm , and assumed a menacing , and from their numbers a formidable , aspect . The more northerly region , with its unwholesome fens and forests , where nature wages a war even more relentless than man , was not to be thought of . In this perplexity , they decided on the little island of Gallo , as being , on the whole , from its distance from the shore , and from the scantiness of its population , the most eligible spot for them in their forlorn and destitute condition.26 But no sooner was the resolution of the two captains made known , than a feeling of discontent broke forth among their followers , especially those who were to remain with Pizarro on the island , " What ! " they exclaimed , " were they to be dragged to that obscure spot to die by hunger ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from beginning to end . The golden countries , so much vaunted , had seemed to fly before them as they advanced ; and the little gold they had been fortunate enough to glean had all been sent back to Panama to entice other fools to follow their example . What had they got in return for all their sufferings ? The only treasures they could boast were their bows and arrows , and they were now to be left to die on this dreary island , without so much as a rood of consecrated ground to lay their bones in ! 27 In this exasperated state of feeling , several of the soldiers wrote back to their friends , informing them of their deplorable condition , and complaining of the cold-blooded manner in which they were to be sacrificed to the obstinate cupidity of their leaders . But the latter were wary enough to anticipate this movement , and Almagro defeated it by seizing all the letters in the vessels , and thus cutting off at once the means of communication with their friends at home . Yet this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fell short of its purpose ; for a soldier named Sarabia had the ingenuity to evade it by introducing a letter into a ball of cotton , which was to be taken to Panama as a specimen of the products of the country , and presented to the governor 's lady.28 The letter , which was signed by several of the disaffected soldiery besides the writer , painted in gloomy colors the miseries of their condition , accused the two commanders of being the authors of this , and called on the authorities of Panama to interfere by sending a vessel to take them from the desolate spot , while some of them might still be found surviving the horrors of their confinement . The epistle concluded with a stanza , in which the two leaders were stigmatized as partners in a slaughter-house ; one being employed to drive in the cattle for the other to butcher . The verses , which had a currency in their day among the colonists to which they were certainly not entitled by their poetical merits , may be thus rendered into corresponding doggerel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drover while he 's near ; Since he goes home to get the sheep For the butcher who stays here . " 29 Book 2 Chapter 4 Indignation Of The Governor  --  Stern Resolution Of Pizarro-Prosecution Of The Voyage  --  Brilliant Aspect Of Tumbez-Discoveries Along The Coast  --  Return To Panama-Pizarro Embarks For Spain 1527  --  1528 Not long after Almagro 's departure , Pizarro sent off the remaining vessel , under the pretext of its being put in repair at Panama . It probably relieved him of a part of his followers , whose mutinous spirit made them an obstacle rather than a help in his forlorn condition , and with whom he was the more willing to part from the difficulty of finding subsistence on the barren spot which he now occupied . Great was the dismay occasioned by the return of Almagro and his followers , in the little community of Panama ; for the letter , surreptitiously conveyed in the ball of cotton , fell into the hands for which it was intended , and the contents soon got abroad with usual quantity of exaggeration . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , told a tale sufficiently disheartening , and it was soon generally believed that the few ill-fated survivors of the expedition were detained against their will by Pizarro , to end their days with their disappointed leader on his desolate island . Pedro de los Rios , the governor , was so much incensed at the result of the expedition , and the waste of life it had occasioned to the colony , that he turned a deaf ear to all the applications of Luque and Almagro for further countenance in the affair ; he derided their sanguine anticipations of the future , and finally resolved to send an officer to the isle of Gallo , with orders to bring back every Spaniard whom he should find still living in that dreary abode . Two vessels were immediately despatched for the purpose , and placed under charge of a cavalier named Tafur , a native of Cordova . Meanwhile Pizarro and his followers were experiencing all the miseries which might have been expected from the character of the barren spot on which they were imprisoned . They were , indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had quitted the island on its occupation by the white men ; but they had to endure the pains of hunger even in a greater degree than they had formerly experienced in the wild woods of the neighboring continent . Their principal food was crabs and such shell-fish as they could scantily pick up along the shores . Incessant storms of thunder and lightning , for it was the rainy season , swept over the devoted island , and drenched them with a perpetual flood . Thus , halfnaked , and pining with famine , there were few in that little company who did not feel the spirit of enterprise quenched within them , or who looked for any happier termination of their difficulties than that afforded by a return to Panama . The appearance of Tafur , therefore , with his two vessels , well stored with provisions , was greeted with all the rapture that the crew of a sinking wreck might feel on the arrival of some unexpected succour ; and the only thought , after satisfying the immediate cravings of hunger , was to embark and leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters came to Pizarro from his two confederates , Luque and Almagro , beseeching him not to despair in his present extremity , but to hold fast to his original purpose . To return under the present circumstances would be to seal the fate of the expedition ; and they solemnly engaged , if he would remain firm at his post , to furnish him in a short time with the necessary means for going forward.1 A ray of hope was enough for the courageous spirit of Pizarro . It does not appear that he himself had entertained , at any time , thoughts of returning . If he had , these words of encouragement entirely banished them from his bosom , and he prepared to stand the fortune of the cast on which he had so desperately ventured . He knew , however , that solicitations or remonstrances would avail little with the companions of his enterprise ; and he probably did not care to win over the more timid spirits who , by perpetually looking back , would only be a clog on his future movements . He announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided manner , characteristic of a man more accustomed to act than to talk , and well calculated to make an impression on his rough followers . Drawing his sword , he traced a line with it on the sand from east to west . Then turning towards the south , " Friend and comrades ! " he said , " on that side are toil , hunger , nakedness , the drenching storm , desertion , and death ; on this side , ease and pleasure . There lies Peru with its riches ; here , Panama , and its poverty . Choose , each man , what best becomes a brave Castilian . For my part , I go to the south . " So saying , he stepped across the line.2 He was followed by the brave pilot Ruiz ; next by Pedro de Candia , a cavalier , born , as his name imports , in one of the isles of Greece . Eleven others successively crossed the line , thus intimating their willingness to abide the fortunes of their leader , for good or for evil.3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chronicler , has commemorated the names of this little band , " who thus , in the face or difficulties unexampled in history , with death rather than riches for their reward , preferred it all to abandoning their honor , and stood firm by their leader as an example of loyalty to future ages . " 4 But the act excited no such admiration in the mind of Tafur , who looked on it as one of gross disobedience to the commands of the governor , and as little better than madness , involving the certain destruction of the parties engaged in it . He refused to give any sanction to it himself by leaving one of his vessels with the adventurers to prosecute their voyage , and it was with great difficulty that he could be persuaded even to allow them a part of the stores which he had brought for their support . This had no influence on their determination , and the little party , bidding adieu to their returning comrades , remained unshaken in their purpose of abiding the fortunes of their commander.5 There is something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brave spirits , thus consecrating themselves to a daring enterprise , which seemed as far above their strength as any recorded in the fabulous annals of knight-errantry . A handful of men , without food , without clothing , almost without arms , without knowledge of the land to which they were bound , without vessel to transport them , were here left on a lonely rock in the ocean with the avowed purpose of carrying on a crusade against a powerful empire , staking their lives on its success . What is there in the legends of chivalry that surpasses it ? This was the crisis of Pizarro 's fate . There are moments in the lives of men , which , as they are seized or neglected , decide their future destiny.6 Had Pizarro faltered from his strong purpose , and yielded to the occasion , now so temptingly presented , for extricating himself and his broken band from their desperate position , his name would have been buried with his fortunes , and the conquest of Peru would have been left for other and more successful adventurers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his conduct here proved him competent to the perilous post he had assumed , and inspired others with a confidence in him which was the best assurance of success . In the vessel that bore back Tafur and those who seceded from the expedition the pilot Ruiz was also permitted to return , in order to cooperate with Luque and Almagro in their application for further succour . Not long after the departure of the ships , it was decided by Pizarro to abandon his present quarters , which had little to recommend them , and which , he reflected , might now be exposed to annoyance from the original inhabitants , should they take courage and return , on learning the diminished number of the white men . The Spaniards , therefore , by his orders , constructed a rude boat or raft , on which they succeeded in transporting themselves to the little island of Gorgona , twenty-five leagues to the north of their present residence . It lay about five leagues from the continent , and was uninhabited . It had some advantages over the isle of Gallo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was partially covered with wood , which afforded shelter to a species of pheasant , and the hare or rabbit of the country , so that the Spaniards , with their cross-bows , were enabled to procure a tolerable supply of game . Cool streams that issued from the living rock furnished abundance of water , though the drenching rains that fell , without intermission , left them in no danger of perishing by thirst . From this annoyance they found some protection in the rude huts which they constructed ; though here , as in their former residence , they suffered from the no less intolerable annoyance of venomous insects , which multiplied and swarmed in the exhalations of the rank and stimulated soil . In this dreary abode Pizarro omitted no means by which to sustain the drooping spirits of his men . Morning prayers were duly said , and the evening hymn to the Virgin was regularly chanted ; the festivals of the church were carefully commemorated , and every means taken by their commander to give a kind of religious character to his enterprise , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Heaven , that might support them in their perilous circumstances.7 In these uncomfortable quarters , their chief employment was to keep watch on the melancholy ocean , that they might hail the first signal of the anticipated succour . But many a tedious month passed away , and no sign of it appeared . All around was the same wide waste of waters , except to the eastward , where the frozen crest of the Andes , touched with the ardent sun of the equator , glowed like a ridge of fire along the whole extent of the great continent . Every speck in the distant horizon was carefully noticed , and the drifting timber or masses of sea-weed , heaving to and fro on the bosom of the waters , was converted by their imaginations into the promised vessel ; till , sinking under successive disappointments , hope gradually gave way to doubt , and doubt settled into despair.8 Meanwhile the vessel of Tafur had reached the port of Panama . The tidings which she brought of the inflexible obstinacy of Pizarro and his followers filled the governor with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light than as an act of suicide , and steadily refused to send further assistance to men who were obstinately bent on their own destruction . Yet Luque and Almagro were true to their engagements . They represented to the governor , that , if the conduct of their comrade was rash , it was at least in the service of the Crown , and in prosecuting the great work of discovery . Rios had been instructed , on his taking the government , to aid Pizarro in the enterprise ; and to desert him now would be to throw away the remaining chance of success , and to incur the responsibility of his death and that of the brave men who adhered to him . These remonstrances , at length , so far operated on the mind of that functionary , that he reluctantly consented that a vessel should be sent to the island of Gorgona , but with no more hands than were necessary to work her , and with positive instructions to Pizarro to return in six months and report himself at Panama , whatever might be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanction of the executive , the two associates lost no time in fitting out a small vessel with stores and a supply of arms and ammunition , and despatched it to the island . The unfortunate tenants of this little wilderness , who had now occupied it for seven months , 9 hardly dared to trust their senses when they descried the white sails of the friendly bark coming over the waters . And although , when the vessel anchored off the shore , Pizarro was disappointed to find that it brought no additional recruits for the enterprise , yet he greeted it with joy , as affording the means of solving the great problem of the existence of the rich southern empire , and of thus opening the way for its future conquest . Two of his men were so ill , that it was determined to leave them in the care of some of the friendly Indians who had continued with him through the whole of his sojourn , and to call for them on his return . Taking with him the rest of his hardy followers and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weighing anchor , bade adieu to the " Hell , " as it was called by the Spaniards , which had been the scene of so much suffering and such undaunted resolution.10 Every heart was now elated with hope , as they found themselves once more on the waters , under the guidance of the good pilot Ruiz , who , obeying the directions of the Indians , proposed to steer for the land of Tumbez , which would bring them at once into the golden empire of the Incas ,  --  the El Dorado , of which they had been so long in pursuit . Passing by the dreary isle of Gallo , which they had such good cause to remember , they stood farther out to sea until they made point Tacumez , near which they had landed on their previous voyage . They did not touch at any part of the coast , but steadily held on their way , though considerably impeded by the currents , as well as by the wind , which blew with little variation from the south . Fortunately , the wind was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their voyage , though slow , was not uncomfortable . In a few days , they came in sight of Point Pasado , the limit of the pilot 's former navigation ; and , crossing the line , the little bark entered upon those unknown seas which had never been ploughed by European keel before . The coast , they observed , gradually declined from its former bold and rugged character , gently sloping towards the shore , and spreading out into sandy plains , relieved here and there by patches of uncommon richness and beauty ; while the white cottages of the natives glistening along the margin of the sea , and the smoke that rose among the distant hills , intimated the increasing population of the country . At length , after the lapse of twenty days from their departure from the island , the adventurous vessel rounded the point of St. Helena , and glided smoothly into the waters of the beautiful gulf of Guayaquil . The country was here studded along the shore with towns and villages , though the mighty chain of the Cordilleras , sweeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strip of emerald verdure , through which numerous rivulets , spreading fertility around them , wound their way into the sea . The voyagers were now abreast of some of the most stupendous heights of this magnificent range ; Chimborazo , with its broad round summit , towering like the dome of the Andes , and Cotopaxi , with its dazzling cone of silvery white , that knows no change except from the action of its own volcanic fires ; for this mountain is the most terrible of the American volcanoes , and was in formidable activity at no great distance from the period of our narrative . Well pleased with the signs of civilization that opened on them at every league of their progress , the Spaniards , at length , came to anchor , off the island of Santa Clara , lying at the entrance of the bay of Tumbez.11 The place was uninhabited , but was recognized by the Indians on board , as occasionally resorted to by the warlike people of the neighboring isle of Puna , for purposes of sacrifice and worship . The Spaniards found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into various shapes , and probably designed as offerings to the Indian deity . Their hearts were cheered , as the natives assured them they would see abundance of the same precious metal in their own city of Tumbez . The following morning they stood across the bay for this place . As they drew near , they beheld a town of considerable size , with many of the buildings apparently of stone and plaster , situated in the bosom of a fruitful meadow , which seemed to have been redeemed from the sterility of the surrounding country by careful and minute irrigation . When at some distance from shore , Pizarro saw standing towards him several large balsas , which were found to be filled with warriors going on an expedition against the island of Puna . Running alongside of the Indian flotilla , he invited some of the chiefs to come on board of his vessel . The Peruvians gazed with wonder on every object which met their eyes , and especially on their own countrymen , whom they had little expected to meet there . The latter informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the strangers , whom they described as a wonderful race of beings , that had come thither for no harm , but solely to be made acquainted with the country and its inhabitants . This account was confirmed by the Spanish commander , who persuaded the Indians to return in their balsas and report what they had learned to their townsmen , requesting them at the same time to provide his vessel with refreshments , as it was his desire to enter into a friendly intercourse with the natives . The people of Tumbez were gathered along the shore , and were gazing with unutterable amazement on the floating castle , which , now having dropped anchor , rode lazily at its moorings in their bay . They eagerly listened to the accounts of their countrymen , and instantly reported the affair to the curaca or ruler of the district , who , conceiving that the strangers must be beings of a superior order , prepared at once to comply with their request . It was not long before several balsas were seen steering for the vessel laden with bananas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pine-apples , cocoa-nuts , and other rich products of the bountiful vale of Tumbez . Game and fish , also , were added , with a number of llamas , of which Pizarro had seen the rude drawings belonging to Balboa , but of which till now he had met with no living specimen . He examined this curious animal , the Peruvian sheep ,  --  or , as the Spaniards called it , the " little camel " of the Indians ,  --  with much interest , greatly admiring the mixture of wool and hair which supplied the natives with the materials for their fabrics . At that time there happened to be at Tumbez an Inca noble , or orejon ,  - -  for so , as I have already noticed , men of his rank were called by the Spaniards , from the huge ornaments of gold attached to their ears . He expressed great curiosity to see the wonderful strangers , and had , accordingly , come out with the balsas for the purpose . It was easy to perceive from the superior quality of his dress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the others , that he was a person of consideration , and Pizarro received him with marked distinction . He showed him the different parts of the ship , explaining to him the uses of whatever engaged his attention , and answering his numerous queries , as well as he could , by means of the Indian interpreters . The Peruvian chief was especially desirous of knowing whence and why Pizarro and his followers had come to these shores . The Spanish captain replied , that he was the vassal of a great prince , the greatest and most powerful in the world , and that he had come to this country to assert his master 's lawful supremacy over it . He had further come to rescue the inhabitants from the darkness of unbelief in which they were now wandering . They worshipped an evil spirit , who would sink their souls into everlasting perdition ; and he would give them the knowledge of the true and only God , Jesus Christ , since to believe in him was eternal salvation.12 The Indian prince listened with deep attention and apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that neither he nor his interpreters had any very distinct ideas of the doctrines thus abruptly revealed to them . It may be that he did not believe there was any other potentate on earth greater than the Inca ; none , at least , who had a better right to rule over his dominions . And it is very possible he was not disposed to admit that the great luminary whom he worshipped was inferior to the God of the Spaniards . But whatever may have passed in the untutored mind of the barbarian , he did not give vent to it , but maintained a discreet silence , without any attempt to controvert or to convince his Christian antagonist . He remained on board the vessel till the hour of dinner , of which he partook with the Spaniards , expressing his satisfaction at the strange dishes , and especially pleased with the wine , which he pronounced far superior to the fermented liquors of his own country . On taking leave , he courteously pressed the Spaniards to visit Tumbez , and Pizarro dismissed him with the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had greatly excited his admiration ; for the use of iron , as we have seen , was as little known to the Peruvians as to the Mexicans . On the day following , the Spanish captain sent one of his own men , named Alonso de Molina , on shore , accompanied by a negro who had come in the vessel from Panama , together with a present for the curaca of some swine and poultry , neither of which were indigenous to the New World . Towards evening his emissary returned with a fresh supply of fruits and vegetables , that the friendly people sent to the vessel . Molina had a wondrous tale to tell . On landing , he was surrounded by the natives , who expressed the greatest astonishment at his dress , his fair complexion , and his long beard . The women , especially , manifested great curiosity in respect to him , and Molina seemed to be entirely won by their charms and captivating manners . He probably intimated his satisfaction by his demeanor , since they urged him to stay among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a beautiful wife . Their surprise was equally great at the complexion of his sable companion . They could not believe it was natural , and tried to rub off the imaginary dye with their hands . As the African bore all this with characteristic good-humor , displaying at the same time his rows of ivory teeth , they were prodigiously delighted.13 The animals were no less above their comprehension ; and , when the cock crew , the simple people clapped their hands , and inquired what he was saying.14 Their intellects were so bewildered by sights so novel , that they seemed incapable of distinguishing between man and brute . Molina was then escorted to the residence of the curaca , whom he found living in much state , with porters stationed at his doors , and with a quantity of gold and silver vessels , from which he was served . He was then taken to different parts of the Indian city , saw a fortress built of rough stone , and , though low , spreading over a large extent of ground.15 Near this was a temple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blazing with gold and silver , seemed so extravagant , that Pizarro , distrusting his whole account , resolved to send a more discreet and trustworthy emissary on the following day.16 The person selected was Pedro de Candia , the Greek cavalier mentioned as one of the first who intimated his intention to share the fortunes of his commander . He was sent on shore , dressed in complete mail as became a good knight , with his sword by his side , and his arquebuse on his shoulder . The Indians were even more dazzled by his appearance than by Molina 's , as the sun fell brightly on his polished armour , and glanced from his military weapons . They had heard much of the formidable arquebuse from their townsmen who had come in the vessel , and they besought Candia " to let it speak to them . " He accordingly set up a wooden board as a target , and , taking deliberate aim , fired off the musket . The flash of the powder and the startling report of the piece , as the board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filled the nativeswith dismay . Some fell on the ground , covering their faces with their hands , and others approached the cavalier with feelings of awe , which were gradually dispelled by the assurance they received from the smiling expression of his countenance.17 They then showed him the same hospitable attentions which they had paid to Molina ; and his description of the marvels of the place , on his return , fell nothing short of his predecessor 's . The fortress , which was surrounded by a triple row of wall , was strongly garrisoned . The temple he described as literally tapestried with plates of gold and silver . Adjoining this structure was a sort of convent appropriated to the Inca 's destined brides , who manifested great curiosity to see him . Whether this was gratified is not clear ; but Candia described the gardens of the convent , which he entered , as glowing with imitations of fruits and vegetables all in pure gold and silver ! 18 He had seen a number of artisans at work , whose sole business seemed to be to furnish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the cavalier may have been somewhat over-colored.19 It was natural that men coming from the dreary wilderness , in which they had been buried the last six months , should have been vividly impressed by the tokens of civilization which met them on the Peruvian coast . But Tumbez was a favorite city of the Peruvian princes . It was the most important place on the northern borders of the empire , contiguous to the recent acquisition of Quito . The great Tupac Yupanqui had established a strong fortress there , and peopled it with a colony of mitimaes . The temple , and the house occupied by the Virgins of the Sun , had been erected by Huayna Capac , and were liberally endowed by that Inca , after the sumptuous fashion of the religious establishments of Peru . The town was well supplied with water by numerous aqueducts , and the fruitful valley in which it was embosomed , and the ocean which bathed its shores , supplied ample means of subsistence to a considerable population . But the cupidity of the Spaniards , after the Conquest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and the site of its proud towers and temples , in less than half a century after that fatal period , was to be traced only by the huge mass of ruins that encumbered the ground.20 The Spaniards were nearly mad with joy , says an old writer , at receiving these brilliant tidings of the Peruvian city . All their fond dreams were now to be realized , and they had at length reached the realm which had so long flitted in visionary splendor before them . Pizarro expressed his gratitude to Heaven for having crowned his labors with so glorious a result ; but he bitterly lamented the hard fate which , by depriving him of his followers , denied him , at such a moment , the means of availing himself of his success . Yet he had no cause for lamentation ; and the devout Catholic saw in this very circumstance a providential interposition which prevented the attempt at conquest , while such attempts would have been premature . Peru was not yet torn asunder by the dissensions of rival candidates for the throne ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monarch , she might well have bid defiance to all the forces that Pizarro could muster . " It was manifestly the work of Heaven , " exclaims a devout son of the Church , " that the natives of the country should have received him in so kind and loving a spirit , as best fitted to facilitate the conquest ; for it was the Lord 's hand which led him and his followers to this remote region for the extension of the holy faith , and for the salvation of souls . " 21 Having now collected all the information essential to his object , Pizarro , after taking leave of the natives of Tumbez , and promising a speedy return , weighed anchor , and again turned his prow towards the south . Still keeping as near as possible to the coast , that no place of importance might escape his observation , he passed Cape Blanco , and , after sailing about a degree and a half , made the port of Payta . The inhabitants , who had notice of his approach , came out in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing with them stores of fruits , fish , and vegetables , with the same hospitable spirit shown by their countrymen at Tumbez . After staying here a short time , and interchanging presents of trifling value with the natives , Pizarro continued his cruise ; and , sailing by the sandy plains of Sechura for an extent of near a hundred miles , he doubled the Punta de Aguja , and swept down the coast as it fell off towards the east , still carried forward by light and somewhat variable breezes . The weather now became unfavorable , and the voyagers encountered a succession of heavy gales , which drove them some distance out to sea , and tossed them about for many days . But they did not lose sight of the mighty ranges of the Andes , which , as they proceeded towards the south , were still seen , at nearly the same distance from the shore , rolling onwards , peak after peak , with their stupendous surges of ice , like some vast ocean , that had been suddenly arrested and frozen up in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this landmark always in view , the navigator had little need of star or compass to guide his bark on her course . As soon as the tempest had subsided , Pizarro stood in again for the continent , touching at the principal points as he coasted along . Everywhere he was received with the same spirit of generous hospitality ; the natives coming out in their balsas to welcome him , laden with their little cargoes of fruits and vegetables , of all the luscious varieties that grow in the tierra caliente . All were eager to have a glimpse of the strangers , the " Children of the Sun , " as the Spaniards began already to be called , from their fair complexions , brilliant armour , and the thunderbolts which they bore in their hands.22 The most favorable reports , too , had preceded them , of the urbanity and gentleness of their manners , thus unlocking the hearts of the simple natives , and disposing them to confidence and kindness . The iron-hearted soldier had not yet disclosed the darker side of his character . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conquest had not yet come . In every place Pizarro received the same accounts of a powerful monarch who ruled over the land , and held his court on the mountain plains of the interior , where his capital was depicted as blazing with gold and silver , and displaying all the profusion of an Oriental satrap . The Spaniards , except at Tumbez , seem to have met with little of the precious metals among the natives on the coast . More than one writer asserts that they did not covet them , or , at least , by Pizarro 's orders , affected not to do so . He would not have them betray their appetite for gold , and actually refused gifts when they were proffered ! 23 It is more probable that they saw little display of wealth , except in the embellishments of the temples and other sacred buildings , which they did not dare to violate . The precious metals , reserved for the uses of religion and for persons of high degree , were not likely to abound in the remote towns and hamlets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence of general civilization and power to convince them that there was much foundation for the reports of the natives . Repeatedly they saw structures of stone and plaster , and occasionally showing architectural skill in the execution , if not elegance of design . Wherever they cast anchor , they beheld green patches of cultivated country redeemed from the sterility of nature , and blooming with the variegated vegetation of the tropics ; while a refined system of irrigation , by means of aqueducts and canals , seemed to be spread like a net-work over the surface of the country , making even the desert to blossom as the rose . At many places where they landed they saw the great road of the Incas which traversed the sea-coast , often , indeed , lost in the volatile sands , where no road could be maintained , but rising into a broad and substantial causeway , as it emerged on a firmer soil . Such a provision for internal communication was in itself no slight monument of power and civilization . Still beating to the south , Pizarro passed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by himself some years later , and pressed on till he rode off the port of Santa . It stood on the banks of a broad and beautiful stream ; but the surrounding country was so exceedingly arid that it was frequently selected as a burial-place by the Peruvians , who found the soil most favorable for the preservation of their mummies . So numerous , indeed , were the Indian guacas , that the place might rather be called the abode of the dead than of the living.24 Having reached this point , about the ninth degree of southern latitude , Pizarro 's followers besought him not to prosecute the voyage farther . Enough and more than enough had been done , they said , to prove the existence and actual position of the great Indian empire of which they had so long been in search . Yet , with their slender force , they had no power to profit by the discovery . All that remained , therefore , was to return and report the success of their enterprise to the governor at Panama . Pizarro acquiesced in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degrees farther than any former navigator in these southern seas , and , instead of the blight which , up to this hour , had seemed to hang over his fortunes , he could now return in triumph to his countrymen . Without hesitation , therefore , he prepared to retrace his course , and stood again towards the north . On his way , he touched at several places where he had before landed . At one of these , called by the Spaniards Santa Cruz , he had been invited on shore by an Indian woman of rank , and had promised to visit her on his return . No sooner did his vessel cast anchor off the village where she lived , than she came on board , followed by a numerous train of attendants . Pizarro received her with every mark of respect , and on her departure presented her with some trinkets which had a real value in the eyes of an Indian princess . She urged the Spanish commander and his companions to return the visit , engaging to send a number of hostages on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assured her that the frank confidence she had shown towards them proved that this was unnecessary . Yet , no sooner did he put off in his boat , the following day , to go on shore , than several of the principal persons in the place came alongside of the ship to be received as hostages during the absence of the Spaniards ,  --  a singular proof of consideration for the sensitive apprehensions of her guests . Pizarro found that preparations had been made for his reception in a style of simple hospitality that evinced some degree of taste . Arbours were formed of luxuriant and wide-spreading branches , interwoven with fragrant flowers and shrubs that diffused a delicious perfume through the air . A banquet was provided , teeming with viands prepared in the style of the Peruvian cookery , and with fruits and vegetables of tempting hue and luscious to the taste , though their names and nature were unknown to the Spaniards . After the collation was ended , the guests were entertained with music and dancing by a troop of young men and maidens simply attired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agility and grace which the supple limbs of the Peruvian Indians so well qualified them to display . Before his departure , Pizarro stated to his kind host the motives of his visit to the country , in the same manner as he had done on other occasions , and he concluded by unfurling the royal banner of Castile , which he had brought on shore , requesting her and her attendants to raise it in token of their allegiance to his sovereign . This they did with great good-humor , laughing all the while , says the chronicler , and making it clear that they had a very imperfect conception of the serious nature of the ceremony . Pizarro was contented with this outward display of loyalty , and returned to his vessel well satisfied with the entertainment he had received , and meditating , it may be , on the best mode of repaying it , hereafter , by the subjugation and conversion of the country . The Spanish commander did not omit to touch also at Tumbez , on his homeward voyage . Here some of his followers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manners of the people , intimated a wish to remain , conceiving , no doubt , that it would be better to live where they would be persons of consequence than to return to an obscure condition in the community of Panama . One of these men was Alonso de Molina , the same who had first gone on shore at this place , and been captivated by the charms of the Indian beauties . Pizarro complied with their wishes , thinking it would not be amiss to find , on his return , some of his own followers who would be instructed in the language and usages of the natives . He was also allowed to carry back in his vessel two or three Peruvians , for the similar purpose of instructing them in the Castilian . One of them , a youth named by the Spaniards Felipillo , plays a part of some importance in the history of subsequent events . On leaving Tumbez , the adventurers steered directly for Panama , touching only , on their way , at the ill-fated island of Gorgona to take on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to proceed with them . One had died , and , receiving the other , Pizarro and his gallant little band continued their voyage ; and , after an absence of at least eighteen months , found themselves once more safely riding at anchor in the harbor of Panama.25 The sensation caused by their arrival was great , as might have been expected . For there were few , even among the most sanguine of their friends , who did not imagine that they had long since paid for their temerity , and fallen victims to the climate or the natives , or miserably perished in a watery grave . Their joy was proportionably great , therefore , as they saw the wanderers now returned , not only in health and safety , but with certain tidings of the fair countries which had so long eluded their grasp . It was a moment of proud satisfaction to the three associates , who , in spite of obloquy , derision , and every impediment which the distrust of friends or the coldness of government could throw in their way , had persevered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what had been so generally denounced as a chimera . It is the misfortune of those daring spirits who conceive an idea too vast for their own generation to comprehend , or , at least , to attempt to carry out , that they pass for visionary dreamers . Such had been the fate of Luque and his associates . The existence of a rich Indian empire at the south , which , in their minds , dwelling long on the same idea and alive to all the arguments in its favor , had risen to the certainty of conviction , had been derided by the rest of their countrymen as a mere mirage of the fancy , which , on nearer approach , would melt into air ; while the projectors , who staked their fortunes on the adventure , were denounced as madmen . But their hour of triumph , their slow and hardearned triumph , had now arrived . Yet the governor , Pedro de los Rios , did not seem , even at this moment , to be possessed with a conviction of the magnitude of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discouraged by its very magnitude . When the associates , now with more confidence , applied to him for patronage in an undertaking too vast for their individual resources , he coldly replied , " He had no desire to build up other states at the expense of his own ; nor would he be led to throw away more lives than had already been sacrificed by the cheap display of gold and silver toys and a few Indian sheep ! " 26 Sorely disheartened by this repulse from the only quarter whence effectual aid could be expected , the confederates , without funds , and with credit nearly exhausted by their past efforts , were perplexed in the extreme . Yet to stop now ,  --  what was it but to abandon the rich mine which their own industry and perseverance had laid open , for others to work at pleasure ? In this extremity the fruitful mind of Luque suggested the only expedient by which they could hope for success . This was to apply to the Crown itself . No one was so much interested in the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed , that discoveries were to be made , that the country was to be conquered . The government alone was competent to provide the requisite means , and was likely to take a much broader and more liberal view of the matter than a petty colonial officer . But who was there qualified to take charge of this delicate mission ? Luque was chained by his professional duties to Panama ; and his associates , unlettered soldiers , were much better fitted for the business of the camp than of the court . Almagro , blunt , though somewhat swelling and ostentatious in his address , with a diminutive stature and a countenance naturally plain , now much disfigured by the loss of an eye , was not so well qualified for the mission as his companion in arms , who , possessing a good person and altogether a commanding presence , was plausible , and , with all his defects of education , could , where deeply interested , be even eloquent in discourse . The ecclesiastic , however , suggested that the negotiation should be committed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return on some public business to the mother country . But to this Almagro strongly objected . No one , he said , could conduct the affair so well as the party interested in it . He had a high opinion of Pizarro 's prudence , his discernment of character , and his cool , deliberate policy.27 He knew enough of his comrade to have confidence that his presence of mind would not desert him , even in the new , and therefore embarrassing , circumstances in which he would be placed at court . No one , he said , could tell the story of their adventures with such effect , as the man who had been the chief actor in them . No one could so well paint the unparalleled sufferings and sacrifices which they had encountered ; no other could tell so forcibly what had been done , what yet remained to do , and what assistance would be necessary to carry it into execution . He concluded , with characteristic frankness , by strongly urging his confederate to undertake the mission . Pizarro felt the force of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , acquiesced in a measure which was less to his taste than an expedition to the wilderness . But Luque came into the arrangement with more difficulty . " God grant , my children , " exclaimed the ecclesiastic , " that one of you may not defraud the other of his blessing ! " 28 Pizarro engaged to consult the interests of his associates equally with his own . But Luque , it is clear , did not trust Pizarro . There was some difficulty in raising the funds necessary for putting the envoy in condition to make a suitable appearance at court ; so low had the credit of the confederates fallen , and so little confidence was yet placed in the result of their splendid discoveries . Fifteen hundred ducats were at length raised ; and Pizarro , in the spring of 1528 , bade adieu to Panama , accompanied by Pedro de Candia.29 He took with him , also , some of the natives , as well as two or three llamas , various nice fabrics of cloth , with many ornaments and vases of gold and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and vouchers for his wonderful story . Of all the writers on ancient Peruvian history , no one has acquired so wide celebrity , or been so largely referred to by later compilers , as the Inca Garcilasso de la Vega . He was born at Cuzco , in 1540 ; and was a mestizo , that is of mixed descent , his father being European , and his mother Indian . His father , Garcilasso de la Vega , was one of that illustrious family whose achievements , both in arms and letters , shed such lustre over the proudest period of the Castilian annals . He came to Peru , in the suite of Pedro de Alvarado , soon after the country had been gained by Pizarro . Garcilasso attached himself to the fortunes of this chief , and , after his death , to those of his brother Gonzalo ,  --  remaining . constant to the latter , through his rebellion , up to the hour of his rout at Xaquixaguana , when Garcilasso took the same course with most of his faction , and passed over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though it saved his life , was too late to redeem his credit with the victorious party ; and the obloquy which he incurred by his share in the rebellion threw a cloud over his subsequent fortunes , and even over those of his son , as it appears , in after years . The historian 's mother was of the Peruvian blood royal . She was niece of Huayna Capac , and granddaughter of the renowned Tupac Inca Yupanqui . Garcilasso , while he betrays obvious satisfaction that the blood of the civilized European flows in his veins shows himself not a little proud of his descent from the royal dynasty of Peru ; and this he intimated by combining with his patronymic the distinguishing title of the Peruvian princes ,  --  - subscribing himself always Garcilasso Inca de la Vega . His early years were passed in his native land , where he was reared in the Roman Catholic faith , and received the benefit of as good an education as could be obtained , amidst the incessant din of arms and civil commotion . In 1560 , when twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time took up his residence in Spain . Here he entered the military service , and held a captain 's commission in the war against the Moriscos , and , afterwards , under Don John of Austria . Though he acquitted himself honorably in his adventurous career , he does not seem to have been satisfied with the manner in which his services were requited by the government . The old reproach of the father 's disloyalty still clung to the son and Garcilasso assures us that this circumstance defeated all his efforts to recover the large inheritance of landed property belonging to his mother , which had escheated to the Crown . " Such were the prejudices against me , " says he , " that I could not urge my ancient claims or expectations ; and I left the army so poor and so much in debt , that I did not care to show myself again at court ; but was obliged to withdraw into an obscure solitudes where I lead a tranquil life for the brief space that remains to me , no longer deluded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this obscure retreat was not , however , as the reader might imagine from this tone of philosophic resignation , in the depths of some rural wilderness , but in Cordova , once the gay capital of Moslem science , and still the busy haunt of men . Here our philosopher occupied himself with literary labors , the more sweet and soothing to his wounded spirit , that they tended to illustrate the faded glories of his native land , and exhibit them in their primitive splendor to the eyes of his adopted countrymen . " And I have no reason to regret , " he says in his Preface to his account of Florida , " that Fortune has not smiled on me , since this circumstance has opened a literary career which , I trust , will secure to me a wider and more enduring fame than could flow from any worldly prosperity . " In 1609 , he gave to the world the First Part of his great work , the Commentarios Reales , devoted to the history of the country under the Incas ; and in 1616 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Second Part , embracing the story of the Conquest , which was published at Cordova the following year . The chronicler , who thus closed his labors with his life , died at the ripe old age of seventy-six . He left a considerabe sum for the purchase of masses for his soul , showing that the complaints of his poverty are not to be taken literally . His remains were interred in the cathedral church of Cordova , in a chapel which bears the name of Garcilasso ; and an inscription was placed on his monument , intimating the high respect in which the historian was held both for his moral worth and his literary attainments . The First Part of the Commentarios Reales is occupied , as already noticed , with the ancient history of the country , presenting a complete picture of its civilization under the Incas ,  --  far more complete than has been given by any other writer . Garcilasso 's mother was but ten years old at the time of her cousin Atahuallpa 's accession , or rather usurpation , as it is called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortune to escape the massacre which , according to the chroniclers befell most of her kindred , and with her brother continued to reside in their ancient capital after the Conquest . Their conversations naturally turned to the good old times of the Inca rule , which , colored by their fond regrets , may be presumed to have lost nothing as seen through the magnifying medium of the past . The young Garcilasso Listened greedily to the stories which recounted the magnificence and prowess of his royal ancestors , and though he made no use of them at the time , they sunk deep into his memory , to be treasured up for a future occasion . When he prepared , after the lapse of many years , in his retirement at Cordova , to compose the history of his country , he wrote to his old companions and schoolfellows , of the Inca family , to obtain fuller information than he could get in Spain on various matters of historical interest . He had witnessed in his youth the ancient ceremonies and usages of his countrymen , understood the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive traditions . With the assistance he now obtained from his Peruvian kindred , he acquired a familiarity with the history of the great Inca race , and of their national institutions , to an extent that no person could have possessed , unless educated in the midst of them , speaking the same language , and with the same Indian blood flowing in his veins . Garcilasso , in short , was the representative of the conquered race ; and we might expect to find the lights and shadows of the picture disposed under his pencil so as to produce an effect very different from that which they had hitherto exhibited under the hands of the Conquerors . Such , to a certain extent , is the fact ; and this circumstance affords a means of comparison which would alone render his works of great value in arriving at just historic conclusions . But Garcilasso wrote late in life , after the story had been often told by Castilian writers . He naturally deferred much to men , some of whom enjoyed high credit on the score both of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professes , was not so much to add any thing new of his own , as to correct their errors and the misconceptions into which they had been brought by their ignorance of the Indian languages and the usages of his people . He does , in fact , however , go far beyond this ; and the stores of information which he has collected have made his work a large repository , whence later laborers in the same field have drawn copious materials . He writes from the fulness of his heart , and illuminates every topic that he touches with a variety and richness of illustration , that leave little to be desired by the most importunate curiosity . The difference between reading his Commentaries and the accounts of European writers is the difference that exists between reading a work in the original and in a bald translation . Garcilasso 's writings are an emanation from the Indian mind . Yet his Commentaries are open to a grave objection ,  --  and one naturally suggested by his position . Addressing himself to the cultivated European , he was most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and still more of the Inca race , in their most imposing form . This , doubtless , was the great spur to his literary labors , for which previous education , however good for the evil time on which he was cast , had far from qualified him . Garcilasso , therefore , wrote to effect a particular object . He stood forth as counsel for his unfortunate countrymen , pleading the cause of that degraded race before the tribunal of posterity . The exaggerated tone of panegyric consequent on this becomes apparent in every page of his work . He pictures forth a state of society such as an Utopian philosopher would hardly venture to depict . His royal ancestors became the types of every imaginery excellence , and the golden age is revived for a nation , which , while the war of proselytism is raging on its borders , enjoys within all the blessings of tranquillity and peace . Even the material splendors of the monarchy , sufficiently great in this land of gold , become heightened , under the glowing imagination of the Inca chronicler , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is truth at the bottom of his wildest conceptions , and it would be unfair to the Indian historian to suppose that he did not himself believe most of the magic marvels which he describes . There is no credulity like that of a Christian convert ,  --  - one newly converted to the faith . From long dwelling in the darkness of paganism , his eyes , when first opened to the light of truth , have not acquired the power of discriminating the just proportions of objects , of distinguishing between the real and the imaginary . Garcilasso was not a convert indeed , for he was bred from infancy in the Roman Catholic faith . But he was surrounded by converts and neophytes ,  --  by those of his own blood , who , after practising all their lives the rites of paganism , were now first admitted into the Christian fold . He listened to the teachings of the missionary , learned from him to give implicit credit to the marvellous legends of the Saints , and the no less marvellous accounts of his own victories in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus early accustomed to such large drafts on his credulity , his reason lost its heavenly power of distinguishing truth from error , and he became so familiar with the miraculous , that the miraculous was no longer a miracle . Yet , while large deductions are to be made on this account from the chronicler 's reports , there is always a germ of truth which it is not difficult to detect , and even to disengage from the fanciful covering which envelopes it ; and after every allowance for the exaggerations of national vanity , we shall find an abundance of genuine information in respect to the antiquities of his country , for which we shall look in vain in any European writer . Garcilasso 's work is the reflection of the age in which he lived . It is addressed to the imagination , more than to sober reason . We are dazzled by the gorgeous spectacle it perpetually exhibits , and delighted by the variety of amusing details and animated gossip sprinkled over its pages . The story of the action is perpetually varied by discussions on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the monotony of the narrative , and afford an agreeable relief to the reader . This is true of the First Part of his great work . In the Second there was no longer room for such discussion . But he has supplied the place by garrulous reminiscences , personal anecdotes , incidental adventures , and a host of trivial details ,  - -  trivial in the eyes of the pedant ,  --  which historians have been too willing to discard , as below the dignity of history . We have the actors in this great drama in their private dress , become acquainted with their personal habits , listen to their familiar sayings , and , in short gather up those minutiae which in the aggregate make up so much of life and not less of character . It is this confusion of the great and the little , thus artlessly blended together , that constitutes one of the charms of the old romantic chronicle ,  --  not the less true that , in this respect , it approaches nearer to the usual tone of romance . It is in such writings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the age . The wormeaten state-papers , official correspondence , public records , are all serviceable , indispensable , to history . They are the framework on which it is to repose ; the skeleton of facts which gives it its strength and proportions . But they are as worthless as the dry bones of the skeleton , unless clothed with the beautiful form and garb of humanity , and instinct with the spirit of the age .  --  Our debt is large to the antiquarian , who with conscientious precision lays broad and deep the foundations of historic truth ; and no less to the philosophic annalist who exhibits man in the dress of public life ,  --  man in masquerade ; but our gratitude must surely not be withheld from those , who , like Garcilasso de la Vega , and many a romancer of the Middle Ages , have held up the mirror  --  distorted though it may somewhat be-to the interior of life , reflecting every object , the great and the mean the beautiful and the deformed , with their natural prominence and their vivacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a work of art , such a production may be thought to be below criticism . But , although it defy the rules of art in its composition , it does not necessarily violate the principles of taste ; for it conforms in its spirit to the spirit of the age in which it was written . And the critic , who coldly condemns it on the severe principles of art , will find a charm in its very simplicity , that will make him recur again and again to its pages , while more correct and classical compositions are laid aside and forgotten . I can not dismiss this notice of Garcilasso , though already long protracted , without some allusion to the English translation of his Commentaries . It appeared in James the Second 's reign , and is the work of Sir Paul Rycaut , Knight . It was printed at London in 1688 , in folio , with considerable pretension in its outward dress , well garnished with wood-cuts , and a frontispiece displaying the gaunt and rather sardonic features , not of the author , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ march of the original , corresponding precisely in books and chapters , and seldom , though sometimes , using the freedom , so common in these ancient versions , of abridgment and omission . Where it does depart from the original , it is rather from ignorance than intention . Indeed , as far as the plea of ignorance will avail him , the worthy knight may urge it stoutly in his defence . No one who reads the book will doubt his limited acquaintance with his own tongue , and no one who compares it with the original will deny his ignorance of the Castilian . It contains as many blunders as paragraphs , and most of them such as might shame a schoolboy . Yet such are the rude charms of the original , that this ruder version of it has found considerable favor with readers ; and Sir Paul Rycaut 's translation , old as it is , may still be met with in many a private , as well as public library . History of the Conquest of Peru by William Hickling Prescott Book 3 Chapter 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crown - He Visits His Birthplace  --  Returns To The New World-Difficulties With Almagro  --  His Third Expedition-Adventures On The Coast  --  Battles In The Isle Of Puna 1528  --  1531 Pizarro and his officer , having crossed the Isthmus , embarked at Nombre de Dios for the old country , and , after a good passage , reached Seville early in the summer of 1528 . There happened to be at that time in port a person well known in the history of Spanish adventure as the Bachelor Enciso . He had taken an active part in the colonization of Tierra Firme , and had a pecuniary claim against the early colonists of Darien , of whom Pizarro was one . Immediately on the landing of the latter , he was seized by Enciso 's orders , and held in custody for the debt . Pizarro , who had fled from his native land as a forlorn and houseless adventurer , after an absence of more than twenty years , passed , most of them , in unprecedented toil and suffering , now found himself on his return the inmate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brilliant fortunes which , as he had trusted , awaited him at home . The circumstance excited general indignation ; and no sooner was the Court advised of his arrival in the country , and the great purpose of his mission , than orders were sent for his release , with permission to proceed at once on his journey . Pizarro found the emperor at Toledo , which he was soon to quit , in order to embark for Italy . Spain was not the favorite residence of Charles the Fifth , in the earlier part of his reign . He was now at that period of it when he was enjoying the full flush of his triumphs over his gallant rival of France , whom he had defeated and taken prisoner at the great battle of Pavia ; and the victor was at this moment preparing to pass into Italy to receive the imperial crown from the hands of the Roman Pontiff . Elated by his successes and his elevation to the German throne , Charles made little account of his hereditary kingdom , as his ambition found so splendid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of European politics . He had hitherto received too inconsiderable returns from his transatlantic possessions to give them the attention they deserved . But , as the recent acquisition of Mexico and the brilliant anticipations in respect to the southern continent were pressed upon his notice , he felt their importance as likely to afford him the means of prosecuting his ambitious and most expensive enterprises . Pizarro , therefore , who had now come to satisfy the royal eyes , by visible proofs , of the truth of the golden rumors which , from time to time , had reached Castile , was graciously received by the emperor . Charles examined the various objects which his officer exhibited to him with great attention . He was particularly interested by the appearance of the llama , so remarkable as the only beast of burden yet known on the new continent ; and the fine fabrics of woollen cloth , which were made from its shaggy sides , gave it a much higher value , in the eyes of the sagacious monarch , than what it possessed as an animal for domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the wonderful tale which Pizarro had to tell of the abundance of the precious metals , must have satisfied even the cravings of royal cupidity . Pizarro , far from being embarrassed by the novelty of his situation , maintained his usual self-possession , and showed that decorum and even dignity in his address which belong to the Castilian . He spoke in a simple and respectful style , but with the earnestness and natural eloquence of one who had been an actor in the scenes he described , and who was conscious that the impression he made on his audience was to decide his future destiny . All listened with eagerness to the account of his strange adventures by sea and land , his wanderings in the forests , or in the dismal and pestilent swamps on the sea-coast , without food , almost without raiment , with feet torn and bleeding at every step , with his few companions becoming still fewer by disease and death , and yet pressing on with unconquerable spirit to extend the empire of Castile , and the name and power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the desolate island , abandoned by the government at home , deserted by all but a handful of devoted followers , his royal auditor , though not easily moved , was affected to tears . On his departure from Toledo , Charles commended the affairs of his vassal in the most favorable terms to the consideration of the Council of the Indies.1 There was at this time another man at court , who had come there on a similar errand from the New World , but whose splendid achievements had already won for him a name that threw the rising reputation of Pizarro comparatively into the shade . This man was Hernando Cortes , the Conqueror of Mexico . He had come home to lay an empire at the feet of his sovereign , and to demand in return the redress of his wrongs , and the recompense of his great services . He was at the close of his career , as Pizarro was at the commencement of his ; the Conqueror of the North and of the South ; the two men appointed by Providence to overturn the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the golden gates by which the treasures of the New World were to pass into the coffers of Spain . Notwithstanding the emperor 's recommendation , the business of Pizarro went forward at the tardy pace with which affairs are usually conducted in the court of Castile . He found his limited means gradually sinking under the expenses incurred by his present situation , and he represented , that , unless some measures were speedily taken in reference to his suit , however favorable they might be in the end , he should be in no condition to profit by them . The queen , accordingly , who had charge of the business , on her husband 's departure , expedited the affair , and on the twenty sixth of July , 1529 , she executed the memorable Capitulation , which defined the powers and privileges of Pizarro . The instrument secured to that chief the right of discovery and conquest in the province of Peru , or New Castile ,  --  as the country was then called , in the same manner as Mexico had received the name of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south of Santiago . He was to receive the titles and rank of Governor and Captain-General of the province , together with those of Adelantado , and Alguacil Mayor , for life ; and he was to have a salary of seven hundred and twenty-five thousand maravedis , with the obligation of maintaining certain officers and military retainers , corresponding with the dignity of his station . He was to have the right to erect certain fortresses , with the absolute government of them ; to assign encomiendas of Indians , under the limitations prescribed by law ; and , in fine , to exercise nearly all the prerogatives incident to the authority of a viceroy . His associate , Almagro , was declared commander of the fortress of Tumbez , with an annual rent of three hundred thousand maravedis , and with the further rank and privileges of an hidalgo . The reverend Father Luque received the reward of his services in the Bishopric of Tumbez , and he was also declared Protector of the Indians of Peru . He was to enjoy the yearly stipend of a thousand ducats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gratuities in this instrument , from the revenues of the conquered territory . Nor were the subordinate actors in the expedition forgotten . Ruiz received the title of Grand Pilot of the Southern Ocean , with a liberal provision ; Candia was placed at the head of the artillery ; and the remaining eleven companions on the desolate island were created hidalgos and cavalleros , and raised to certain municipal dignities ,  --  in prospect . Several provisions of a liberal tenor were also made , to encourage emigration to the country . The new settlers were to be exempted from some of the most onerous , but customary taxes , as the alcabala , or to be subject to them only in a mitigated form . The tax on the precious metals drawn from mines was to be reduced , at first , to one tenth , instead of the fifth imposed on the same metals when obtained by barter or by rapine . It was expressly enjoined on Pizarro to observe the existing regulations for the good government and protection of the natives ; and he was required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with whom he was to take counsel in the conquest of the country , and whose efforts were to be dedicated to the service and conversion of the Indians ; while lawyers and attorneys , on the other hand , whose presence was considered as boding ill to the harmony of the new settlements , were strictly prohibited from setting foot in them . Pizarro , on his part , was bound , in six months from the date of the instrument , to raise a force , well equipped for the service , of two hundred and fifty men , of whom one hundred might be drawn from the colonies ; and the government engaged to furnish some trifling assistance in the purchase of artillery and military stores . Finally , he was to be prepared , in six months after his return to Panama , to leave that port and embark on his expedition.2 Such are some of the principal provisions of this Capitulation , by which the Castilian government , with the sagacious policy which it usually pursued on the like occasions , stimulated the ambitious hopes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reward contingent on his success , but took care to stake nothing itself on the issue of the enterprise . It was careful to reap the fruits of his toil , but not to pay the cost of them . A circumstance , that could not fail to be remarked in these provisions , was the manner in which the high and lucrative posts were accumulated on Pizarro , to the exclusion of Almagro , who , if he had not taken as conspicuous a part in personal toil and exposure , had , at least , divided with him the original burden of the enterprise , and , by his labors in another direction , had contributed quite as essentially to its success . Almagro had willingly conceded the post of honor to his confederate ; but it had been stipulated , on Pizarro 's departure for Spain , that , while he solicited the office of Governor and Captain-General for himself , he should secure that of Adelantado for his companion . In like manner , he had engaged to apply for the see of Tumbez for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the pilot Ruiz . The bishopric took the direction that was concerted , for the soldier could scarcely claim the mitre of the prelate ; but the other offices , instead of their appropriate distribution , were all concentred in himself . Yet it was in reference to his application for his friends , that Pizarro had promised on his departure to deal fairly and honorably by them all.3 It is stated by the military chronicler , Pedro Pizarro , that his kinsman did , in fact , urge the suit strongly in behalf of Almagro ; but that he was refused by the government , on the ground that offices of such paramount importance could not be committed to different individuals . The ill effects of such an arrangement had been long since felt in more than one of the Indian colonies , where it had led to rivalry and fatal collision.4 Pizarro , therefore , finding his remonstrances unheeded , had no alternative but to combine the offices in his own person , or to see the expedition fall to the ground . This explanation of the affair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The apprehensions expressed by Luque , at the time of Pizarro 's assuming the mission , of some such result as actually occurred , founded , doubtless , on a knowledge of his associate 's character , may warrant us in distrusting the alleged vindication of his conduct , and our distrust will not be diminished by familiarity with his subsequent career . Pizarro 's virtue was not of a kind to withstand temptation ,  --  though of a much weaker sort than that now thrown in his path . The fortunate cavalier was also honored with the habit of St. Jago ; 5 and he was authorized to make an important innovation in his family escutcheon ,  --  for by the father 's side he might claim his armorial bearings . The black eagle and the two pillars emblazoned on the royal arms were incorporated with those of the Pizarros ; and an Indian city , with a vessel in the distance on the waters , and the llama of Peru , revealed the theatre and the character of his exploits ; while the legend announced , that " under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the genius , and the resources of Pizarro , the country had been discovered and reduced to tranquillity , "  --  - thus modestly intimating both the past and prospective services of the Conqueror.6 These arrangements having been thus completed to Pizarro 's satisfaction , he left Toledo for Truxillo , his native place , in Estremadura , where he thought he should be most likely to meet with adherents for his new enterprise , and where it doubtless gratified his vanity to display himself in the palmy , or at least promising , state of his present circumstances . If vanity be ever pardonable , it is certainly in a man who , born in an obscure station in life , without family , interest , or friends to back him , has carved out his own fortunes in the world , and , by his own resources , triumphed over all the obstacles which nature and accident had thrown in his way . Such was the condition of Pizarro , as he now revisited the place of his nativity , where he had hitherto been known only as a poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to own him , or a friend to lean upon . But he now found both friends and followers , and some who were eager to claim kindred with him , and take part in his future fortunes . Among these were four brothers . Three of them , like himself , were illegitimate ; one of whom , named Francisco Martin de Alcantara , was related to him by the mother 's side ; the other two , named Gonzalo and Juan Pizarro , were descended from the father . " They were all poor , and proud as they were poor , " says Oviedo , who had seen them ; " and their eagerness for gain was in proportion to their poverty . " 7 The remaining and eldest brother , named Hernando , was a legitimate son ,  --  ' legitimate , " continues the same caustic authority , " by his pride , as well as by his birth . " His features were plain , even disagreeably so ; but his figure was good . He was large of stature , and , like his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In his character , he combined some of the worst defects incident to the Castilian . He was jealous in the extreme ; impatient not merely of affront , but of the least slight , and implacable in his resentment . He was decisive in his measures , and unscrupulous in their execution . No touch of pity had power to arrest his arm . His arrogance was such , that he was constantly wounding the self-love of those with whom he acted ; thus begetting an ill-will which unnecessarily multiplied obstacles in his path . In this he differed from his brother Francis , whose plausible manners smoothed away difficulties , and conciliated confidence and cooperation in his enterprises . Unfortunately , the evil counsels of Hernando exercised an influence over his brother which more than compensated the advantages derived from his singular capacity for business . Notwithstanding the general interest which Pizarro 's adventures excited in his country , that chief did not find it easy to comply with the provisions of the Capitulation in respect to the amount of his levies . Those who were most astonished by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his fortunes . They shrunk from the unparalleled hardships which lay in the path of the adventurer in that direction ; and they listened with visible distrust to the gorgeous pictures of the golden temples and gardens of Tumbez , which they looked upon as indebted in some degree , at least , to the coloring of his fancy , with the obvious purpose of attracting followers to his banner . It is even said that Pizarro would have found it difficult to raise the necessary funds , but for the seasonable aid of Cortes , a native of Estremadura like himself , his companion in arms in early days , and , according to report , his kinsman.9 No one was in a better condition to hold out a helping hand to a brother adventurer , and , probably , no one felt greater sympathy in Pizarro 's fortunes , or greater confidence in his eventual success , than the man who had so lately trod the same career with renown . The six months allowed by the Capitulation had elapsed , and Pizarro had assembled somewhat less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparing to embark in a little squadron of three vessels at Seville ; but , before they were wholly ready , he received intelligence that the officers of the Council of the Indies proposed to inquire into the condition of the vessels , and ascertain how far the requisitions had been complied with . Without loss of time therefore , Pizarro afraid , if the facts were known , that his enterprise might be nipped in the bud , slipped his cables , and crossing the bar of San Lucar , in January , 1530 , stood for the isle of Gomera ,  --  one of the Canaries ,  --  where he ordered his brother Hernando , who had charge of the remaining vessels , to meet him . Scarcely had he gone , before the officers arrived to institute the search . But when they objected the deficiency of men , they were easily  --  perhaps willingly  --  deceived by the pretext that the remainder had gone forward in the vessel with Pizarro . At all events , no further obstacles were thrown in Hernando 's way , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to join his brother , according to agreement , at Gomera . After a prosperous voyage , the adventurers reached the northern coast of the great southern continent , and anchored off the port of Santa Marta . Here they received such discouraging reports of the countries to which they were bound , of forests teeming with insects and venomous serpents , of huge alligators that swarmed on the banks of the streams , and of hardships and perils such as their own fears had never painted , that several of Pizarro 's men deserted ; and their leader , thinking it no longer safe to abide in such treacherous quarters , set sail at once for Nombre de Dios . Soon after his arrival there , he was met by his two associates , Luque and Almagro , who had crossed the mountains for the purpose of hearing from his own lips the precise import of the capitulation with the Crown . Great , as might have been expected , was Almagro 's discontent at learning the result of what he regarded as the perfidious machinations of his associate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that you have dealt with the friend who shared equally with you in the trials , the dangers , and the cost of the enterprise ; and this , notwithstanding your solemn engagements on your departure to provide for his interests as faithfully as your own ? How could you allow me to be thus dishonored in the eyes of the world by so paltry a compensation , which seems to estimate my services as nothing in comparison with your own ? " 10 Pizarro , in reply , assured his companion that he had faithfully urged his suit , but that the government refused to confide powers which intrenched so closely on one another to different hands . He had no alternative , but to accept all himself or to decline all ; and he endeavored to mitigate Almagro 's displeasure by representing that the country was large enough for the ambition of both , and that the powers conferred on himself were , in fact , conferred on Almagro , since all that he had would ever be at his friend 's disposal , as if it were his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injured party ; and the two captains soon after returned to Panama with feelings of estrangement , if not hostility , towards one another , which did not augur well for their enterprise . Still , Almagro was of a generous temper , and might have been appeased by the politic concessions of his rival , but for the interference of Hernando Pizarro , who , from the first hour of their meeting , showed little respect for the veteran , which , indeed , the diminutive person of the latter was not calculated to inspire , and who now regarded him with particular aversion as an impediment to the career of his brother . Almagro 's friends  --  and his frank and liberal manners had secured him many  --  were no less disgusted than himself with the overbearing conduct of this new ally . They loudly complained that it was quite enough to suffer from the perfidy of Pizarro , without being exposed to the insults of his family , who had now come over with him to fatten on the spoils of conquest which belonged to their leader . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Almagro avowed his intention to prosecute the expedition without further cooperation with his partner , and actually entered into negotiations for the purchase of vessels for that object . But Luque , and the Licentiate Espinosa , who had fortunately come over at that time from St. Domingo , now interposed to repair a breach which must end in the ruin of the enterprise , and the probable destruction of those most interested in its success . By their mediation , a show of reconciliation was at length effected between the parties , on Pizarro 's assurance that he would relinquish the dignity of Adelantado in favor of his rival , and petition the emperor to confirm him in the possession of it ; - - an assurance , it may be remarked , not easy to reconcile with his former assertion in respect to the avowed policy of the Crown in bestowing this office . He was , moreover , to apply for a distinct government for his associate , so soon as he had become master of the country assigned to himself ; and was to solicit no office for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first provided for . Lastly , the former contract in regard to the division of the spoil into three equal shares between the three original associates was confirmed in the most explicit manner . The reconciliation thus effected among the parties answered the temporary purpose of enabling them to go forward in concert in the expedition . But it was only a thin scar that had healed ever the wound , which , deep and rankling within , waited only fresh cause of irritation to break out with a virulence more fatal than ever.11 No time was now lost in preparing for the voyage . It found little encouragement , however , among the colonists of Panama , who were too familiar with the sufferings on the former expeditions to care to undertake another , even with the rich bribe that was held out to allure them . A few of the old company were content to follow out the adventure to its close ; and some additional stragglers were collected from the province of Nicaragua ,  --  a shoot , it may be remarked , from the colony of Panama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over with him from Spain , though this body was in better condition , and , in respect to arms , ammunition , and equipment generally , was on a much better footing than his former levies . The whole number did not exceed one hundred and eighty men , with twenty-seven horses for the cavalry . He had provided himself with three vessels , two of them of a good size , to take the place of those which he had been compelled to leave on the opposite side of the isthmus at Nombre de Dios ; an armament small for the conquest of an empire , and far short of that prescribed by the capitulation with the Crown . With this the intrepid chief proposed to commence operations , trusting to his own successes , and the exertions of Almagro , who was to remain behind , for the present , to muster reinforcements.12 On St. John the Evangelist 's day , the banners of the company and the royal standard were consecrated in the cathedral church of Panama ; a sermon was preached before the little army by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the government for the Peruvian mission ; and mass was performed , and the sacrament administered to every soldier previous to his engaging in the crusade against the infidel.13 Having thus solemnly invoked the blessing of Heaven on the enterprise , Pizarro and his followers went on board their vessels , which rode at anchor in the Bay of Panama , and early in January , 1531 , sallied forth on his third and last expedition for the conquest of Peru . It was his intention to steer direct for Tumbez , which held out so magnificent a show of treasure on his former voyage . But head winds and currents , as usual , baffled his purpose , and after a run of thirteen days , much shorter than the period formerly required for the same distance , his little squadron came to anchor in the Bay of St. Matthew , about one degree north ; and Pizarro , after consulting with his officers , resolved to disembark his forces and advance along the coast , while the vessels , held their course at a convenient distance from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painful in the extreme ; for the road was constantly intersected by streams , which , swollen by the winter rains , widened at their mouths into spacious estuaries . Pizarro , who had some previous knowledge of the country , acted as guide as well as commander of the expedition . He was ever ready to give aid where it was needed , encouraging his followers to ford or swim the torrents as they best could , and cheering the desponding by his own buoyant and courageous spirit . At length they reached a thick-settled hamlet , or rather town , in the province of Coaque . The Spaniards rushed on the place , and the inhabitants , without offering resistance , fled in terror to the neighboring forests , leaving their effects  --  of much greater value than had been anticipated  --  in the hands of the invaders . " We fell on them , sword in hand , " says one of the Conquerors , with some naivete ; " for , if we had advised the Indians of our approach , we should never have found there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The natives , however , according to another authority , stayed voluntarily ; " for , as they had done no harm to the white men , they flattered themselves none would be offered to them , but that there would be only an interchange of good offices with the strangers , " 15  --  - an expectation founded , it may be , on the good character which the Spaniards had established for themselves on their preceding visit , but in which the simple people now found themselves most unpleasantly deceived . Rushing into the deserted dwellings , the invaders found there , besides stuffs of various kinds , and food most welcome in their famished condition , a large quantity of gold and silver wrought into clumsy ornaments , together with many precious stones ; for this was the region of the esmeraldas , or emeralds , where that valuable gem was most abundant . One of these jewels that fell into the hands of Pizarro , in this neighborhood , was as large as a pigeon 's egg . Unluckily , his rude followers did not know the value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in pieces by pounding them with hammers.16 They were led to this extraordinary proceeding , it is said , by one of the Dominican missionaries , Fray Reginaldo de Pedraza , who assured them that this was the way to prove the true emerald , which could not be broken . It was observed that the good father did not subject his own jewels to this wise experiment ; but , as the stones , in consequence of it , fell in value , being regarded merely as colored glass , he carried back a considerable store of them to Panama.17 The gold and silver ornaments rifled from the dwellings were brought together and deposited in a common heap ; when a fifth was deducted for the Crown , and Pizarro distributed the remainder in due proportions among the officers and privates of his company . This was the usage invariably observed on the like occasions throughout the Conquest . The invaders had embarked in a common adventure . Their interest was common , and to have allowed every one to plunder on his own account would only have led to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on pain of death , to contribute whatever they obtained , whether by bargain or by rapine , to the general stock ; and all were too much interested in the execution of the penalty to allow the unhappy culprit , who violated the law , any chance of escape.18 Pizarro , with his usual policy , sent back to Panama a large quantity of the gold , no less than twenty thousand castellanos in value , in the belief that the sight of so much treasure , thus speedily acquired , would settle the doubt of the wavering , and decide them on joining his banner.19 He judged right . As one of the Conquerors piously expresses it , " It pleased the Lord that we should fall in with the town of Coaque , that the riches of the land might find credit with the people , and that they should flock to it . " 20 Pizarro , having refreshed his men , continued his march along the coast , but no longer accompanied by the vessels , which had returned for recruits to Panama . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     