@@768644

txt //female schools . It has been examined by the Massachusetts Board of Education , and been deemed worthy by them to be admitted as a part of the Massachusetts School Library . It has also been adopted as a text-book in some of our largest and most popular female schools , both at the East and West . The following , from the pen of Mr. George B. Emmerson , one of the most popular and successful teachers in our country , who has introduced this work as a text-book in his own school , will exhibit the opinion of one who has formed his judgment from experience in the use of the work : " It may be objected that such things can not be taught by books . Why not ? Why may not the structure of the human body , and the laws of health deduced therefrom , be as well taught as the laws of natural philosophy ? Why are not the application of these laws to the management of infants and young children as important to a woman as the application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ root ? Why may not the properties of the atmosphere be explained , in reference to the proper ventilation of rooms , or exercise in the open air , as properly as to the burning of steel or sodium ? Why is not the human skeleton as curious and interesting as the air-pump ; and the action of the brain , as the action of a steam-engine ? Why may not the healthiness of different kinds of food and drink , the proper modes of cooking , and the rules in reference to the modes and times of taking them , be discussed as properly as rules of grammar , or facts in history ? Are not the principles that should regulate clothing , the rules of cleanliness , the advantages of early rising and domestic exercise , as readily communicated as the principles of mineralogy , or rules of syntax ? Are not the rules of Jesus Christ , applied to refine domestic manners and preserve a good temper , as important as the abstract principles of ethics , as taught by Paley , Wayland , or Jouffroy ? May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be as well illustrated in showing how they contribute to the happiness of a family , as by showing how they add beauty to a copy-book , or a portfolio of drawings ? Would not a teacher be as well employed in teaching the rules of economy , in regard to time and expenses , or in regard to dispensing charity , as in teaching double , or single entry in bookkeeping ? Are not the principles that should guide in constructing a house , and in warming and ventilating it properly , as important to young girls as the principles of the Athenian Commonwealth , or the rules of Roman tactics ? Is it not as important that children should be taught the dangers to the mental faculties , when over-excited on the one hand , or left unoccupied on the other , as to teach them the conflicting theories of political economy , or the speculations of metaphysicians ? For ourselves , we have always found children , especially girls , peculiarly ready to listen to what they saw would prepare them for future duties . The truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real life , has the greatest force with children . The constantly-recurring inquiry , ' What will be the use of this study ? ' is always satisfied by showing , that it will prepare for any duty , relation , or office which , in the natural course of things , will be likely to come . " We think this book extremely well suited to be used as a text-book in schools for young ladies , and many chapters are well adapted for a reading book for children of both sexes . " To this the writer would add the testimony of a lady who has used this work with several classes of young girls and young ladies . She remarked that she had never known a school-book that awakened more interest , and that some young girls would learn a lesson in this when they would study nothing else . She remarked , also , that when reciting the chapter on the construction of houses , they became greatly interested in inventing plans of their own , which gave an opportunity to the teacher to point out difficulties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taught in schools , our land would not be so defaced with awkward , misshapen , inconvenient , and , at the same time , needlessly expensive houses , as it now is . Although the writer was trained to the care of children , and to perform all branches of domestic duty , by some of the best of housekeepers , much in these pages is offered , not as the result of her own experience , but as what has obtained the approbation of some of the most judicious mothers and housekeepers in the nation . The articles on Physiology and Hygiene , and those on horticulture , were derived from standard works on these subjects , and are sanctioned by the highest authorities . The American Housekeeper 's Receipt Book is another work prepared by the author of the Domestic Economy , in connexion with several experienced housekeepers , and is designed for a supplement to this work . On pages 354a and 354b will be found the Preface and Analysis of that work , the two books being designed for a complete course of instructions on every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two works is held by a board of gentlemen appointed for the purpose , who , after paying a moderate compensation to the author for the time and labour spent in preparing these works , will employ all the remainder paid over by the publishers , to aid in educating and locating such female teachers as wish to be employed in those portions of our country , which are most destitute of schools . The contract with the publisher provides that the publisher shall guaranty the sales and thus secure against any losses for bad debts , for which he shall receive five per cent . He shall charge twenty per cent . for commissions paid to retailers , and also the expenses of printing , paper , and binding , at the current market prices , and make no other charges . The net profits thus determined are then to be divided equally , the publishers taking one half , and paying the other half to the board above mentioned . CONTENTS . PREFACE , 7 CHAPTER I. PECULIAR RESPONSIBILITIES OF AMERICAN WOMEN . American Women should feel a peculiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institutions . Its Identity with the main Principle of Christianity . Relations involving Subordination ; why they are needful . Examples . How these Relations are decided in a Democracy . What decides the Equity of any Law or Institution . The Principle of Aristocracy . The Tendency of Democracy in Respect to the Interests of Women . Illustrated in the United States . Testimony of De Tocqueville . Miss Martineau 's Misrepresentations . In what Respects are Women subordinate ? and why ? Wherein are they equal or superior in Influence ? and how are they placed by Courtesy ? How can American Women rectify any real Disadvantages involved in our Civil Institutions ? Opinion of De Tocqueville as to the Influence and Example of American Democracy . Responsibilities involved in this View , especially those of American Women , 25 CHAPTER II . DIFFICULTIES PECULIAR TO AMERICAN WOMEN . A Law of Moral Action to be noted . Its Application . Considerations to be borne in Mind , in appreciating peculiar Trials . Application to American Women . Difference between this and Aristocratic Countries . How this affects the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Country , on Domestic Service . Effects on the Domestic Comfort of Women . Second peculiar Trial of American Women . Extent of this Evil . The Writer 's Observation on this Point . Effects on the Anticipations of Mothers and Daughters . Infrequency of Healthful Women in the Wealthy Classes . Causes which operate to undermine the Female Constitution . Excitement of Mind . Course of Intellectual Training . Taxation , in Domestic Life , of American Mothers and Housekeepers . Exercise and Fresh Air needful to balance Mental Excitement . Defect in American , compared with English , Customs , in this Respect . Difference in the Health and Youthfulness of Appearance between English and American Mothers . Liabilities of American Women to the uncommon Exposures of a New Country . Remarks of De Tocqueville and the Writer on this Point , 38 CHAPTER III . REMEDIES FOR THE PRECEDING DIFFICULTIES . First Remedy suggested . Obligations of Wealthy Ladies on this Point . How a Dearth of Domestics may prove a Blessing . Second Remedy . Domestic Economy should be taught in Schools . Third Remedy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exist for endowing Female Institutions . Present Evils in conducting Female Education . A Sketch of a Model Female Institution . Accommodations provided . Mode of securing Exercise to Pupils . Objections to this answered . Calisthenics . Course of Intellectual Discipline adopted . Mode of Division of Labor adopted . Example of Illinois in Regard to Female Education . Economy of Health and Time secured by such Institutions . Plan suggested for the Early Education of Young Girls . Last Remedy suggested , 48 CHAPTER IV . ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY AS A BRANCH OF STUDY . Impediment to making Domestic Economy a Study at School . First Reason why it should be so made . State of Domestic Service precarious . Second Reason . Examples illustrating . Third Reason . Questions asked . First Objection ; how answered . Next Objection ; how answered . Next Objection ; how answered . Last Reason , 63 CHAPTER V. ON THE CARE OF HEALTH . Importance of a Knowledge of the Laws of Health , and of the Human System , to Females . Construction of the Human Frame . BONES ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Description . Spinal Column . Engravings of Vertebrae . Exercise of the Bones . MUSCLES ; their Constitution , Use , and Connection with the Bones . Engraving and Description . Operation of Muscles . NERVES ; their Use . Spinal Column . Engravings and Descriptions . Distortions of the Spine . Engravings and Descriptions . BLOOD-VESSELS ; their Object . Engravings and Descriptions . The Heart , and its Connection with the System . Engravings and Descriptions . ORGANS OF DIGESTION AND RESPIRATION . Engraving and Description . Process of Digestion . Circulation of the Blood . Process of Respiration . Necessity of Pure Air . THE SKIN . Process of Perspiration . Insensible Perspiration . Heat of the Body . Absorbents . Importance of frequent Ablutions and Change of Garments . Follicles of Oily Matter in the Skin . Nerves of Feeling , 68 CHAPTER VI . ON HEALTHFUL FOOD . Responsibility of a Housekeeper in Regard to Health and Food . The most fruitful Cause of Disease . Gastric Juice ; how proportioned . Hunger the Natural Guide as to Quantity of Food . A Benevolent Provision ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , how caused . Effects of too much Food in the Stomach . Duty of a Housekeeper in Reference to this . Proper Time for taking Food . Peristaltic Motion . Need of Rest to the Muscles of the Stomach . Time necessary between each Meal . Exceptions of hard Laborers and active Children . Exercise ; its Effect on all parts of the Body . How it produces Hunger . What is to be done by those who have lost the Guidance of Hunger in regulating the Amount of Food . On Quality of Food . Difference as to Risk from bad Food , between Healthy Persons who exercise , and those of Delicate and Sedentary Habits . Stimulating Food ; its Effects . Condiments needed only for Medicine , and to be avoided as Food . Difference between Animal and Vegetable Food . Opinion of some Medical Men . Medical Men agree as to the Excess of Animal Food in American Diet . Extracts from Medical Writers on this Point . Articles most easily digested . The most Unhealthful Articles result from bad cooking . Caution as to Mode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injurious after a full Meal . Changes in Diet should be gradual ; and why . Drink most needed at Breakfast ; and why . Dinner should be the heartiest Meal ; and why . Little Drink to be taken while eating ; and why . Extremes of Heat or Cold ; why injurious in Food . Fluids immediately absorbed from the Stomach . Why Soups are hard of Digestion . Case of Alexis St. Martin . Why highly-concentrated Nourishment is not good for Health . Beneficial Effects of using Unbolted Flour . Scarcity of Wheat under William Pitt 's Administration , and its Effects . Causes of a Debilitated Constitution from the Misuse of Food , 94 CHAPTER VII . ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS . Responsibility of a Housekeeper in this Respect . Stimulating Drinks not required for the Perfection of the Human System . Therefore they are needless . First Evil in using them . Second Evil . Five Kinds of Stimulating Articles in Use in this Country . First Argument in Favor of Stimulants , and how answered . Second Argument ; how answered . The Writer 's View @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Duty in Reference to Children . Black Tea the most harmless Stimulant . Warm Drinks not needful . Hot Drinks injurious . Effect of Hot Drinks on Teeth . Mexican Customs and their Effects illustrating this . Opinion of Dr. Combe on this subject . Difference between the Stimulus of Animal Food and the Stimulating Drinks used . Common Habit of Drinking freely of Cold Water debilitating . Persons taking but little Exercise require but little Drink , 106 CHAPTER VIII . ON CLOTHING . Calculations made from Bills of Mortality ; and Inference from them . Causes of Infant Mortality . Of the Circulation in Infancy . Warm Dress for Infants ; and why . Investigations in France , and Results . Dangers from the opposite Extreme . Effects of too much Clothing . Rule of Safety . Featherbeds ; why unhealthy in Warm Weather . Best Nightgowns for Young Children . Clothing ; how to be proportioned . Irrational Dress of Women . Use of Flannel next the Skin . Evils of Tight Dresses to Women . False Taste in our Prints of Fashions . Modes in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Safety as to Looseness of Dress . Example of English Ladies in Appropriateness of Dress , 112 CHAPTER IX . ON CLEANLINESS . Importance of Cleanliness not realized , without a Knowledge of the Nature of the Skin . Foundation of the Maxim respecting the Healthfulness of Dirt . Office of the Skin . Other Organs which perform similar Duties . Amount of Matter daily exhaled by the Skin . Effect of a Chill upon the Skin , when perspiring . Illustration of this . Effect of closing the Pores of the Skin , with Dirt or other Matter . The Skin absorbs Matter into the Blood . Reasons for a Daily Ablution of the whole Body . Effects of Fresh Air on Clothing worn next the Skin . Americans compared with other Nations as to Care of the Skin . Cautions in Regard to a Use of the Bath . How to decide when Cold Bathing is useful . Warm Bath tends to prevent Colds ; and why . When a Bath should be taken . Advantages of General Ablutions to Children . Care of the Teeth , 118 CHAPTER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Practice . Why it should be regarded as American and Democratic . Practice in Aristocratic Circles in England . Appeal to American Women . First Consideration in Favor of Early Rising . Another Physiological Reason in its Favor . Another Reason . Time necessary for Sleep . Proper Hours for Rising and Retiring . Evils of protracted Sleep . Testimony of Sir John Sinclair . Another Reason for Early Rising . Responsibility of Parents for the Health and Industry of a Family . Effects of Early Rising on General Society , 122 CHAPTER XI . ON DOMESTIC EXERCISE . Causes which produce Delicacy and Decay of the Female Constitution . Want of Exercise . Neglect of the Laws of Health . Want of Pure Air . Objectionable Amusements . Sleeping by Day . Want of Exercise a greater Cause of these Evils , than all the Others combined . Importance of understanding the Influence of the Neglect or Abuse of the Muscular System . Nerves of Sensation and of Motion . Both need Exercise . Rules for Exercise . Importance of a Feeling of Interest in taking Exercise . Walks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Exercise , more than any Thing else , imparts fresh Strength and Vitality to all Parts of the Body . Mistakes of Mothers and Teachers on this Subject . Effects of neglecting to use the Muscles ; Effects of excessive Use of them . Effect of School Confinement and Seats . Extract from the Young Lady 's Friend . Lady Montagu . Daughter of a French Nobleman , 128 CHAPTER XII . ON DOMESTIC MANNERS . What are Good-manners . Defect in American Manners . Coldness and Reserve of the Descendants of the Puritans accounted for . Cause of the Want of Courtesy in American Manners . Want of Discrimination . Difference of Principles regulating Aristocratic and Democratic Manners . Rules for regulating the Courtesies founded on Precedence of Age , Office , and Station , in a Democracy . Manners appropriate to Superiors and Subordinates . Miss Martineau 's Remarks on the Universal Practice of Americans to give Precedence to Woman . Peculiar Defect of Americans in this Respect . This to be remedied in the Domestic Circle , alone . Rules of Precedence to be enforced in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Family . Treatment of grown Brothers and Sisters by Young Children . Acknowledgement of Favors by Children to be required . Children to ask leave or apologize in certain Cases . Rules for avoiding Remarks that wound the Feelings of Others . Rules of Hospitality . Conventional Rules . Rules for Table Manners . Caution as to teaching these Rules to Children . Caution as to Allowances to be made for those deficient in Good-manners . Comparison of English and American Manners , by De Tocqueville . America may hope to excel all Nations in Refinement , Taste , and Good-breeding ; and why . Effects of Wealth and Equalisation of Labor . Allusion to the Manners of Courts in the past Century , 136 CHAPTER XIII . ON THE PRESERVATION OF A GOOD TEMPER IN A HOUSEKEEPER . Influence of a Housekeeper on Domestic Happiness . Contrasts to illustrate . Sympathy . Influence of Tones . Allowances to be made for Housekeepers . Considerations to aid in regulating Temper and Tones . First ; Her Duties to be regarded as Dignified , Important , and Difficult . Second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet and overcome . Third ; She should deliberately calculate upon having her Plans interfered with , and be prepared for the Emergency . Fourth ; All her Plans should be formed consistently with the Means at Command . Fifth ; System , Economy , and Neatness , only valuable when they tend to promote the Comfort and Well-being of the Family . Sixth ; Government of Tones of Voice . Some Persons think Angry Tones needful . They mistake . Illustration . Scolding , Unlady-like , and in Bad Taste . A Forgiving Spirit necessary . Seventh and Last Consideration offered ; Right View of a Superintending Providence . Fretfulness and Complaining sinful , 148 CHAPTER XIV . ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER . Question of the Equality of the Sexes , frivolous and useless . Relative Importance and Difficulty of the Duties a Woman is called to perform . Her Duties not trivial . More difficult than those of the Queen of a great Nation . A Habit of System and Order necessary . Right Apportionment of Time , General Principles . Christianity to be the Foundation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Taste or Appetite . The Latter to be last in our Estimation . No Sacrifice of Health allowable . Neglect of Health a Sin in the Sight of God . Regular Season of Rest appointed by the Creator . Divisions of Time . Systematic Arrangement of House Articles and other Conveniences . Regular Employment for each Member of a Family . Children can be of great Service . Boys should be taught Family Work . Advantage to them in Afterlife . Older Children to take Care of Infants of a Family , 155 CHAPTER XV . ON GIVING IN CHARITY . No Point of Duty more difficult to fix by Rule , than Charity . First Consideration ;  --  Object for which we are placed in this World . How to be perfectly happy . Self-denying Benevolence . Important Distinction . Second Consideration ;  --  Natural Principles not to be exterminated , but regulated and controlled . All Constitutional Propensities good , and designed to be gratified . Their Abuses to be guarded against . Third Consideration ;  --  Superfluities sometimes proper , and sometimes not . Fourth Consideration ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for All . The Opposite of this Principle tested . Some Use of Superfluities necessary . Physical Gratifications should always be subordinate to Social , Intellectual , and Moral Advantages . Difficulties in the Way . Remarks upon them . Plan for Keeping an Account of Necessaries and Superfluities . Untoward Results of our Actions do not always prove that we deserve Blame . Examples of Conformity to the Rules here laid down . General Principles to guide in deciding upon Objects of Charity . Parable of Good Samaritan . Who are our Neighbors . Those most in Need to be first relieved . Intellectual and Moral Wants more necessary to be supplied than Physical . Not much Need of Charity in supplying Physical Wants in this Country . System of Associated Charities , in which many small Sums are combined . Indiscriminate Charity  --  Very injurious to Society , as a General Rule . Exceptions . Impropriety of judging of the Charities of Others , 167 CHAPTER XVI . ON ECONOMY OF TIME AND EXPENSES . Economy of Time . Value of Time . Right Apportionment of Time . Laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Time the Jews were required to devote to Intellectual , Benevolent , and Religious Purposes . The Levites . The weekly Sabbath . The Sabbatical Year . Three sevenths of the Time of the Jews devoted to God 's Service . Christianity removes the Restrictions laid on the Jews , but demands all our Time to be devoted to our own best Interests and the Good of our Fellow-men . Some Practical Good to be the Ultimate End of all our Pursuits . Enjoyment connected with the Performance of every Duty . Great Mistake of Mankind . A Final Account to be given of the Apportionment of our Time . Various Modes of economizing Time . System and Order . Uniting several Objects in one Employment . Employment of Odd Intervals of Time . We are bound to aid Others in economizing Time . Economy in Expenses . Necessity of Information on this Point . Contradictory Notions . General Principles in which all agree . Knowledge of Income and Expenses . Every One bound to do as much as she can to secure System and Order . Examples . Evils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early learn to be systematic and economical . Articles of Dress and Furniture should be in Keeping with each other , and with the Circumstances of the Family . Mistaken Economy . Education of Daughters away from Home injudicious . Nice Sewing should be done at Home . Cheap Articles not always most economical . Buying by wholesale economical only in special cases . Penurious Savings made by getting the Poor to work cheap . Relative Obligations of the Poor and the Rich in Regard to Economy . Economy of Providence in the Unequal Distribution of Property . Carelessness of Expense not a Mark of Gentility . Beating down Prices improper in Wealthy People . Inconsistency in American would-be Fashionables , 180 CHAPTER XVII . ON HEALTH OF MIND . Intimate Connection between the Body and Mind . Brain excited by improper Stimulants taken into the Stomach . Mental Faculties then affected . Example of a Person having lost a Portion of his Skull . Causes of Mental Diseases . Want of Oxygenized Blood . Fresh Air absolutely necessary . Excessive Exercise of the Intellect or Feelings a Cause of Derangement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other Duties , wrong . Teachers and Parents should look to this . Unusual Precocity in Children usually the Result of a Diseased Brain . Parents generally add Fuel to this Fever . Idiocy often the Result , or the Precocious Child sinks below the Average of Mankind . This Evil yet prevalent in Colleges and other Seminaries . A Medical Man necessary in every Seminary . Some Pupils always needing Restraint in Regard to Study . A Third Cause of Mental Disease , the Want of Appropriate Exercise of the Various Faculties of the Mind . Extract from Dr. Combe . Examples of Wealthy Ladies . Beneficial Results of active Intellectual Employments . Indications of a Diseased Mind , 195 CHAPTER XVIII . ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS . No Subject on which American Women need more Wisdom , Patience , Principle , and Self-control . Its Difficulties . Necessary Evils . Miseries of Aristocratic Lands . Wisdom of Conforming to Actual Circumstances . How to judge correctly respecting Domestics . They should be treated as we would expect to be under similar Circumstances . When Labor is scarce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how it may be remedied . Pride and Insubordination ; how remedied . Abhorrence of Servitude a National Trait of Character . Domestics easily convinced of the Appropriateness of different Degrees of Subordination . Example . Domestics may be easily induced to be respectful in their Deportment , and appropriate in their Dress . Deficiencies of Qualifications for the Performance of their Duties ; how remedied . Forewarning , better than Chiding . Preventing , better than finding Fault . Faults should be pointed out in a Kind Manner . Some Employers think it their Office and Duty to find Fault . Domestics should be regarded with Sympathy and Forbearance , 204 CHAPTER XIX . ON THE CARE OF INFANTS . Necessity of a Knowledge of this Subject , to every Young Lady . Examples . Extracts from Doctors Combe , Bell , and Eberle . Half the Deaths of Infants owing to Mismanagement , and Errors in Diet . Errors of Parents and Nurses . Error of administering Medicines to Children , unnecessarily . Need of Fresh Air , Attention to Food , Cleanliness , Dress , and Bathing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Habits in Children , 213 CHAPTER XX . ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN . Physical Education of Children . Remark of Dr. Clark , and Opinion of other Medical Men . Many Popular Notions relating to Animal Food for Children , erroneous . The Formation of the Human Teeth and Stomach does not indicate that Man was designed to live on Flesh . Opinions of Linnaeus and Cuvier . Stimulus of Animal Food not necessary to Full Developement of the Physical and Intellectual Powers . Examples . Of Laplanders , Kamtschatkadales , Scotch Highlanders , Siberian Exiles , Africans , Arabs . Popular Notion that Animal Food is more Nourishing than Vegetable . Different Opinions on this Subject . Experiments . Opinions of Dr. Combe and others . Examples of Men who lived to a great Age . Dr. Franklin 's Testimony . Sir Isaac Newton and others . Albany Orphan Asylum . Deleterious Practice of allowing Children to eat at short Intervals . Intellectual Training . Schoolrooms . Moral Character . Submission , Self-denial , and Benevolence , the three most important Habits to be formed in Early Life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adults sometimes forget the Value which Children set on Trifles . Example . Impossible to govern Children , properly , without appreciating the Value they attach to their Pursuits and Enjoyments . Those who govern Children should join in their Sports . This the best way to gain their Confidence and Affection . But Older Persons should never lose the Attitude of Superiors . Unsteadiness in Government . Illustrations . Punishment from unsteady Governors , does little Good . Over-Government . Want of Patience and Self-control in Parents and Governors . Example of Parents more effectual than their Precepts . Formation of Habits of Self-denial in Early Life . Denying Ourselves to promote the Happiness of Others . Habits of Honesty and Veracity . Habits of Modesty . Delicacy studiously to be cherished . Licentious and Impure Books to be banished . Bulwer a Licentious Writer , and to be discountenanced , 220 CHAPTER XXI . ON THE CARE OF THE SICK . Women frequently called upon to direct in Cases of Indisposition . Extremes to be avoided . Grand Cause of most Diseases , Excess in Eating and Drinking . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Necessity of a Woman 's Understanding the Nature and Operation of Common Medicines . Simple Electuary . Discretion required . Useful Directions in Regard to Nursing the Sick . Fresh Air absolutely necessary . Frequent Ablutions important . Dressing a Blister . Arrangements to be made beforehand , when practicable . Importance of Cleanliness ; Nothing more annoying to the Sick , than a want of it . Necessity of a proper Preparation of Food , for the Sick . Physicians ' Directions to be well understood and implicitly followed . Kindness , Patience , and Sympathy , towards the Sick , important . Impositions of Apothecaries . Drugs to be locked up from the Access of Children , 234 CHAPTER XXII . ON ACCIDENTS AND ANTIDOTES . Medical Aid should be promptly resorted to . Suffocation , from Substances in the Throat . Common Cuts . Wounds of Arteries , and other severe Cuts . Bruises . Sprains . Broken Limbs . Falls . Blows on the Head . Burns . Drowning . Poisons :  --  Corrosive Sublimate ; Arsenic , or Cobalt ; Opium ; Acids ; Alkalies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well , Limekiln , or Coalmine . Hemorrhage of the Lungs , Stomach , or Throat . Bleeding of the Nose . Dangers from Lightning , 240 CHAPTER XXIII . ON DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS AND SOCIAL DUTIES . Indefiniteness of Opinion on this Subject . Every Person needs some Recreation . General Rules . How much Time to be given . What Amusements proper . Those should always be avoided , which cause Pain , or injure the Health , or endanger Life , or interfere with important Duties , or are pernicious in their Tendency . Horse-racing , Circus-riding , Theatres , and Gambling . Dancing , as now conducted , does not conduce to Health of Body or Mind , but the contrary . Dancing in the Open Air beneficial . Social Benefits of Dancing considered . Ease and Grace of Manners better secured by a System of Calisthenics . The Writer 's Experience . Balls going out of Fashion , among the more refined Circles . Novel-reading . Necessity for Discrimination . Young Persons should be guarded from Novels . Proper Amusements for Young Persons . Cultivation of Flowers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Children enjoy it . Collections of Shells , Plants , Minerals , &c.; Children 's Games and Sports . Parents should join in them . Mechanical Skill of Children to be encouraged . Other Enjoyments . Social Enjoyments not always considered in the List of Duties . Main Object of Life to form Character . Family Friendship should be preserved . Plan adopted by Families of the Writer 's Acquaintance . Kindness to Strangers . Hospitality . Change of Character of Communities in Relation to Hospitality . Hospitality should be prompt . Strangers should be made to feel at their Ease , 244 CHAPTER XXIV . ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES . Importance to Family Comfort of well-constructed Houses . Rules for constructing them . Economy of Labor . Large Houses . Arrangement of Rooms . Wells and Cisterns . Economy of Money . Shape and Arrangement of Houses . Porticoes , Piazzas , and other Ornaments . Simplicity to be preferred . Fireplaces . Economy of Health . Outdoor Conveniences . Doors and Windows . Ventilation . Economy of Comfort . Domestics . Spare Chambers . Good Taste . Proportions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conveniences . Receipts for Whitewash , 258 CHAPTER XXV . ON FIRES AND LIGHTS . Wood Fires . Construction of Fireplaces . Firesets . Building a Fire . Wood . Cautions . Stoves and Grates . Cautions . Stovepipes . Anthracite Coal . Bituminous Coal . Proper Grates . Coal Stoves . On Lights . Lamps . Oil . Candles . Lard . Pearlash and Water for cleansing Lamps . Care of Lamps . Difficulty . Articles needed in trimming Lamps . Astral Lamps . Wicks . Dipping Wicks in Vinegar . Shades . Weak Eyes . Entry Lamps . Night Lamps . Tapers . Wax Tapers for Use in Sealing Letters . To make Candles . Moulds . Dipped Candles . Rush Lights , 280 CHAPTER XXVI . ON WASHING . All needful Accommodations should be provided . Plenty of Water , easily accessible , necessary . Articles to be provided for Washing . Substitutes for Soft Water . Common Mode of Washing . Assorting Clothes . To Wash Bedding . Feathers . Calicoes . Bran-water . Potato-water . Soda Washing . Soda Soap . Mode of Soda Washing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To Wash Brown Linen , Muslins , Nankeen , Woollen Table-Covers and Shawls , Woollen Yarn , Worsted and Woollen Hose . To Cleanse Gentlemen 's Broadcloths . To make Ley , Soft Soap , Hard Soap , White Soap , Starch , and other Articles used in Washing , 284 CHAPTER XXVII . ON STARCHING , IRONING , AND CLEANSING . To prepare Starch . Glue and Gum Starch . Beef 's or Ox-Gall . Starching Muslins and Laces . To Cleanse or Whiten Silk Lace , or Blond , and White Lace Veils . On Ironing . Articles to be provided for Ironing . Sprinkling , Folding , and Ironing , 292 CHAPTER XXVIII . ON WHITENING , CLEANSING , AND DYEING . To Whiten Articles and Remove Stains from them . Mixtures to Remove Stains and Grease . To Cleanse Silk Handkerchiefs and Ribands ; Silk Hose or Gloves ; Down and Feathers ; Straw and Leghorn Hats . On Coloring . Pink , Red , Yellow , Blue , Green , Salmon , Buff , Dove , Slate , Brown , Black , and Olive Colors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Proper Arrangement of Rooms . Shades and Colors . Carpets , Curtains , and other Furniture , should be selected with Reference to each other . Laying down Carpets . Blocks to prevent Sofas and Tables from rubbing against Walls , and to hold Doors open . Footstools . Sweeping Carpets . Tealeaves . Wet Indian Meal . Taking up and cleansing Carpets . Washing Carpets . Straw Matting . Pictures and Glasses . Curtains and Sofas . Mahogany Furniture . Unvarnished Furniture ; Mixtures for . Hearths and Jambs . Sweeping and Dusting Parlors , 302 CHAPTER XXX . ON THE CARE OF BREAKFAST AND DINING-ROOMS . Large Closet necessary . Dumb Waiter , or Sliding Closet . Furniture for a Table . On Setting a Table . Rules for doing it properly ;  --  for Breakfast and Tea ; for Dinner . On Waiting at Table . On Carving and Helping at Table , 306 CHAPTER XXXI . ON THE CARE OF CHAMBERS AND BEDROOMS . Importance of well-ventilated Sleeping-rooms . Debility and Ill-health caused by a Want of Pure Air . Chamber Furniture . Cheap Couch . Bedding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To Make a Bed . Domestics should be provided with Single Beds , and Washing Conveniences . On Packing and Storing Articles . To Fold a Gentleman 's Coat and Shirt , and a Frock . Packing Trunks . Carpet Bags . Bonnet Covers . Packing Household Furniture for Moving , 311 CHAPTER XXXII . ON THE CARE OF THE KITCHEN , CELLAR , AND STOREROOM . Importance of a Convenient Kitchen . Floor should be painted . Sink and Drain . Washing Dishes . Conveniences needed . Rules . Kitchen Furniture . Crockery . Iron Ware . Tin Ware . Wooden Ware . Basket Ware . Other Articles . On the Care of the Cellar . Storeroom . Modes of Destroying Insects and Vermin , 317 CHAPTER XXXIII . ON SEWING , CUTTING , AND MENDING . Importance of Young Girls being taught various Kinds of Stitching . Directions for doing various Kinds of Work . Work-Baskets , and their Contents . On Cutting and Fitting Garments . Silks . Cotton and Linen . Old Silk Dresses quilted for Skirts . Flannel ; White should be colored . Children 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 324 CHAPTER XXXIV . ON THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS . On the Preparation of Soil . For Pot-Plants . On the Preparation of a Hot-Bed . Planting Flower-Seeds . To plant Garden-Seeds . Transplanting . To Re-pot House-Plants . On laying out Yards . Gardens . Flower-Beds . Bulbs and Tuberous Roots . List of Various Kinds of Flowers , in Reference to Color , and Height . Annuals . Climbing Plants . Perennials . Herbaceous Roots . Shrubs ; List of those most suitable for adorning a Yard . Roses ; Varieties of . Shade-Trees . Time for Transplanting . Trees . Care of House Plants , 331 CHAPTER XXXV . ON THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS . Different Modes of Propagation ;  --  By Offsets ; Cuttings ; Layers ; Budding , or Inoculating ; Ingrafting ;  --  Whip-Grafting ; Split-Grafting ; Stock-Grafting . Pruning . Thinning , 341 CHAPTER XXXVI . ON THE CULTIVATION OF FRUIT . Value of Attention to this Subject . Preparation of Soil . Planting of Seeds . Budding , Grafting , and Transplanting . Training the Limbs . Attention to the Soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Raspberries . Strawberries . Grapes . To Preserve Fruit ; Modes of Preserving Fruit-Trees . Fire Blight . Worms , 347 CHAPTER XXXVII . MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIONS . Women should know how to take proper Care of Domestic Animals . Care of a Horse . Care of a Cow . Poultry . Cautions for Winter . Smoky Chimneys . House-Cleaning . Parties . Invitations . Comfort of Guests . Flower-Baskets . Fire-Boards . Water-proof Shoes . Earthen Ware . Cements , &c.; &c.; 351 NOTE .  --  Cooking , 354 GLOSSARY , 355 INDEX , 371 LIST OF ENGRAVINGS . 1 . The Human Skeleton , showing the Connection of the Bones of the System , 70 2 , 3 , 4 . The Cervical , Dorsal , and Lumbar , Vertebrae , 72 5 . Muscles of the Arm , 74 6 . Vertical Section of the Skull and Spinal Column , side view , 77 7 . View of the same as seen from behind , 77 8 . Ramifications of the Nerves , 79 9 , 10 , 11 . Natural and Distorted Spines , 81 12 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two Sides of the Heart , separated , 85 14 . The Heart , with its two Sides united , as in Nature , 86 15 . The Heart , with the great Blood-Vessels , on a larger scale , 87 16 . Organs of Digestion and Respiration , 88 17 . Elevation of a Cottage of Fine Proportions , 262 18 . Ground-plan of the same , 262 19 . Arrangement of one Side of a Room 263 20 . Fireplace and Mantelpiece , 265 21 . Elevation of a Cottage on a different Plan from the former , 265 22 . Ground-plan of the same , 266 23 , 24 . Ground-plan and Second Story of a two-story Cottage , 267 25 . Front Elevation of the latter Cottage , 268 26 . Front Elevation , on a different Plan , 268 27 , 28 . Plans of First and Second Stories of the latter Elevation , 269 29 , 30 . Plans of First and Second Stories of a larger House , 270 31 . Front Elevation of a very convenient Cottage , 271 32 . Ground-plan of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Esq. , near Hartford , Conn. , 274 34 . Accommodations for securing Water with the least Labor , 275 35 . Back-door Accommodations , 276 36 . Latticed Portico , 277 37 . Sliding Closet , or Dumb Waiter , 278 38 . Cheap Couch , 312 39 . Plan of a Flower-Bed , 334 40 . Budding , 343 41 . Grafting , 344 42 . Stock-Grafting , 345 DOMESTIC ECONOMY . CHAPTER I. THE PECULIAR RESPONSIBILITIES OF AMERICAN WOMEN . There are some reasons , why American women should feel an interest in the support of the democratic institutions of their Country , which it is important that they should consider . The great maxim , which is the basis of all our civil and political institutions , is , that " all men are created equal , " and that they are equally entitled to " life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . " But it can readily be seen , that this is only another mode of expressing the fundamental principle which the Great Ruler of the Universe has established , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ love thy neighbor as thyself ; " and " Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you , do ye even so to them , " are the Scripture forms , by which the Supreme Lawgiver requires that each individual of our race shall regard the happiness of others , as of the same value as his own ; and which forbid any institution , in private or civil life , which secures advantages to one class , by sacrificing the interests of another . The principles of democracy , then , are identical with the principles of Christianity . But , in order that each individual may pursue and secure the highest degree of happiness within his reach , unimpeded by the selfish interests of others , a system of laws must be established , which sustain certain relations and dependencies in social and civil life . What these relations and their attending obligations shall be , are to be determined , not with reference to the wishes and interests of a few , but solely with reference to the general good of all ; so that each individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public benefit , secured by them . For this purpose , it is needful that certain relations be sustained , which involve the duties of subordination . There must be the magistrate and the subject , one of whom is the superior , and the other the inferior . There must be the relations of husband and wife , parent and child , teacher and pupil , employer and employed , each involving the relative duties of subordination . The superior , in certain particulars , is to direct , and the inferior is to yield obedience . Society could never go forward , harmoniously , nor could any craft or profession be successfully pursued , unless these superior and subordinate relations be instituted and sustained . But who shall take the higher , and who the subordinate , stations in social and civil life ? This matter , in the case of parents and children , is decided by the Creator . He has given children to the control of parents , as their superiors , and to them they remain subordinate , to a certain age , or so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parents can delegate such a portion of their authority to teachers and employers , as the interests of their children require . In most other cases , in a truly democratic state , each individual is allowed to choose for himself , who shall take the position of his superior . No woman is forced to obey any husband but the one she chooses for herself ; nor is she obliged to take a husband , if she prefers to remain single . So every domestic , and every artisan or laborer , after passing from parental control , can choose the employer to whom he is to accord obedience , or , if he prefers to relinquish certain advantages , he can remain without taking a subordinate place to any employer . Each subject , also , has equal power with every other , to decide who shall be his superior as a ruler . The weakest , the poorest , the most illiterate , has the same opportunity to determine this question , as the richest , the most learned , and the most exalted . And the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes . Every man may aim at riches , unimpeded by any law or institution which secures peculiar privileges to a favored class , at the expense of another . Every law , and every institution , is tested by examining whether it secures equal advantages to all ; and , if the people become convinced that any regulation sacrifices the good of the majority to the interests of the smaller number , they have power to abolish it . The institutions of monarchical and aristocratic nations are based on precisely opposite principles . They secure , to certain small and favored classes , advantages , which can be maintained , only by sacrificing the interests of the great mass of the people . Thus , the throne and aristocracy of England are supported by laws and customs , which burden the lower classes with taxes , so enormous , as to deprive them of all the luxuries , and of most of the comforts , of life . Poor dwellings , scanty food , unhealthy employments , excessive labor , and entire destitution of the means and time for education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few may live in palaces , and riot in every indulgence . The tendencies of democratic institutions , in reference to the rights and interests of the female sex , have been fully developed in the United States ; and it is in this aspect , that the subject is one of peculiar interest to American women . In this Country , it is established , both by opinion and by practice , that woman has an equal interest in all social and civil concerns ; and that no domestic , civil , or political , institution , is right , which sacrifices her interest to promote that of the other sex . But in order to secure her the more firmly in all these privileges , it is decided , that , in the domestic relation , she take a subordinate station , and that , in civil and political concerns , her interests be intrusted to the other sex , without her taking any part in voting , or in making and administering laws . The result of this order of things has been fairly tested , and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who , for intelligence , fidelity , and ability , ranks second to none . " There are people in Europe , who , confounding together the different characteristics of the sexes , would make of man and woman , beings not only equal , but alike . They would give to both the same functions , impose on both the same duties , and grant to both the same rights . They would mix them in all things ,  --  their business , their occupations , their pleasures . It may readily be conceived , that , by thus attempting to make one sex equal to the other , both are degraded ; and , from so preposterous a medley of the works of Nature , nothing could ever result , but weak men and disorderly women . " It is not thus that the Americans understand the species of democratic equality , which may be established between the sexes . They admit , that , as Nature has appointed such wide differences between the physical and moral constitutions of man and woman , her manifest design was , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they hold , that improvement does not consist in making beings so dissimilar do pretty nearly the same things , but in getting each of them to fulfil their respective tasks , in the best possible manner . The Americans have applied to the sexes the great principle of political economy , which governs the manufactories of our age , by carefully dividing the duties of man from those of woman , in order that the great work of society may be the better carried on . " In no country has such constant care been taken , as in America , to trace two clearly distinct lines of action for the two sexes , and to make them keep pace one with the other , but in two pathways which are always different . American women never manage the outward concerns of the family , or conduct a business , or take a part in political life ; nor are they , on the other hand , ever compelled to perform the rough labor of the fields , or to make any of those laborious exertions , which demand the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as to form an exception to this rule . " If , on the one hand , an American woman can not escape from the quiet circle of domestic employments , on the other hand , she is never forced to go beyond it . Hence it is , that the women of America , who often exhibit a masculine strength of understanding , and a manly energy , generally preserve great delicacy of personal appearance , and always retain the manners of women , although they sometimes show that they have the hearts and minds of men . " Nor have the Americans ever supposed , that one consequence of democratic principles , is , the subversion of marital power , or the confusion of the natural authorities in families . They hold , that every association must have a head , in order to accomplish its object ; and that the natural head of the conjugal association is man . They do not , therefore , deny him the right of directing his partner ; and they maintain , that , in the smaller association of husband and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the object of democracy is , to regulate and legalize the powers which are necessary , not to subvert all power . " This opinion is not peculiar to one sex , and contested by the other . I never observed , that the women of America considered conjugal authority as a fortunate usurpation of their rights , nor that they thought themselves degraded by submitting to it . It appears to me , on the contrary , that they attach a sort of pride to the voluntary surrender of their own will , and make it their boast to bend themselves to the yoke , not to shake it off . Such , at least , is the feeling expressed by the most virtuous of their sex ; the others are silent ; and in the United States it is not the practice for a guilty wife to clamor for the rights of woman , while she is trampling on her holiest duties . " " Although the travellers , who have visited North America , differ on a great number of points , they agree in remarking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere . A It is evident that , on this point , the Americans are very superior to their progenitors , the English . " " In England , as in all other Countries of Europe , public malice is constantly attacking the frailties of women . Philosophers and statesmen are heard to deplore , that morals are not sufficiently strict ; and the literary productions of the Country constantly lead one to suppose so . In America , all books , novels not excepted , suppose women to be chaste ; and no one thinks of relating affairs of gallantry . " " It has often been remarked , that , in Europe , a certain degree of contempt lurks , even in the flattery which men lavish upon women . Although a European frequently affects to be the slave of woman , it may be seen , that he never sincerely thinks her his equal . In the United States , men seldom compliment women , but they daily show how much they esteem them . They constantly display an entire confidence in the understanding of a wife , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have decided that her mind is just as fitted as that of a man to discover the plain truth , and her heart as firm to embrace it , and they have never sought to place her virtue , any more than his , under the shelter of prejudice , ignorance , and fear . " It would seem , that in Europe , where man so easily submits to the despotic sway of woman , they are nevertheless curtailed of some of the greatest qualities of the human species , and considered as seductive , but imperfect beings , and ( what may well provoke astonishment ) women ultimately look upon themselves in the same light , and almost consider it as a privilege that they are entitled to show themselves futile , feeble , and timid . The women of America claim no such privileges . " " It is true , that the Americans rarely lavish upon women those eager attentions which are commonly paid them in Europe . But their conduct to women always implies , that they suppose them to be virtuous and refined ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sex , that , in the presence of a woman , the most guarded language is used , lest her ear should be offended by an expression . In America , a young unmarried woman may , alone , and without fear , undertake a long journey . " " Thus the Americans do not think that man and woman have either the duty , or the right , to perform the same offices , but they show an equal regard for both their respective parts ; and , though their lot is different , they consider both of them , as beings of equal value . They do not give to the courage of woman the same form , or the same direction , as to that of man ; but they never doubt her courage : and if they hold that man and his partner ought not always to exercise their intellect and understanding in the same manner , they at least believe the understanding of the one to be as sound as that of the other , and her intellect to be as clear . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman to subsist , they have done all they could to raise her , morally and intellectually , to the level of man ; and , in this respect , they appear to me to have excellently understood the true principle of democratic improvement . " As for myself , I do not hesitate to avow , that , although the women of the United States are confined within the narrow circle of domestic life , and their situation is , in some respects , one of extreme dependence , I have nowhere seen women occupying a loftier position ; and if I were asked , now I am drawing to the close of this work , in which I have spoken of so many important things done by the Americans , to what the singular prosperity and growing strength of that people ought mainly to be attributed , I should reply ,  --  to the superiority of their women . " This testimony of a foreigner , who has had abundant opportunities of making a comparison , is sanctioned by the assent of all candid and intelligent men , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it is in America , alone , that women are raised to an equality with the other sex ; and that , both in theory and practice , their interests are regarded as of equal value . They are made subordinate in station , only where a regard to their best interests demands it , while , as if in compensation for this , by custom and courtesy , they are always treated as superiors . Universally , in this Country , through every class of society , precedence is given to woman , in all the comforts , conveniences , and courtesies , of life . In civil and political affairs , American women take no interest or concern , except so far as they sympathize with their family and personal friends ; but in all cases , in which they do feel a concern , their opinions and feelings have a consideration , equal , or even superior , to that of the other sex . In matters pertaining to the education of their children , in the selection and support of a clergyman , in all benevolent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manners , they have a superior influence . In such concerns , it would be impossible to carry a point , contrary to their judgement and feelings ; while an enterprise , sustained by them , will seldom fail of success . If those who are bewailing themselves over the fancied wrongs and injuries of women in this Nation , could only see things as they are , they would know , that , whatever remnants of a barbarous or aristocratic age may remain in our civil institutions , in reference to the interests of women , it is only because they are ignorant of them , or do not use their influence to have them rectified ; for it is very certain that there is nothing reasonable , which American women would unite in asking , that would not readily be bestowed . The preceding remarks , then , illustrate the position , that the democratic institutions of this Country are in reality no other than the principles of Christianity carried into operation , and that they tend to place woman in her true position in society , as having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact , they have secured to American women a lofty and fortunate position , which , as yet , has been attained by the women of no other nation . There is another topic , presented in the work of the above author , which demands the profound attention of American women . The following is taken from that part of the Introduction to the work , illustrating the position , that , for ages , there has been a constant progress , in all civilized nations , towards the democratic equality attained in this Country . " The various occurrences of national existence have every where turned to the advantage of democracy ; all men have aided it by their exertions ; those who have intentionally labored in its cause , and those who have served it unwittingly ; those who have fought for it , and those who have declared themselves its opponents , have all been driven along in the same track , have all labored to one end ; " " all have been blind instruments in the hands of God . " " The gradual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Providential fact ; and it possesses all the characteristics of a Divine decree : it is universal , it is durable , it constantly eludes all human interference , and all events , as well as all men , contribute to its progress . " " The whole book , which is here offered to the public , has been written under the impression of a kind of religious dread , produced in the author 's mind , by the contemplation of so irresistible a revolution , which has advanced for centuries , in spite of such amazing obstacles , and which is still proceeding in the midst of the ruins it has made . " It is not necessary that God Himself should speak , in order to disclose to us the unquestionable signs of His will . We can discern them in the habitual course of Nature , and in the invariable tendency of events . " " If the men of our time were led , by attentive observation , and by sincere reflection , to acknowledge that the gradual and progressive developement of social equality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this solitary truth would confer the sacred character of a Divine decree upon the change . To attempt to check democracy , would be , in that case , to resist the will of God ; and the nations would then be constrained to make the best of the social lot awarded to them by Providence . " " It is not , then , merely to satisfy a legitimate curiosity , that I have examined America ; my wish has been to find instruction by which we may ourselves profit . " " I have not even affected to discuss whether the social revolution , which I believe to be irresistible , is advantageous or prejudicial to mankind . I have acknowledged this revolution , as a fact already accomplished , or on the eve of its accomplishment ; and I have selected the nation , from among those which have undergone it , in which its developement has been the most peaceful and the most complete , in order to discern its natural consequences , and , if it be possible , to distinguish the means by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in America I saw more than America ; I sought the image of democracy itself , with its inclinations , its character , its prejudices , and its passions , in order to learn what we have to fear , or to hope , from its progress . " It thus appears , that the sublime and elevating anticipations which have filled the mind and heart of the religious world , have become so far developed , that philosophers and statesmen are perceiving the signs , and are predicting the approach , of the same grand consummation . There is a day advancing , " by seers predicted , and by poets sung , " when the curse of selfishness shall be removed ; when " scenes surpassing fable , and yet true , " shall be realized ; when all nations shall rejoice and be made blessed , under those benevolent influences , which the Messiah came to establish on earth . And this is the Country , which the Disposer of events designs shall go forth as the cynosure of nations , to guide them to the light and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand , the responsible privilege , of exhibiting to the world , the beneficent influences of Christianity , when carried into every social , civil , and political institution ; and , though we have , as yet , made such imperfect advances , already the light is streaming into the dark prison-house of despotic lands , while startled kings and sages , philosophers and statesmen , are watching us with that interest , which a career so illustrious , and so involving their own destiny , is calculated to excite . They are studying our institutions , scrutinizing our experience , and watching for our mistakes , that they may learn whether " a social revolution , so irresistible , be advantageous or prejudicial to mankind . " There are persons , who regard these interesting truths merely as food for national vanity ; but every reflecting and Christian mind , must consider it as an occasion for solemn and anxious reflection . Are we , then , a spectacle to the world ? Has the Eternal Lawgiver appointed us to work out a problem , involving the destiny of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced or retarded , just in proportion as we are faithful to our high trust ? " What manner of persons , then , ought we to be , " in attempting to sustain so solemn , so glorious a responsibility ? But the part to be enacted by American women , in this great moral enterprise , is the point to which special attention should here be directed . The success of democratic institutions , as is conceded by all , depends upon the intellectual and moral character of the mass of the people . If they are intelligent and virtuous , democracy is a blessing ; but if they are ignorant and wicked , it is only a curse , and as much more dreadful than any other form of civil government , as a thousand tyrants are more to be dreaded than one . It is equally conceded , that the formation of the moral and intellectual character of the young is committed mainly to the female hand . The mother forms the character of the future man ; the sister bends the fibres that are hereafter to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose energies may turn for good or for evil the destinies of a nation . Let the women of a country be made virtuous and intelligent , and the men will certainly be the same . The proper education of a man decides the welfare of an individual ; but educate a woman , and the interests of a whole family are secured . If this be so , as none will deny , then to American women , more than to any others on earth , is committed the exalted privilege of extending over the world those blessed influences , which are to renovate degraded man , and " clothe all climes with beauty . " No American woman , then , has any occasion for feeling that hers is an humble or insignificant lot . The value of what an individual accomplishes , is to be estimated by the importance of the enterprise achieved , and not by the particular position of the laborer . The drops of heaven which freshen the earth , are each of equal value , whether they fall in the lowland meadow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are of equal importance , whether they labor on the foundations , or toil upon the dome . Thus , also , with those labors which are to be made effectual in the regeneration of the Earth . And it is by forming a habit of regarding the apparently insignificant efforts of each isolated laborer , in a comprehensive manner , as indispensable portions of a grand result , that the minds of all , however humble their sphere of service , can be invigorated and cheered . The woman , who is rearing a family of children ; the woman , who labors in the schoolroom ; the woman , who , in her retired chamber , earns , with her needle , the mite , which contributes to the intellectual and moral elevation of her Country ; even the humble domestic , whose example and influence may be moulding and forming young minds , while her faithful services sustain a prosperous domestic state ;  --  each and all may be animated by the consciousness , that they are agents in accomplishing the greatest work that ever was committed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temple , whose base shall be coextensive with the bounds of the earth , whose summit shall pierce the skies , whose splendor shall beam on all lands ; and those who hew the lowliest stone , as much as those who carve the highest capital , will be equally honored , when its top-stone shall be laid , with new rejoicings of the morning stars , and shoutings of the sons of God . FOOTNOTE : A Miss Martineau is a singular exception to this remark . After receiving unexampled hospitalities and kindnesses , she gives the following picture of her entertainers . Having in other places spoken of the American woman as having " her intellect confined , " and " her morals crushed , " and as deficient in education , because she has " none of the objects in life for which an enlarged education is considered requisite , " she says ,  --  " It is assumed , in America , particularly in New England , that the morals of society there are peculiarly pure . I am grieved to doubt the fact ; but I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a frequently-enacted tragedy here ; and one of the worst symptoms that struck me , was , that there was usually a demand upon my sympathy in such cases . "  --  " The unavoidable consequence of such a mode of marrying , is , that the sanctity of marriage is impaired , and that vice succeeds . There are sad tales in country villages , here and there , that attest this ; and yet more in towns , in a rank of society where such things are seldom or never heard of in England . "  --  " I unavoidably knew of more cases of lapse in highly respectable families in one State , than ever came to my knowledge at home ; and they were got over with a disgrace far more temporary and superficial than they could have been visited with in England . "  --  " The vacuity of mind of many women , is , I conclude , the cause of a vice , which it is painful to allude to , but which can not honestly be passed over .  --  It is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not infrequent among women of station and education in the most enlightened parts of the Country . I witnessed some instances , and heard of more . It does not seem to me to be regarded with all the dismay which such a symptom ought to excite . To the stranger , a novelty so horrible , a spectacle so fearful , suggests wide and deep subjects of investigation . " It is not possible for language to give representations more false in every item . In evidence of this , the writer would mention , that , within the last few years , she has travelled almost the entire route taken by Miss Martineau , except the lower tier of the Southern States ; and , though not meeting the same individuals , has mingled in the very same circles . Moreover , she has resided from several months to several years in eight of the different Northern and Western States , and spent several weeks at a time in five other States . She has also had pupils from every State in the Union , but two , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her whole life , and in all these different positions , the writer has never , to her knowledge , seen even one woman , of the classes with which she has associated , who had lapsed in the manner indicated by Miss Martineau ; nor does she believe that such a woman could find admission in such circles any where in the Country . As to intemperate women , five cases are all of whom the writer has ever heard , in such circles , and two of these many believed to be unwarrantably suspected . After following in Miss Martineau 's track , and discovering all the falsehood , twaddle , gossip , old saws , and almanac stories , which have been strung together in her books , no charitable mode of accounting for the medley remains , but to suppose her the pitiable dupe of that love of hoaxing so often found in our Country . Again , Miss Martineau says , " We passed an unshaded meadow , where the grass had caught fire , every day , at eleven o'clock , the preceding Summer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with so little common sense , as to swallow such an absurdity for truth , and then tack to it such an astute deduction , must be a tempting subject for the abovementioned mischievous propensity . CHAPTER II . DIFFICULTIES PECULIAR TO AMERICAN WOMEN . In the preceding chapter , were presented those views , which are calculated to inspire American women with a sense of their high responsibilities to their Country , and to the world ; and of the excellence and grandeur of the object to which their energies may be consecrated . But it will be found to be the law of moral action , that whatever involves great results and great benefits , is always attended with great hazards and difficulties . And as it has been shown , that American women have a loftier position , and a more elevated object of enterprise , than the females of any other nation , so it will appear , that they have greater trials and difficulties to overcome , than any other women are called to encounter . Properly to appreciate the nature of these trials , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of evils and privations depends , not so much on their positive nature , as on the character and habits of the person who meets them . A woman , educated in the savage state , finds it no trial to be destitute of many conveniences , which a woman , even of the lowest condition , in this Country , would deem indispensable to existence . So a woman , educated with the tastes and habits of the best New England or Virginia housekeepers , would encounter many deprivations and trials , which would never occur to one reared in the log cabin of a new settlement . So , also , a woman , who has been accustomed to carry forward her arrangements with well-trained domestics , would meet a thousand trials to her feelings and temper , by the substitution of ignorant foreigners , or shiftless slaves , which would be of little account to one who had never enjoyed any better service . Now , the larger portion of American women are the descendants of English progenitors , who , as a nation , are distinguished for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cleanliness , and comfort . And American women , to a greater or less extent , have inherited similar tastes and habits . But the prosperity and democratic tendencies of this Country produce results , materially affecting the comfort of housekeepers , which the females of monarchical and aristocratic lands are not called to meet . In such countries , all ranks and classes are fixed in a given position , and each person is educated for a particular sphere and style of living . And the dwellings , conveniences , and customs of life , remain very nearly the same , from generation to generation . This secures the preparation of all classes for their particular station , and makes the lower orders more dependent , and more subservient to employers . But how different is the state of things in this Country . Every thing is moving and changing . Persons in poverty , are rising to opulence , and persons of wealth , are sinking to poverty . The children of common laborers , by their talents and enterprise , are becoming nobles in intellect , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealthy , enervated by indulgence , are sinking to humbler stations . The sons of the wealthy are leaving the rich mansions of their fathers , to dwell in the log cabins of the forest , where very soon they bear away the daughters of ease and refinement , to share the privations of a new settlement . Meantime , even in the more stationary portions of the community , there is a mingling of all grades of wealth , intellect , and education . There are no distinct classes , as in aristocratic lands , whose bounds are protected by distinct and impassable lines , but all are thrown into promiscuous masses . Thus , persons of humble means are brought into contact with those of vast wealth , while all intervening grades are placed side by side . Thus , too , there is a constant comparison of conditions , among equals , and a constant temptation presented to imitate the customs , and to strive for the enjoyments , of those who possess larger means . In addition to this , the flow of wealth , among all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live in a style demanding much hired service , while the number of those , who are compelled to go to service , is constantly diminishing . Our manufactories , also , are making increased demands for female labor , and offering larger compensation . In consequence of these things , there is such a disproportion between those who wish to hire , and those who are willing to go to domestic service , that , in the non-slaveholding States , were it not for the supply of poverty-stricken foreigners , there would not be a domestic for each family who demands one . And this resort to foreigners , poor as it is , scarcely meets the demand ; while the disproportion must every year increase , especially if our prosperity increases . For , just in proportion as wealth rolls in upon us , the number of those , who will give up their own independent homes to serve strangers , will be diminished . The difficulties and sufferings , which have accrued to American women , from this cause , are almost incalculable . There is nothing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs of a housekeeper , made up , as they are , of ten thousand desultory and minute items ; and yet , this perpetually fluctuating state of society seems forever to bar any such system and regularity . The anxieties , vexations , perplexities , and even hard labor , which come upon American women , from this state of domestic service , are endless ; and many a woman has , in consequence , been disheartened , discouraged , and ruined in health . The only wonder is , that , amid so many real difficulties , American women are still able to maintain such a character for energy , fortitude , and amiableness , as is universally allowed to be their due . But the second , and still greater difficulty , peculiar to American women , is , a delicacy of constitution , which renders them early victims to disease and decay . The fact that the women of this Country are unusually subject to disease , and that their beauty and youthfulness are of shorter continuance than those of the women of other nations , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical men and philanthropists are constantly giving fearful monitions as to the extent and alarming increase of this evil . Investigations make it evident , that a large proportion of young ladies , from the wealthier classes , have the incipient stages of curvature of the spine , one of the most sure and fruitful causes of future disease and decay . The writer has heard medical men , who have made extensive inquiries , say , that a very large proportion of the young women at boarding schools , are affected in this way , while many other indications of disease and debility exist , in cases where this particular evil can not be detected . In consequence of this enfeebled state of their constitutions , induced by a neglect of their physical education , as soon as they are called to the responsibilities and trials of domestic life , their constitution fails , and their whole existence is rendered a burden . For no woman can enjoy existence , when disease throws a dark cloud over the mind , and incapacitates her for the proper discharge of every duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the charge of an institution , consisting of young ladies from almost every State in the Union , since relinquishing that charge , has travelled and visited extensively in most of the non-slaveholding States . In these circuits , she has learned the domestic history , not merely of her pupils , but of many other young wives and mothers , whose sorrowful experience has come to her knowledge . And the impression , produced by the dreadful extent of this evil , has at times been almost overwhelming . It would seem as if the primeval curse , which has written the doom of pain and sorrow on one period of a young mother 's life , in this Country had been extended over all ; so that the hour seldom arrives , when " she forgetteth her sorrow for joy that a man is born into the world . " Many a mother will testify , with shuddering , that the most exquisite sufferings she ever endured , were not those appointed by Nature , but those , which , for week after week , have worn down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical men teach us , that this , in most cases , results from a debility of constitution , consequent on the mismanagement of early life . And so frequent and so mournful are these , and the other distresses that result from the delicacy of the female constitution , that the writer has repeatedly heard mothers say , that they had wept tears of bitterness over their infant daughters , at the thought of the sufferings which they were destined to undergo ; while they cherished the decided wish , that these daughters should never marry . At the same time , many a reflecting young woman is looking to her future prospects , with very different feelings and hopes from those which Providence designed . A perfectly healthy woman , especially a perfectly healthy mother , is so unfrequent , in some of the wealthier classes , that those , who are so , may be regarded as the exceptions , and not as the general rule . The writer has heard some of her friends declare , that they would ride fifty miles , to see a perfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This , although somewhat jocose , was not an entirely unfair picture of the true state of female health in the wealthier classes . There are many causes operating , which serve to perpetuate and increase this evil . It is a well-known fact , that mental excitement tends to weaken the physical system , unless it is counterbalanced by a corresponding increase of exercise and fresh air . Now , the people of this Country are under the influence of high commercial , political , and religious stimulus , altogether greater than was ever known by any other nation ; and in all this , women are made the sympathizing companions of the other sex . At the same time , young girls , in pursuing an education , have ten times greater an amount of intellectual taxation demanded , than was ever before exacted . Let any daughter , educated in our best schools at this day , compare the course of her study with that pursued in her mother 's early life , and it will be seen that this estimate of the increase of mental taxation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries , there are small classes of females , in the higher circles , who pursue literature and science to a far greater extent than in any corresponding circles in this Country , yet , in no nation in the world are the advantages of a good intellectual education enjoyed , by so large a proportion of the females . And this education has consisted far less of accomplishments , and far more of those solid studies which demand the exercise of the various powers of mind , than the education of the women of other lands . And when American women are called to the responsibilities of domestic life , the degree in which their minds and feelings are taxed , is altogether greater than it is in any other nation . No women on earth have a higher sense of their moral and religious responsibilities , or better understand , not only what is demanded of them , as housekeepers , but all the claims that rest upon them as wives , mothers , and members of a social community . An American woman , who is the mistress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to her influence over her husband , and a still greater responsibility in rearing and educating her children . She feels , too , the claims which the moral interests of her domestics have on her watchful care . In social life , she recognises the claims of hospitality , and the demands of friendly visiting . Her responsibility , in reference to the institutions of benevolence and religion , is deeply realized . The regular worship of the Lord 's day , and all the various religious meetings and benevolent societies which place so much dependence on female influence and example , she feels obligated to sustain . Add to these multiplied responsibilities , the perplexities and evils which have been pointed out , resulting from the fluctuating state of society , and the deficiency of domestic service , and no one can deny that American women are exposed to a far greater amount of intellectual and moral excitement , than those of any other land . Of course , in order to escape the danger resulting from this , a greater amount of exercise in the fresh air , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperiously required . But , instead of this , it will be found , that , owing to the climate and customs of this Nation , there are no women who secure so little of this healthful and protecting regimen , as ours . Walking and riding and gardening , in the open air , are practised by the women of other lands , to a far greater extent , than by American females . Most English women , in the wealthier classes , are able to walk six and eight miles , without oppressive fatigue ; and when they visit this Country , always express their surprise at the inactive habits of American ladies . In England , regular exercise , in the open air , is very commonly required by the mother , as a part of daily duty , and is sought by young women , as an enjoyment . In consequence of a different physical training , English women , in those circles which enjoy competency , present an appearance which always strikes American gentlemen as a contrast to what they see at home . An English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the full bloom of perfected womanhood ; as fresh and healthful as her daughters . But where are the American mothers , who can reach this period unfaded and unworn ? In America , young ladies of the wealthier classes are sent to school from early childhood ; and neither parents nor teachers make it a definite object to secure a proper amount of fresh air and exercise , to counterbalance this intellectual taxation . As soon as their school days are over , dressing , visiting , evening parties , and stimulating amusements , take the place of study , while the most unhealthful modes of dress add to the physical exposures . To make morning calls , or do a little shopping , is all that can be termed their exercise in the fresh air ; and this , compared to what is needed , is absolutely nothing , and on some accounts is worse than nothing . B In consequence of these , and other evils , which will be pointed out more at large in the following pages , the young women of America grow up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ten become subjects of disease , either before or as soon as they are called to the responsibilities of domestic life . But there is one peculiarity of situation , in regard to American women , which makes this delicacy of constitution still more disastrous . It is the liability to the exposures and hardships of a newly-settled country . One more extract from De Tocqueville will give a view of this part of the subject , which any one , familiar with Western life , will admire for its verisimilitude . " The same strength of purpose which the young wives of America display in bending themselves , at once , and without repining , to the austere duties of their new condition , is no less manifest in all the great trials of their lives . In no country in the world , are private fortunes more precarious , than in the United States . It is not uncommon for the same man , in the course of his life , to rise and sink again through all the grades which lead from opulence to poverty . American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It would seem that their desires contract , as easily as they expand , with their fortunes . The greater part of the adventurers , who migrate , every year , to people the Western wilds , belong " " to the old Anglo-American race of the Northern States . Many of these men , who rush so boldly onward in pursuit of wealth , were already in the enjoyment of a competency in their own part of the Country . They take their wives along with them , and make them share the countless perils and privations , which always attend the commencement of these expeditions . I have often met , even on the verge of the wilderness , with young women , who , after having been brought up amid all the comforts of the large towns of New England , had passed , almost without any intermediate stage , from the wealthy abode of their parents , to a comfortless hovel in a forest . Fever , solitude , and a tedious life , had not broken the springs of their courage . Their features were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they appeared to be , at once , sad and resolute . " In another passage , he gives this picturesque sketch : " By the side of the hearth , sits a woman , with a baby on her lap . She nods to us , without disturbing herself . Like the pioneer , this woman is in the prime of life ; her appearance would seem superior to her condition : and her apparel even betrays a lingering taste for dress . But her delicate limbs appear shrunken ; her features are drawn in ; her eye is mild and melancholy ; her whole physiognomy bears marks of a degree of religious resignation , a deep quiet of all passion , and some sort of natural and tranquil firmness , ready to meet all the ills of life , without fearing and without braving them . Her children cluster about her , full of health , turbulence , and energy ; they are true children of the wilderness : their mother watches them , from time to time , with mingled melancholy and joy . To look at their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the life she had given them had exhausted her own ; and still she regrets not what they have cost her . The house , inhabited by these emigrants , has no internal partition or loft . In the one chamber of which it consists , the whole family is gathered for the night . The dwelling is itself a little world ; an ark of civilization amid an ocean of foliage . A hundred steps beyond it , the primeval forest spreads its shades , and solitude resumes its sway . " Such scenes , and such women , the writer has met , and few persons realize how many refined and lovely women are scattered over the broad prairies and deep forests of the West ; and none , but the Father above , appreciates the extent of those sacrifices and sufferings , and the value of that firm faith and religious hope , which live , in perennial bloom , amid those vast solitudes . If the American women of the East merit the palm , for their skill and success as accomplished housekeepers , still more is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with such unyielding fortitude and cheerful endurance , attempt similar duties , amid so many disadvantages and deprivations . But , though American women have those elevated principles and feelings , which enable them to meet such trials in so exemplary a manner , their physical energies are not equal to the exertions demanded . Though the mind may be bright and firm , the casket is shivered ; though the spirit may be willing , the flesh is weak . A woman of firm health , with the hope and elasticity of youth , may be envied rather than pitied , as she shares with her young husband the hopes and enterprises of pioneer life . But , when the body fails , then the eye of hope grows dim , the heart sickens , the courage dies ; and , in solitude , weariness , and suffering , the wanderer pines for the dear voices and the tender sympathies of a far distant home . Then it is , that the darkest shade is presented , which marks the peculiar trials and liabilities of American women , and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of constitution which has been pointed out . For , though all American women , or even the greater part of them , are not called to encounter such trials , yet no mother , who rears a family of daughters , can say , that such a lot will not fall to one of her flock ; nor can she know which will escape . The reverses of fortune , and the chances of matrimony , expose every woman in the Nation to such liabilities , for which she needs to be prepared . FOOTNOTE : B So little idea have most ladies , in the wealthier classes , of what is a proper amount of exercise , that , if they should succeed in walking a mile or so , at a moderate pace , three or four times a week , they would call it taking a great deal of exercise . CHAPTER III . REMEDIES FOR THE PRECEDING DIFFICULTIES . Having pointed out the peculiar responsibilities of American women , and the peculiar embarrassments which they are called to encounter , the following suggestions are offered , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the physical and domestic education of daughters should occupy the principal attention of mothers , in childhood ; and the stimulation of the intellect should be very much reduced . As a general rule , daughters should not be sent to school before they are six years old ; and , when they are sent , far more attention should be paid to their physical developement , than is usually done . They should never be confined , at any employment , more than an hour at a time ; and this confinement should be followed by sports in the open air . Such accommodations should be secured , that , at all seasons , and in all weathers , the teacher can every half hour send out a portion of her school , for sports . And still more care should be given to preserve pure air in the schoolroom . The close stoves , crowded condition , and poisonous air , of most schoolrooms , act as constant drains on the health and strength of young children . In addition to this , much less time should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially in the wealthier classes . A little girl may begin , at five or six years of age , to assist her mother ; and , if properly trained , by the time she is ten , she can render essential aid . From this time , until she is fourteen or fifteen , it should be the principal object of her education to secure a strong and healthy constitution , and a thorough practical knowledge of all kinds of domestic employments . During this period , though some attention ought to be paid to intellectual culture , it ought to be made altogether secondary in importance ; and such a measure of study and intellectual excitement , as is now demanded in our best female seminaries , ought never to be allowed , until a young lady has passed the most critical period of her youth , and has a vigorous and healthful constitution fully established . The plan might be adopted , of having schools for young girls kept only in the afternoon ; that their mornings might be occupied in domestic exercise , without interfering with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be afforded , the cultivation of flowers and fruits might be resorted to , as a delightful and unfailing promotive of pleasure and health . And it is to that class of mothers , who have the best means of securing hired service , and who are the most tempted to allow their daughters to grow up with inactive habits , that their Country and the world must look for a reformation , in this respect . Whatever ladies in the wealthier classes decide shall be fashionable , will be followed by all the rest ; but , while they persist in the aristocratic habits , now so common , and bring up their daughters to feel as if labor was degrading and unbecoming , the evils pointed out will never find a remedy . It is , therefore , the peculiar duty of ladies , who have wealth , to set a proper example , in this particular , and make it their first aim to secure a strong and healthful constitution for their daughters , by active domestic employments . All the sweeping , dusting , care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nice cooking , should be done by the daughters of a family , and not by hired servants . It may cost the mother more care , and she may find it needful to hire a person for the express purpose of instructing and superintending her daughters , in these employments ; but it should be regarded as indispensable to be secured , either by the mother 's agency , or by a substitute . It is in this point of view , that the dearth of good domestics in this Country may , in its results , prove a substantial blessing . If all housekeepers , who have the means , could secure good servants , there would be little hope that so important a revolution , in the domestic customs of the wealthy classes , could be effected . And so great is the natural indolence of mankind , that the amount of exercise , needful for health , will never be secured by those who are led to it through no necessity , but merely from rational considerations . Yet the pressure of domestic troubles , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mother , in the wealthy classes , to train her daughters to aid her in domestic service ; and thus necessity is compelling mothers to do what abstract principles of expediency could never secure . A second method of promoting the same object , is , to raise the science and practice of Domestic Economy to its appropriate place , as a regular study in female seminaries . The succeeding chapter will present the reasons for this , more at large . But it is to the mothers of our Country , that the community must look for this change . It can not be expected , that teachers , who have their attention chiefly absorbed by the intellectual and moral interests of their pupils , should properly realize the importance of this department of education . But if mothers generally become convinced of this , their judgement and wishes will meet the respectful consideration they deserve , and the object will be accomplished . The third method of securing a remedy for the evils pointed out , is , the endowment of female institutions , under the care of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education . The importance of this measure can not be realized by those , who have not turned their attention to this subject ; and for such , the following considerations are presented . The endowment of colleges , and of law , medical , and divinity , schools , for the other sex , is designed to secure a thorough and proper education , for those who have the most important duties of society to perform . The men who are to expound the laws , the men who have the care of the public health , and the men who are to communicate religious instruction , should have well-disciplined and well-informed minds ; and it is mainly for this object that collegiate and professional institutions are established . Liberal and wealthy individuals contribute funds , and the legislatures of the States also lend assistance , so that every State in this Nation has from one to twenty such endowed institutions , supplied with buildings , apparatus , a library , and a faculty of learned men to carry forward a superior course of instruction . And the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at an expense , no greater than is required to send a boy to a common school and pay his board there . No private school could offer these advantages , without charging such a sum , as would forbid all but the rich from securing its benefits . By furnishing such superior advantages , on low terms , multitudes are properly educated , who would otherwise remain in ignorance ; and thus the professions are supplied , by men properly qualified for them . Were there no such institutions , and no regular and appropriate course of study demanded for admission to the bar , the pulpit , and to medical practice , the education of most professional men would be desultory , imperfect , and deficient . Parents and children would regulate the course of study according to their own crude notions ; and , instead of having institutions which agree in carrying on a similar course of study , each school would have its own peculiar system , and compete and conflict with every other . Meantime , the public would have no means of deciding which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man was properly qualified for his duties . But as it is , the diploma of a college , and the license of an appointed body of judges , must both be secured , before a young man feels that he has entered the most promising path to success in his profession . Our Country , then , is most abundantly supplied with endowed institutions , which secure a liberal education , on such low terms as make them accessible to all classes , and in which the interests of education are watched over , sustained , and made permanent , by an appropriate board of trustees . But are not the most responsible of all duties committed to the charge of woman ? Is it not her profession to take care of mind , body , and soul ? and that , too , at the most critical of all periods of existence ? And is it not as much a matter of public concern , that she should be properly qualified for her duties , as that ministers , lawyers , and physicians , should be prepared for theirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions which shall make a superior education accessible to all classes ,  --  for females , as for the other sex ? And is it not equally important , that institutions for females be under the supervision of intelligent and responsible trustees , whose duty it shall be to secure a uniform and appropriate education for one sex as much as for the other ? It would seem as if every mind must accord an affirmative reply , as soon as the matter is fairly considered . As the education of females is now conducted , any man or woman who pleases , can establish a female seminary , and secure recommendations which will attract pupils . But whose business is it to see that these young females are not huddled into crowded rooms ? or that they do not sleep in ill-ventilated chambers ? or that they have healthful food ? or that they have the requisite amount of fresh air and exercise ? or that they pursue an appropriate and systematic course of study ? or that their manners , principles , and morals , are properly regulated ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not qualified to judge ; or , if they are furnished with means and capacity , they are often restricted to a choice of the best school within reach , even when it is known to be exceedingly objectionable . If the writer were to disclose all that can truly be told of boarding-school life , and its influence on health , manners , disposition , intellect , and morals , the disclosure would both astonish and shock every rational mind . And yet she believes that such institutions are far better managed in this Country , than in any other ; and that the number of those , which are subject to imputations in these respects , is much less than could reasonably be expected . But it is most surely the case , that much remains to be done , in order to supply such institutions as are needed for the proper education of American women . In attempting a sketch of the kind of institutions which are demanded , it is very fortunate that there is no necessity for presenting a theory , which may , or may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest honor of one of our newest Western States , that it can boast of such an Institution , endowed , too , wholly by the munificence of a single individual . A slight sketch of this Institution , which the writer has examined in all its details , will give an idea of what can be done , by showing what has actually been accomplished . This InstitutionC is under the supervision of a Board of Trustees , who hold the property in trust for the object to which it is devoted , and who have the power to fill their own vacancies . It is furnished with a noble and tasteful building , of stone , so liberal in dimensions and arrangement , that it can accommodate ninety pupils and teachers , giving one room to every two pupils , and all being so arranged , as to admit of thorough ventilation . This building is surrounded by extensive grounds , enclosed with handsome fences , where remains of the primeval forest still offer refreshing shade for juvenile sports . To secure adequate exercise for the pupils , two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lady is required to spend a certain portion of time in domestic employments , either in sweeping , dusting , setting and clearing tables , washing and ironing , or other household concerns . Let not the aristocratic mother and daughter express their dislike of such an arrangement , till they can learn how well it succeeds . Let them walk , as the writer has done , through the large airy halls , kept clean and in order by their fair occupants , to the washing and ironing-rooms . There they will see a long hall , conveniently fitted up with some thirty neatly-painted tubs , with a clean floor , and water conducted so as to save both labor and slopping . Let them see some thirty or forty merry girls , superintended by a motherly lady , chatting and singing , washing and starching , while every convenience is at hand , and every thing around is clean and comfortable . Two hours , thus employed , enable each young lady to wash the articles she used during the previous week , which is all that is demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arts and mysteries of the wash-tub . The Superintendent remarked to the writer , that , after a few weeks of probation , most of her young washers succeeded quite as well as those whom she could hire , and who made it their business . Adjacent to the washing-room , is the ironing establishment ; where another class are arranged , on the ironing-day , around long , extended tables , with heating-furnaces , clothes-frames , and all needful appliances . By a systematic arrangement of school and domestic duties , a moderate portion of time , usually not exceeding two hours a day , from each of the pupils , accomplished all the domestic labor of a family of ninety , except the cooking , which was done by two hired domestics . This part of domestic labor it was deemed inexpedient to incorporate as a portion of the business of the pupils , inasmuch as it could not be accommodated to the arrangements of the school , and was in other respects objectionable . Is it asked , how can young ladies paint , play the piano , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfitted by such drudgery ? The woman who asks this question , has yet to learn that a pure and delicate skin is better secured by healthful exercise , than by any other method ; and that a young lady , who will spend two hours a day at the wash-tub , or with a broom , is far more likely to have rosy cheeks , a finely-moulded form , and a delicate skin , than one who lolls all day in her parlor or chamber , or only leaves it , girt in tight dresses , to make fashionable calls . It is true , that long-protracted daily labor hardens the hand , and unfits it for delicate employments ; but the amount of labor needful for health produces no such effect . As to dress , and appearance , if neat and convenient accommodations are furnished , there is no occasion for the exposures which demand shabby dresses . A dark calico , genteelly made , with an oiled-silk apron , and wide cuffs of the same material , secures both good looks and good service . This plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only secures regular healthful exercise , but also aids to reduce the expenses of education , so that , with the help of the endowments , it is brought within the reach of many , who otherwise could never gain such advantages . In addition to this , a system of CalisthenicD exercises is introduced , which secures all the advantages which dancing is supposed to effect , and which is free from the dangerous tendencies of that fascinating and fashionable amusement . This system is so combined with music , and constantly varying evolutions , as to serve as an amusement , and also as a mode of curing distortions , particularly all tendencies to curvature of the spine ; while , at the same time , it tends to promote grace of movement , and easy manners . Another advantage of this Institution , is , an elevated and invigorating course of mental discipline . Many persons seem to suppose , that the chief object of an intellectual education is the acquisition of knowledge . But it will be found , that this is only a secondary object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasoning , of persevering attention , of regular system , of accurate analysis , and of vigorous mental action , is the primary object to be sought in preparing American women for their arduous duties ; duties which will demand not only quickness of perception , but steadiness of purpose , regularity of system , and perseverance in action . It is for such purposes , that the discipline of the Mathematics is so important an element in female education ; and it is in this aspect , that the mere acquisition of facts , and the attainment of accomplishments , should be made of altogether secondary account . In the Institution here described , a systematic course of study is adopted , as in our colleges ; designed to occupy three years . The following slight outline of the course , will exhibit the liberal plan adopted in this respect . In Mathematics , the whole of Arithmetic contained in the larger works used in schools , the whole of Euclid , and such portions from Day 's Mathematics as are requisite to enable the pupils to demonstrate the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Language , besides English Grammar , a short course in Latin is required , sufficient to secure an understanding of the philosophy of the language , and that kind of mental discipline which the exercise of translating affords . In Philosophy , Chemistry , Astronomy , Botany , Geology and Mineralogy , Intellectual and Moral Philosophy , Political Economy , and the Evidences of Christianity , the same textbooks are used as are required at our best colleges . In Geography , the most thorough course is adopted ; and in History , a more complete knowledge is secured , by means of charts and textbooks , than most of our colleges offer . To these branches , are added Griscom 's Physiology , E Bigelow 's Technology , and Jahn 's Archaeology , together with a course of instruction in polite literature , for which Chambers 's English Literature is employed as the text-book , each recitation being attended with selections and criticisms , from teacher or pupils , on the various authors brought into notice . Vocal Music , on the plan of the Boston Academy , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pencilling , are designed also to be a part of the course . Instrumental Music is taught , but not as a part of the regular course of study . To secure the proper instruction in all these branches , the division of labor , adopted in colleges , is pursued . Each teacher has distinct branches as her department , for which she is responsible , and in which she is independent . One teacher performs the duties of a governess , in maintaining rules , and attending to the habits and manners of the pupils . By this method , the teachers have sufficient time , both to prepare themselves , and to impart instruction and illustration in the class-room . In this Institution it is made a direct object of effort to cure defects of character and habits . At the frequent meetings of the Principal and teachers , the peculiarities of each pupil are made the subjects of inquiry ; and methods are devised for remedying defects through the personal influence of the several teachers . This , when thus made a direct object of combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One peculiarity of this Institution demands consideration . By the method adopted here , the exclusive business of educating their own sex is , as it ever ought to be , confined to females . The Principal of the Institution , indeed , is a gentleman ; but , while he takes the position of a father of the family , and responsible head of the whole concern , the entire charge of instruction , and most of the responsibilities in regard to health , morals , and manners , rest upon the female teachers , in their several departments . The Principal is the chaplain and religious teacher ; and is a member of the board of instructors , so far as to have a right to advise , and an equal vote , in every question pertaining to the concerns of the School ; and thus he acts as a sort of regulator and mainspring in all the various departments . But no one person in the Institution is loaded with the excessive responsibilities , which rest upon one , where a large institution of this kind has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The writer has never before seen the principle of the division of labor and responsibility so perfectly carried out in any female institution ; and she believes that experience will prove that this is the true model for combining , in appropriate proportions , the agency of both sexes in carrying forward such an institution . There are cases where females are well qualified , and feel willing to take the place occupied by the Principal ; but such cases are rare . One thing more should be noticed , to the credit of the rising State where this Institution is located . A female association has been formed , embracing a large portion of the ladies of standing and wealth , the design of which , is , to educate , gratuitously , at this , and other similar , institutions , such females as are anxious to obtain a good education , and are destitute of the means . If this enterprise is continued , with the same energy and perseverance as has been manifested during the last few years , that State will take the lead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ views in the preceding pages are correct , this will give her precedence in every intellectual and moral advantage . Many , who are not aware of the great economy secured by a proper division of labor , will not understand how so extensive a course can be properly completed in three years . But in this Institution , none are received under fourteen ; and a certain amount of previous acquisition is required , in order to admission , as is done in our colleges . This secures a diminution of classes , so that but few studies are pursued at one time ; while the number of well-qualified teachers is so adequate , that full time is afforded for all needful instruction and illustration . Where teachers have so many classes , that they merely have time to find out what the pupils learn from books , without any aid from their teachers , the acquisitions of the pupils are vague and imperfect , and soon pass away ; so that an immense amount of expense , time , and labor , is spent in acquiring or recalling what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parents are little aware of the immense waste incurred by the present mode of conducting female education . In the wealthy classes , young girls are sent to school , as a matter of course , year after year , confined , for six hours a day , to the schoolhouse , and required to add some time out of school to learning their lessons . Thus , during the most critical period of life , they are for a long time immured in a room , filled with an atmosphere vitiated by many breaths , and are constantly kept under some sort of responsibility in regard to mental effort . Their studies are pursued at random , often changed with changing schools , while book after book ( heavily taxing the parent 's purse ) is conned awhile , and then supplanted by others . Teachers have usually so many pupils , and such a variety of branches to teach , that little time can be afforded to each pupil ; while scholars , at this thoughtless period of life , feeling sure of going to school as long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The writer believes that the actual amount of education , permanently secured by most young ladies from the age of ten to fourteen , could all be acquired in one year , at the Institution described , by a young lady at the age of fifteen or sixteen . Instead of such a course as the common one , if mothers would keep their daughters as their domestic assistants , until they are fourteen , requiring them to study one lesson , and go out , once a day , to recite it to a teacher , it would abundantly prepare them , after their constitutions are firmly established , to enter such an institution , where , in three years , they could secure more , than almost any young lady in the Country now gains by giving the whole of her youth to school pursuits . In the early years of female life , reading , writing , needlework , drawing , and music , should alternate with domestic duties ; and one hour a day , devoted to some study , in addition to the above pursuits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thorough education after growth is attained , and the constitution established . This is the time when young women would feel the value of an education , and pursue their studies with that maturity of mind , and vividness of interest , which would double the perpetuity and value of all their acquisitions . The great difficulty , which opposes such a plan , is , the want of institutions that would enable a young lady to complete , in three years , the liberal course of study , here described . But if American mothers become convinced of the importance of such advantages for their daughters , and will use their influence appropriately and efficiently , they will certainly be furnished . There are other men of liberality and wealth , besides the individual referred to , who can be made to feel that a fortune , expended in securing an appropriate education to American women , is as wisely bestowed , as in founding colleges for the other sex , who are already so abundantly supplied . We ought to have institutions , similar to the one described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be provided , for educating young women destitute of means : and if American women think and feel , that , by such a method , their own trials will be lightened , and their daughters will secure a healthful constitution and a thorough domestic and intellectual education , the appropriate expression of their wishes will secure the necessary funds . The tide of charity , which has been so long flowing from the female hand to provide a liberal education for young men , will flow back with abundant remuneration . The last method suggested for lessening the evils peculiar to American women , is , a decided effort to oppose the aristocratic feeling , that labor is degrading ; and to bring about the impression , that it is refined and lady-like to engage in domestic pursuits . In past ages , and in aristocratic countries , leisure and indolence and frivolous pursuits have been deemed lady-like and refined , because those classes , which were most refined , countenanced such an opinion . But whenever ladies of refinement , as a general custom , patronise domestic pursuits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be urged , however , that it is impossible for a woman who cooks , washes , and sweeps , to appear in the dress , or acquire the habits and manners , of a lady ; that the drudgery of the kitchen is dirty work , and that no one can appear delicate and refined , while engaged in it . Now all this depends on circumstances . If a woman has a house , destitute of neat and convenient facilities ; if she has no habits of order and system ; if she is remiss and careless in person and dress ;  --  then all this may be true . But , if a woman will make some sacrifices of costly ornaments in her parlor , in order to make her kitchen neat and tasteful ; if she will sacrifice expensive dishes , in order to secure such conveniences for labor as protect from exposures ; if she will take pains to have the dresses , in which she works , made of suitable materials , and in good taste ; if she will rise early , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to have it done thoroughly , neatly , and in the early part of the day ; she will find no necessity for any such apprehensions . It is because such work has generally been done by vulgar people , and in a vulgar way , that we have such associations ; and when ladies manage such things , as ladies should , then such associations will be removed . There are pursuits , deemed very refined and genteel , which involve quite as much exposure as kitchen employments . For example , to draw a large landscape , in colored crayons , would be deemed very lady-like ; but the writer can testify , from sad experience , that no cooking , washing , sweeping , or any other domestic duty , ever left such deplorable traces on hands , face , and dress , as this same lady-like pursuit . Such things depend entirely on custom and associations ; and every American woman , who values the institutions of her Country , and wishes to lend her influence in extending and perpetuating such blessings , may feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and influence , she destroys the aristocratic association , which would render domestic labor degrading . FOOTNOTES : C The writer omits the name of this Institution , lest an inference should be drawn which would be unjust to other institutions . There are others equally worthy of notice , and the writer selects this only because her attention was especially directed to it as being in a new State , and endowed wholly by an individual . D From two Greek words ,  --  Greek : kalos , kalos , beauty , and Greek : sthenos , sthenos , strength , being the union of both . The writer is now preparing for the press , an improved system , of her own invention , which , in some of its parts , has been successfully introduced into several female seminaries , with advantage . This plan combines singing with a great variety of amusing and graceful evolutions , designed to promote both health and easy manners . E This work , which has gone through numerous editions , and been received by the public with great favour , forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No. lvii. of the " School District Library , " issued by the publishers of this volume . It is abundantly illustrated by engravings , and has been extensively introduced as a school text-book . CHAPTER IV . ON DOMESTIC ECONOMY AS A BRANCH OF STUDY . The greatest impediment to making Domestic Economy a branch of study , is , the fact , that neither parents nor teachers realize the importance , or the practicability of constituting it a regular part of school education . It is with reference to this , that the first aim of the writer will be , to point out some of the reasons for introducing Domestic Economy as a branch of female education , to be studied at school . The first reason , is , that there is no period , in a young lady 's life , when she will not find such knowledge useful to herself and to others . The state of domestic service , in this Country , is so precarious , that there is scarcely a family , in the free States , of whom it can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of change , will deprive them of all their domestics , so that every female member of the family will be required to lend some aid , in providing food and the conveniences of living ; and the better she is qualified to render it , the happier she will be , and the more she will contribute to the enjoyment of others . A second reason , is , that every young lady , at the close of her schooldays , and even before they are closed , is liable to be placed in a situation , in which she will need to do , herself , or to teach others to do , all the various processes and duties detailed in this work . That this may be more fully realized , the writer will detail some instances , which have come under her own observation . The eldest daughter of a family returned from school , on a visit , at sixteen years of age . Before her vacation had closed , her mother was laid in the grave ; and such were her father 's circumstances , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her lost parent . The care of an infant , the management of young children , the superintendence of domestics , the charge of family expenses , the responsibility of entertaining company , and the many other cares of the family state , all at once came upon this young and inexperienced schoolgirl . Again ; a young lady went to reside with a married sister , in a distant State . While on this visit , the elder sister died , and there was no one but this young lady to fill the vacant place , and assume all the cares of the nursery , parlor , and kitchen . Again ; a pupil of the writer , at the end of her schooldays , married , and removed to the West . She was an entire novice in all domestic matters ; an utter stranger in the place to which she removed . In a year , she became a mother , and her health failed ; while , for most of the time , she had no domestics , at all , or only Irish or Germans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uses , of many cooking utensils . She was treated with politeness by her neighbors , and wished to return their civilities ; but how could this young and delicate creature , who had spent all her life at school , or in visiting and amusement , take care of her infant , attend to her cooking , washing , ironing , and baking , the concerns of her parlor , chambers , kitchen , and cellar , and yet visit and receive company ? If there is any thing that would make a kindly heart ache , with sorrow and sympathy , it would be to see so young , so amiable , so helpless a martyr to the mistaken system of female education now prevalent . " I have the kindest of husbands , " said the young wife , after her narrative of sufferings , " and I never regretted my marriage ; but , since this babe was born , I have never had a single waking hour of freedom from anxiety and care . O ! how little young girls know what is before them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or teacher , whose eye may rest on these lines , ask herself , if there is no cause for fear that the young objects of her care may be thrown into similar emergencies , where they may need a kind of preparation , which as yet has been withheld . Another reason for introducing such a subject , as a distinct branch of school education , is , that , as a general fact , young ladies will not be taught these things in any other way . In reply to the thousand-times-repeated remark , that girls must be taught their domestic duties by their mothers , at home , it may be inquired , in the first place , What proportion of mothers are qualified to teach a proper and complete system of Domestic Economy ? When this is answered , it may be asked , What proportion of those who are qualified , have that sense of the importance of such instructions , and that energy and perseverance which would enable them actually to teach their daughters , in all the branches of Domestic Economy presented in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mothers actually do give their daughters instruction in the various branches of Domestic Economy ? Is it not the case , that , owing to ill health , deficiency of domestics , and multiplied cares and perplexities , a large portion of the most intelligent mothers , and those , too , who most realize the importance of this instruction , actually can not find the time , and have not the energy , necessary to properly perform the duty ? They are taxed to the full amount of both their mental and physical energies , and can not attempt any thing more . Almost every woman knows , that it is easier to do the work , herself , than it is to teach an awkward and careless novice ; and the great majority of women , in this Country , are obliged to do almost every thing in the shortest and easiest way . This is one reason why the daughters of very energetic and accomplished housekeepers are often the most deficient in these respects ; while the daughters of ignorant or inefficient mothers , driven to the exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and expert . It may be objected , that such things can not be taught by books . This position may fairly be questioned . Do not young ladies learn , from books , how to make hydrogen and oxygen ? Do they not have pictures of furnaces , alembics , and the various utensils employed in cooking the chemical agents ? Do they not study the various processes of mechanics , and learn to understand and to do many as difficult operations , as any that belong to housekeeping ? All these things are explained , studied , and recited in classes , when every one knows that little practical use can ever be made of this knowledge . Why , then , should not that science and art , which a woman is to practise during her whole life , be studied and recited ? It may be urged , that , even if it is studied , it will soon be forgotten . And so will much of every thing studied at school . But why should that knowledge , most needful for daily comfort , most liable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because it may be forgotten ? It may also be objected , that young ladies can get such books , and attend to them out of school . And so they can get books on Chemistry and Philosophy , and study them out of school ; but will they do it ? And why ought we not to make sure of the most necessary knowledge , and let the less needful be omitted ? If young ladies study such a work as this , in school , they will remember a great part of it ; and , when they forget , in any emergency , they will know where to resort for instruction . But if such books are not put into schools , probably not one in twenty will see or hear of them , especially in those retired places where they are most needed . And is it at all probable , that a branch , which is so lightly esteemed as to be deemed unworthy a place in the list of female studies , will be sought for and learned by young girls , who so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school ? So deeply is the writer impressed with the importance of this , as a branch of female education , at school , that she would deem it far safer and wiser to omit any other , rather than this . Another reason , for introducing such a branch of study into female schools , is , the influence it would exert , in leading young ladies more correctly to estimate the importance and dignity of domestic knowledge . It is now often the case , that young ladies rather pride themselves on their ignorance of such subjects ; and seem to imagine that it is vulgar and ungenteel to know how to work . This is one of the relics of an aristocratic state of society , which is fast passing away . Here , the tendency of every thing is to the equalisation of labor , so that all classes are feeling , more and more , that indolence is disreputable . And there are many mothers , among the best educated and most wealthy classes , who are bringing up their daughters , not only to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds of domestic work . The writer knows young ladies , who are daughters of men of wealth and standing , and who are among the most accomplished in their sphere , who have for months been sent to work with a mantuamaker , to acquire a practical knowledge of her occupation , and who have at home learned to perform all kinds of domestic labor . And let the young women of this Nation find , that Domestic Economy is placed , in schools , on equal or superior ground to Chemistry , Philosophy , and Mathematics , and they will blush to be found ignorant of its first principles , as much as they will to hesitate respecting the laws of gravity , or the composition of the atmosphere . But , as matters are now conducted , many young ladies know how to make oxygen and hydrogen , and to discuss questions of Philosophy or Political Economy , far better than they know how to make a bed and sweep a room properly ; and they can " construct a diagram " in Geometry , with far more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dress . It may be urged , that the plan suggested by the writer , in the previous pages , would make such a book as this needless ; for young ladies would learn all these things at home , before they go to school . But it must be remembered , that the plan suggested can not fully be carried into effect , till such endowed institutions , as the one described , are universally furnished . This probably will not be done , till at least one generation of young women are educated . It is only on the supposition that a young lady can , at fourteen or fifteen years of age , enter such an institution , and continue there three years , that it would be easy to induce her to remain , during all the previous period , at home , in the practice of Domestic Economy , and the limited course of study pointed out . In the present imperfect , desultory , varying , mode of female education , where studies are begun , changed , partially learned , and forgotten , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to acquire the intellectual education now demanded . While this state of things continues , the only remedy is , to introduce Domestic Economy as a study at school . It is hoped that these considerations will have weight , not only with parents and teachers , but with young ladies themselves , and that all will unite their influence to introduce this , as a popular and universal branch of education , into every female school . CHAPTER V. ON THE CARE OF HEALTH . There is no point , where a woman is more liable to suffer from a want of knowledge and experience , than in reference to the health of a family committed to her care . Many a young lady , who never had any charge of the sick ; who never took any care of an infant ; who never obtained information on these subjects from books , or from the experience of others ; in short , with little or no preparation ; has found herself the principal attendant in dangerous sickness , the chief nurse of a feeble infant , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The care , the fear , the perplexity , of a woman , suddenly called to these unwonted duties , none can realize , till they themselves feel it , or till they see some young and anxious novice first attempting to meet such responsibilities . To a woman of age and experience , these duties often involve a measure of trial and difficulty , at times deemed almost insupportable ; how hard , then , must they press on the heart of the young and inexperienced ! There is no really efficacious mode of preparing a woman to take a rational care of the health of a family , except by communicating that knowledge , in regard to the construction of the body , and the laws of health , which is the basis of the medical profession . Not that a woman should undertake the minute and extensive investigation requisite for a physician ; but she should gain a general knowledge of first principles , as a guide to her judgement in emergencies when she can rely on no other aid . Therefore , before attempting to give any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short sketch of the construction of the human frame will be given , with a notice of some of the general principles , on which specific rules in regard to health are based . This description will be arranged under the general heads of BONES , MUSCLES , NERVES , BLOOD-VESSELS , ORGANS OF DIGESTION AND RESPIRATION , and THE SKIN . BONES . The bones are the most solid parts of the body . They are designed to protect and sustain it , and also to secure voluntary motion . They are about two hundred and fifty in number , ( there being sometimes a few more or less , ) and are fastened together by cartilage , or gristle , a substance like the bones , but softer , and more elastic . In order to convey a more clear and correct idea of the form , relative position , and connection , of the bones constituting the human framework , the engraving on page 70 , ( Fig. 1 , ) is given . Illustration : Fig. 1 . By the preceding engraving , it will be seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several distinct pieces , which are united by sutures , ( or seams , ) as represented by the zigzag lines ; a , being the frontal bone ; b , the parietal bone ; c , the temporal bone ; and d , the place of the occipital bone , which forms the back part of the head , and therefore is not seen in the engraving . The nasal bones , or bones of the nose , are shown at e ; f , is the cheek bone ; g , the upper , and h , the lower , jaw bones ; i , i , the spinal column , or back bone , consisting of numerous small bones , called vertebrae ; j , j , the seven true ribs , which are fastened to the spine , behind , and by the cartilages , k , k , to the sternum , or breast bone , l , in front ; m , m , are the first three false ribs , which are so called , because they are not united directly to the breast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; n , n , are the lower two false , which are also called floating , ribs , because they are not connected with the breast bone , nor the other ribs , in front ; o , o , p , q , are the bones of the pelvis , which is the foundation on which the spine rests ; r , r , are the collar bones ; s , s , the shoulder blades ; t , t , the bones of the upper arm ; u , u , the elbow joints , where the bones of the upper arm and fore arm are united in such a way that they can move like a hinge ; v w , v w , are the bones of the fore arm ; x , x , those of the wrists ; y , y , those of the fingers ; z , z , are the round heads of the thigh bones , where they are inserted into the sockets of the bones of the pelvis , giving motion in every direction , and forming the hip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thigh bones ; c , c , the knee joints ; d e , d e , the leg bones ; f , f , the ankle joints ; g , g , the bones of the foot . The bones are composed of two substances ,  --  one animal , and the other mineral . The animal part is a very fine network , called the cellular membrane . In this , are deposited the harder mineral substances , which are composed principally of carbonate and phosphate of lime . In very early life , the bones consist chiefly of the animal part , and are then soft and pliant . As the child advances in age , the bones grow harder , by the gradual deposition of the phosphate of lime , which is supplied by the food , and carried to the bones by the blood . In old age , the hardest material preponderates ; making the bones more brittle than in earlier life . As we shall soon have occasion to refer , particularly , to the spinal , or vertebral column , and the derangement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page 72 , representations of the different classes of vertebrae ; viz. the cervical , ( from the Latin , cervix , the neck , ) the dorsal , ( from dorsum , the back , ) and lumbar , ( from lumbus , the loins . ) Illustration : Fig. 2 . Fig. 2 , represents one of the cervical vertebrae . Seven of these , placed one above another , constitute that part of the spine which is in the neck . Illustration : Fig. 3 . Fig. 3 , is one of the dorsal vertebrae , twelve of which , form the central part of the spine . Illustration : Fig. 4 . Fig. 4 , represents one of the lumbar vertebrae , ( five in number , ) which are immediately above the sacrum . These vertebrae are so fastened , that the spine can bend , in any direction ; and the muscles of the trunk are used in holding it erect , or in varying its movements . By the drawings here presented , it will be seen , that the vertebrae of the neck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shape , although they all possess the same constituent parts ; thus , A , in each , represents the body of the vertebrae ; B , the articulating processes , by which each is joined to its fellow , above and below it ; C , the spinous process , or that part of the vertebrae , which forms the ridge to be felt , on pressure , the whole length of the centre of the back . The back bone receives its name , spine , or spinal column , from these spinous processes . It is the universal law of the human frame , that exercise is indispensable to the health of the several parts . Thus , if a blood-vessel be tied up , so as not to be used , it shrinks , and becomes a useless string ; if a muscle be condemned to inaction , it shrinks in size , and diminishes in power ; and thus it is also with the bones . Inactivity produces softness , debility , and unfitness for the functions they are designed to perform . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that common and pernicious defect in the females of America . From inactivity , the bones of the spine become soft and yielding ; and then , if the person is often placed , for a length of time , in positions that throw the weight of the body unequally on certain portions of the spine , they yield to this frequent compression , and a distortion ensues . The positions taken by young persons , when learning to write or draw , or to play on the guitar , harp , or piano , and the position of the body when sleeping on one side , on high pillows , all tend to produce this effect , by throwing the weight of the body unequally , and for a length of time , on particular parts of the spine . Illustration : Fig. 5 . MUSCLES . The muscles are the chief organs of motion , and consist of collections of fine fibres or strings , united in casings of membrane or thin skin . They possess an elastic power , like India rubber , which enables them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of muscles . Every muscle has connected with it nerves , veins , and arteries ; and those designed to move the bones , are fastened to them by tendons at their extremities . The muscles are laid over each other , and are separated by means of membranes and layers of fat , which enable them to move easily , without interfering with each other . The figure on page 74 , represents the muscles of the arm , as they appear when the skin and fat are removed . The muscles a and b are attached , at their upper ends , to the bone of the arm , and by their lower ends to the upper part of the fore arm , near the elbow joint . When the fibres of these muscles contract , the middle part of them grows larger , and the arm is bent at the elbow . The muscle c , is , in like manner , fastened , by its upper end , to the shoulder blade and the upper part of the arm , and by its lower end to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elbow . When the arm is bent , and we wish to straighten it , it is done by contracting this muscle . The muscles d , d , are fastened at one end near the elbow joint , and at the other near the ends of the fingers ; and on the back of the hand are reduced in size , appearing like strong cords . These cords are called tendons . They are employed in straightening the fingers , when the hand is shut . These tendons are confined by the ligament or band , e , which binds them down , around the wrist , and thus enables them to act more efficiently , and secures beauty of form to the limb . The muscles at f , are those which enable us to turn the hand and arm outward . Every different motion of the arm has one muscle to produce it , and another to restore the limb to its natural position . Those muscles which bend the body are called flexors ; those which straighten it , extensors . When the arm is thrown up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it down , another set : when it is thrown forward , a still different set is used ; when it is thrown back , another , different from the former ; when the arm turns in its socket , still another set is used ; and thus every different motion of the body is made by a different set of muscles . All these muscles are compactly and skilfully arranged , so as to work with perfect ease . Among them , run the arteries , veins , and nerves , which supply each muscle with blood and nervous power , as will be hereafter described . The size and strength of the muscles depend greatly on their frequent exercise . If left inactive , they grow thin and weak , instead of giving the plumpness to the figure , designed by Nature . The delicate and feeble appearance of many American women , is chiefly owing to the little use they make of their muscles . Many a pale , puny , shad-shaped girl , would have become a plump , rosy , well-formed person , if half the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had been secured to her , during childhood and youth . NERVES . The nerves are the organs of sensation . They enable us to see , hear , feel , taste , and smell ; and also combine with the bones and muscles in producing motion . The first engraving , on p. 77 , ( Fig. 6 , ) is a vertical section of the skull , and of the spinal column , or back bone , which supports the head , and through which runs the spinal cord , whence most of the nerves originate . It is a side view , and represents the head and spine , as they would appear , if they were cut through the middle , from front to back . Fig. 7 , exhibits them as they would appear , if viewed from behind . In Fig. 6 , a , represents the cerebrum , or great brain ; b , the cerebellum , or little brain , which is situated directly under the great brain , at the back and lower part of the head ; c , d @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connected with the brain at c , and runs through the whole length of the spinal column . This column consists , as has already been stated , of a large number of small bones , f , f , called vertebrae , laid one above another , and fastened together by cartilage , or gristle , g , between them . Illustration : Fig. 6 . Illustration : Fig. 7 . Between each two vertebrae , or spinal bones , there issues from the spine , on each side , a pair of nerves . The lower broad part of the spine , ( see p , Fig. 1 , p. 70 , and Fig. 7 , p. 77 , ) is called the sacrum ; in this , are eight holes , through which the lower pairs of nerves pass off . The nerves of the head and lungs run directly from the brain ; those of all other parts of the body proceed from the spine , passing out in the manner already mentioned . The nerves which thus proceed from the spine , branch out , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extend over the whole body ; and , so minutely are they divided and arranged , that a point , destitute of a nerve , can not be found on the skin . Some idea of the ramifications of the nerves , may be obtained by reference to the following engraving , ( Fig. 8 . ) In this , A , A , represents the cerebrum , or great brain ; B , B , the cerebellum , or little brain ; ( see also a , b , in Fig. 6 ; ) C , C , represents the union of the fibres of the cerebrum ; D , D , the union of the two sides of the cerebellum ; E , E , E , the spinal marrow , which passes through the centre of the spine , ( as seen at c , d , e , in Fig. 6 ; ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , branches of the nerves going to different parts of the body . As the nerves are the organs of sensation , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The health of the nerves depends very greatly on the exercise of the muscles , with which they are so intimately connected . This shows the reason why the headache , tic douloureux , diseases of the spine , and other nervous affections , are so common among American women . Their inactive habits , engender a debility of the nervous system , and these diseases follow , as the consequence . Illustration : Fig. 8 . It can be seen , by a reference to the side view , represented on page 77 , ( Fig. 6 , ) that the spine is naturally curved back and forward . When , from want of exercise , its bones are softened , and the muscles weakened , the spine acquires an improper curve , and the person becomes what is called crooked , having the neck projected forward , and , in some cases , having the back convex , where it should be concave . Probably one half of the American women have the head thus projecting forward , instead of carrying it in the natural , erect position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the spine , spoken of in this work as so common , and as the cause of so many diseases among American women , is what is denominated the lateral curvature , and is much more dangerous than the other distortion . The indications of this evil , are , the projection of one shoulder blade more than the other , and , in bad cases , one shoulder being higher , and the hip on the opposite side more projecting , than the other . In this case , the spine , when viewed from behind , instead of running in a straight line , ( as in Fig. 7 and 9 , ) is curved somewhat , as may be seen in Figures 10 and 11 . This effect is occasioned by the softness of the bones , induced by want of exercise , together with tight dressing , which tends to weaken the muscles that are thus thrown out of use . Improper and long continued positions in drawing , writing , and sleeping , which throw the weight of the body on one part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually accompanied with some consequent disease of the nervous system , or some disarrangement of the internal organs . By comparing Figures 9 and 11 , the difference between a natural and distorted spine will be readily perceived . In Fig. 10 , the curved line shows the course of the spine , occasioned by distortion ; the perpendicular line , in this and Fig. 11 , indicates the true direction of the spine ; the horizontal lines show that one shoulder and hip are forced from their proper level . Illustration : Fig. 9 . Illustration : Fig. 10 . Illustration : Fig. 11 . BLOOD-VESSELS . The blood is the fluid into which our food is changed , and which is employed to minister nourishment to the whole body . For this purpose , it is carried to every part of the body , by the arteries ; and , after it has given out its nourishment , returns to the heart , through the veins . The subjoined engraving , ( Fig. 12 , ) which presents a rude outline of the vascular system , will more clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illustration : Fig. 12 . Before entering the heart , the blood receives a fresh supply of nourishment , by a duct which leads from the stomach . The arteries have their origin from the heart , in a great trunk , called the aorta , which is the parent of all the arteries , as the spinal marrow is the parent of the nerves which it sends out . When the arteries have branched out into myriads of minute vessels , the blood which is in them passes into as minute veins ; and these run into each other , like the rills and branches of a river , until they are all united in two great veins , which run into the heart . One of these large receivers , called the vena cava superior , or upper vena cava , brings back the blood from the arms and head , the other , the vena cava inferior , or lower vena cava , brings back the blood from the body and lower limbs . In the preceding figure , H , is the heart , which is divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for receiving the blood , and two , called ventricles , used for sending out the blood . A , is the aorta , or great artery , which sends its branches to every part of the body . In the upper part , at a , a , a , are the main branches of the aorta , which go to the head and arms . Below , at a , a , are the branches which go to the lower limbs . The branches which set off at X , X , are those by which the intestines are supplied by vessels from the aorta . Every muscle in the whole body , all the organs of the body , and the skin , are supplied by branches sent off from this great artery . When the blood is thus dispersed through any organ , in minute vessels , it is received , at their terminations , by numerous minute veins , which gradually unite , forming larger branches , till they all meet in either the upper or lower vena cava , which returns the blood to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which receives the blood from the veins of the lower parts of the body , as seen at v , v. The blood , sent into the lower limbs from the aorta , is received by minute veins , which finally unite at v , v , and thus it is emptied through the lower vena cava into the heart : o , o , represent the points of entrance of those tributaries of the vena cava , which receive that blood from the intestines , which is sent out by the aorta at X , X. In the upper part , V S , is the vena cava superior , which receives the blood from the head and arms ; v , v , v , are the tributaries of the upper vena cava , which bring the blood back from the head and arms ; d , d , represents the course of the thoracic duct , a delicate tube by which the chyle is carried into the blood , as mentioned on page 89 ; t , shows the place where this duct empties into a branch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wherever a branch of the aorta goes to carry blood , there will be found a tributary of the upper or lower vena cava , to bring it back . The succeeding engravings , will enable the reader to form a more definite idea of this important function of the system ,  --  the circulation of the blood . The heart , in man , and in all warm-blooded animals , is double , having two auricles and two ventricles . In animals with cold blood , ( as fishes , ) the heart is single , having but one auricle and one ventricle . Fig. 13 , represents the double heart as it appears when the two sides are separated , and also the great blood-vessels ; those on the left of the figure being on the right side of the body , and vice versa . The direction of the blood is represented by the arrows . A , represents the lower vena cava , returning the blood from the lower parts of the body , and L , the upper vena cava , returning the blood from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or auricle , into which the returned blood is poured . From this cavity of the heart , the blood is carried into the right ventricle , C ; and from this ventricle , the pulmonary arteries , D , convey into the lungs the blood which is returned from the body . These five vessels , A , B , C , D , and L , belong to the right side of the heart , and contain the venous or dark-colored blood , which has been through the circulation , and is now unfit for the uses of the system , till it has passed through the lungs . Illustration : Fig. 13 . When the blood reaches the lungs , and is exposed to the action of the air which we breathe , it throws off its impurities , becomes bright in color , and is then called arterial blood . It then returns to the left side of the heart , ( on the right of the engraving , ) by the pulmonary veins E , E , ( also seen at m , m , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whence it is forced into the ventricle , G. From the left ventricle , proceeds the aorta , H , H , which is the great artery of the body , and conveys the blood to every part of the system . I , J , K , are branches of the aorta , going to the head and arms . Illustration : Fig. 14 . Fig. 14 , represents the heart , with its two sides united as in nature ; and will be understood from the description of Fig. 13 . On the opposite page , Fig. 15 , represents the heart , with the great blood-vessels , on a still larger scale ; a , being the left ventricle ; b , the right ventricle ; c , e , f , the aorta , or great artery , rising out of the left ventricle ; g , h , i , the branches of the aorta , going to the head and arms ; k , l , l , the pulmonary artery , and its branches ; m , m , veins of the lungs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart ; n , right auricle ; o , vena cava inferior ; p , veins returning blood from the liver and bowels ; q , the vena cava superior ; r , the left auricle ; s , the left coronary artery , which distributes the blood exclusively to the substance of the heart . Illustration : Fig. 15 . ORGANS OF DIGESTION AND RESPIRATION . Digestion and respiration are the processes , by which the food is converted into blood for the nourishment of the body . The engraving on the next page ( Fig. 16 ) shows the organs by which these operations are performed . In the lower part of the engraving , is the stomach , marked S , which receives the food through the gullet , marked G. The latter , though in the engraving it is cut off at G , in reality continues upwards to the throat . The stomach is a bag composed of muscles , nerves , and blood-vessels , united by a material similar to that which forms the skin . As soon as food enters the stomach , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the muscles . A muscular ( called the peristaltic ) motion immediately commences , by which the stomach propels its contents around the whole of its circumference , once in every three minutes . Illustration : Fig. 16 . This movement of the muscles attracts the blood from other parts of the system ; for the blood always hastens to administer its supplies to any organ which is called to work . The blood-vessels of the stomach are soon distended with blood , from which the gastric juice is secreted by minute vessels in the coat of the stomach . This mixes with the food , and reduces it to a soft pulpy mass , called chyme . It then passes through the lower end of the stomach , into the intestines , which are folded up in the abdomen , and the upper portion , only , of which , is shown in the engraving , at A , A. The organ marked L , L , is the liver , which , as the blood passes through its many vessels , secretes a substance called bile , which accumulates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the stomach , it receives from the liver a portion of bile , and from the pancreas the pancreatic juice . The pancreas does not appear in this drawing , being concealed behind the stomach . These two liquids separate the substance which has passed from the stomach , into two different portions . One is a light liquid , very much like cream in appearance , and called chyle , of which the blood is formed ; the other is a more solid substance , which contains the refuse and useless matter , with a smaller portion of nourishment ; and this , after being further separated from the nourishing matter which it contains , is thrown out of the body . There are multitudes of small vessels , called lacteals , which , as these two mixed substances pass through the long and winding folds of the intestines in the abdomen , absorb the chyle , and convey it to the thoracic duct , which runs up close by the spine , and carries the chyle , thus received , into a branch of the vena cava @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blood going into the heart . In this engraving , the lacteals and thoracic duct are not shown ; but their position is indicated by the dotted lines , marked X , Y ; X , being the lacteals , and Y , the thoracic duct . In the upper half of the engraving , H represents the heart ; a , the commencement of the aorta ; v c s , the termination of the vena cava superior . On each side of the heart , are the lungs ; l l , being the left lobe , and r l , the right lobe . They are composed of a network of air-vessels , blood-vessels , and nerves . W , represents the trachea , or windpipe , through which , the air we breathe is conducted to the lungs . It branches out into myriads of minute vessels , which are thus filled with air every time we breathe . From the heart , run the pulmonary arteries , marked p a . These enter the lungs and spread out along-side of the branches of the air-vessels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side by side with it . When the two vena cavas empty the blood into the heart , the latter contracts , and sends this blood , through these pulmonary arteries , into the lungs . As the air and blood meander , side by side , through the lungs , the superabundant carbon and hydrogen of the blood combine with the oxygen of the air , forming carbonic acid gas , and water , which are thrown out of the lungs at every expiration . This is the process by which the chyle is converted into arterial blood , and the venous blood purified of its excess of carbon and hydrogen . When the blood is thus prepared , in the lungs , for its duties , it is received by the small pulmonary veins , which gradually unite , and bring the blood back to the heart , through the large pulmonary veins , marked p v , p v. On receiving this purified blood from the lungs , the heart contracts , and sends it out again , through the aorta , to all parts of the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministering to the wants of all , and is afterwards again brought back by the veins to receive the fresh chyle from the stomach , and to be purified by the lungs . The throbbing of the heart is caused by its alternate expansion and contraction , as it receives and expels the blood . With one throb , the blood is sent from the right ventricle into the lungs , and from the left ventricle into the aorta . Every time we inspire air , the process of purifying the blood is going on ; and every time we expire the air , we throw out the redundant carbon and hydrogen , taken from a portion of the blood . If the waist is compressed by tight clothing , a portion of the lungs be compressed , so that the air-vessels can not be filled . This prevents the perfect purification and preparation of the blood , so that a part returns back to the heart unfitted for its duties . This is a slow , but sure , method , by which the constitution of many a young lady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disease and to the decay of beauty and strength . The want of pure air is another cause , of the debility of the female constitution . When air has been rendered impure , by the breath of several persons , or by close confinement , it does not purify the blood properly . Sleeping in close chambers , and sitting in crowded and unventilated schoolrooms , are frequent causes of debility in the constitution of young persons . OF THE SKIN . The skin is the covering of the body , and has very important functions to perform . It is more abundantly supplied with nerves and blood-vessels than any other part ; and there is no spot of the skin where the point of the finest needle would not pierce a nerve and blood-vessel . Indeed , it may be considered as composed chiefly of an interlacing of minute nerves and blood-vessels , so that it is supposed there is more nervous matter in the skin , than in all the rest of the body united , and that the greater portion of the blood flows through the skin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continual change and renovation . Food is constantly taken into the stomach , only a portion of which is fitted for the supply of the blood . All the rest has to be thrown out of the system , by various organs designed for this purpose . These organs are ,  --  the lungs , which throw off a portion of useless matter when the blood is purified ; the kidneys , which secrete liquids that pass into the bladder , and are thrown out from the body by that organ ; and the intestines , which carry off the useless and more solid parts of the food , after the lacteals have drawn off the chyle . In addition to these organs , the skin has a similar duty to perform ; and as it has so much larger a supply of blood , it is the chief organ in relieving the body of the useless and noxious parts of the materials which are taken for food . Various experiments show , that not less than a pound and four ounces of waste matter is thrown off by the skin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculation . Most of those , who have made experiments to ascertain the quantity , represent it as much greater ; and all agree , that the skin throws off more redundant matter from the body , than the whole of the other organs together . In the ordinary state of the skin , even when there is no apparent perspiration , it is constantly exhaling waste matter , in a form which is called insensible perspiration , because it can not be perceived by the senses . A very cool mirror , brought suddenly near to the skin , will be covered , in that part , with a moisture , which is this effluvium thus made visible . When heat or exercise excites the skin , this perspiration is increased , so as to be apparent to the senses . This shows the reason why it is so important frequently to wash the entire surface of the body . If this be neglected , the pores of the skin are closed by the waste matter thrown from the body , and by small particles of the thin scarfskin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In this way , the other organs are made to work harder , in order to perform the labor the skin would otherwise accomplish , and thus the lungs and bowels are often essentially weakened . Another office of the skin , is , to regulate the heat of the body . The action of the internal organs is constantly generating heat ; and the faster the blood circulates , the greater is the heat evolved . The perspiration of the skin serves to reduce and regulate this heat . For , whenever any liquid changes to a vapor , it absorbs heat from whatever is nearest to it . The faster the blood flows , the more perspiration is evolved . This bedews the skin with a liquid , which the heat of the body turns to a vapor ; and in this change , that heat is absorbed . When a fever takes place , this perspiration ceases , and the body is afflicted with heat . Insensible perspiration is most abundant during sleep , after eating , and when friction is applied to the skin . Perspiration is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the skin , which exude the perspiration from the blood . The skin also performs another function . It is provided with a set of small vessels , called absorbents , which are exceedingly abundant and minute . When particular substances are brought in contact with the skin , these absorbents take up some portions and carry them into the blood . It is owing to this , that opium , applied on the skin , acts in a manner similar to its operation when taken into the stomach . The power of absorption is increased by friction ; and this is the reason that liniments are employed , with much rubbing , to bruises and sprains . The substance applied is thus introduced into the injured part , through the absorbents . This shows another reason for frequent washing of the skin , and for the frequent changes of the garment next the skin . Otherwise portions of the noxious matter , thrown out by the skin , are reabsorbed into the blood , and are slow but sure causes of a decay of the strength of the system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or bags , which are filled with an oily substance . This , by gradually exuding over the skin , prevents water from penetrating and injuring its texture . The skin is also the organ of touch . This office is performed through the instrumentality of the nerves of feeling , which are spread over all parts of the skin . This general outline of the construction of the human frame is given , with reference to the practical application of this knowledge in the various cases where a woman will be called upon to exercise her own unaided judgement . The application will be further pointed out , in the chapters on Food , Dress , Cleanliness , Care of the Sick , and Care of Infants . CHAPTER VI . ON HEALTHFUL FOOD . The person who decides what shall be the food and drink of a family , and the modes of preparation , is the one who decides , to a greater or less extent , what shall be the health of that family . It is the opinion of most medical men , that intemperance in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and death . If this be so , the woman who wisely adapts the food and cooking of her family to the laws of health , removes the greatest risk which threatens the lives of those under her care . To exhibit this subject clearly , it will be needful to refer , more minutely , to the organization and operation of the digestive organs . It is found , by experiment , that the supply of gastric juice , furnished from the blood , by the arteries of the stomach , is proportioned , not to the amount of food put into the stomach , but to the wants of the body ; so that it is possible to put much more into the stomach than can be digested . To guide and regulate in this matter , the sensation called hunger is provided . In a healthy state of the body , as soon as the blood has lost its nutritive supplies , the craving of hunger is felt , and then , if the food is suitable , and is taken in the proper manner , this sensation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to supply the wants of the system . But our benevolent Creator , in this , as in our other duties , has connected enjoyment with the operation needful to sustain our bodies . In addition to the allaying of hunger , the gratification of the palate is secured , by the immense variety of food , some articles of which are far more agreeable than others . This arrangement of Providence , designed for our happiness , has become , either through ignorance , or want of self-control , the chief cause of the various diseases and sufferings , which afflict those classes who have the means of seeking a variety to gratify the palate . If mankind had only one article of food , and only water to drink , though they would have less enjoyment in eating , they would never be tempted to put any more into the stomach , than the calls of hunger required . But the customs of society , which present an incessant change , and a great variety of food , with those various condiments which stimulate appetite , lead almost every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after the stomach has been abundantly supplied , so that hunger has ceased . When too great a supply of food is put into the stomach , the gastric juice dissolves only that portion which the wants of the system demand . The remainder is ejected , in an unprepared state ; the absorbents take portions of it into the system ; and all the various functions of the body , which depend on the ministries of the blood , are thus gradually and imperceptibly injured . Very often , intemperance in eating produces immediate results , such as colic , headaches , pains of indigestion , and vertigo . But the more general result , is , a gradual undermining of all parts of the human frame ; thus imperceptibly shortening life , by so weakening the constitution , that it is ready to yield , at every point , to any uncommon risk or exposure . Thousands and thousands are passing out of the world , from diseases occasioned by exposures , which a healthy constitution could meet without any danger . It is owing to these considerations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has the responsibility of providing food for a family , to avoid a variety of tempting dishes . It is a much safer rule , to have only one kind of healthy food , for each meal , than the abundant variety which is usually met at the tables of almost all classes in this Country . When there is to be any variety of dishes , they ought not to be successive , but so arranged , as to give the opportunity of selection . How often is it the case , that persons , by the appearance of a favorite article , are tempted to eat , merely to gratify the palate , when the stomach is already adequately supplied . All such intemperance wears on the constitution , and shortens life . It not unfrequently happens , that excess in eating produces a morbid appetite , which must constantly be denied . But the organization of the digestive organs demands , not only that food be taken in proper quantities , but that it be taken at proper times . It has before been shown , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the muscles are excited by the nerves , and the peristaltic motion commences . This is a powerful and constant exercise of the muscles of the stomach , which continues until the process of digestion is complete . During this time , the blood is withdrawn from other parts of the system , to supply the demands of the stomach , which is laboring hard with all its muscles . When this motion ceases , and the digested food has gradually passed out of the stomach , Nature requires that it should have a period of repose . And if another meal be eaten , immediately after one is digested , the stomach is set to work again , before it has had time to rest , and before a sufficient supply of gastric juice is provided . The general rule , then , is , that three hours be given to the stomach for labor , and two for rest ; and in obedience to this , five hours , at least , ought to elapse between every two regular meals . In cases where exercise produces a flow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and strong laboring men may safely eat as often as they feel the want of food . So , young and healthy children , who gambol and exercise much , and whose bodies grow fast , may have a more frequent supply of food . But , as a general rule , meals should be five hours apart , and eating between meals avoided . There is nothing more unsafe , and wearing to the constitution , than a habit of eating at any time , merely to gratify the palate . When a tempting article is presented , every person should exercise sufficient self-denial , to wait till the proper time for eating arrives . Children , as well as grown persons , are often injured , by eating between their regular meals , thus weakening the stomach , by not affording it any time for rest . In deciding as to quantity of food , there is one great difficulty to be met by a large portion of the community . It has been shown , that the exercise of every part of the body is indispensable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the nerves , the organs of digestion and respiration , and the skin , all demand exercise , in order properly to perform their functions . When the muscles of the body are called into action , all the blood-vessels entwined among them are frequently compressed . As the arteries are so contrived , that the blood can not run back , this compression hastens it forward , through the veins , towards that organ . The heart is immediately put in quicker motion , to send it into the lungs ; and they , also , are thus stimulated to more rapid action , which is the cause of that panting which active exercise always occasions . The blood thus courses with greater celerity through the body , and sooner loses its nourishing properties . Then the stomach issues its mandate of hunger , and a new supply of food must be furnished . Thus it appears , as a general rule , that the quantity of food , actually needed by the body , depends on the amount of muscular exercise taken . A laboring man , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten times the amount of perspirable matter , which is evolved from the skin of a person of sedentary pursuits . In consequence of this , he demands a far greater amount of food and drink . Those persons , who keep their bodies in a state of health , by sufficient exercise , can always be guided by the calls of hunger . They can eat when they feel hungry , and stop when hunger ceases ; and then they will calculate exactly right . But the difficulty is , that a large part of the community , especially women , are so inactive in their habits , that they seldom feel the calls of hunger . They habitually eat , merely to gratify the palate . This produces such a state of the system , that they have lost the guide which Nature has provided . They are not called to eat , by hunger , nor admonished , by its cessation , when to stop . In consequence of this , such persons eat what pleases the palate , till they feel no more inclination for the article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women , in the wealthier circles , sit down to each meal without any feeling of hunger , and eat merely on account of the gratification thus afforded them . Such persons find their appetite to depend almost solely upon the kind of food on the table . This is not the case with those , who take the exercise which Nature demands . They approach their meals in such a state that almost any kind of food is acceptable . The question then arises , how are persons , who have lost the guide which Nature has provided , to determine as to the proper amount of food they shall take ? The only rules they can adopt , are of a general nature ; founded on the principles already developed . They should endeavor to proportion their food to the amount of the exercise they ordinarily take . If they take but little exercise , they should eat but little food in comparison with those who are much in the open air and take much exercise ; and their food should be chiefly vegetable , and not animal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or a man who sits all day in an office , or a lady who spends the day in her parlor and chamber , will sit down to a loaded table , and , by continuing to partake of the tempting varieties , in the end load the stomach with a supply , which a stout farmer could scarcely digest . But the health of a family depends , not merely on the quantity of food taken ; but very much , also , on the quality . Some kinds of food are very pernicious in their nature , and some healthful articles are rendered very injurious by the mode of cooking . Persons who have a strong constitution , and take much exercise , may eat almost any thing , with apparent impunity ; but young children , who are forming their constitutions , and persons who are delicate , and who take but little exercise , are very dependent for health , on a proper selection of food . There are some general principles , which may aid in regulating the judgement on this subject . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford nutriment to the blood , and do not produce any other effect on the system . There are other kinds , which are not only nourishing , but stimulating , so that they quicken the functions of the organs on which they operate . The condiments used in cookery , such as pepper , mustard , and spices , are of this nature . There are certain states of the system , when these stimulants are beneficial ; but it is only in cases where there is some debility . Such cases can only be pointed out by medical men . But persons in perfect health , and especially young children , never receive any benefit from such kind of food ; and just in proportion as condiments operate to quicken the labors of the internal organs , they tend to wear down their powers . A person who thus keeps the body working under an unnatural excitement , lives faster than Nature designed , and the sooner the constitution is worn out . A woman , therefore , should provide dishes for her family , which are free from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their use . It is also found , by experience , that animal food is more stimulating than vegetable . This is the reason why , in cases of fevers , or inflammations , medical men forbid the use of meat and butter . Animal food supplies chyle much more abundantly than vegetable food does ; and this chyle is more stimulating in its nature . Of course , a person who lives chiefly on animal food , is under a higher degree of stimulus than if his food was chiefly composed of vegetable substances . His blood will flow faster , and all the functions of his body will be quickened . This makes it important to secure a proper proportion of animal and vegetable diet . Some medical men suppose , that an exclusively vegetable diet is proved , by the experience of many individuals , to be fully sufficient to nourish the body ; and bring , as evidence , the fact , that some of the strongest and most robust men in the world , are those , who are trained , from infancy , exclusively on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life will be shortened , just in proportion as the diet is changed to more stimulating articles ; and that , all other things being equal , children will have a better chance of health and long life , if they are brought up solely on vegetable food . But , though this is not the common opinion of medical men , they all agree , that , in America , far too large a portion of the diet consists of animal food . As a nation , the Americans are proverbial for the gross and luxurious diet with which they load their tables ; and there can be no doubt that the general health of the Nation would be increased , by a change in our customs in this respect . To take meat but once a day , and this in small quantities , compared with the common practice , is a rule , the observance of which would probably greatly reduce the amount of fevers , eruptions , headaches , bilious attacks , and the many other ailments which are produced or aggravated by too gross a diet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from practising extensively among Roman Catholics , had ample opportunities to observe , ) mentions , that , in Italy , an unusual number of people recover their health in the forty days of Lent , in consequence of the lower diet which is required as a religious duty . An American physician remarks , " For every reeling drunkard that disgraces our Country , it contains one hundred gluttons ;  --  persons , I mean , who eat to excess , and suffer in consequence . " Another distinguished physician says , " I believe that every stomach , not actually impaired by organic disease , will perform its functions , if it receives reasonable attention ; and when we perceive the manner in which diet is generally conducted , both in regard to quantity and variety of articles of food and drink , which are mixed up in one heterogeneous mass ,  --  instead of being astonished at the prevalence of indigestion , our wonder must rather be , that , in such circumstances , any stomach is capable of digesting at all . " In regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules can be given . Tender meats are digested more readily than those which are tough , or than many kinds of vegetable food . The farinaceous articles , such as rice , flour , corn , potatoes , and the like , are the most nutritious , and most easily digested . The popular notion , that meat is more nourishing than bread , is a great mistake . Good bread contains one third more nourishment than butcher 's meat . The meat is more stimulating , and for this reason is more readily digested . A perfectly healthy stomach can digest almost any healthful food ; but when the digestive powers are weak , every stomach has its peculiarities , and what is good for one , is hurtful to another . In such cases , experiment , alone , can decide , which are the most digestible articles of food . A person , whose food troubles him , must deduct one article after another , till he learns , by experience , which is the best for digestion . Much evil has been done , by assuming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rule in regulating every other . The most unhealthful kinds of food , are those , which are made so by bad cooking ; such as sour and heavy bread , cakes , pie-crust , and other dishes consisting of fat , mixed and cooked with flour ; also rancid butter , and high-seasoned food . The fewer mixtures there are in cooking , the more healthful is the food likely to be . There is one caution , as to the mode of eating , which seems peculiarly needful to Americans . It is indispensable to good digestion , that food be well chewed and taken slowly . It needs to be thoroughly chewed , in order to prepare it for the action of the gastric juice , which , by the peristaltic motion , will be thus brought into universal contact with the minute portions . It has been found , that a solid lump of food requires much more time and labor of the stomach , than divided substances . It has also been found , that , as each bolus , or mouthful , enters the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had some time to move around and combine with the gastric juice ; and that the orifice of the stomach resists the entrance of any more , till this is accomplished . But , if the eater persists in swallowing fast , the stomach yields ; the food is then poured in more rapidly than the organ can perform its duty of digestion ; and evil results are sooner or later developed . This exhibits the folly of those hasty meals , so common to travellers , and to men of business , and shows why children should be taught to eat slowly . After taking a full meal , it is very important to health , that no great bodily or mental exertion be made , till the labor of the stomach is over . Intense mental effort draws the blood to the head , and muscular exertions draw it to the muscles ; and in consequence of this , the stomach loses the supply which it requires when performing its office . When the blood is thus withdrawn , the adequate supply of gastric juice is not afforded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows a full meal , is the indication which Nature gives of the need of quiet . When the meal is moderate , a sufficient quantity of gastric juice is exuded in an hour , or an hour and a half ; after which , labor of body and mind may safely be resumed . When undigested food remains in the stomach , and is at last thrown out into the bowels , it proves an irritating substance , producing an inflamed state in the lining of the stomach and other organs . The same effect is produced by alcoholic drinks . It is found , that the stomach has the power of gradually accommodating its digestive powers to the food it habitually receives . Thus , animals , which live on vegetables , can gradually become accustomed to animal food ; and the reverse is equally true . Thus , too , the human stomach can eventually accomplish the digestion of some kinds of food , which , at first , were indigestible . But any changes of this sort should be gradual ; as those which are sudden , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnishing matter for which its gastric juice is not prepared . In regard to the nature of the meals prepared , the breakfast should furnish a supply of liquids , because the body has been exhausted by the exhalations of the night , and demands them more than at any other period . It should not be the heartiest meal , because the organs of digestion are weakened by long fasting , and the exhalations . Dinner should be the heartiest meal , because then the powers of digestion are strengthened , by the supplies of the morning meal . Light and amusing employments should occupy mind and body for an hour or more after a full meal . But little drink should be taken , while eating , as it dilutes the gastric juice which is apportioned to each quantity of food as it enters the stomach . It is better to take drink after the meal is past . Extremes of heat or cold are injurious to the process of digestion . Taking hot food or drink , habitually , tends to debilitate all the organs thus needlessly excited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain degree of warmth in the stomach is indispensable to their digestion ; so that , when the gastric juice is cooled below this temperature , it ceases to act . Indulging in large quantities of cold drinks , or eating ice-creams , after a meal , tends to reduce the temperature of the stomach , and thus to stop digestion . This shows the folly of those refreshments , in convivial meetings , where the guests are tempted to load the stomach with a variety , such as would require the stomach of a stout farmer to digest , and then to wind up with ice-creams , thus destroying whatever ability might otherwise have existed , to digest the heavy load . The fittest temperature for drinks , if taken when the food is in the digesting process , is blood heat . Cool drinks , and even ice , can be safely taken at other times , if not in excessive quantity . When the thirst is excessive , or the body weakened by fatigue , or when in a state of perspiration , cold drinks are injurious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large quantity of cold drink has often produced instant death . Fluids taken into the stomach are not subject to the slow process of digestion , but are immediately absorbed and carried into the blood . This is the reason why drink , more speedily than food , restores from exhaustion . The minute vessels of the stomach inhale or absorb its fluids , which are carried into the blood , just as the minute extremities of the arteries open upon the inner surface of the stomach , and there exude the gastric juice from the blood . When food is chiefly liquid , ( soup , for example , ) the fluid part is rapidly absorbed . The solid parts remain , to be acted on by the gastric juice . In the case of St. Martin , F in fifty minutes after taking soup , the fluids were absorbed , and the remainder was even thicker than is usual after eating solid food . This is the reason why soups are deemed bad for weak stomachs ; as this residuum is more difficult of digestion than ordinary food . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because the system then demands fluids to supply its loss of blood . Highly-concentrated food , having much nourishment in a small bulk , is not favorable to digestion , because it can not be properly acted on by the muscular contractions of the stomach , and is not so minutely divided , as to enable the gastric juice to act properly . This is the reason , why a certain bulk of food is needful to good digestion ; and why those even sawdust with it , to make it more acceptable and digestible . So , in civilized lands , bread , potatoes , and vegetables , are mixed with more highly-concentrated nourishment . This explains why coarse bread , of unbolted wheat , so often proves beneficial . Where , from inactive habits , or other causes , the bowels become constipated and sluggish , this kind of food proves the appropriate remedy . One fact on this subject is worthy of notice . Under the administration of William Pitt , for two years or more , there was such a scarcity of wheat , that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , that the army should have all their bread made of unbolted flour . The result was , that the health of the soldiers improved so much , as to be a subject of surprise to themselves , the officers , and the physicians . These last came out publicly , and declared , that the soldiers never before were so robust and healthy ; and that disease had nearly disappeared from the army . The civic physicians joined and pronounced it the healthiest bread ; and , for a time , schools , families , and public institutions , used it almost exclusively . Even the nobility , convinced by these facts , adopted it for their common diet ; and the fashion continued a long time after the scarcity ceased , until more luxurious habits resumed their sway . For this reason , also , soups , gellies , and arrow-root , should have bread or crackers mixed with them . We thus see why children should not have cakes and candies allowed them between meals . These are highly-concentrated nourishments , and should be eaten with more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all kinds of food , are fatty and oily substances ; especially if heated . It is on this account , that pie-crust , and articles boiled and fried in fat or butter , are deemed not so healthful as other food . The following , then , may be put down as the causes of a debilitated constitution , from the misuse of food . Eating too much , eating too often , eating too fast , eating food and condiments that are too stimulating , eating food that is too warm or too cold , eating food that is highly-concentrated , without a proper admixture of less nourishing matter , and eating food that is difficult of digestion . FOOTNOTE : F The individual here referred to ,  --  Alexis St. Martin ,  --  was a young Canadian , of eighteen years of age , of a good constitution , and robust health , who , in 1822 , was accidentally wounded by the discharge of a musket , which carried away a part of the ribs , lacerated one of the lobes of the lungs , and perforated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed ; and which enabled Dr. Beaumont , ( a surgeon of the American army , stationed at Michilimackinac , under whose care the patient was placed , ) to witness all the processes of digestion and other functions of the body , for several years . The published account of the experiments made by Dr. B. , is highly interesting and instructive . CHAPTER VII . ON HEALTHFUL DRINKS . Although intemperance in eating is probably the most prolific cause of the diseases of mankind , intemperance in drink has produced more guilt , misery , and crime , than any other one cause . And the responsibilities of a woman , in this particular , are very great ; for the habits and liabilities of those under her care , will very much depend on her opinions and practice . It is a point fully established by experience , that the full developement of the human body , and the vigorous exercise of all its functions , can be secured without the use of stimulating drinks . It is , therefore , perfectly safe , to bring up children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by such a course . It is also found , by experience , that there are two evils incurred , by the use of stimulating drinks . The first , is , their positive effect on the human system . Their peculiarity consists in so exciting the nervous system , that all the functions of the body are accelerated , and the fluids are caused to move quicker than at their natural speed . This increased motion of the animal fluids , always produces an agreeable effect on the mind . The intellect is invigorated , the imagination is excited , the spirits are enlivened ; and these effects are so agreeable , that all mankind , after having once experienced them , feel a great desire for their repetition . But this temporary invigoration of the system , is always followed by a diminution of the powers of the stimulated organs ; so that , though in all cases this reaction may not be perceptible , it is invariably the result . It may be set down as the unchangeable rule of physiology , that stimulating drinks ( except in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitution , in exactly the proportion in which they operate to produce temporary invigoration . The second evil , is , the temptation which always attends the use of stimulants . Their effect on the system is so agreeable , and the evils resulting are so imperceptible and distant , that there is a constant tendency to increase such excitement , both in frequency and power . And the more the system is thus reduced in strength , the more craving is the desire for that which imparts a temporary invigoration . This process of increasing debility and increasing craving for the stimulus that removes it , often goes to such an extreme , that the passion is perfectly uncontrollable , and mind and body perish under this baleful habit . In this Country , there are five forms in which the use of such stimulants is common ; namely , alcoholic drinks , tea , coffee , opium mixtures , and tobacco . These are all alike , in the main peculiarity of imparting that extra stimulus to the system , which tends to exhaust its powers . Multitudes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these stimulants ; and each person defends the indulgence by these arguments : First , that the desire for stimulants is a natural propensity , implanted in man 's nature , as is manifest from the universal tendency to such indulgences , in every nation . From this , it is inferred , that it is an innocent desire , which ought to be gratified , to some extent , and that the aim should be , to keep it within the limits of temperance , instead of attempting to exterminate a natural propensity . This is an argument , which , if true , makes it equally proper to use opium , brandy , tea , or tobacco , as stimulating principles , provided they are used temperately . But , if it be granted that perfect health and strength can be gained and secured without these stimulants , and that their peculiar effect is to diminish the power of the system , in exactly the same proportion as they stimulate it , then there is no such thing as a temperate use , unless they are so diluted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this form , they are seldom desired . The other argument for their use , is , that they are among the good things provided by the Creator , for our gratification ; that , like all other blessings , they are exposed to abuse and excess ; and that we should rather seek to regulate their use , than to banish them entirely . This argument is based on the assumption , that they are , like healthful foods and drinks , necessary to life and health , and injurious only by excess . But this is not true ; for , whenever they are used in any such strength as to be a gratification , they operate , to a greater or less extent , as stimulants ; and , to just such extent , they wear out the powers of the constitution ; and it is abundantly proved , that they are not , like food and drink , necessary to health . Such articles are designed for medicine , and not for common use . There can be no argument framed to defend the use of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That men have a love for being stimulated , after they have once felt the pleasurable excitement , and that Providence has provided the means for securing it , are arguments as much in favor of alcohol , opium , and tobacco , as of coffee and tea . All that can be said in favor of the last-mentioned favorite beverages , is , that the danger in their use is not so great . Let any one , who defends one kind of stimulating drink , remember , then , that he uses an argument , which , if it be allowed that stimulants are not needed , and are injurious , will equally defend all kinds ; and that all which can be said in defence of tea and coffee , is , that they may be used , so weak , as to do no harm , and that they actually have done less harm than some of the other stimulating narcotics . The writer is of opinion , that tea and coffee are a most extensive cause of much of the nervous debility and suffering endured by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an immense amount of such suffering . But there is little probability that the present generation will make so decided a change in their habits , as to give up these beverages ; and the subject is presented rather in reference to forming the habits of children . It is a fact , that tea and coffee are , at first , seldom or never agreeable to children . It is the mixture of milk , sugar , and water , that reconciles them to a taste , which in this manner gradually becomes agreeable . Now , suppose that those who provide for a family conclude that it is not their duty to give up entirely the use of stimulating drinks , may not the case appear different , in regard to teaching their children to love such drinks ? Let the matter be regarded thus :  --  The experiments of physiologists all prove , that stimulants are not needful to health , and that , as the general rule , they tend to debilitate the constitution . Is it right , then , for a parent to tempt a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a probability that it will prove , to some extent , an undermining drain on the constitution ? Some constitutions can bear much less excitement than others ; and , in every family of children , there is usually one , or more , of delicate organization , and consequently peculiarly exposed to dangers from this source . It is this child who ordinarily becomes the victim to stimulating drinks . The tea and coffee which the parents and the healthier children can use without immediate injury , gradually sap the energies of the feebler child , who proves either an early victim , or a living martyr to all the sufferings that debilitated nerves inflict . Can it be right , to lead children , where all allow that there is some danger , and where , in many cases , disease and death are met , when another path is known to be perfectly safe ? Of the stimulating drinks in common use , black tea is least injurious , because its flavor is so strong , in comparison with its narcotic principle , that one who uses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be trained to love milk and water sweetened with sugar , so that it will always be a pleasant beverage ; or , if there are exceptions to the rule , they will be few . Water is an unfailing resort . Every one loves it , and it is perfectly healthful . The impression , common in this Country , that warm drinks , especially in Winter , are more healthful than cold , is not warranted by any experience , nor by the laws of the physical system . At dinner , cold drinks are universal , and no one deems them injurious . It is only at the other two meals that they are supposed to be hurtful . There is no doubt that warm drinks are healthful , and more agreeable than cold , at certain times and seasons ; but it is equally true , that drinks above blood heat are not healthful . If any person should hold a finger in hot water , for a considerable time , twice every day , it would be found that the finger would gradually grow weaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like all other stimulants , eventually causes debility . If , therefore , a person is in the habit of drinking hot drinks , twice a day , the teeth , throat , and stomach are gradually debilitated . This , most probably , is one of the causes of an early decay of the teeth , which is observed to be much more common among American ladies , than among those in European countries . It has been stated to the writer , by an intelligent traveller , who had visited Mexico , that it was rare to meet an individual with even a tolerable set of teeth ; and that almost every grown person , he met in the street , had merely remnants of teeth . On inquiry into the customs of the Country , it was found , that it was the universal practice to take their usual beverage at almost the boiling point ; and this , doubtless , was the chief cause of the almost entire want of teeth in that Country . In the United States , it can not be doubted that much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drinks . Most tea-drinkers consider tea as ruined , if it stands until it reaches the healthful temperature for drink . The following extract from Dr. Andrew Combe , presents the opinion of most intelligent medical men on this subject . G " Water is a safe drink for all constitutions , provided it be resorted to in obedience to the dictates of natural thirst , only , and not of habit . Unless the desire for it is felt , there is no occasion for its use during a meal . " " The primary effect of all distilled and fermented liquors , is , to stimulate the nervous system and quicken the circulation . In infancy and childhood , the circulation is rapid , and easily excited ; and the nervous system is strongly acted upon , even by the slightest external impressions . Hence slight causes of irritation readily excite febrile and convulsive disorders . In youth , the natural tendency of the constitution is still to excitement ; and consequently , as a general rule , the stimulus of fermented liquors is injurious . " These remarks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not injurious to themselves , may mistake in inferring , from this , that they will not be injurious to their children . Dr. Combe continues thus : " In mature age , when digestion is good and the system in full vigor , if the mode of life be not too exhausting , the nervous functions and general circulation are in their best condition , and require no stimulus for their support . The bodily energy is then easily sustained , by nutritious food and a regular regimen , and consequently artificial excitement only increases the wasting of the natural strength . In old age , when the powers of life begin to fail , moderate stimulus may be used with evident advantage . " It may be asked , in this connection , why the stimulus of animal food is not to be regarded in the same light , as that of stimulating drinks . In reply , a very essential difference may be pointed out . Animal food furnishes nutriment to the organs which it stimulates , but stimulating drinks excite the organs to quickened action , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some , that tea and coffee have , at least , a degree of nourishing power . But it is proved , that it is the milk and sugar , and not the main portion of the drink , which imparts the nourishment . Tea has not one particle of nourishing properties ; and what little exists in the coffee-berry , is lost by roasting it in the usual mode . All that these articles do , is simply to stimulate , without nourishing . It is very common , especially in schools , for children to form a habit of drinking freely of cold water . This is a debilitating habit , and should be corrected . Very often , chewing a bit of cracker will stop a craving for drink , better than taking water ; and when teachers are troubled with very thirsty scholars , they should direct them to this remedy . A person who exercises but little , requires no drink , between meals , for health ; and the craving for it is unhealthful . Spices , wines , fermented liquors , and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The writer would here remark , in reference to extracts made from various authors , that , for the sake of abridging , she has often left out parts of a paragraph , but never so as to modify the meaning of the author . Some ideas , not connected with the subject in hand , are omitted , but none are altered . CHAPTER VIII . ON CLOTHING . It appears , by calculations made from bills of mortality , that one quarter of the human race perishes in infancy . This is a fact not in accordance with the analogy of Nature . No such mortality prevails among the young of animals ; it does not appear to be the design of the Creator ; and it must be owing to causes which can be removed . Medical men agree in the opinion , that a great portion of this mortality , is owing to mismanagement , in reference to fresh air , food , and clothing . At birth , the circulation is chiefly in the vessels of the skin ; for the liver and stomach , being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resorts to the surface . If , therefore , an infant be exposed to cold , the blood is driven inward , by the contracting of the blood-vessels in the skin : and , the internal organs being thus over-stimulated , bowel complaints , croup , convulsions , or some other evil , ensues . This shows the sad mistake of parents , who plunge infants in cold water to strengthen their constitution ; and teaches , that infants should be washed in warm water , and in a warm room . Some have constitutions strong enough to bear mismanagement in these respects ; but many fail in consequence of it . Hence we see the importance of dressing infants warmly , and protecting them from exposure to a cold temperature . It is for this purpose , that mothers , now , very generally , cover the arms and necks of infants , especially in Winter . Fathers and mothers , if they were obliged to go with bare arms and necks , even in moderate weather , would often shiver with cold ; and yet they have a power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and discomfort , than a delicate infant must experience from a similar exposure . This mode of dressing infants , with bare necks and arms , has arisen from the common impression , that they have a power of resisting cold superior to older persons . This is a mistake ; for the experiments of medical men have established the fact , that the power of producing heat is least in the period of infancy . Extensive investigations have been made in France , in reference to this point . It is there required , in some districts , that every infant , at birth , be carried to the office of the maire , mayor , to be registered . It is found , in these districts , that the deaths of newly-born infants , are much more numerous in the cold , than in the warm , months ; and that a much greater proportion of such deaths occurs among those who reside at a distance from the office of the maire , than among those in its vicinity . This proves , that exposure to cold has much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is as dangerous to go to the other extreme , and keep the body too warm . The skin , when kept at too high a temperature , is relaxed and weakened by too profuse perspiration , and becomes more sensitive , and more readily affected by every change of temperature . This increases the liabilities to sudden colds ; and it frequently happens , that the children , who are most carefully guarded from cold , are the ones most liable to take sudden and dangerous chills . The reason is , that , by the too great accumulation of clothing , the skin is too much excited , and the blood is withdrawn from the internal organs , thus weakening them , while the skin itself is debilitated by the same process . The rule of safety , is , so to cover the body , as to keep it entirely warm , but not so as to induce perspiration in any part . The perspiration induced by exercise is healthful , because it increases the appetite ; but the perspiration produced by excess of clothing is debilitating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covering to the season . Featherbeds are unhealthful in warm weather , because they induce perspiration ; and in all cases , those , who have the care of children , should proportion their covering by night to the season of the year . Infants and children should never be so clothed , as either to feel chilly , or to induce perspiration . The greatest trouble , in this respect , to those who have the care of children , is owing to their throwing off their covering in the night . The best guard , against such exposures , is a nightgown , of the warmest and thickest flannel , made like pantaloons at the lower part , and the legs long , so that they can be tied over the feet . This makes less covering needful , and saves the child from excessive cold when it is thrown off . The clothing ought always to be proportioned to the constitution and habits . A person of strong constitution , who takes much exercise , needs less clothing than one of delicate and sedentary habits . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when they go out , than men . But how different are our customs , from what sound wisdom dictates ! Women go out with thin stockings , thin shoes , and open necks , when men are protected by thick woollen hose and boots , and their whole body encased in many folds of flannel and broadcloth . Flannel , worn next the skin , is useful , for several reasons . It is a bad conductor of heat , so that it protects the body from sudden chills when in a state of perspiration . It also produces a kind of friction on the skin , which aids it in its functions , while its texture , being loose , enables it to receive and retain much matter , thrown off from the body , which would otherwise accumulate on its surface . This is the reason , why medical men direct , that young children wear flannel next the body , and woollen hose , the first two years of life . They are thus protected from sudden exposures . For the same reason , laboring men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preservatives from infection , in unhealthy atmospheres . They give a healthy action to the skin , and thus enable it to resist the operation of unhealthy miasms . On this account , persons residing in a new country should wear such clothing next the skin , to guard them from the noxious miasms caused by extensive vegetable decompositions . It is stated , that the fatal influence of the malaria , or noxious exhalations around Rome , has been much diminished by this practice . But those who thus wear flannel , through the day , ought to take it off , at night , when it is not needed . It should be hung so that it can be well aired , during the night . But the practice , by which females probably suffer most , is , the use of tight dresses . Much has been said against the use of corsets by ladies . But these may be worn with perfect safety , and be left off , and still injury , such as they often produce , be equally felt . It is the constriction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not any particular article that produces it . A frock , or a belt , may be so tight , as to be even worse than a corset , which would more equally divide the compression . So long as it is the fashion to admire , as models of elegance , the wasp-like figures which are presented at the rooms of mantuamakers and milliners , there will be hundreds of foolish women , who will risk their lives and health to secure some resemblance to these deformities of the human frame . But it is believed , that all sensible women , when they fairly understand the evils which result from tight dressing , and learn the real model of taste and beauty for a perfect female form , will never risk their own health , or the health of their daughters , in efforts to secure one which is as much at variance with good taste , as it is with good health . Such female figures as our print-shops present , are made , not by the hand of the Author of all grace and beauty , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more a woman learns the true rules of grace and beauty for the female form , the more her taste will revolt from such ridiculous distortions . The folly of the Chinese belle , who totters on two useless deformities , is nothing , compared to that of the American belle , who impedes all the internal organs in the discharge of their functions , that she may have a slender waist . It was shown , in the article on the bones and muscles , that exercise was indispensable to their growth and strength . If any muscles are left unemployed , they diminish in size and strength . The girding of tight dresses operates thus on the muscles of the body . If an article , like corsets , is made to hold up the body , then those muscles , which are designed for this purpose , are released from duty , and grow weak ; so that , after this has been continued for some time , leaving off the unnatural support produces a feeling of weakness . Thus a person will complain of feeling so weak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is entirely owing to the disuse of those muscles , which corsets throw out of employ . Another effect of tight dress , is , to stop or impede the office of the lungs . Unless the chest can expand , fully , and with perfect ease , a portion of the lungs is not filled with air , and thus the full purification of the blood is prevented . This movement of the lungs , when they are fully inflated , increases the peristaltic movement of the stomach and bowels , and promotes digestion ; any constriction of the waist tends to impede this important operation , and indigestion , with all its attendant evils , is often the result . The rule of safety , in regard to the tightness of dress , is this . Every person should be dressed so loosely , that , when sitting in the posture used in sewing , reading , or study THE LUNGS can be as fully and as easily inflated , as they are without clothing . Many a woman thinks she dresses loosely , because , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chest . This is not a fair test . It is in the position most used when engaged in common employments , that we are to judge of the constriction of dress . Let every woman , then , bear in mind , that , just so long as her dress and position oppose any resistance to the motion of her chest , in just such proportion her blood is unpurified , and her vital organs are debilitated . The English ladies set our countrywomen a good example , in accommodating their dress to times and seasons . The richest and noblest among them wear warm cotton hose and thick shoes , when they walk for exercise ; and would deem it vulgar to appear , as many of our ladies do , with thin hose and shoes , in damp or cold weather . Any mode of dress , not suited to the employment , the age , the season , or the means of the wearer , is in bad taste . CHAPTER IX . ON CLEANLINESS . The importance of cleanliness , in person and dress , can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the construction of the skin , and of the influence which its treatment has on the health of the body . Persons deficient in such knowledge , frequently sneer at what they deem the foolish and fidgety particularity of others , whose frequent ablutions and changes of clothing , exceed their own measure of importance . The popular maxim , that " dirt is healthy , " has probably arisen from the fact , that playing in the open air is very beneficial to the health of children , who thus get dirt on their persons and clothes . But it is the fresh air and exercise , and not the dirt , which promotes the health . In a previous article , it was shown , that the lungs , bowels , kidneys , and skin , were the organs employed in throwing off those waste and noxious parts of the food not employed in nourishing the body . Of this , the skin has the largest duty to perform ; throwing off , at least , twenty ounces every twenty-four hours , by means of insensible perspiration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministers its supplies faster , and there is consequently a greater residuum to be thrown off by the skin ; and then the perspiration becomes so abundant as to be perceptible . In this state , if a sudden chill take place , the blood-vessels of the skin contract , the blood is driven from the surface , and the internal organs are taxed with a double duty . If the constitution be a strong one , these organs march on and perform the labor exacted . But if any of these organs be debilitated , the weakest one generally gives way , and some disease ensues . One of the most frequent illustrations of this reciprocated action , is afforded by a convivial meeting in cold weather . The heat of the room , the food , and the excitement , quicken the circulation , and perspiration is evolved . When the company passes into the cold air , a sudden revulsion takes place . The increased circulation continues , for some time after ; but the skin being cooled , the blood retreats , and the internal organs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as their own . Then , in case the lungs are the weakest organ , the mucous secretion becomes excessive ; so that it would fill up the cells , and stop the breathing , were it not for the spasmodic effort called coughing , by which this substance is thrown out . In case the nerves are the weakest part of the system , such an exposure would result in pains in the head or teeth , or in some other nervous ailment . If the muscles be the weakest part , rheumatic affections will ensue ; and if the bowels or kidneys be weakest , some disorder in their functions will result . But it is found , that the closing of the pores of the skin with other substances , tends to a similar result on the internal organs . In this situation , the skin is unable perfectly to perform its functions , and either the blood remains to a certain extent unpurified , or else the internal organs have an unnatural duty to perform . Either of these results tends to produce disease , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been shown , that the skin has the power of absorbing into the blood particles retained on its surface . In consequence of these peculiarities , the skin of the whole body needs to be washed , every day . This process removes from the pores the matter exhaled from the blood , and also that collected from the atmosphere and other bodies . If this process be not often performed , the pores of the skin fill up with the redundant matter expelled , and being pressed , by the clothing , to the surface of the body , the skin is both interrupted in its exhaling process , and its absorbents take back into the system portions of the noxious matter . Thus the blood is not relieved to the extent designed , while it receives back noxious particles , which are thus carried to the lungs , liver , and every part of the system . This is the reason why the articles worn next to the skin should often be changed ; and why it is recommended that persons should not sleep in the article they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change and airing of the articles worn next the body by day or night , is a practice very favorable to the health of the skin . The fresh air has the power of removing much of the noxious effluvia received from the body by the clothing . It is with reference to this , that on leaving a bed , its covering should be thrown open and exposed to the fresh air . The benefit arising from a proper care of the skin , is the reason why bathing has been so extensively practised by civilized nations . The Greeks and Romans considered bathing as indispensable to daily comfort , as much so , as their meals ; and public baths were provided for all classes . In European countries , this practice is very prevalent , but there is no civilized nation which pays so little regard to the rules of health , on this subject , as our own . To wash the face , feet , hands , and neck , is the extent of the ablutions practised by perhaps the majority of our people . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need of some information , in order to prevent danger from its misuse . Persons in good health , and with strong constitutions , can use the cold bath , and the shower-bath , with entire safety and benefit . But if the constitution be feeble , cold bathing is injurious . If it is useful , it can be known by an invigorated feeling , and a warm glow on the skin ; but if , instead of this , there be a feeling of debility , and the hands and feet become cold , it is a certain sign , that this kind of bathing is injurious . A bath at ninety-five degrees of Fahrenheit , is about the right temperature . A bath , blood warm , or a little cooler than the skin , is safe for all constitutions , if not protracted over half an hour . After bathing , the body should be rubbed with a brush or coarse towel , to remove the light scales of scarfskin , which adhere to it , and also to promote a healthful excitement . A bath should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it interrupts the process of digestion , by withdrawing the blood from the stomach to the surface . Neither should it be taken , when the body is weary with exercise , nor be immediately followed by severe exercise . Many suppose that a warm bath exposes a person more readily to take cold ; and that it tends to debilitate the system . This is not the case , unless it be protracted too long . If it be used so as to cleanse the skin , and give it a gentle stimulus , it is better able to resist cold than before the process . This is the reason why the Swedes and Russians can rush , reeking , out of their steam baths , and throw themselves into the snow , and not only escape injury , but feel invigorated . It is for a similar reason , that we suffer less in going into the cold , from a warm room , with our body entirely warm , than when we go out somewhat chilled . When the skin is warm , the circulation is active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce its temperature , but that increased exercise will keep up its warmth . When families have no bathing establishment , every member should wash the whole person , on rising or going to bed , either in cold or warm water , according to the constitution . It is especially important , that children have the perspiration and other impurities , which their exercise and sports have occasioned , removed from their skin before going to bed . The hours of sleep are those when the body most freely exhales the waste matter of the system , and all the pores should be properly freed from impediments to this healthful operation . For this purpose , a large tin wash-pan should be kept for children , just large enough , at bottom , for them to stand in , and flaring outward , so as to be very broad at top . A child can then be placed in it , standing , and washed with a sponge , without wetting the floor . Being small at bottom , it is better than a tub ; it is not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These remarks indicate the wisdom of those parents , who habitually wash their children , all over , before they go to bed . The chance of life and health , to such children , is greatly increased by this practice ; and no doubt much of the suffering of childhood , from cutaneous eruptions , weak eyes , earache , colds , and fevers , is owing to a neglect of the skin . The care of the teeth should be made habitual to children , not merely as promoting an agreeable appearance , but as a needful preservative . The saliva contains tartar , an earthy substance , which is deposited on the teeth , and destroys both their beauty and health . This can be prevented , by the use of the brush , night and morning . But , if this be neglected , the deposite becomes hard , and can be removed only by the dentist . If suffered to remain , it tends to destroy the health of the gums ; they gradually decay , and thus the roots of the teeth become bare , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their first set of teeth , care should be taken , to remove them as soon as they become loose ; otherwise the new teeth will grow awry . When persons have defective teeth , they can often be saved , by having them filled by a dentist . This also will frequently prevent the toothache . Children should be taught to take proper care of their nails . Long and dirty nails have a disagreeable appearance . When children wash , in the morning , they should be supplied with an instrument to clean the nails , and be required to use it . CHAPTER X. ON EARLY RISING . There is no practice , which has been more extensively eulogized , in all ages , than early rising ; and this universal impression , is an indication that it is founded on true philosophy . For , it is rarely the case , that the common sense of mankind fastens on a practice , as really beneficial , especially one that demands self-denial , without some substantial reason . This practice , which may justly be called a domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be styled American and democratic . The distinctive mark of aristocratic nations , is , a disregard of the great mass , and a disproportionate regard for the interests of certain privileged orders . All the customs and habits of such a nation , are , to a greater or less extent , regulated by this principle . Now the mass of any nation must always consist of persons who labor at occupations which demand the light of day . But in aristocratic countries , especially in England , labor is regarded as the mark of the lower classes , and indolence is considered as one mark of a gentleman . This impression has gradually and imperceptibly , to a great extent , regulated their customs , so that , even in their hours of meals and repose , the higher orders aim at being different and distinct from those , who , by laborious pursuits , are placed below them . From this circumstance , while the lower orders labor by day , and sleep at night , the rich , the noble , and the honored , sleep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night . It will be found , that the aristocracy of London breakfast near mid-day , dine after dark , visit and go to Parliament between ten and twelve at night , and retire to sleep towards morning . In consequence of this , the subordinate classes , who aim at gentility , gradually fall into the same practice . The influence of this custom extends across the ocean , and here , in this democratic land , we find many , who measure their grade of gentility by the late hour at which they arrive at a party . And this aristocratic tendency is growing upon us , so that , throughout the Nation , the hours for visiting and retiring are constantly becoming later , while the hours for rising correspond in lateness . The question , then , is one which appeals to American women , as a matter of patriotism ; as having a bearing on those great principles of democracy , which we conceive to be equally the principles of Christianity . Shall we form our customs on the principle that labor is degrading , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the interests of the great mass are to be sacrificed for the pleasures and honors of a privileged few ? Shall we ape the customs of aristocratic lands , in those very practices which result from principles and institutions that we condemn ? Shall we not rather take the place to which we are entitled , as the leaders , rather than the followers , in the customs of society , turn back the tide of aristocratic inroads , and carry through the whole , not only of civil and political , but of social and domestic , life , the true principles of democratic freedom and equality ? The following considerations may serve to strengthen an affirmative decision . The first , relates to the health of a family . It is a universal law of physiology , that all living things flourish best in the light . Vegetables , in a dark cellar , grow pale and spindling , H and children , brought up in mines , are wan and stinted . This universal law , indicates the folly of turning day into night , thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produces on all animated creation . There is another phenomenon in the physiology of Nature , which equally condemns this practice . It has been shown , that the purification of the blood , in the lungs , is secured , by the oxygen of the atmosphere absorbing its carbon and hydrogen . This combination forms carbonic acid and water , which are expired from our lungs into the atmosphere . Now all the vegetable world undergoes a similar process . In the light of day , all the leaves of vegetables absorb carbon and expire oxygen , thus supplying the air with its vital principle , and withdrawing the more deleterious element . But , when the light is withdrawn , this process is reversed , and all vegetables exhale carbonic acid , and inspire the oxygen of the air . Thus it appears , that the atmosphere of day is much more healthful than that of the night , especially out of doors . Moreover , when the body is fatigued , it is much more liable to deleterious influences , from noxious particles in the atmosphere , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In consequence of this , the last hours of daily labor are more likely to be those of risk , especially to delicate constitutions . This is a proper reason for retiring to the house and to slumber , at an early hour , that the body may not be exposed to the most risk , when , after the exertions of the day , it is least able to bear it . The observations of medical men , whose inquiries have been directed to this point , have decided , that from six to eight hours , is the amount of sleep demanded by persons in health . Some constitutions require as much as eight , and others no more than six , hours of repose . But eight hours is the maximum for all persons in ordinary health , with ordinary occupations . In cases of extra physical exertions , or the debility of disease , or a decayed constitution , more than this is required . Let eight hours , then , be regarded as the ordinary period required for sleep , by an industrious people , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rising between four and five , and retiring between nine and ten , in Summer , would secure most of the sunlight , and expose us the least to that period of the atmosphere , when it is most noxious . In Winter , the night air is less deleterious , because the frost binds noxious exhalations , and vegetation ceases its inspiring and expiring process ; and , moreover , as the constitution is more tried , in cold , than in warm , weather , and as in cold weather the body exhales less during the hours of sleep , it is not so injurious to protract our slumbers beyond the proper period , as it is in the warm months . But in Winter , it is best for grown persons , in health , to rise as soon as they can see to dress , and retire so as not to allow more than eight hours for sleep . It thus appears , that the laws of our political condition , the laws of the natural world , and the constitution of our bodies , alike demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our employments , and that we retire within doors , when this light is withdrawn . In regard to the effects of protracting the time spent in repose , many extensive and satisfactory investigations have been made . It has been shown , that , during sleep , the body perspires most freely , while yet neither food nor exercise are ministering to its wants . Of course , if we continue our slumbers , beyond the time required to restore the body to its usual vigor , there is an unperceived undermining of the constitution , by this protracted and debilitating exhalation . This process , in a course of years , renders the body delicate , and less able to withstand disease ; and in the result shortens life . Sir John Sinclair , who has written a large work on the Causes of Longevity , states , as one result of his extensive investigations , that he has never yet heard or read of a single case of great longevity , where the individual was not an early riser . He says , that he has found cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the other laws of health , and yet lived to great age ; but never a single instance , in which any constitution has withstood that undermining , consequent on protracting the hours of repose beyond the demands of the system . Another reason for early rising , is , that it is indispensable to a systematic and well-regulated family . At whatever hour the parents retire , children and domestics , wearied by play or labor , must retire early . Children usually awake with the dawn of light , and commence their play , while domestics usually prefer the freshness of morning for their labors . If , then , the parents rise at a late hour , they either induce a habit of protracting sleep in their children and domestics , or else the family is up , and at their pursuits , while their supervisors are in bed . Any woman , who asserts that her children and domestics , in the first hours of day , when their spirits are freshest , will be as well regulated without her presence , as with it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is believed , that any candid woman , whatever may be her excuse for late rising , will concede , that , if she could rise early , it would be for the advantage of her family . A late breakfast puts back the work , through the whole day , for every member of a family ; and , if the parents thus occasion the loss of an hour or two , to each individual , who , but for their delay in the morning , would be usefully employed , they , alone , are responsible for all this waste of time . Is it said , that those , who wish to rise early , can go to their employments before breakfast ? it may be replied , that , in most cases , it is not safe to use the eyes or the muscles in the morning , till the losses of the night have been repaired by food . In addition to this , it may be urged , that , where the parents set an example of the violation of the rules of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction ; so that whatever waste of time is induced , by a practice which they thus uphold , must be set down to their account . But the practice of early rising has a relation to the general interests of the social community , as well as to that of each distinct family . All that great portion of the community , who are employed in business and labor , find it needful to rise early ; and all their hours of meals , and their appointments for business or pleasure , must be accommodated to these arrangements . Now , if a small portion of the community establish very different hours , it makes a kind of jostling , in all the concerns and interests of society . The various appointments for the public , such as meetings , schools , and business hours , must be accommodated to the mass , and not to individuals . The few , then , who establish domestic habits at variance with the majority , are either constantly interrupted in their own arrangements , or else are interfering with the rights and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of schools . In families where late rising is practised , either hurry , irregularity , and neglect , are engendered in the family , or else the interests of the school , and thus of the community , are sacrificed . In this , and many other concerns , it can be shown , that the wellbeing of the bulk of the people , is , to a greater or less extent , impaired by this aristocratic practice . Let any teacher select the unpunctual scholars ,  --  a class who most seriously interfere with the interests of the school ;  --  and let men of business select those who cause them most waste of time and vexation , by unpunctuality ; and it will be found , that they are among the late risers , and rarely among those who rise early . Thus , it is manifest , that late rising not only injures the person and family which practise it , but interferes with the rights and convenience of the community . FOOTNOTE : H Shooting into a long , small , stalk or root . CHAPTER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we have noticed the various causes , which , one or all , operate to produce that melancholy delicacy and decay of the female constitution , which are the occasion of so much physical and mental suffering throughout this Country . These , in a more condensed form , may be enumerated thus : A want of exercise , inducing softness in the bones , weakness in the muscles , inactivity in the digestive organs , and general debility in the nervous system : A neglect of the care of the skin , whereby the blood has not been properly purified , and the internal organs have been weakened : A violation of the laws of health , in regard to food , by eating too much , too fast , and too often ; by using stimulating food and drinks ; by using them too warm or too cold ; and by eating that which the power of the stomach is not sufficient to digest : A neglect of the laws of health , in regard to clothing , by dressing too tight , and by wearing too little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by not sufficiently protecting the feet : A neglect to gain a proper supply of pure air , in sleeping apartments and schoolrooms , and too great a confinement to the house : The pursuit of exciting amusements at unseasonable hours , and the many exposures involved at such times : And lastly , sleeping by day , instead of by night , and protracting the hours of sleep , beyond the period of repose demanded for rest ; thus exhausting , instead of recruiting , the energies of the system . But all the other causes , combined , probably , do not produce one half the evils , which result from a want of proper exercise . A person who keeps all the functions of the system in full play , by the active and frequent use of every muscle , especially if it be in the open air , gains a power of constitution , which can resist many evils that would follow from the other neglects and risks detailed . This being the case , there can be no subject , more important for mothers and young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both of body and mind , of the neglect or abuse of the muscular system . It has been shown , in the previous pages , that all the muscles have nerves and blood-vessels , running in larger trunks , or minute branches , to every portion of the body . The experiments of Sir Charles Bell and others , have developed the curious fact , that each apparently single nerve , in reality consists of two distinct portions , running together in the same covering . One portion , is the nerve of sensation or feeling , the other , the nerve of motion . The nerves of sensation are those which are affected by the emotions and volitions of the mind ; and the nerves of motion are those which impart moving power to the muscles . Experiments show , that , where the nerves issue from the spine , the nerve of sensation may be cut off without severing the nerve of motion , and then the parts , to which this nerve extends , lose the power of feeling , while the power of motion continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nerve of motion may be divided , and , the nerve of sensation remaining uninjured , the power of feeling is retained , and the power of motion is lost . In certain nervous diseases , sometimes a limb loses its power of feeling , and yet retains the power of motion ; in other cases , the power of motion is lost , and the power of sensation is retained ; and in other cases , still , when a limb is paralysed , both the power of motion and of sensation are lost . Now , the nerves , like all other parts of the body , gain and lose strength , according as they are exercised . If they have too much , or too little , exercise , they lose strength ; if they are exercised to a proper degree , they gain strength . When the mind is continuously excited , by business , study , or the imagination , the nerves of feeling are kept in constant action , while the nerves of motion are unemployed . If this is continued , for a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from over action , and the nerves of motion lose their power , from inactivity . In consequence , there is a morbid excitability of the nervous , and a debility of the muscular , system , which make all exertion irksome and wearisome . The only mode of preserving the health of these systems , is , to keep up in them an equilibrium of action . For this purpose , occupations must be sought , which exercise the muscles , and interest the mind ; and thus the equal action of both kinds of nerves is secured . This shows why exercise is so much more healthful and invigorating , when the mind is interested , than when it is not . As an illustration , let a person go a shopping , with a friend , and have nothing to do , but look on ; how soon do the continuous walking and standing weary ! But suppose one , thus wearied , hears of the arrival of a very dear friend : she can instantly walk off a mile or two , to meet her , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the importance of furnishing , for young persons , exercise in which they will take an interest . Long and formal walks , merely for exercise , though they do some good , in securing fresh air and some exercise of the muscles , would be of triple benefit , if changed to amusing sports , or to the cultivation of fruits and flowers , in which it is impossible to engage , without acquiring a great interest . It shows , also , why it is far better to trust to useful domestic exercise , at home , than to send a young person out to walk , for the mere purpose of exercise . Young girls can seldom be made to realize the value of health , and the need of exercise to secure it , so as to feel much interest in walking abroad , when they have no other object . But , if they are brought up to minister to the comfort and enjoyment of themselves and others , by performing domestic duties , they will constantly be interested and cheered in their exercise , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performed their duty . There are few young persons , it is hoped , who are brought up with such miserable habits of selfishness and indolence , that they can not be made to feel happier , by the consciousness of being usefully employed . And those who have never been accustomed to think or care for any one but themselves , and who seem to feel little pleasure in making themselves useful , by wise and proper influences , can often be gradually awakened to the new pleasure of benevolent exertion to promote the comfort and enjoyment of others . And the more this sacred and elevating kind of enjoyment is tasted , the greater is the relish induced . Other enjoyments , often cloy ; but the heavenly pleasure , secured by virtuous industry and benevolence , while it satisfies , at the time , awakens fresh desires for so ennobling a good . But , besides the favorable influence on the nervous and muscular system , thus gained , it has been shown , that exercise imparts fresh strength and vitality to all parts of the body . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood , which thus ministers its supplies faster to every part of the body , and , of course , loses a portion of its nourishing qualities . When this is the case , the stomach issues its mandate of hunger , calling for new supplies . When these are furnished , the action of the muscles again hastens a full supply to every organ , and thus the nerves , the muscles , the bones , the skin , and all the internal organs , are invigorated , and the whole body developes its powers , in fair proportions , fresh strength and full beauty . All the cosmetics of trade , all the labors of mantuamakers , milliners , makers of corsets , shoemakers , and hairdressers , could never confer so clear and pure a skin , so fresh a color , so finely moulded a form , and such cheerful health and spirits , as would be secured by training a child to obey the laws of the benevolent Creator , in the appropriate employment of body and mind in useful domestic exercise . And the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth , which condemn young girls so exclusively to books or sedentary pursuits , are as destructive to beauty and grace , as they are to health and happiness . Every allowance should be made for the mistakes of mothers and teachers , to whom the knowledge which would have saved them from the evils of such a course has never been furnished ; but as information , on these matters , is every year becoming more abundant , it is to be hoped , that the next generation , at least , may be saved from the evils which afflict those now on the stage . What a change would be made in the happiness of this Country , if all the pale and delicate young girls should become blooming , healthful , and active , and all the enfeebled and care-worn mothers should be transformed into such fresh , active , healthful , and energetic matrons , as are so frequently found in our mother land ! It has been stated , that the excessive use of the muscles , as much as their inactivity , tends to weaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a muscle constantly on the stretch , without any relaxation or change . This can be realized , by holding out an arm , perpendicularly to the body , for ten or fifteen minutes , if any one can so long bear the pain . Of course , confinement to one position , for a great length of time , tends to weaken the muscles thus strained . This shows the evil of confining young children to their seats , in the schoolroom , so much and so long as is often done . Having no backs to their seats , as is generally the case , the muscles , which are employed in holding up the body , are kept in a state of constant tension , till they grow feeble from overworking . Then , the child begins to grow crooked , and the parents , to remedy the evil , sometimes put on bracers or corsets . These , instead of doing any good , serve to prevent the use of those muscles , which , if properly exercised , would hold the body straight ; and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a parent perceives that a child is growing crooked , the proper remedy is , to withdraw it from all pursuits which tax one particular set of muscles , and turn it out to exercise in sports , or in gardening , in the fresh air , when all the muscles will be used , and the whole system strengthened . Or , if this can not be done , sweeping , dusting , running of errands , and many household employments , which involve lifting , stooping , bending , and walking , are quite as good , and , on some accounts , better , provided the house is properly supplied with fresh air . Where persons have formed habits of inactivity , some caution is necessary , in attempting a change ; this must be made gradually ; and the muscles must never be excessively fatigued at any time . If this change be not thus gradually made , the weakness , at first caused by inactivity , will be increased by excessive exertion . A distinguished medical gentleman gives this rule , to direct us in regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful . A person is never too much fatigued , if one night of repose gives sufficient rest , and restores the usual strength . But , if the sleep is disturbed , and the person wakes with a feeling of weariness and languor , it is a sure indication that the exercise has been excessive . No more fatigue , then , should be allowed , than one night 's rest will remedy . Some persons object to sweeping , on account of the dust inhaled . But free ventilation , frequent sweeping , and the use of damp sand , or damp Indian meal , or damp tea leaves , for carpets , will secure a more clear atmosphere than is often found in the streets of cities . And the mother , who will hire domestics , to take away this and other domestic employments , which would secure to her daughters , health , grace , beauty , and domestic virtues , and the young ladies , who consent to be deprived of these advantages , will probably live to mourn over the languor , discouragement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health , as the almost inevitable result . The following are extracts from ' The Young Ladies ' Friend , ' on this subject :  --  " Whether rich or poor , young or old , married or single , a woman is always liable to be called to the performance of every kind of domestic duty , as well as to be placed at the head of a family ; and nothing , short of a practical knowledge of the details of housekeeping , can ever make those duties easy , or render her competent to direct others in the performance of them . " All moral writers on female character , treat of Domestic Economy as an indispensable part of female education ; and this , too , in the old countries of Europe , where an abundant population , and the institutions of society , render it easy to secure the services of faithful domestics . " " All female characters that are held up to admiration , whether in fiction or biography , will be found to possess these domestic accomplishments ; and , if they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are they needed , in this land of independence , where riches can not exempt the mistress of a family from the difficulty of procuring efficient aid , and where perpetual change of domestics , renders perpetual instruction and superintendence necessary . " Since , then , the details of good housekeeping must be included in a good female education , it is very desirable that they should be acquired when young , and so practised as to become easy , and to be performed dexterously and expeditiously . " " The elegant and accomplished Lady Mary Wortley Montagu , who figured in the fashionable , as well as the literary , circles of her time , has said , that ' the most minute details of household economy become elegant and refined , when they are ennobled by sentiment ; ' and they are truly ennobled , when we do them either from a sense of duty , or consideration for a parent , or love to a husband . ' To furnish a room , ' continues this lady , ' is no longer a commonplace affair , shared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where I am to meet a friend or lover . To order dinner is not merely arranging a meal with my cook ; it is preparing refreshment for him whom I love . These necessary occupations , viewed in this light , by a person capable of strong attachment , are so many pleasures , and afford her far more delight , than the games and shows which constitute the amusements of the world . ' " Such is the testimony of a titled lady of the last century , to the sentiment that may be made to mingle in the most homely occupations . I will now quote that of a modern female writer and traveller , who , in her pleasant book , called ' Six Weeks on the Loire , ' has thus described the housewifery of the daughter of a French nobleman , residing in a superb chateau on that river . The travellers had just arrived , and been introduced , when the following scene took place . " ' The bill of fare for dinner was discussed in my presence , and settled , sans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , in the French character , gives a charm to the most trifling occurrence . Mademoiselle Louise then begged me to excuse her for half an hour , as she was going to make some creams , and some pastilles . J I requested that I might accompany her , and also render myself useful ; we accordingly went together to the dairy . I made tarts a l'Anglaise , K whilst she made confections and bonbons , L and all manner of pretty things , with as much ease as if she had never done any thing else , and as much grace as she displayed in the saloon . I could not help thinking , as I looked at her , with her servants about her , all cheerful , respectful , and anxious to attend upon her , how much better it would be for the young ladies in England , if they would occasionally return to the habits of their grandmammas , and mingle the animated and endearing occupations of domestic life , and the modest manners and social amusements of home , with the perpetual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at display , and search after gayety , which , at the present day , render them any thing but what an amiable man , of a reflecting mind and delicate sentiments , would desire in the woman he might wish to select as the companion of his life . ' " FOOTNOTES : I Without formality , or useless ceremony . J Rolls of paste , or pastry , or sugarplums . K According to the English fashion . L Nice things or dainties , such as sweetmeats . CHAPTER XII . ON DOMESTIC MANNERS . Good-manners are the expressions of benevolence in personal intercourse , by which we endeavor to promote the comfort and enjoyment of others , and to avoid all that gives needless uneasiness . It is the exterior exhibition of the Divine precept , which requires us to do to others , as we would that they should do to us . It is saying , by our deportment , to all around , that we consider their feelings , tastes , and convenience , as equal in value to our own . Good-manners lead us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; all violations of the conventional rules of propriety ; all rude and disrespectful language and deportment ; and all remarks , which would tend to wound the feelings of another . There is a serious defect , in the manners of the American people , especially in the free States , which can never be efficiently remedied , except in the domestic circle , and during early life . It is a deficiency in the free expression of kindly feelings and sympathetic emotions , and a want of courtesy in deportment . The causes , which have led to this result , may easily be traced . The forefathers of this Nation , to a wide extent , were men who were driven from their native land , by laws and customs which they believed to be opposed both to civil and religious freedom . The sufferings they were called to endure , the subduing of those gentler feelings which bind us to country , kindred , and home , and the constant subordination of the passions to stern principle , induced characters of great firmness and self-control . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and came , as pilgrims , to a hard soil , a cold clime , and a heathen shore . They were continually forced to encounter danger , privations , sickness , loneliness , and death ; and all these , their religion taught them to meet with calmness , fortitude , and submission . And thus it became the custom and habit of the whole mass , to repress , rather than to encourage , the expression of feeling . Persons who are called to constant and protracted suffering and privation , are forced to subdue and conceal emotion ; for the free expression of it would double their own suffering , and increase the sufferings of others . Those , only , who are free from care and anxiety , and whose minds are mainly occupied by cheerful emotions , are at full liberty to unveil their feelings . It was under such stern and rigorous discipline , that the first children in New England were reared ; and the manners and habits of parents are usually , to a great extent , transmitted to children . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Puritans , now scattered over every part of the Nation , are predisposed to conceal the gentler emotions , while their manners are calm , decided , and cold , rather than free and impulsive . Of course , there are very many exceptions to these predominating results . The causes , to which we may attribute a general want of courtesy in manners , are certain incidental results of our democratic institutions . Our ancestors , and their descendants , have constantly been combating the aristocratic principle , which would exalt one class of men at the expense of another . They have had to contend with this principle , not only in civil , but in social , life . Almost every American , in his own person , as well as in behalf of his class , has had to assume and defend the main principle of democracy ,  --  that every man 's feelings and interests are equal in value to those of every other man . But , in doing this , there has been some want of clear discrimination . Because claims , based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were found to be injurious , many have gone to the extreme of inferring that all distinctions , involving subordination , are useless . Such , would regard children as equals to parents , pupils to teachers , domestics to their employers , and subjects to magistrates ; and that , too , in all respects . The fact , that certain grades of superiority and subordination are needful , both for individual and public benefit , has not been clearly discerned ; and there has been a gradual tendency to an extreme , which has sensibly affected our manners . All the proprieties and courtesies , which depend on the recognition of the relative duties of superior and subordinate , have been warred upon ; and thus we see , to an increasing extent , disrespectful treatment of parents , from children ; of teachers , from pupils ; of employers , from domestics ; and of the aged , from the young . In all classes and circles , there is a gradual decay in courtesy of address . In cases , too , where kindness is rendered , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which greatly lessens its value , while kindness or politeness is received in a similar style of coolness , as if it were but the payment of a just due . It is owing to these causes , that the American people , especially the inhabitants of New England , do not do themselves justice . For , while those , who are near enough to learn their real character and feelings , can discern the most generous impulses , and the most kindly sympathies , they are so veiled , in a composed and indifferent demeanor , as to be almost entirely concealed from strangers . These defects in our national manners , it especially falls to the care of mothers , and all who have charge of the young , to rectify ; and if they seriously undertake the matter , and wisely adapt means to ends , these defects will be remedied . With reference to this object , the following ideas are suggested . The law of Christianity and of democracy , which teaches that all men are born equal , and that their interests and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be adopted in aristocratic circles , with exclusive reference to the class in which the individual moves . The courtly gentleman , addresses all of his own class with politeness and respect ; and , in all his actions , seems to allow that the feelings and convenience of others are to be regarded , the same as his own . But his demeanor to those of inferior station , is not based on the same rule . Among those , who make up aristocratic circles , such as are above them , are deemed of superior , and such as are below , of inferior , value . Thus , if a young , ignorant , and vicious coxcomb , happens to be born a lord , the aged , the virtuous , the learned , and the wellbred , of another class , must give his convenience the precedence , and must address him in terms of respect . So , when a man of noble birth is thrown among the lower classes , he demeans himself in a style , which , to persons of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rudeness . Now , the principles of democracy require , that the same courtesy , which we accord to our own circle , shall be extended to every class and condition ; and that distinctions , of superiority and subordination , shall depend , not on accidents of birth , fortune , or occupation , but solely on those relations , which the good of all classes equally require . The distinctions demanded , in a democratic state , are simply those , which result from relations , that are common to every class , and are for the benefit of all . It is for the benefit of every class , that children be subordinate to parents , pupils to teachers , the employed to their employers , and subjects to magistrates . In addition to this , it is for the general wellbeing , that the comfort or convenience of the delicate and feeble , should be preferred to that of the strong and healthy , who would suffer less by any deprivation , and that precedence should be given to their elders , by the young , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The rules of good-breeding , in a democratic state , must be founded on these principles . It is , indeed , assumed , that the value of the happiness of each individual , is the same as that of every other ; but , as there must be occasions , where there are advantages which all can not enjoy , there must be general rules for regulating a selection . Otherwise , there would be constant scrambling , among those of equal claims , and brute force must be the final resort ; in which case the strongest would have the best of every thing . The democratic rule , then , is , that superiors , in age , station , or office , have precedence of subordinates ; age and feebleness , of youth and strength ; and the feebler sex , of more vigorous man . M There is , also , a style of deportment and address , which is appropriate to these different relations . It is suitable for a superior to secure compliance with his wishes , from those subordinate to him , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishes , from a superior , by requests . It is suitable for a parent , teacher , or employer , to admonish for neglect of duty ; but not for an inferior to adopt such a course towards a superior . It is suitable for a superior to take precedence of a subordinate , without any remark ; but not for an inferior , without previously asking leave , or offering an apology . It is proper for a superior to use language and manners of freedom and familiarity , which would be improper from a subordinate to a superior . The want of due regard to these proprieties , occasions the chief defect in American manners . It is very common to hear children talk to their parents , in a style proper only between companions and equals ; so , also , the young address their elders , those employed , their employers , and domestics , the members of the family and their visiters , in a style , which is inappropriate to their relative positions . A respectful address is required not merely towards superiors ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and therefore , the law of benevolence demands such demeanor , towards all whom we meet in the social intercourse of life . " Be ye courteous , " is the direction of the Apostle in reference to our treatment of all . Good-manners can be successfully cultivated , only in early life , and in the domestic circle . There is nothing which depends so much upon habit , as the constantly recurring proprieties of good-breeding ; and , if a child grows up without forming such habits , it is very rarely the case that they can be formed at a later period . The feeling , that it is of little consequence how we behave at home , if we conduct properly abroad , is a very fallacious one . Persons , who are careless and ill bred at home , may imagine that they can assume good-manners abroad ; but they mistake . Fixed habits of tone , manner , language , and movements , can not be suddenly altered ; and those who are illbred at home , even when they try to hide their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious rules of propriety , and yet be unconscious of it . And there is nothing , which would so effectually remove prejudice against our democratic institutions , as the general cultivation of good-breeding in the domestic circle . Good-manners are the exterior of benevolence , the minute and often recurring exhibitions of " peace and good-will ; " and the nation , as well as the individual , which most excels in the external , as well as the internal , principle , will be most respected and beloved . The following are the leading points , which claim attention from those who have the care of the young . In the first place , in the family , there should be required , a strict attention to the rules of precedence , and those modes of address appropriate to the various relations to be sustained . Children should always be required to offer their superiors , in age or station , the precedence in all comforts and conveniences , and always address them in a respectful tone and manner . The custom of adding " Sir , " or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " No , " is valuable , as a perpetual indication of a respectful recognition of superiority . It is now going out of fashion , even among the most wellbred people ; probably from a want of consideration of its importance . Every remnant of courtesy of address , in our customs , should be carefully cherished , by all who feel a value for the proprieties of good-breeding . If parents allow their children to talk to them , and to the grown persons in the family , in the same style in which they address each other , it will be vain to hope for the courtesy of manner and tone , which good-breeding demands in the general intercourse of society . In a large family , where the elder children are grown up , and the younger are small , it is important to require the latter to treat the elder as superiors . There are none , so ready as young children to assume airs of equality ; and , if they are allowed to treat one class of superiors in age and character disrespectfully , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reason , why the youngest children of a family are most apt to be pert , forward , and unmannerly . Another point to be aimed at , is , to require children always to acknowledge every act of kindness and attention , either by words or manner . If they are so trained as always to make grateful acknowledgements , when receiving favors , one of the objectionable features in American manners will be avoided . Again , children should be required to ask leave , whenever they wish to gratify curiosity , or use an article which belongs to another . And if cases occur , when they can not comply with the rules of good-breeding , as , for instance , when they must step between a person and the fire , or take the chair of an older person , they should be required either to ask leave , or to offer an apology . There is another point of good-breeding , which can not , in all cases , be understood and applied by children , in its widest extent . It is that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embarrass , vex , mortify , or in any way wound the feelings , of another . To notice personal defects ; to allude to others ' faults , or the faults of their friends ; to speak disparagingly of the sect or party to which a person belongs ; to be inattentive , when addressed in conversation ; to contradict flatly ; to speak in contemptuous tones of opinions expressed by another ;  --  all these , are violations of the rules of good-breeding , which children should be taught to regard . Under this head , comes the practice of whispering , and staring about , when a teacher , or lecturer , or clergyman , is addressing a class or audience . Such inattention , is practically saying , that what the person is uttering is not worth attending to ; and persons of real good-breeding always avoid it . Loud talking and laughing , in a large assembly , even when no exercises are going on ; yawning and gaping in company ; and not looking in the face a person who is addressing you , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relates to the duties of hospitality . Politeness requires us to welcome visiters with cordiality ; to offer them the best accommodations ; to address conversation to them ; and to express , by tone and manner , kindness and respect . Offering the hand to all visiters , at one 's own house , is a courteous and hospitable custom ; and a cordial shake of the hand , when friends meet , would abate much of the coldness of manner ascribed to Americans . The last point of good-breeding , to be noticed , refers to the conventional rules of propriety and good taste . Of these , the first class relates to the avoidance of all disgusting or offensive personal habits , such as fingering the hair ; cleaning the teeth or nails ; picking the nose ; spitting on carpets ; snuffing , instead of using a handkerchief , or using the article in an offensive manner ; lifting up the boots or shoes , as some men do , to tend them on the knee , or to finger them ;  --  all these tricks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taught to avoid . Another branch , under this head , may be called table manners . To persons of good-breeding , nothing is more annoying , than violating the conventional proprieties of the table . Reaching over another person 's plate ; standing up , to reach distant articles , instead of asking to have them passed ; using one 's own knife , and spoon , for butter , salt , or sugar , when it is the custom of the family to provide separate utensils for the purpose ; setting cups , with tea dripping from them , on the tablecloth , instead of the mats or small plates furnished ; using the tablecloth , instead of the napkins ; eating fast , and in a noisy manner ; putting large pieces in the mouth ; looking and eating as if very hungry , or as if anxious to get at certain dishes ; sitting at too great a distance from the table , and dropping food ; laying the knife and fork on the tablecloth , instead of on the bread , or the edge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taught to avoid . It is always desirable , too , to require children , when at table with grown persons , to be silent , except when addressed by others ; or else their chattering will interrupt the conversation and comfort of their elders . They should always be required , too , to wait , in silence , till all the older persons are helped . All these things should be taught to children , gradually , and with great patience and gentleness . Some parents , with whom good-manners is a great object , are in danger of making their children perpetually uncomfortable , by suddenly surrounding them with so many rules , that they must inevitably violate some one or other , a great part of the time . It is much better to begin with a few rules , and be steady and persevering with these , till a habit is formed , and then take a few more , thus making the process easy and gradual . Otherwise , the temper of children will be injured ; or , hopeless of fulfilling so many requisitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But , in reference to those who have enjoyed advantages for the cultivation of good-manners , and who duly estimate its importance , one caution is necessary . Those , who never have had such habits formed in youth , are under disadvantages , which no benevolence of temper can remedy . They may often violate the tastes and feelings of others , not from a want of proper regard for them , but from ignorance of custom , or want of habit , or abstraction of mind , or from other causes , which demand forbearance and sympathy , rather than displeasure . An ability to bear patiently with defects in manners , and to make candid and considerate allowance for a want of advantages , or for peculiarities in mental habits , is one mark of the benevolence of real good-breeding . The advocates of monarchical and aristocratic institutions , have always had great plausibility given to their views , by the seeming tendencies to insubordination and bad-manners , of our institutions . And it has been too indiscriminately conceded , by the defenders of the latter , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in American manners , are the necessary result of democratic principles . But it is believed , that both facts and reasoning are in opposition to this opinion . The following extract from the work of De Tocqueville , exhibits the opinion of an impartial observer , when comparing American manners with those of the English , who are confessedly the most aristocratic of all people . He previously remarks on the tendency of aristocracy to make men more sympathizing with persons of their own peculiar class , and less so towards those of lower degree ; and he then contrasts American manners with the English , claiming that the Americans are much the most affable , mild , and social . " In America , where the privileges of birth never existed , and where riches confer no peculiar rights on their possessors , men acquainted with each other are very ready to frequent the same places , and find neither peril nor advantage in the free interchange of their thoughts . If they meet , by accident , they neither seek nor avoid intercourse ; their manner is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If their demeanor is often cold and serious , it is never haughty or constrained . " But an " aristocratic pride is still extremely great among the English ; and , as the limits of aristocracy are ill-defined , every body lives in constant dread , lest advantage should be taken of his familiarity . Unable to judge , at once , of the social position of those he meets , an Englishman prudently avoids all contact with them . Men are afraid , lest some slight service rendered should draw them into an unsuitable acquaintance ; they dread civilities , and they avoid the obtrusive gratitude of a stranger , as much as his hatred . " Thus , facts seem to show that when the most aristocratic nation in the world is compared , as to manners , with the most democratic , the judgement of strangers is in favor of the latter . And if good-manners are the outward exhibition of the democratic principle of impartial benevolence and equal rights , surely the nation which adopts this rule , both in social and civil life , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aristocrat , by his principles , extends the exterior of impartial benevolence to his own class , only ; the democratic principle , requires it to be extended to all . There is reason , therefore , to hope and expect more refined and polished manners in America , than in any other land ; while all the developements of taste and refinement , such as poetry , music , painting , sculpture , and architecture , it may be expected , will come to a higher state of perfection , here , than in any other nation . If this Country increases in virtue and intelligence , as it may , there is no end to the wealth which will pour in as the result of our resources of climate , soil , and navigation , and the skill , industry , energy , and enterprise , of our countrymen . This wealth , if used as intelligence and virtue dictate , will furnish the means for a superior education to all classes , and every facility for the refinement of taste , intellect , and feeling . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ badge of a lower class ; so that already it is disreputable for a man to be " a lazy gentleman . " And this feeling must increase , till there is such an equalisation of labor , as will afford all the time needful for every class to improve the many advantages offered to them . Already , in Boston , through the munificence of some of her citizens , there are literary and scientific advantages , offered to all classes , rarely enjoyed elsewhere . In Cincinnati , too , the advantages of education , now offered to the poorest classes , without charge , surpass what , some years ago , most wealthy men could purchase , for any price . And it is believed , that a time will come , when the poorest boy in America can secure advantages , which will equal what the heir of the proudest peerage can now command . The records of the courts of France and Germany , ( as detailed by the Duchess of Orleans , ) in and succeeding the brilliant reign of Louis the Fourteenth ,  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refinement ,  --  exhibit a grossness , a vulgarity , and a coarseness , not to be found among the lowest of our respectable poor . And the biography of Beau Nash , who attempted to reform the manners of the gentry , in the times of Queen Anne , exhibits violations of the rules of decency among the aristocracy , which the commonest yeoman of this Land would feel disgraced in perpetrating . This shows , that our lowest classes , at this period , are more refined , than were the highest in aristocratic lands , a hundred years ago ; and another century may show the lowest classes , in wealth , in this Country , attaining as high a polish , as adorns those who now are leaders of good-manners in the courts of kings . FOOTNOTE : M The universal practice of this Nation , in thus giving precedence to woman , has been severely commented on by Miss Martineau and some others , who would transfer all the business of the other sex to women , and then have them treated like men . May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than diminish ! CHAPTER XIII . ON THE PRESERVATION OF A GOOD TEMPER IN A HOUSEKEEPER . There is nothing , which has a more abiding influence on the happiness of a family , than the preservation of equable and cheerful temper and tones in the housekeeper . A woman , who is habitually gentle , sympathizing , forbearing , and cheerful , carries an atmosphere about her , which imparts a soothing and sustaining influence , and renders it easier for all to do right , under her administration , than in any other situation . The writer has known families , where the mother 's presence seemed the sunshine of the circle around her ; imparting a cheering and vivifying power , scarcely realized , till it was withdrawn . Every one , without thinking of it , or knowing why it was so , experienced a peaceful and invigorating influence , as soon as he entered the sphere illumined by her smile , and sustained by her cheering kindness and sympathy . On the contrary , many a good housekeeper , ( good in every respect but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissatisfaction , and by indulging in the frequent use of sharp and reprehensive tones , more than destroys all the comfort which otherwise would result from her system , neatness , and economy . There is a secret , social sympathy , which every mind , to a greater or less degree , experiences with the feelings of those around , as they are manifested by the countenance and voice . A sorrowful , a discontented , or an angry , countenance , produces a silent , sympathetic influence , imparting a sombre shade to the mind , while tones of anger or complaint still more effectually jar the spirits . No person can maintain a quiet and cheerful frame of mind , while tones of discontent and displeasure are sounding on the ear . We may gradually accustom ourselves to the evil , till it is partially diminished ; but it always is an evil , which greatly interferes with the enjoyment of the family state . There are sometimes cases , where the entrance of the mistress of a family seems to awaken a slight apprehension , in every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reproof , for something either perpetrated or neglected . A woman , who should go around her house with a small stinging snapper , which she habitually applied to those whom she met , would be encountered with feelings very much like to those which are experienced by the inmates of a family , where the mistress often uses her countenance and voice , to inflict similar penalties for duties neglected . Yet , there are many allowances to be made for housekeepers , who sometimes imperceptibly and unconsciously fall into such habits . A woman , who attempts to carry out any plans of system , order , and economy , and who has her feelings and habits conformed to certain rules , is constantly liable to have her plans crossed , and her taste violated , by the inexperience or inattention of those about her . And no housekeeper , whatever may be her habits , can escape the frequent recurrence of negligence or mistake , which interferes with her plans . It is probable , that there is no class of persons , in the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be fretful , as American housekeepers . For a housekeeper 's business is not , like that of the other sex , limited to a particular department , for which previous preparation is made . It consists of ten thousand little disconnected items , which can never be so systematically arranged , that there is no daily jostling , somewhere . And in the best-regulated families , it is not unfrequently the case , that some act of forgetfulness or carelessness , from some member , will disarrange the business of the whole day , so that every hour will bring renewed occasion for annoyance . And the more strongly a woman realizes the value of time , and the importance of system and order , the more will she be tempted to irritability and complaint . The following considerations , may aid in preparing a woman to meet such daily crosses , with even a cheerful temper and tones . In the first place , a woman , who has charge of a large household , should regard her duties as dignified , important , and difficult . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheered by a sense of far-reaching influence and usefulness . A woman , who feels that she is a cipher , and that it makes little difference how she performs her duties , has far less to sustain and invigorate her , than one , who truly estimates the importance of her station . A man , who feels that the destinies of a nation are turning on the judgement and skill with which he plans and executes , has a pressure of motive , and an elevation of feeling , which are great safeguards from all that is low , trivial , and degrading . So , an American mother and housekeeper , who looks at her position in the aspect presented in the previous pages , and who rightly estimates the long train of influences which will pass down to thousands , whose destinies , from generation to generation , will be modified by those decisions of her will , which regulated the temper , principles , and habits , of her family , must be elevated above petty temptations , which would otherwise assail her . Again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet and overcome . A person , who wrongly thinks there is little danger , can never maintain so faithful a guard , as one who rightly estimates the temptations which beset her . Nor can one , who thinks that they are trifling difficulties which she has to encounter , and trivial temptations , to which she must yield , so much enjoy the just reward of conscious virtue and self-control , as one who takes an opposite view of the subject . A third method , is , for a woman deliberately to calculate on having her best-arranged plans interfered with , very often ; and to be in such a state of preparation , that the evil will not come unawares . So complicated are the pursuits , and so diverse the habits of the various members of a family , that it is almost impossible for every one to avoid interfering with the plans and taste of a housekeeper , in some one point or another . It is , therefore , most wise , for a woman to keep the loins of her mind ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quiet spirit . Another important rule , is , to form all plans and arrangements in consistency with the means at command , and the character of those around . A woman , who has a heedless husband , and young children , and incompetent domestics , ought not to make such plans , as one may properly form , who will not , in so many directions , meet embarrassment . She must aim at just so much as she can probably secure , and no more ; and thus she will usually escape much temptation , and much of the irritation of disappointment . The fifth , and a very important , consideration , is , that system , economy , and neatness , are valuable , only so far as they tend to promote the comfort and wellbeing of those affected . Some women seem to act under the impression , that these advantages must be secured , at all events , even if the comfort of the family be the sacrifice . True , it is very important that children grow up in habits of system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the mother give them every incentive , both by precept and example : but it is still more important , that they grow up with amiable tempers , that they learn to meet the crosses of life with patience and cheerfulness ; and nothing has a greater influence to secure this , than a mother 's example . Whenever , therefore , a woman can not accomplish her plans of neatness and order , without injury to her own temper , or to the temper of others , she ought to modify and reduce them , until she can . The sixth method , relates to the government of the tones of voice . In many cases , when a woman 's domestic arrangements are suddenly and seriously crossed , it is impossible not to feel some irritation . But it is always possible to refrain from angry tones . A woman can resolve , that , whatever happens , she will not speak , till she can do it in a calm and gentle manner . Perfect silence is a safe resort , when such control can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this determination , persevered in , will eventually be crowned with success . Many persons seem to imagine , that tones of anger are needful , in order to secure prompt obedience . But observation has convinced the writer that they are never necessary ; that in all cases , reproof , administered in calm tones , would be better . A case will be given in illustration . A young girl had been repeatedly charged to avoid a certain arrangement in cooking . On one day , when company was invited to dine , the direction was forgotten , and the consequence was , an accident , which disarranged every thing , seriously injured the principal dish , and delayed dinner for an hour . The mistress of the family entered the kitchen , just as it occurred , and , at a glance , saw the extent of the mischief . For a moment , her eyes flashed , and her cheeks glowed ; but she held her peace . After a minute or so , she gave directions , in a calm voice , as to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without a word said to the offender . After the company left , she sent for the girl , alone , and in a calm and kind manner pointed out the aggravations of the case , and described the trouble which had been caused to her husband , her visiters , and herself . She then portrayed the future evils which would result from such habits of neglect and inattention , and the modes of attempting to overcome them ; and then offered a reward for the future , if , in a given time , she succeeded in improving in this respect . Not a tone of anger was uttered ; and yet the severest scolding of a practised Xantippe could not have secured such contrition , and determination to reform , as was gained by this method . But similar negligence is often visited by a continuous stream of complaint and reproof , which , in most cases , is met , either by sullen silence , or impertinent retort , while anger prevents any contrition , or any resolution of future amendment . It is very certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government , both of children and domestics , without employing tones of anger ; and therefore they are not indispensable , nor on any account desirable . Though some ladies , of intelligence and refinement , do fall unconsciously into such a practice , it is certainly very unlady-like , and in very bad taste , to scold ; and the further a woman departs from all approach to it , the more perfectly she sustains her character as a lady . Another method of securing equanimity , amid the trials of domestic life , is , to cultivate a habit of making allowances for the difficulties , ignorance , or temptations , of those who violate rule or neglect duty . It is vain , and most unreasonable , to expect the consideration and care of a mature mind , in childhood and youth ; or that persons , of such limited advantages as most domestics have enjoyed , should practise proper self-control , and possess proper habits and principles . Every parent , and every employer , needs daily to cultivate the spirit expressed in the Divine prayer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who trespass against us . " The same allowances and forbearance , which we supplicate from our Heavenly Father , and desire from our fellow-men , in reference to our own deficiencies , we should constantly aim to extend to all , who cross our feelings and interfere with our plans . The last , and most important , mode of securing a placid and cheerful temper and tones , is , by a right view of the doctrine of a superintending Providence . All persons are too much in the habit of regarding the more important events of life , as exclusively under the control of Perfect Wisdom . But the fall of a sparrow , or the loss of a hair , they do not feel to be equally the result of His directing agency . In consequence of this , Christian persons , who aim at perfect and cheerful submission to heavy afflictions , and who succeed , to the edification of all about them , are sometimes sadly deficient under petty crosses . If a beloved child be laid in the grave , even if its death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a physician , the eye is turned from the subordinate agent , to the Supreme Guardian of all , and to Him they bow , without murmur or complaint . But if a pudding be burnt , or a room badly swept , or an errand forgotten , then vexation and complaint are allowed , just as if these events were not appointed by Perfect Wisdom , as much as the sorer chastisement . A woman , therefore , needs to cultivate the habitual feeling , that all the events of her nursery and kitchen , are brought about by the permission of our Heavenly Father , and that fretfulness or complaint , in regard to these , is , in fact , complaining and disputing at the appointments of God , and is really as sinful , as unsubmissive murmurs amid the sorer chastisements of His hand . And a woman , who cultivates this habit of referring all the minor trials of life to the wise and benevolent agency of a Heavenly Parent , and daily seeks His sympathy and aid , to enable her to meet them with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the perennial spring of abiding peace and content . CHAPTER XIV . ON HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER . The discussion of the question of the equality of the sexes , in intellectual capacity , seems frivolous and useless , both because it can never be decided , and because there would be no possible advantage in the decision . But one topic , which is often drawn into this discussion , is of far more consequence ; and that is , the relative importance and difficulty of the duties a woman is called to perform . It is generally assumed , and almost as generally conceded , that woman 's business and cares are contracted and trivial ; and that the proper discharge of her duties , demands far less expansion of mind and vigor of intellect , than the pursuits of the other sex . This idea has prevailed , because women , as a mass , have never been educated with reference to their most important duties ; while that portion of their employments , which is of least value , has been regarded as the chief , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The covering of the body , the conveniences of residences , and the gratification of the appetite , have been too much regarded as the sole objects , on which her intellectual powers are to be exercised . But , as society gradually shakes off the remnants of barbarism , and the intellectual and moral interests of man rise , in estimation , above the merely sensual , a truer estimate is formed of woman 's duties , and of the measure of intellect requisite for the proper discharge of them . Let any man , of sense and discernment , become the member of a large household , in which , a well-educated and pious woman is endeavoring systematically to discharge her multiform duties ; let him fully comprehend all her cares , difficulties , and perplexities ; and it is probable he would coincide in the opinion , that no statesman , at the head of a nation 's affairs , had more frequent calls for wisdom , firmness , tact , discrimination , prudence , and versatility of talent , than such a woman . She has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accommodate herself ; she has children , whose health she must guard , whose physical constitutions she must study and develope , whose temper and habits she must regulate , whose principles she must form , whose pursuits she must direct . She has constantly changing domestics , with all varieties of temper and habits , whom she must govern , instruct , and direct ; she is required to regulate the finances of the domestic state , and constantly to adapt expenditures to the means and to the relative claims of each department . She has the direction of the kitchen , where ignorance , forgetfulness , and awkwardness , are to be so regulated , that the various operations shall each start at the right time , and all be in completeness at the same given hour . She has the claims of society to meet , calls to receive and return , and the duties of hospitality to sustain . She has the poor to relieve ; benevolent societies to aid ; the schools of her children to inquire and decide about ; the care of the sick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of odd items , constantly recurring in a large family . Surely , it is a pernicious and mistaken idea , that the duties , which tax a woman 's mind , are petty , trivial , or unworthy of the highest grade of intellect and moral worth . Instead of allowing this feeling , every woman should imbibe , from early youth , the impression , that she is training for the discharge of the most important , the most difficult , and the most sacred and interesting duties that can possibly employ the highest intellect . She ought to feel , that her station and responsibilities , in the great drama of life , are second to none , either as viewed by her Maker , or in the estimation of all minds whose judgement is most worthy of respect . She , who is the mother and housekeeper in a large family , is the sovereign of an empire , demanding more varied cares , and involving more difficult duties , than are really exacted of her , who , while she wears the crown , and professedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds abundant leisure for theatres , balls , horseraces , and every gay pursuit . There is no one thing , more necessary to a housekeeper , in performing her varied duties , than a habit of system and order ; and yet , the peculiarly desultory nature of women 's pursuits , and the embarrassments resulting from the state of domestic service in this Country , render it very difficult to form such a habit . But it is sometimes the case , that women , who could and would carry forward a systematic plan of domestic economy , do not attempt it , simply from a want of knowledge of the various modes of introducing it . It is with reference to such , that various modes of securing system and order , which the writer has seen adopted , will be pointed out . A wise economy is nowhere more conspicuous , than in the right apportionment of time to different pursuits . There are duties of a religious , intellectual , social , and domestic , nature , each having different relative claims on attention . Unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some will intrench on others , and some , it is probable , will be entirely excluded . Thus , some find religious , social , and domestic , duties , so numerous , that no time is given to intellectual improvement . Others , find either social , or benevolent , or religious , interests , excluded by the extent and variety of other engagements . It is wise , therefore , for all persons to devise a general plan , which they will at least keep in view , and aim to accomplish , and by which , a proper proportion of time shall be secured , for all the duties of life . In forming such a plan , every woman must accommodate herself to the peculiarities of her situation . If she has a large family , and a small income , she must devote far more time to the simple duty of providing food and raiment , than would be right were she in affluence , and with a small family . It is impossible , therefore , to draw out any general plan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles , which ought to be the guiding rules , when a woman arranges her domestic employments . These principles are to be based on Christianity , which teaches us to " seek first the kingdom of God , " and to deem food , raiment , and the conveniences of life , as of secondary account . Every woman , then , ought to start with the assumption , that religion is of more consequence than any worldly concern , and that , whatever else may be sacrificed , this , shall be the leading object , in all her arrangements , in respect to time , money , and attention . It is also one of the plainest requisitions of Christianity , that we devote some of our time and efforts , to the comfort and improvement of others . There is no duty , so constantly enforced , both in the Old and New Testament , as the duty of charity , in dispensing to those , who are destitute of the blessings we enjoy . In selecting objects of charity , the same rule applies to others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are of the highest moment , and for them , as well as for ourselves , we are to " seek first the kingdom of God . " Another general principle , is , that our intellectual and social interests are to be preferred , to the mere gratification of taste or appetite . A portion of time , therefore , must be devoted to the cultivation of the intellect and the social affections . Another , is , that the mere gratification of appetite , is to be placed last in our estimate ; so that , when a question arises , as to which shall be sacrificed , some intellectual , moral , or social , advantage , or some gratification of sense , we should invariably sacrifice the last . Another , is , that , as health is indispensable to the discharge of every duty , nothing , which sacrifices that blessing , is to be allowed , in order to gain any other advantage or enjoyment . There are emergencies , when it is right to risk health and life , to save ourselves and others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not militate against the general rule . Many persons imagine , that , if they violate the laws of health , in performing religious or domestic duties , they are guiltless before God . But such greatly mistake . We as directly violate the law , " thou shalt not kill , " when we do what tends to risk or shorten our own life , as if we should intentionally run a dagger into a neighbor . True , we may escape any fatal or permanently injurious effects , and so may a dagger or bullet miss the mark , or do only transient injury . But this , in either case , makes the sin none the less . The life and happiness of all His creatures are dear to our Creator ; and He is as much displeased , when we injure our own interests , as when we injure those of others . The idea , therefore , that we are excusable , if we harm no one but ourselves , is false and pernicious . These , then , are the general principles , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Creator of all things , is a Being of perfect system and order ; and , to aid us in our duty , in this respect , He has divided our time , by a regularly returning day of rest from worldly business . In following this example , the intervening six days may be subdivided to secure similar benefits . In doing this , a certain portion of time must be given to procure the means of livelihood , and for preparing food , raiment , and dwellings . To these objects , some must devote more , and others less , attention . The remainder of time not necessarily thus employed , might be divided somewhat in this manner : The leisure of two afternoons and evenings , could be devoted to religious and benevolent objects , such as religious meetings , charitable associations , school visiting , and attention to the sick and poor . The leisure of two other days , might be devoted to intellectual improvement , and the pursuits of taste . The leisure of another day , might be devoted to social enjoyments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another , to miscellaneous domestic pursuits , not included in the other particulars . It is probable , that few persons could carry out such an arrangement , very strictly ; but every one can make a systematic apportionment of time , and at least aim at accomplishing it ; and they can also compare the time which they actually devote to these different objects , with such a general outline , for the purpose of modifying any mistaken proportions . Without attempting any such systematic employment of time , and carrying it out , so far as they can control circumstances , most women are rather driven along , by the daily occurrences of life , so that , instead of being the intelligent regulators of their own time , they are the mere sport of circumstances . There is nothing , which so distinctly marks the difference between weak and strong minds , as the fact , whether they control circumstances , or circumstances control them . It is very much to be feared , that the apportionment of time , actually made by most women , exactly inverts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the furnishing a needless variety of food , the conveniences of dwellings , and the adornments of dress , often take a larger portion of time , than is given to any other object . Next after this , comes intellectual improvement ; and , last of all , benevolence and religion . It may be urged , that it is indispensable for most persons to give more time to earn a livelihood , and to prepare food , raiment , and dwellings , than to any other object . But it may be asked , how much of the time , devoted to these objects , is employed in preparing varieties of food , not necessary , but rather injurious , and how much is spent for those parts of dress and furniture not indispensable , and merely ornamental ? Let a woman subtract from her domestic employments , all the time , given to pursuits which are of no use , except as they gratify a taste for ornament , or minister increased varieties , to tempt the appetite , and she will find , that much , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent her attention to intellectual , benevolent , and religious , objects , should be called by a very different name . No woman has a right to give up attention to the higher interests of herself and others , for the ornaments of taste , or the gratification of the palate . To a certain extent , these lower objects are lawful and desirable ; but , when they intrude on nobler interests , they become selfish and degrading . Every woman , then , when employing her hands , in ornamenting her person , her children , or her house , ought to calculate , whether she has devoted as much time , to the intellectual and moral wants of herself and others . If she has not , she may know that she is doing wrong , and that her system , for apportioning her time and pursuits , should be altered . Some persons , endeavor to systematize their pursuits , by apportioning them to particular hours of each day . For example , a certain period before breakfast , is given to devotional duties ; after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employments ; other hours , to sewing , or reading , or visiting ; and others , to benevolent duties . But , in most cases , it is more difficult to systematize the hours of each day , than it is to secure some regular division of the week . In regard to the minutiae of domestic arrangements , the writer has known the following methods to be adopted . Monday , with some of the best housekeepers , is devoted to preparing for the labors of the week . Any extra cooking , the purchasing of articles to be used during the week , the assorting of clothes for the wash , and mending such as would be injured without ;  --  these , and similar items , belong to this day . Tuesday is devoted to washing , and Wednesday to ironing . On Thursday , the ironing is finished off , the clothes are folded and put away , and all articles , which need mending , are put in the mending basket , and attended to . Friday is devoted to sweeping and housecleaning . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , every department is put in order ; the castors and table furniture are regulated , the pantry and cellar inspected , the trunks , drawers , and closets arranged , and every thing about the house , put in order for Sunday . All the cooking , needed for Sunday , is also prepared . By this regular recurrence of a particular time , for inspecting every thing , nothing is forgotten till ruined by neglect . Another mode of systematizing , relates to providing proper supplies of conveniences , and proper places in which to keep them . Thus , some ladies keep a large closet , in which are placed the tubs , pails , dippers , soap-dishes , starch , bluing , clothes-line , clothes-pins , and every other article used in washing ; and in the same , or another , place , are kept every convenience for ironing . In the sewing department , a trunk , with suitable partitions , is provided , in which are placed , each in its proper place , white thread of all sizes , colored thread , yarns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tapes and bobbins of all sizes , white and colored welting-cords , silk braids and cords , needles of all sizes , papers of pins , remnants of linen and colored cambric , a supply of all kinds of buttons used in the family , black and white hooks and eyes , a yard measure , and all the patterns used in cutting and fitting . These are done up in separate parcels , and labelled . In another trunk , are kept all pieces used in mending , arranged in order , so that any article can be found , without loss of time . A trunk , like the first mentioned , will save many steps , and often much time and perplexity ; while by purchasing articles thus by the quantity , they come much cheaper , than if bought in little portions as they are wanted . Such a trunk should be kept locked , and a smaller supply , for current use , retained in a workbasket . A full supply of all conveniences in the kitchen and cellar , and a place appointed for each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this , much vexation and loss of time is occasioned , while seeking vessels in use , or in cleansing those employed by different persons , for various purposes . It would be far better , for a lady to give up some expensive article , in the parlor , and apply the money , thus saved , for kitchen conveniences , than to have a stinted supply , where the most labor is to be performed . If our Countrywomen would devote more to comfort and convenience , and less to show , it would be a great improvement . Expensive mirrors and pier-tables in the parlor , and an unpainted , gloomy , ill-furnished kitchen , not unfrequently are found under the same roof . Another important item , in systematic economy , is , the apportioning of regular employment to the various members of a family . If a housekeeper can secure the cooperation of all her family , she will find , that " many hands make light work . " There is no greater mistake , than in bringing up children to feel that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by others , without any corresponding obligations on their part . The extent , to which young children can be made useful , in a family , would seem surprising , to those who have never seen a systematic and regular plan for securing their services . The writer has been in a family , where a little girl , of eight or nine years of age , washed and dressed herself and young brother , and made their small beds , before breakfast , set and cleared all the tables , at meals , with a little help from a grown person in moving tables and spreading cloths , while all the dusting of parlors and chambers was also neatly performed by her . A brother , of ten years old , brought in and piled all the wood , used in the kitchen and parlor , brushed the boots and shoes , neatly , went on errands , and took all the care of the poultry . They were children , whose parents could afford to hire servants to do this , but who chose to have their children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , and encouragement , made these services rather a pleasure , than otherwise , to the children . Some parents pay their children for such services ; but this is hazardous , as tending to make them feel that they are not bound to be helpful without pay , and also as tending to produce a hoarding , money-making spirit . But , where children have no hoarding propensities , and need to acquire a sense of the value of property , it may be well to let them earn money , for some extra services , rather as a favor . When this is done , they should be taught to spend it for others , as well as for themselves ; and in this way , a generous and liberal spirit will be cultivated . There are some mothers , who take pains to teach their boys most of the domestic arts , which their sisters learn . The writer has seen boys , mending their own garments , and aiding their mother or sisters in the kitchen , with great skill and adroitness ; and at an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such occupations . The sons of such mothers , in their college life , or in roaming about the world , or in nursing a sick wife or infant , find occasion to bless the forethought and kindness , which prepared them for such emergencies . Few things are in worse taste , than for a man needlessly to busy himself in women 's work ; and yet a man never appears in a more interesting attitude , than when , by skill in such matters , he can save a mother or wife from care and suffering . The more a boy is taught to use his hands , in every variety of domestic employment , the more his faculties , both of mind and body , are developed ; for mechanical pursuits exercise the intellect , as well as the hands . The early training of New-England boys , in which they turn their hand to almost every thing , is one great reason of the quick perceptions , versatility of mind , and mechanical skill , for which that portion of our Countrymen is distinguished . The writer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ older children in a family , which , in some cases of very large families , it may be well to imitate . In the case referred to , when the oldest daughter was eight or nine years old , an infant sister was given to her , as her special charge . She tended it , made and mended its clothes , taught it to read , and was its nurse and guardian , through all its childhood . Another infant was given to the next daughter , and thus the children were all paired in this interesting relation . In addition to the relief thus afforded to the mother , the elder children were in this way qualified for their future domestic relations , and both older and younger bound to each other by peculiar ties of tenderness and gratitude . In offering these examples , of various modes of systematizing , one suggestion may be worthy of attention . It is not unfrequently the case , that ladies , who find themselves cumbered with oppressive cares , after reading remarks on the benefits of system , immediately commence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hope . They divide the day into regular periods , and give each hour its duty ; they systematize their work , and endeavor to bring every thing into a regular routine . But , in a short time , they find themselves baffled , discouraged , and disheartened , and finally relapse into their former desultory ways , in a sort of resigned despair . The difficulty , in such cases , is , that they attempt too much at a time . There is nothing , which so much depends upon habit , as a systematic mode of performing duty ; and , where no such habit has been formed , it is impossible for a novice to start , at once , into a universal mode of systematizing , which none but an adept could carry through . The only way for such persons , is , to begin with a little at a time . Let them select some three or four things , and resolutely attempt to conquer at these points . In time , a habit will be formed , of doing a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then it will be easy to add a few more ; and thus , by a gradual process , the object can be secured , which it would be vain to attempt , by a more summary course . Early rising is almost an indispensable condition to success , in such an effort ; but , where a woman lacks either the health or the energy to secure a period for devotional duties before breakfast , let her select that hour of the day , in which she will be least liable to interruption , and let her then seek strength and wisdom from the only true Source . At this time , let her take a pen , and make a list of all the things which she considers as duties . Then , let a calculation be made , whether there be time enough , in the day or the week , for all these duties . If there be not , let the least important be stricken from the list , as not being duties , and which must be omitted . In doing this , let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall eat , and what we shall drink , and wherewithal we shall be clothed , " are matters requiring due attention , they are very apt to obtain a wrong relative importance , while social , intellectual , and moral , interests , receive too little regard . In this Country , eating , dressing , and household furniture and ornaments , take far too large a place in the estimate of relative importance ; and it is probable , that most women could modify their views and practice , so as to come nearer to the Saviour 's requirements . No woman has a right to put a stitch of ornament on any article of dress or furniture , or to provide one superfluity in food , until she is sure she can secure time for all her social , intellectual , benevolent , and religious , duties . If a woman will take the trouble to make such a calculation as this , she will usually find that she has time enough , to perform all her duties easily and well . It is impossible , for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyment of life , which all should seek , who is constantly finding her duties jarring with each other , and much remaining undone , which she feels that she ought to do . In consequence of this , there will be a secret uneasiness , which will throw a shade over the whole current of life , never to be removed , till she so efficiently defines and regulates her duties , that she can fulfil them all . And here the writer would urge upon young ladies , the importance of forming habits of system , while unembarrassed with those multiplied cares , which will make the task so much more difficult and hopeless . Every young lady can systematize her pursuits , to a certain extent . She can have a particular day for mending her wardrobe , and for arranging her trunks , closets , and drawers . She can keep her workbasket , her desk at school , and all her other conveniences , in their proper places , and in regular order . She can have regular periods for reading , walking , visiting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this method , in youth , she will form a taste for regularity , and a habit of system , which will prove a blessing to her , through life . CHAPTER XV . ON GIVING IN CHARITY . It is probable , that there is no point of duty , where conscientious persons differ more in opinion , or where they find it more difficult to form discriminating and decided views , than on the matter of charity . That we are bound to give some of our time , money , and efforts , to relieve the destitute , all allow . But , as to how much we are to give , and on whom our charities shall be bestowed , many a reflecting mind has been at a loss . Yet it seems very desirable , that , in reference to a duty so constantly and so strenuously urged by the Supreme Ruler , we should be able so to fix metes and bounds , as to keep a conscience void of offence , and to free the mind from disquieting fears of deficiency . The writer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty , and so absolutely without the range of definite rules , which can apply to all , in all circumstances . But on this , as on a previous topic , there seem to be general principles , by the aid of which , any candid mind , sincerely desirous of obeying the commands of Christ , however much self-denial may be involved , can arrive at definite conclusions , as to its own individual obligations , so that , when these are fulfilled , the mind may be at peace . But , for a mind that is worldly , living mainly to seek its own pleasures , instead of living to please God , no principles can be so fixed , as not to leave a ready escape from all obligation . Such minds , either by indolence ( and consequent ignorance ) or by sophistry , will convince themselves , that a life of engrossing self-indulgence , with perhaps the gift of a few dollars , and a few hours of time , may suffice , to fulfil the requisitions of the Eternal Judge . For such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is so changed , that , to learn the will and follow the example of Jesus Christ , become the leading objects of interest and effort . It is to aid those , who profess to possess this temper of mind , that the following suggestions are offered . The first consideration , which gives definiteness to this subject , is , a correct view of the object for which we are placed in this world . A great many even of professed Christians , seem to be acting on the supposition , that the object of life is to secure as much as possible of all the various enjoyments placed within reach . Not so , teaches reason or revelation . From these , we learn , that , though the happiness of His creatures , is the end for which God created and sustains them , yet , that this happiness depends , not on the various modes of gratification put within our reach , but mainly on character . A man may possess all the resources for enjoyment which this world can afford , and yet feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that he is supremely wretched . Another , may be in want of all things , and yet possess that living spring of benevolence , faith , and hope , which will make an Eden of the darkest prison . In order to be perfectly happy , man must attain that character , which Christ exhibited ; and the nearer he approaches it , the more will happiness reign in his breast . But what was the grand peculiarity of the character of Christ ? It was self-denying benevolence . He came not to " seek His own ; " He " went about doing good , " and this was His " meat and drink ; " that is , it was this which sustained the health and life of His mind , as food and drink sustain the health and life of the body . Now , the mind of man is so made , that it can gradually be transformed into the same likeness . A selfish being , who , for a whole life , has been nourishing habits of indolent self-indulgence , can , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and by daily striving to imitate His character and conduct , form such a temper of mind , that " doing good " will become the chief and highest source of enjoyment . And this heavenly principle will grow stronger and stronger , until self-denial loses the more painful part of its character , and then , living to make happiness , will be so delightful and absorbing a pursuit , that all exertions , regarded as the means to this end , will be like the joyous efforts of men , when they strive for a prize or a crown , with the full hope of success . In this view of the subject , efforts and self-denial , for the good of others , are to be regarded , not merely as duties enjoined for the benefit of others , but as the moral training indispensable to the formation of that character , on which depends our own happiness . This view , exhibits the full meaning of the Saviour 's declaration , " how hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heaven consisted , not in such enjoyments as the worldly seek , but , in the temper of self-denying benevolence , like His own ; and , as the rich have far greater temptations to indolent self-indulgence , they are far less likely to acquire this temper , than those , who , by limited means , are inured to some degree of self-denial . But , on this point , one important distinction needs to be made ; and that is , between the self-denial , which has no other aim than mere self-mortification , and that , which is exercised to secure greater good to ourselves and others . The first is the foundation of monasticism , penances , and all other forms of asceticism ; the latter , only , is that which Christianity requires . A second consideration , which may give definiteness to this subject , is , that the formation of a perfect character , involves , not the extermination of any principles of our nature , but rather the regulating of them , according to the rules of reason and religion ; so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles . Thus , we are not to aim at destroying our appetites , or at needlessly denying them , but rather so to regulate them , that they shall best secure the objects for which they were implanted . We are not to annihilate the love of praise and admiration ; but so to control it , that the favor of God shall be regarded more than the estimation of men . We are not to extirpate the principle of curiosity , which leads us to acquire knowledge ; but so to direct it , that all our acquisitions shall be useful and not frivolous or injurious . And thus , with all the principles of the mind , God has implanted no desires in our constitution , which are evil and pernicious . On the contrary , all our constitutional propensities , either of mind or body , He designed we should gratify , whenever no evils would thence result , either to ourselves or others . Such passions as envy , ambition , pride , revenge , and hatred , are to be exterminated ; for they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but rather the result of our own neglect to form habits of benevolence and self-control . In deciding the rules of our conduct , therefore , we are ever to bear in mind , that the developement of the nobler principles , and the subjugation of inferior propensities to them , is to be the main object of effort , both for ourselves and for others . And , in conformity with this , in all our plans , we are to place religious and moral interests as first in estimation , our social and intellectual interests , next , and our physical gratifications , as subordinate to all . A third consideration , is , that , though the means for sustaining life and health are to be regarded as necessaries , without which no other duties can be performed , yet , that a very large portion of the time , spent by most persons , in easy circumstances , for food , raiment , and dwellings , are for mere superfluities , which are right , when they do not involve the sacrifice of higher interests , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sustained in the humblest dwellings , with the plainest dress , and the simplest food ; and , after taking from our means , what is necessary for life and health , the remainder is to be so divided , that the larger portion shall be given to supply the moral and intellectual wants of ourselves and others , and the smaller share to procure those additional gratifications , of taste and appetite , which are desirable , but not indispensable . Mankind , thus far , have never made this apportionment of their means ; yet , just as fast as they have risen from a savage state , mere physical wants have been made , to an increasing extent , subordinate to higher objects . Another very important consideration , is , that , in urging the duty of charity , and the prior claims of moral and religious objects , no rule of duty should be maintained , which it would not be right and wise for all to follow . And we are to test the wisdom of any general rule , by inquiring what would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it . In view of this , we are enabled to judge of the correctness of those , who maintain , that , to be consistent , men believing in the eternal destruction of all those of our race who are not brought under the influence of the Christian system , should give up , not merely the elegances , but all the superfluities , of life , and devote the whole of their means , not indispensable to life and health , for the propagation of Christianity . But , if this is the duty of any , it is the duty of all ; and we are to inquire what would be the result , if all conscientious persons gave up the use of all superfluities . Suppose , that two millions of the people in the United States , were conscientious persons , and relinquished the use of every thing not absolutely necessary to life and health . It would instantly throw out of employment one half of the whole community . The manufacturers , mechanics , merchants , agriculturists , and all the agencies they employ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not reduced to poverty , would be obliged to spend all their extra means , in simply supplying necessaries to the other half . The use of superfluities , therefore , to a certain extent , is as indispensable to promote industry , virtue , and religion , as any direct giving of money or time ; and it is owing entirely to a want of reflection , and of comprehensive views , that any men ever make so great a mistake , as is here exhibited . Instead , then , of urging a rule of duty which is at once irrational and impracticable , there is another course , which commends itself to the understandings of all . For whatever may be the practice , of intelligent men , they universally concede the principle , that our physical gratifications should always be made subordinate to social , intellectual , and moral , advantages . And all that is required , for the advancement of our whole race to the most perfect state of society , is , simply , that men should act in agreement with this principle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most intelligent of our race , should act according to this rule , under the control of Christian benevolence , the immense supplies , furnished , for the general good , would be far beyond what any would imagine , who had never made any calculations on the subject . In this Nation , alone , suppose the one million and more , of professed followers of Christ , should give a larger portion of their means , for the social , intellectual , and moral , wants of mankind , than for the superfluities that minister to taste , convenience , and appetite ; it would be enough to furnish all the schools , colleges , Bibles , ministers , and missionaries , that the whole world could demand ; or , at least , it would be far more , than properly qualified agents to administer it , could employ . But , it may be objected , that , though this view is one , which , in the abstract , looks plausible and rational , not one in a thousand , can practically adopt it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their current expenses ! How impossible it is , to determine , exactly , what are necessaries , and what are superfluities ! And in regard to women , how few have the control of an income , so as not to be bound by the wishes of a parent or a husband ! In reference to these difficulties , the first remark is , that we are never under obligations to do , what is entirely out of our power , so that those persons , who have no power to regulate their expenses or their charities , are under no sort of obligation to attempt it . The second remark is , that , when a rule of duty is discovered , we are bound to aim at it , and to fulfil it , just so far as we can . We have no right to throw it aside , because we shall find some difficult cases , when we come to apply it . The third remark is , that no person can tell how much can be done , till a faithful trial has been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor attempted to regulate her expenditures by the right rule , nor used her influence with those that control her plans , to secure this object , she has no right to say how much she can , or can not , do , till after a fair trial has been made . In attempting such a trial , the following method can be taken . Let a woman keep an account of all she spends , for herself and her family , for a year , arranging the items under three general heads . Under the first , put all articles for food , raiment , rent , wages , and all conveniences . Under the second , place all sums paid in securing an education , and books , and other intellectual advantages . Under the third head , place all that is spent for benevolence and religion . At the end of the year , the first and largest account will show the mixed items of necessaries and superfluities , which can be arranged , so as to gain some sort of idea how much has been spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by comparing what is spent for superfluities , with what is spent for intellectual and moral advantages , data will be gained , for judging of the past , and regulating the future . Does a woman say she can not do this ? let her inquire , whether the offer of a thousand dollars , as a reward for attempting it one year , would not make her undertake to do it ; and , if so , let her decide , in her own mind , which is most valuable , a clear conscience , and the approbation of God , in this effort to do His will , or one thousand dollars . And let her do it , with this warning of the Saviour before her eyes ,  --  " No man can serve two masters . " " Ye can not serve God and Mammon . " Is it objected , How can we decide between superfluities and necessaries , in this list ? it is replied , that we are not required to judge exactly , in all cases . Our duty is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in forming a correct judgement ; to seek the Divine aid in freeing our minds from indolence and selfishness ; and then to judge as well as we can , in our endeavors rightly to apportion and regulate our expenses . Many persons seem to feel that they are bound to do better than they know how . But God is not so hard a Master ; and , after we have used all proper means to learn the right way , if we then follow it , according to our ability , we do wrong to feel misgivings , or to blame ourselves , if results come out differently from what seems desirable . The results of our actions , alone , can never prove us deserving of blame . For men are often so placed , that , owing to lack of intellect or means , it is impossible for them to decide correctly . To use all the means of knowledge within our reach , and then to judge , with a candid and conscientious spirit , is all that God requires ; and , when we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrong , we should never wish that we had decided otherwise . For it is the same as wishing that we had not followed the dictates of judgement and conscience . As this is a world designed for discipline and trial , untoward events are never to be construed as indications of the obliquity of our past decisions . But it is probable , that a great portion of the women of this Nation , can not secure any such systematic mode of regulating their expenses . To such , the writer would propose one inquiry ; can not you calculate how much time and money you spend for what is merely ornamental , and not necessary , for yourself , your children , and your house ? Can not you compare this with the time and money you spend for intellectual and benevolent purposes ? and will not this show the need of some change ? In making this examination , is not this brief rule , deducible from the principles before laid down , the one which should regulate you ? Every person does right , in spending some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adornments of taste ; but the amount should never exceed what is spent in securing our own moral and intellectual improvement , nor exceed what is spent in benevolent efforts to supply the physical and moral wants of our fellow-men . In making an examination on this subject , it is sometimes the case , that a woman will count among the necessaries of life , all the various modes of adorning the person or house , practised in the circle in which she moves ; and , after enumerating the many duties which demand attention , counting these as a part , she will come to the conclusion , that she has no time , and but little money , to devote to personal improvement , or to benevolent enterprises . This surely is not in agreement with the requirements of the Saviour , who calls on us to seek for others , as well as ourselves , first of all , " the kingdom of God , and His righteousness . " In order to act in accordance with the rule here presented , it is true , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conforming to the notions and customs of those , with whom they associate , and compelled to adopt the maxim , " be not conformed to this world . " In many cases , it would involve an entire change in the style of living . And the writer has the happiness of knowing more cases than one , where persons , who have come to similar views , on this subject , have given up large and expensive establishments , disposed of their carriages , dismissed a portion of their domestics , and modified all their expenditures , that they might keep a pure conscience , and regulate their charities more according to the requirements of Christianity . And there are persons , well known in the religious world , who save themselves all labor of minute calculation , by devoting so large a portion of their time and means to benevolent objects , that they find no difficulty in knowing that they give more for religious , benevolent , and intellectual , purposes , than for superfluities . In deciding what particular objects shall receive our benefactions , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is that presented by our Saviour , when , after urging the great law of benevolence , He was asked , " and who is my neighbor ? " His reply , in the parable of ' the Good Samaritan , ' teaches us , that any human being , whose wants are brought to our knowledge , is our neighbor . The wounded man was not only a stranger , but he belonged to a foreign nation , peculiarly hated ; and he had no claim , except that his wants were brought to the knowledge of the wayfaring man . From this , we learn , that the destitute , of all nations , become our neighbors , as soon as their wants are brought to our knowledge . Another general principle , is this , that those who are most in need , must be relieved , in preference to those who are less destitute . On this principle , it is , that we think the followers of Christ should give more to supply those who are suffering for want of the bread of eternal life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And another reason for this preference , is , the fact , that many , who give in charity , have made such imperfect advances in civilization and Christianity , that the intellectual and moral wants of our race make but a feeble impression on the mind . Relate a pitiful tale of a family , reduced to live , for weeks , on potatoes , only , and many a mind would awake to deep sympathy , and stretch forth the hand of charity . But describe cases , where the immortal mind is pining in stupidity and ignorance , or racked with the fever of baleful passions , and how small the number , so elevated in sentiment , and so enlarged in their views , as to appreciate and sympathize in these far greater misfortunes ! The intellectual and moral wants of our fellow-men , therefore , should claim the first place in our attention , both because they are most important , and because they are most neglected . Another consideration , to be borne in mind , is , that , in this Country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplying physical necessities , than is generally supposed , by those who have not learned the more excellent way . This Land is so abundant in supplies , and labor is in such demand , that every healthy person can earn a comfortable support . And if all the poor were instantly made virtuous , it is probable that there would be no physical wants , which could not readily be supplied by the immediate friends of each sufferer . The sick , the aged , and the orphan , would be the only objects of charity . In this view of the case , the primary effort , in relieving the poor , should be , to furnish them the means of earning their own support , and to supply them with those moral influences , which are most effectual in securing virtue and industry . Another point to be attended to , is , the importance of maintaining a system of associated charities . There is no point , in which the economy of charity has more improved , than in the present mode of combining many small contributions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If all the half-dollars , which are now contributed to aid in organized systems of charity , were returned to the donors , to be applied by the agency and discretion of each , thousands and thousands of the treasures , now employed to promote the moral and intellectual wants of mankind , would become entirely useless . In a democracy , like ours , where few are very rich , and the majority are in comfortable circumstances , this collecting and dispensing of drops and rills , is the mode , by which , in imitation of Nature , the dews and showers are to distil on parched and desert lands . And every person , while earning a pittance to unite with many more , may be cheered with the consciousness of sustaining a grand system of operations , which must have the most decided influence , in raising all mankind to that perfect state of society , which Christianity is designed to secure . Another consideration , relates to the indiscriminate bestowal of charity . Persons , who have taken pains to inform themselves , and who devote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that this is one of the most fruitful sources of indolence , vice , and poverty . From several of these , the writer has learned , that , by their own personal investigations , they have ascertained , that there are large establishments of idle and wicked persons , in most of our cities , who associate together , to support themselves by every species of imposition . They hire large houses , and live in constant rioting , on the means thus obtained . Among them , are women who have , or who hire the use of , infant children ; others , who are blind , or maimed , or deformed , or who can adroitly feign such infirmities , and , by these means of exciting pity , and by artful tales of wo , they collect alms , both in city and country , to spend in all manner of gross and guilty indulgences . Meantime , many persons , finding themselves often duped by impostors , refuse to give at all ; and thus many benefactions are withdrawn , which a wise economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other reasons , it is wise and merciful , to adopt the general rule , never to give alms , till we have had some opportunity of knowing how they will be spent . There are exceptions to this , as to every general rule , which a person of discretion can determine . But the practice , so common among benevolent persons , of giving , at least a trifle , to all who ask , lest , perchance , they may turn away some , who are really sufferers , is one , which causes more sin and misery than it cures . The writer has never known any system for dispensing charity , so successful , as the one which , in many places , has been adopted in connection with the distribution of tracts . By this method , a town or city is divided into districts ; and each district is committed to the care of two ladies , whose duty it is , to call on each family and leave a tract , and make that the occasion for entering into conversation , and learning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this method , the ignorant , the vicious , and the poor , are discovered , and their physical , intellectual , and moral , wants , are investigated . In some places , where the writer has resided or visited , each person retained the same district , year after year , so that every poor family in the place was under the watch and care of some intelligent and benevolent lady , who used all her influence to secure a proper education for the children , to furnish them with suitable reading , to encourage habits of industry and economy , and to secure regular attendance on public religious instruction . Thus , the rich and the poor were brought in contact , in a way advantageous to both parties ; and , if such a system could be universally adopted , more would be done for the prevention of poverty and vice , than all the wealth of the Nation could avail for their relief . But this plan can not be successfully carried out , in this manner , unless there is a large proportion of intelligent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere distribution of tracts , without the other parts of the plan , is of very little avail . But there is one species of charity , which needs especial consideration . It is that , which induces us to refrain from judging of the means and the relative charities of other persons . There have been such indistinct notions , and so many different standards of duty , on this subject , that it is rare for two persons to think exactly alike , in regard to the rule of duty . Each person is bound to inquire and judge for himself , as to his own duty or deficiencies ; but as both the resources , and the amount of the actual charities , of other men are beyond our ken , it is as indecorous , as it is uncharitable , to sit in judgement on their decisions . CHAPTER XVI . ON ECONOMY OF TIME AND EXPENSES . On Economy of Time . The value of time , and our obligation to spend every hour for some useful end , are what few minds properly realize . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obligations in this respect , sometimes greatly misjudge in their estimate of what are useful and proper modes of employing time . This arises from limited views of the importance of some pursuits , which they would deem frivolous and useless , but which are , in reality , necessary to preserve the health of body and mind , and those social affections , which it is very important to cherish . Christianity teaches , that , for all the time afforded us , we must give account to God ; and that we have no right to waste a single hour . But time , which is spent in rest or amusement , is often as usefully employed , as if it were devoted to labor or devotion . In employing our time , we are to make suitable allowance for sleep , for preparing and taking food , for securing the means of a livelihood , for intellectual improvement , for exercise and amusement , for social enjoyments , and for benevolent and religious duties . And it is the right apportionment of time , to these various duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apportionment , we are bound by the same rules , as relate to the use of property . We are to employ whatever portion is necessary to sustain life and health , as the first duty ; and the remainder we are so to apportion , that our highest interests , shall receive the greatest allotment , and our physical gratifications , the least . The laws of the Supreme Ruler , when He became the civil as well as the religious Head of the Jewish theocracy , furnish an example , which it would be well for all attentively to consider , when forming plans for the apportionment of time and property . To properly estimate this example , it must be borne in mind , that the main object of God , was , to preserve His religion among the Jewish nation ; and that they were not required to take any means to propagate it among other nations , as Christians are now required to extend Christianity . So low were they , in the scale of civilization and mental developement , that a system , which confined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prevented their growing very rich , or having extensive commerce with other nations , was indispensable to prevent their relapsing into the low idolatries and vices of the nations around them . The proportion of time and property , which every Jew was required to devote to intellectual , benevolent , and religious purposes , was as follows : In regard to property , they were required to give one tenth of all their yearly income , to support the Levites , the priests , and the religious service . Next , they were required to give the first fruits of all their corn , wine , oil , and fruits , and the first-born of all their cattle , for the Lord 's treasury , to be employed for the priests , the widow , the fatherless , and the stranger . The first-born , also , of their children , were the Lord 's , and were to be redeemed by a specified sum , paid into the sacred treasury . Besides this , they were required to bring a freewill offering to God , every time they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to this , regular yearly sacrifices , of cattle and fowls , were required of each family , and occasional sacrifices for certain sins or ceremonial impurities . In reaping their fields , they were required to leave unreaped , for the poor , the corners ; not to glean their fields , olive-yards , or vineyards ; and , if a sheaf was left , by mistake , they were not to return for it , but leave it for the poor . When a man sent away a servant , he was thus charged : " Furnish him liberally out of thy flock , and out of thy floor , and out of thy wine-press . " When a poor man came to borrow money , they were forbidden to deny him , or to take any interest ; and if , at the sabbatical , or seventh , year , he could not pay , the debt was to be cancelled . And to this command , is added the significant caution , " Beware that there be not a thought in thy wicked heart , saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is at hand ; and thine eye be evil against thy poor brother , and thou givest him nought ; and he cry unto the Lord against thee , and it be sin unto thee . Thou shalt surely give him , " " because that for this thing the Lord thy God shall bless thee in all thy works , and in all that thou puttest thine hand unto . " Besides this , the Levites were distributed through the land , with the intention that they should be instructors and priests in every part of the nation . Thus , one twelfth of the people were set apart , having no landed property , to be priests and teachers ; and the other tribes were required to support them liberally . In regard to the time taken from secular pursuits , for the support of religion , an equally liberal amount was demanded . In the first place , one seventh part of their time was taken for the weekly sabbath , when no kind of work was to be done . Then the whole nation were required to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , which , including their journeys , and stay there , occupied eight weeks , or another seventh part of their time . Then the sabbatical year , when no agricultural labor was to be done , took another seventh of their time from their regular pursuits , as they were an agricultural people . This was the amount of time and property demanded by God , simply to sustain religion and morality within the bounds of that nation . Christianity demands the spread of its blessings to all mankind , and so the restrictions laid on the Jews are withheld , and all our wealth and time , not needful for our own best interest , is to be employed in improving the condition of our fellow-men . In deciding respecting the rectitude of our pursuits , we are bound to aim at some practical good , as the ultimate object . With every duty of this life , our benevolent Creator has connected some species of enjoyment , to draw us to perform it . Thus , the palate is gratified , by performing the duty of nourishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in pursuing useful knowledge ; the desire of approbation is gratified , when we perform benevolent and social duties ; and every other duty has an alluring enjoyment connected with it . But the great mistake of mankind has consisted in seeking the pleasures , connected with these duties , as the sole aim , without reference to the main end that should be held in view , and to which the enjoyment should be made subservient . Thus , men seek to gratify the palate , without reference to the question whether the body is properly nourished ; and follow after knowledge , without inquiring whether it ministers to good or evil . But , in gratifying the implanted desires of our nature , we are bound so to restrain ourselves , by reason and conscience , as always to seek the main objects of existence  --  the highest good of ourselves and others ; and never to sacrifice this , for the mere gratification of our sensual desires . We are to gratify appetite , just so far as is consistent with health and usefulness ; and the desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do most good by our influence and efforts ; and no farther . We are to seek social intercourse , to that extent , which will best promote domestic enjoyment and kindly feelings among neighbors and friends ; and we are to pursue exercise and amusement , only so far as will best sustain the vigor of body and mind . For the right apportionment of time , to these and various other duties , we are to give an account to our Creator and final Judge . Instead of attempting to give any very specific rules on this subject , some modes of economizing time will be suggested . The most powerful of all agencies , in this matter , is , that habit of system and order , in all our pursuits , which has been already pointed out . It is probable , that a regular and systematic employment of time , will enable a person to accomplish thrice the amount of labor , that could otherwise be performed . Another mode of economizing time , is , by uniting several objects in one employment . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with social enjoyments , as is done in associations for sewing , or visiting the poor . Instruction and amusement can also be combined . Pursuits like music , gardening , drawing , botany , and the like , unite intellectual improvement with amusement , social enjoyment , and exercise . With housekeepers , and others whose employments are various and desultory , much time can be saved by preparing employments for little intervals of leisure . Thus , some ladies make ready , and keep in the parlor , light work , to take up when detained there ; some keep a book at hand , in the nursery , to read while holding or sitting by a sleeping infant . One of the most popular female poets of our Country very often shows her friends , at their calls , that the thread of the knitting , never need interfere with the thread of agreeable discourse . It would be astonishing , to one who had never tried the experiment , how much can be accomplished , by a little planning and forethought , in thus finding employment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own time , we are bound to use our influence and example to promote the discharge of the same duty by others . A woman is under obligations so to arrange the hours and pursuits of her family , as to promote systematic and habitual industry ; and if , by late breakfasts , irregular hours for meals , and other hinderances of this kind , she interferes with , or refrains from promoting regular industry in , others , she is accountable to God for all the waste of time consequent on her negligence . The mere example of system and industry , in a housekeeper , has a wonderful influence in promoting the same virtuous habit in others . On Economy in Expenses . It is impossible for a woman to practise a wise economy in expenditures , unless she is taught how to do it , either by a course of experiments , or by the instruction of those who have had experience . It is amusing to notice the various , and oftentimes contradictory , notions of economy , among judicious and experienced housekeepers ; for there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lavish or wasteful , in some respects , by another and equally experienced and judicious person , who , in some different points , would herself be as much condemned by the other . These diversities are occasioned by dissimilar early habits , and by the different relative value assigned , by each , to the various modes of enjoyment , for which money is expended . But , though there may be much disagreement in minor matters , there are certain general principles , which all unite in sanctioning . The first , is , that care be taken to know the amount of income and of current expenses , so that the proper relative proportion be preserved , and the expenditures never exceed the means . Few women can do this , thoroughly , without keeping regular accounts . The habits of this Nation , especially among business-men , are so desultory , and the current expenses of a family , in many points , are so much more under the control of the man than of the woman , that many women , who are disposed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there are often cases , when much is left undone in this particular , simply because no effort is made . Yet every woman is bound to do as much as is in her power , to accomplish a systematic mode of expenditure , and the regulation of it by Christian principles . The following are examples of different methods which have been adopted , for securing a proper adjustment of expenses to the means . The first , is that of a lady , who kept a large boarding-house , in one of our cities . Every evening , before retiring , she took an account of the expenses of the day ; and this usually occupied her not more than fifteen minutes , at a time . On each Saturday , she made an inventory of the stores on hand , and of the daily expenses , and also of what was due to her ; and then made an exact estimate of her expenditures and profits . This , after the first two or three weeks , never took more than an hour , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little time , regularly devoted to this object , she knew , accurately , her income , expenditures , and profits . Another friend of the writer , lives on a regular salary . The method adopted , in this case , is to calculate to what the salary amounts , each week . Then an account is kept , of what is paid out , each week , for rent , fuel , wages , and food . This amount of each week is deducted from the weekly income . The remainders of each week are added , at the close of a month , as the stock from which is to be taken , the dress , furniture , books , travelling expenses , charities , and all other expenditures . Another lady , whose husband is a lawyer , divides the year into four quarters , and the income into four equal parts . She then makes her plans , so that the expenses of one quarter shall never infringe on the income of another . So resolute is she , in carrying out this determination , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of articles before the close of a quarter , which she has not the means for providing , she will subject herself to temporary inconvenience , by waiting , rather than violate her rule . Another lady , whose husband is engaged in a business , which he thinks makes it impossible for him to know what his yearly income will be , took this method :  --  She kept an account of all her disbursements , for one year . This she submitted to her husband , and obtained his consent , that the same sum should be under her control , the coming year , for similar purposes , with the understanding , that she might modify future apportionments , in any way her judgement and conscience might approve . A great deal of uneasiness and discomfort is caused , to both husband and wife , in many cases , by an entire want of system and forethought , in arranging expenses . Both keep buying what they think they need , without any calculation as to how matters are coming out , and with a sort of dread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such never know the comfort of independence . But , if a man or woman will only calculate what their income is , and then plan so as to know that they are all the time living within it , they secure one of the greatest comforts , which wealth ever bestows , and what many of the rich , who live in a loose and careless way , never enjoy . It is not so much the amount of income , as the regular and correct apportionment of expenses , that makes a family truly comfortable . A man , with ten thousand a year , is often more harassed , for want of money , than the systematic economist , who supports a family on only six hundred a year . And the inspired command , " Owe no man any thing , " can never be conscientiously observed , without a systematic adaptation of expenses to means . As it is very important that young ladies should learn systematic economy , in expenses , it will be a great benefit , for every young girl to begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make her own purchases , and keep her accounts , under the guidance of her mother , or some other friend . And if parents would ascertain the actual expense of a daughter 's clothing , for a year , and give the sum to her , in quarterly payments , requiring a regular account , it would be of great benefit in preparing her for future duties . How else are young ladies to learn to make purchases properly , and to be systematic and economical ? The art of system and economy can no more come by intuition , than the art of watchmaking or bookkeeping ; and how strange it appears , that so many young ladies take charge of a husband 's establishment , without having had either instruction or experience in one of the most important duties of their station ! The second general principle of economy , is , that , in apportioning an income , among various objects , the most important should receive the largest supply , and that all retrenchments be made in matters of less importance . In a previous chapter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this duty . Some additional hints will here be added , on the same topic . In regard to dress and furniture , much want of judgement and good taste is often seen , in purchasing some expensive article , which is not at all in keeping with the other articles connected with it . Thus , a large sideboard , or elegant mirror , or sofa , which would be suitable only for a large establishment , with other rich furniture , is crowded into too small a room , with coarse and cheap articles around it . So , also , sometimes a parlor , and company-chamber , will be furnished in a style suitable only for the wealthy , while the table will be supplied with shabby linen , and imperfect crockery , and every other part of the house will look , in comparison with these fine rooms , mean and niggardly . It is not at all uncommon , to find very showy and expensive articles in the part of the house visible to strangers , when the children 's rooms , kitchen , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So in regard to dress , a lady will sometimes purchase an elegant and expensive article , which , instead of attracting admiration from the eye of taste , will merely serve as a decoy to the painful contrast of all other parts of the dress . A woman of real good taste and discretion , will strive to maintain a relative consistency between all departments , and not , in one quarter , live on a scale fitted only to the rich , and in another , on one appropriate only to the poor . Another mistake in economy , is often made , by some of the best-educated and most intelligent of mothers . Such will often be found spending day after day at needlework , when , with a comparatively small sum , this labor could be obtained of those who need the money , which such work would procure for them . Meantime , the daughters of the family , whom the mother is qualified to educate , or so nearly qualified , that she could readily keep ahead of her children , are sent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minds , and their moral and religious interests , are relinquished to the hands of strangers . And the expense , thus incurred , would serve to pay the hire of every thing the mother can do in sewing , four or five times over . The same want of economy is shown in communities , where , instead of establishing a good female school in their vicinity , the men of wealth send their daughters abroad , at double the expense , to be either educated or spoiled , as the case may be . Another species of poor economy , is manifested in neglecting to acquire and apply mechanical skill , which , in consequence , has to be hired from others . Thus , all the plain sewing will be done by the mother and daughters , while all that requires skill will be hired . Instead of this , others take pains to have their daughters instructed in mantuamaking , and the simpler parts of millinery , so that the plain work is given to the poor , who need it , and the more expensive and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows ladies , who not only make their own dresses , but also their caps , bonnets , and artificial flowers . Some persons make miscalculations in economy , by habitually looking up cheap articles , while others go to the opposite extreme , and always buy the best of every thing . Those ladies , who are considered the best economists , do not adopt either method . In regard to cheap goods , the fading colors , the damages discovered in use , the poorness of material , and the extra sewing demanded to replace articles lost by such causes , usually render them very dear , in the end . On the other hand , though some articles , of the most expensive kind , wear longest and best , yet , as a general rule , articles at medium prices do the best service . This is true of table and bed linens , broadcloths , shirtings , and the like ; though , even in these cases , it is often found , that the coarsest and cheapest last the longest . Buying by wholesale , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in large families , where the mistress is careful ; but in other cases , the hazards of accident , and the temptation to a lavish use , will make the loss outrun the profits . There is one mode of economizing , which , it is hoped , will every year grow more rare ; and that is , making penurious savings , by getting the poor to work as cheap as possible . Many amiable and benevolent women have done this , on principle , without reflecting on the want of Christian charity thus displayed . Let every woman , in making bargains with the poor , conceive herself placed in the same circumstances , toiling hour after hour , and day after day , for a small sum , and then deal with others as she would be dealt by in such a situation . Liberal prices , and prompt payment , should be an invariable maxim , in dealing with the poor . The third general principle of economy , is , that all articles should be so used , and taken care of , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Under this head , come many particulars in regard to the use and preservation of articles , which will be found more in detail in succeeding chapters . It may be proper , however , here to refer to one very common impression , as to the relative obligation of the poor and the rich in regard to economy . Many seem to suppose , that those who are wealthy , have a right to be lavish and negligent in the care of expenses . But this surely is a great mistake . Property is a talent , given by God , to spend for the welfare of mankind ; and the needless waste of it , is as wrong in the rich , as it is in the poor . The rich are under obligations to apportion their income , to the various objects demanding attention , by the same rule as all others ; and if this will allow them to spend more for superfluities than those of smaller means , it never makes it right to misuse or waste any of the bounties of Providence . Whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be carefully saved , to add to the enjoyment of others . It is not always that men understand the economy of Providence , in that unequal distribution of property , which , even under the most perfect form of government , will always exist . Many , looking at the present state of things , imagine that the rich , if they acted in strict conformity to the law of benevolence , would share all their property with their suffering fellow-men . But such do not take into account , the inspired declaration , that " a man 's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth , " or , in other words , life is made valuable , not by great possessions , but by such a character as prepares a man to enjoy what he holds . God perceives that human character can be most improved , by that kind of discipline , which exists , when there is something valuable to be gained by industrious efforts . This stimulus to industry could never exist , in a community where all are just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where every man sees , possessed by others , enjoyments , which he desires , and may secure by effort and industry . So , in a community where all are alike as to property , there would be no chance to gain that noblest of all attainments , a habit of self-denying benevolence , which toils for the good of others , and takes from one 's own store , to increase the enjoyments of another . Instead , then , of the stagnation , both of industry and of benevolence , which would follow the universal and equable distribution of property , one class of men , by superior advantages of birth , or intellect , or patronage , come into possession of a great amount of capital . With these means , they are enabled , by study , reading , and travel , to secure expansion of mind , and just views of the relative advantages of moral , intellectual , and physical enjoyments . At the same time , Christianity imposes obligations , corresponding with the increase of advantages and means . The rich are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their wealth is given , by God , to be employed for the best good of mankind ; and their intellectual advantages are designed , primarily , to enable them to judge correctly , in employing their means most wisely for the general good . Now , suppose a man of wealth inherits ten thousand acres of real estate : it is not his duty to divide it among his poor neighbors and tenants . If he took this course , it is probable , that most of them would spend all in thriftless waste and indolence , or in mere physical enjoyments . Instead , then , of thus putting his capital out of his hands , he is bound to retain , and so to employ , it , as to raise his neighbors and tenants to such a state of virtue and intelligence , that they can secure far more , by their own efforts and industry , than he , by dividing his capital , could bestow upon them . In this view of the subject , it is manifest , that the unequal distribution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that so large a portion of those who hold much capital , instead of using their various advantages for the greatest good of those around them , employ the chief of them for mere selfish indulgences ; thus inflicting as much mischief on themselves , as results to others from their culpable neglect . A great portion of the rich seem to be acting on the principle , that the more God bestows on them , the less are they under obligation to practise any self-denial , in fulfilling his benevolent plan of raising our race to intelligence and holiness . There are not a few , who seem to imagine that it is a mark of gentility to be careless of expenses . But this notion , is owing to a want of knowledge of the world . As a general fact , it will be found , that persons of rank and wealth , abroad , are much more likely to be systematic and economical , than persons of inferior standing in these respects . Even the most frivolous , among the rich and great , are often found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to secure gratifications in another direction . And it will be found so common , among persons of vulgar minds , and little education , and less sense , to make a display of profusion and indifference to expense , as a mark of their claims to gentility , that the really genteel look upon it rather as a mark of low breeding . So that the sort of feeling , which some persons cherish , as if it were a degradation to be careful of small sums , and to be attentive to relative prices , in making purchases , is founded on mistaken notions of gentility and propriety . But one caution is needful , in regard to another extreme . When a lady of wealth , is seen roaming about in search of cheaper articles , or trying to beat down a shopkeeper , or making a close bargain with those she employs , the impropriety is glaring to all minds . A person of wealth has no occasion to spend time in looking for extra cheap articles ; her time could be more profitably employed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of beating down tradespeople , is vulgar and degrading , in any one . A woman , after a little inquiry , can ascertain what is the fair and common price of things ; and if she is charged an exorbitant sum , she can decline taking the article . If the price be a fair one , it is not becoming in her to search for another article which is below the regular charge . If a woman finds that she is in a store where they charge high prices , expecting to be beat down , she can mention , that she wishes to know the lowest price , as it is contrary to her principles to beat down charges . There is one inconsistency , worthy of notice , which is found among that class , who are ambitious of being ranked among the aristocracy of society . It has been remarked , that , in the real aristocracy of other lands , it is much more common , than with us , to practise systematic economy . And such do not hesitate to say so , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to subordinate grades ; so that foreign ladies , when they come to reside among us , seldom hesitate in assigning the true reason , when they can not afford any gratification . But in this Country , it will be found , that many , who are most fond of copying aristocratic examples , are , on this point , rather with the vulgar . Not a few of those young persons , who begin life with parlors and dresses in a style fitting only to established wealth , go into expenses , which they can ill afford ; and are ashamed even to allow , that they are restrained from any expense , by motives of economy . Such a confession is never extorted , except by some call of benevolence ; and then , they are very ready to declare that they can not afford to bestow even a pittance . In such cases , it would seem as if the direct opposite of Christianity had gained possession of their tastes and opinions . They are ashamed to appear to deny themselves ; but are very far from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHAPTER XVII . ON HEALTH OF MIND . There is such an intimate connection between the body and mind , that the health of one , can not be preserved , without a proper care of the other . And it is from a neglect of this principle , that some of the most exemplary and conscientious persons in the world , suffer a thousand mental agonies , from a diseased state of body , while others ruin the health of the body , by neglecting the proper care of the mind . When the brain is excited , by stimulating drinks taken into the stomach , it produces a corresponding excitement of the mental faculties . The reason , the imagination , and all the powers , are stimulated to preternatural vigor and activity . In like manner , when the mind is excited by earnest intellectual effort , or by strong passions , the brain is equally excited , and the blood rushes to the head . Sir Astley Cooper records , that , in examining the brain of a young man who had lost a portion of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to his wishes , " " the blood was sent , with increased force , to his brain , " and the pulsations " became frequent and violent . " The same effect was produced by any intellectual effort ; and the flushed countenance , which attends earnest study or strong emotions of fear , shame , or anger , is an external indication of the suffused state of the brain from such causes . In exhibiting the causes , which injure the health of the mind , they will be found to be partly physical , partly intellectual , and partly moral . The first cause of mental disease and suffering , is not unfrequently found in the want of a proper supply of duly oxygenized blood . It has been shown , that the blood , in passing through the lungs , is purified , by the oxygen of the air combining with the superabundant hydrogen and carbon of the venous blood , thus forming carbonic acid and water , which are expired into the atmosphere . Every pair of lungs is constantly withdrawing from the surrounding atmosphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injurious to human life . When , by confinement , and this process , the atmosphere is deprived of its appropriate supply of oxygen , the purification of the blood is interrupted , and it passes , without being properly prepared , into the brain , producing languor , restlessness , and inability to exercise the intellect and feelings . Whenever , therefore , persons sleep in a close apartment , or remain , for a length of time , in a crowded or ill-ventilated room , a most pernicious influence is exerted on the brain , and , through this , on the mind . A person , who is often exposed to such influences , can never enjoy that elasticity and vigor of mind , which is one of the chief indications of its health . This is the reason , why all rooms for religious meetings , and all schoolrooms , and sleeping apartments , should be so contrived , as to secure a constant supply of fresh air from without . The minister , who preaches in a crowded and ill-ventilated apartment , loses much of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are equally reduced , in their capability of attending . The teacher , who confines children in a close apartment , diminishes their ability to study , or to attend to his instructions . And the person , who habitually sleeps in a close room , impairs his mental energies , in a similar degree . It is not unfrequently the case , that depression of spirits , and stupor of intellect , are occasioned solely by inattention to this subject . Another cause of mental disease , is , the excessive exercise of the intellect or feelings . If the eye is taxed , beyond its strength , by protracted use , its blood-vessels become gorged , and the bloodshot appearance warns of the excess and the need of rest . The brain is affected , in a similar manner , by excessive use , though the suffering and inflamed organ can not make its appeal to the eye . But there are some indications , which ought never to be misunderstood or disregarded . In cases of pupils , at school or at college , a diseased state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mind , and ease and vigor of mental action . In one instance , known to the writer , a most exemplary and industrious pupil , anxious to improve every hour , and ignorant or unmindful of the laws of health , first manifested the diseased state of her brain and mind , by demands for more studies , and a sudden and earnest activity in planning modes of improvement for herself and others . When warned of her danger , she protested that she never was better , in her life ; that she took regular exercise , in the open air , went to bed in season , slept soundly , and felt perfectly well ; that her mind was never before so bright and clear , and study never so easy and delightful . And at this time , she was on the verge of derangement , from which she was saved only by an entire cessation of all her intellectual efforts . A similar case occurred , under the eye of the writer , from over-excited feelings . It was during a time of unusual religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first manifested , by the pupil bringing her Hymn-book or Bible to the class-room , and making it her constant resort , in every interval of school duty . It finally became impossible to convince her , that it was her duty to attend to any thing else ; her conscience became morbidly sensitive , her perceptions indistinct , her deductions unreasonable , and nothing , but entire change of scene , exercise , and amusement , saved her . When the health of the brain was restored , she found that she could attend to the " one thing needful , " not only without interruption of duty , or injury of health , but rather so as to promote both . Clergymen and teachers need most carefully to notice and guard against the danger here alluded to . Any such attention to religion , as prevents the performance of daily duties and needful relaxation , is dangerous , as tending to produce such a state of the brain , as makes it impossible to feel or judge correctly . And when any morbid and unreasonable pertinacity appears , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be urged , as the only mode of securing the religious benefits aimed at . And whenever any mind is oppressed with care , anxiety , or sorrow , the amount of active exercise in the fresh air should be greatly increased , that the action of the muscles may withdraw the blood , which , in such seasons , is constantly tending too much to the brain . There has been a most appalling amount of suffering , derangement , disease , and death , occasioned by a want of attention to this subject , in teachers and parents . Uncommon precocity in children is usually the result of an unhealthy state of the brain ; and , in such cases , medical men would now direct , that the wonderful child should be deprived of all books and study , and turned to play or work in the fresh air . Instead of this , parents frequently add fuel to the fever of the brain , by supplying constant mental stimulus , until the victim finds refuge in idiocy or an early grave . Where such fatal results do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is so weakened , that the prodigy of infancy sinks below the medium of intellectual powers in afterlife . In our colleges , too , many of the most promising minds sink to an early grave , or drag out a miserable existence , from this same cause . And it is an evil , as yet little alleviated by the increase of physiological knowledge . Every college and professional school , and every seminary for young ladies , needs a medical man , not only to lecture on physiology and the laws of health , but empowered , in his official capacity , to investigate the case of every pupil , and , by authority , to restrain him to such a course of study , exercise , and repose , as his physical system requires . The writer has found , by experience , that , in a large institution , there is one class of pupils who need to be restrained , by penalties , from late hours and excessive study , as much as another class need stimulus to industry . Under the head of excessive mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in novel reading and castle building . This kind of stimulus , unless counterbalanced by physical exercise , not only wastes time and energies , but undermines the vigor of the nervous system . The imagination was designed , by our kind Creator , as the charm and stimulus to animate to benevolent activity ; and its perverted exercise seldom fails to bring the appropriate penalty . A third cause of mental disease , is , the want of the appropriate exercise of the various faculties of the mind . On this point , Dr. Combe remarks , " We have seen , that , by disuse , muscle becomes emaciated , bone softens , blood-vessels are obliterated , and nerves lose their characteristic structure . The brain is no exception to this general rule . Of it , also , the tone is impaired by permanent inactivity , and it becomes less fit to manifest the mental powers with readiness and energy . " It is " the withdrawal of the stimulus necessary for its healthy exercise , which renders solitary confinement so severe a punishment , even to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same cause , which renders continuous seclusion from society so injurious , to both mental and bodily health . " " Inactivity of intellect and of feeling is a very frequent predisposing cause of every form of nervous disease . For demonstrative evidence of this position , we have only to look at the numerous victims to be found , among persons who have no call to exertion in gaining the means of subsistence , and no objects of interest on which to exercise their mental faculties and who consequently sink into a state of mental sloth and nervous weakness . " " If we look abroad upon society , we shall find innumerable examples of mental and nervous debility from this cause . When a person of some mental capacity is confined , for a long time , to an unvarying round of employment , which affords neither scope nor stimulus for one half of his faculties , and , from want of education or society , has no external resources ; his mental powers , for want of exercise , become blunted , and his perceptions slow and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being provided with interests external to themselves , must either become inactive and weak , or work upon themselves and become diseased . " " The most frequent victims of this kind of predisposition , are females of the middle and higher ranks , especially those of a nervous constitution and good natural abilities ; but who , from an ill-directed education , possess nothing more solid than mere accomplishments , and have no materials of thought , " and no " occupation to excite interest or demand attention . " " The liability of such persons to melancholy , hysteria , hypochondriasis , and other varieties of mental distress , really depends on a state of irritability of brain , induced by imperfect exercise . " These remarks , of a medical man , illustrate the principles before indicated ;  --  namely , that the demand of Christianity , that we live to promote the general happiness , and not merely for selfish indulgence , has for its aim , not only the general good , but the highest happiness , of the individual of whom it is required . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noble to engage his attention , than seeking his own personal enjoyment , subjects his mental powers and moral feelings to a degree of inactivity , utterly at war with health of mind . And the greater the capacities , the greater are the sufferings which result from this cause . Any one , who has read the misanthropic wailings of Lord Byron , has seen the necessary result of great and noble powers bereft of their appropriate exercise , and , in consequence , becoming sources of the keenest suffering . It is this view of the subject , which has often awakened feelings of sorrow and anxiety in the mind of the writer , while aiding in the developement and education of superior female minds , in the wealthier circles . Not because there are not noble objects for interest and effort , abundant , and within reach of such minds ; but because long-established custom has made it seem so Quixotic , to the majority , even of the professed followers of Christ , for a woman of wealth to practise any great self-denial , that few have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an influence . The more a mind has its powers developed , the more does it aspire and pine after some object worthy of its energies and affections ; and they are commonplace and phlegmatic characters , who are most free from such deep-seated wants . Many a young woman , of fine genius and elevated sentiment , finds a charm in Lord Byron 's writings , because they present a glowing picture of what , to a certain extent , must be felt by every well-developed mind , which has no nobler object in life , than the pursuit of its own gratification . If young ladies of wealth could pursue their education , under the full conviction that the increase of their powers and advantages increased their obligations to use all for the good of society , and with some plan of benevolent enterprise in view , what new motives of interest would be added to their daily pursuits ! And what blessed results would follow , to our beloved Country , if all well-educated females carried out the principles of Christianity , in the exercise of their developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are women , among the most intelligent and wealthy , who can be presented as examples of what may be done , when there is a heart to do . A pupil of the writer is among this number , who , though a rich heiress , immediately , on the close of her school-life , commenced a course of self-denying benevolence , in the cause of education . She determined to secure a superior female institution , in her native place , which should extend the benefits of the best education to all in that vicinity , at a moderate charge . Finding no teacher on the ground , prepared to take the lead , and though herself a timid and retiring character , she began , with the aid of the governess in her mother 's family , a daily school , superintending all , and teaching six hours a day . The liberal-minded and intelligent mother cooperated , and the result is a flourishing female seminary , with a large and beautiful and well-furnished building ; the greater part of the means being supplied by the mother , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And both these ladies will testify , that no time or money , spent for any other object , has ever secured to them more real and abiding enjoyment , than witnessing the results of this successful and benevolent enterprise , which , for years to come , will pour forth blessings on society . Another lady could be pointed out , who , possessing some property , went into a new western village , built and furnished her schoolhouse , and established herself there , to aid in raising a community from ignorance and gross worldliness , to intelligence and virtue . And in repeated instances , among the friends and pupils of the writer , young ladies have left wealthy homes , and affectionate friends , to find nobler enjoyments , in benevolent and active exertions to extend intelligence and virtue , where such disinterested laborers were needed . In other cases , where it was not practicable to leave home , well-educated young ladies have interested themselves in common schools in the vicinity , aiding the teachers , by their sympathy , counsel , and personal assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families to educate , and being well qualified for such duties , have relinquished a large portion of domestic labor and superintendence , which humbler minds could be hired to perform , devoted themselves to the education of their children , and received others , less fortunate , to share with their own these superior advantages . But , so long as the feeling widely exists , that the increase of God 's bounties diminishes the obligations of self-denying service for the good of mankind , so long will well-educated women , in easy circumstances , shrink from such confinement and exertion . It is believed , however , that there are many benevolent and intelligent women , in this Country , who would gladly engage in such enterprises , were there any appropriate way within their reach . And it is a question , well deserving consideration , among those who guide the public mind in benevolent enterprises , whether some organization is not demanded , which shall bring the whole community to act systematically , in voluntary associations , to extend a proper education to every child in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise and benevolence now lying dormant , for want of proper facilities to exercise them . There are hundreds of villages , which need teachers , and that would support them , if they were on the spot , but which never will send for them . And there are hundreds of females , now unemployed , who would teach , if a proper place , and home , and support , and escort , were provided for them . And there needs to be some enlarged and systematic plan , conducted by wise and efficient men , to secure these objects . Could such a plan , as the one suggested , be carried out , it is believed that many female minds , now suffering , from diseases occasioned by want of appropriate objects for their energies , would be relieved . The duties of a teacher exercise every intellectual faculty , to its full extent ; while , in this benevolent service , all the social , moral , and benevolent , emotions , are kept in full play . The happiest persons the writer has ever known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happy as they wished to be , in this world , ( and she has seen such , )  --  were persons engaged in this employment . The indications of a diseased mind , owing to a want of the proper exercise of its powers , are , apathy , discontent , a restless longing for excitement , a craving for unattainable good , a diseased and morbid action of the imagination , dissatisfaction with the world , and factitious interest in trifles which the mind feels to be unworthy of its powers . Such minds sometimes seek alleviation in exciting amusements ; others resort to the grosser enjoyments of sense . Oppressed with the extremes of languor , or over-excitement , or apathy , the body fails under the wearing process , and adds new causes of suffering to the mind . Such , the compassionate Saviour calls to his service , in these appropriate terms : " Come unto Me , all ye that labor and are heavy laden , and I will give you rest . Take My yoke upon you , and learn of Me , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " CHAPTER XVIII . ON THE CARE OF DOMESTICS . There is no point , where the women of this Country need more wisdom , patience , principle , and self-control , than in relation to those whom they employ in domestic service . The subject is attended with many difficulties , which powerfully influence the happiness of families ; and the following suggestions are offered , to aid in securing right opinions and practice . One consideration , which it would be well to bear in mind , on this subject , is , that a large portion of the peculiar trials , which American women suffer from this source , are the necessary evils connected with our most valuable civil blessings . Every blessing of this life involves some attendant liability to evil , from the same source ; and , in this case , while we rejoice at a state of society , which so much raises the condition and advantages of our sex , the evils involved should be regarded as more than repaid , by the compensating benefits . If we can not secure the cringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let us be consoled that we thus escape from the untold miseries and oppression , which always attend that state of society . Instead , then , of complaining that we can not have our own peculiar advantages , and those of other nations , too , or imagining how much better off we should be , if things were different from what they are , it is much wiser and more Christianlike to strive cheerfully to conform to actual circumstances ; and , after remedying all that we can control , patiently to submit to what is beyond our power . If domestics are found to be incompetent , unstable , and unconformed to their station , it is Perfect Wisdom which appoints these trials , to teach us patience , fortitude , and self-control ; and , if the discipline is met , in a proper spirit , it will prove a blessing , rather than an evil . But , to judge correctly in regard to some of the evils involved in the state of domestic service , in this Country , we should endeavor to conceive ourselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is made , that we may not expect , from them , any more than it would seem right should be exacted from us , in similar circumstances . It is sometimes urged , against domestics , that they exact exorbitant wages . But what is the rule of rectitude , on this subject ? Is it not the universal law of labor and of trade , that an article is to be valued , according to its scarcity and the demand ? When wheat is scarce , the farmer raises his price ; and when a mechanic offers services , difficult to be obtained , he makes a corresponding increase of price . And why is it not right , for domestics to act according to a rule , allowed to be correct in reference to all other trades and professions ? It is a fact , that really good domestic service must continue to increase in value , just in proportion as this Country waxes rich and prosperous ; thus making the proportion of those , who wish to hire labor , relatively greater , and the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Money enables the rich to gain many advantages , which those of more limited circumstances can not secure . One of these , is , securing good domestics , by offering high wages ; and this , as the scarcity of this class increases , will serve constantly to raise the price of service . It is right for domestics to charge the market value , and this value is always decided by the scarcity of the article and the amount of demand . Right views of this subject , will sometimes serve to diminish hard feelings towards those , who would otherwise be wrongfully regarded as unreasonable and exacting . Another complaint against domestics , is , that of instability and discontent , leading to perpetual change . But in reference to this , let a mother or daughter conceive of their own circumstances as so changed , that the daughter must go out to service . Suppose a place is engaged , and it is then found that she must sleep in a comfortless garret ; and that , when a new domestic comes , perhaps a coarse and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Another place is offered , where she can have a comfortable room , and an agreeable room-mate ; in such a case , would not both mother and daughter think it right to change ? Or , suppose , on trial , it was found that the lady of the house was fretful , or exacting , and hard to please ; or , that her children were so ungoverned , as to be perpetual vexations ; or , that the work was so heavy , that no time was allowed for relaxation and the care of a wardrobe ;  --  and another place offers , where these evils can be escaped : would not mother and daughter here think it right to change ? And is it not right for domestics , as well as their employers , to seek places , where they can be most comfortable ? In some cases , this instability and love of change would be remedied , if employers would take more pains to make a residence with them agreeable ; and to attach domestics to the family , by feelings of gratitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestics are most rare , who seldom find any trouble in keeping good and steady ones . And the reason is , that their domestics know they can not better their condition , by any change within reach . It is not merely by giving them comfortable rooms , and good food , and presents , and privileges , that the attachment of domestics is secured ; it is by the manifestation of a friendly and benevolent interest in their comfort and improvement . This is exhibited , in bearing patiently with their faults ; in kindly teaching them how to improve ; in showing them how to make and take proper care of their clothes ; in guarding their health ; in teaching them to read , if necessary , and supplying them with proper books ; and , in short , by endeavoring , so far as may be , to supply the place of parents . It is seldom that such a course would fail to secure steady service , and such affection and gratitude , that even higher wages would be ineffectual to tempt them away . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but there is no doubt that the course indicated , if generally pursued , would very much lessen the evil in question . Another subject of complaint , in regard to domestics , is , their pride , insubordination , and spirit not conformed to their condition . They are not willing to be called servants ; in some places , they claim a seat , at meals , with the family ; they imitate a style of dress unbecoming their condition ; and their manners and address are rude and disrespectful . That these evils are very common , among this class of persons , can not be denied ; the only question is , how can they best be met and remedied . In regard to the common feeling among domestics , which is pained and offended by being called " servants , " there is need of some consideration and allowance . It should be remembered , that , in this Country , children , from their earliest years , are trained to abhor slavery , in reference to themselves , as the greatest of all possible shame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and compositions of all sorts , which set forth the honor and dignity of freemen , and heap scorn and contempt on all who would be so mean as to be slaves . Now the term servant , and the duties it involves , are , in the minds of many persons , nearly the same as those of slave . And there are few minds , entirely free from associations which make servitude a degradation . It is not always pride , then , which makes this term so offensive . It is a consequence of that noble and generous spirit of freedom , which every American draws from his mother 's breast , and which ought to be respected , rather than despised . In order to be respected , by others , we must respect ourselves ; and sometimes the ruder classes of society make claims , deemed forward and offensive , when , with their views , such a position seems indispensable to preserve a proper self-respect . Where an excessive sensibility on this subject exists , and forward and disrespectful manners result from it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correct views , such as better-educated minds are best able to attain . It should be shown to them , that , in this Country , labor has ceased to be degrading , in any class ; that , in all classes , different grades of subordination must exist ; and that it is no more degrading , for a domestic to regard the heads of a family as superiors in station , and treat them with becoming respect , than it is for children to do the same , or for men to treat their rulers with respect and deference . They should be taught , that domestics use a different entrance to the house , and sit at a distinct table , not because they are inferior beings , but because this is the best method of securing neatness , order , and convenience . They can be shown , if it is attempted in a proper spirit and manner , that these very regulations really tend to their own ease and comfort , as well as to that of the family . The writer has known a case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sake of convincing her domestic of the truth of these views , allowed her to follow her own notions , for a short time , and join the family at meals . It was merely required , as a condition , that she should always dress her hair as the other ladies did , and appear in a clean dress , and abide by all the rules of propriety at table , which the rest were required to practise , and which were duly detailed . The experiment was tried , two or three times ; and , although the domestic was treated with studious politeness and kindness , she soon felt that she should be much more comfortable in the kitchen , where she could talk , eat , and dress , as she pleased . A reasonable domestic can also be made to feel the propriety of allowing opportunity for the family to talk freely of their private affairs , when they meet at meals , as they never could do , if restrained by the constant presence of a stranger . Such views , presented in a kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a domestic , who is sensitive on such subjects . When a domestic is forward and bold in manners , and disrespectful in address , a similar course can be pursued . It can be shown , that those , who are among the best-bred and genteel , have courteous and respectful manners and language to all they meet , while many , who have wealth , are regarded as vulgar , because they exhibit rude and disrespectful manners . The very term , gentleman , indicates the refinement and delicacy of address , which distinguishes the high-bred from the coarse and vulgar . In regard to appropriate dress , in most cases it is difficult for an employer to interfere , directly , with comments or advice . The most successful mode , is , to offer some service in mending or making a wardrobe , and when a confidence in the kindness of feeling is thus gained , remarks and suggestions will generally be properly received , and new views of propriety and economy can be imparted . In some cases , it may be well for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this kind ,  --  in making the agreement , to state that she wishes to have the room , person , and dress of her domestics kept neat , and in order , and that she expects to remind them of their duty , in this particular , if it is neglected . Domestics are very apt to neglect the care of their own chambers and clothing ; and such habits have a most pernicious influence on their wellbeing , and on that of their children in future domestic life . An employer , then , is bound to exercise a parental care over them , in these respects . In regard to the great deficiencies of domestics , in qualifications for their duties , much patience and benevolence are required . Multitudes have never been taught to do their work properly ; and , in such cases , how unreasonable it would be to expect it of them ! Most persons , of this class , depend , for their knowledge in domestic affairs , not on their parents , who are usually unqualified to instruct them , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family where nothing is done neatly and properly , they have no chance to learn how to perform their duties well . When a lady finds that she must employ a domestic who is ignorant , awkward , and careless , her first effort should be , to make all proper allowance for past want of instruction , and the next , to remedy the evil , by kind and patient teaching . In doing this , it should ever be borne in mind , that nothing is more difficult , than to change old habits , and to learn to be thoughtful and considerate . And a woman must make up her mind to tell the same thing " over and over again , " and yet not lose her patience . It will often save much vexation , if , on the arrival of a new domestic , the mistress of the family , or a daughter , will , for two or three days , go round with the novice , and show the exact manner in which it is expected the work will be done . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the agreement , as some domestics would otherwise resent such a supervision . But it is often remarked , that , after a woman has taken all this pains to instruct a domestic , and make her a good one , some other person will offer higher wages , and she will leave . This , doubtless , is a sore trial ; but , if such efforts were made in the true spirit of benevolence , the lady will still have her reward , in the consciousness that she has contributed to the welfare of society , by making one more good domestic , and one more comfortable family where that domestic is employed ; and if the latter becomes the mother of a family , a whole circle of children will share in the benefit . There is one great mistake , not unfrequently made , in the management both of domestics and of children ; and that is , in supposing that the way to cure defects , is by finding fault as each failing occurs . But , instead of this being true , in many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in all instances , much good judgement is required , in order to decide when to notice faults , and when to let them pass unnoticed . There are some minds , very sensitive , easily discouraged , and infirm of purpose . Such persons , when they have formed habits of negligence , haste , and awkwardness , often need expressions of sympathy and encouragement , rather than reproof . They have usually been found fault with , so much , that they have become either hardened or desponding ; and it is often the case , that a few words of commendation will awaken fresh efforts and renewed hope . In almost every case , words of kindness , confidence , and encouragement , should be mingled with the needful admonitions or reproof . It is a good rule , in reference to this point , to forewarn , instead of finding fault . Thus , when a thing has been done wrong , let it pass unnoticed , till it is to be done again ; and then , a simple request , to have it done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and probably more , willing effort , than a reproof administered for neglect . Some persons seem to take it for granted , that young and inexperienced minds are bound to have all the forethought and discretion of mature persons ; and freely express wonder and disgust , when mishaps occur for want of these traits . But it would be far better to save from mistake or forgetfulness , by previous caution and care on the part of those who have gained experience and forethought ; and thus many occasions of complaint and ill-humor will be avoided . Those , who fill the places of heads of families , are not very apt to think how painful it is , to be chided for neglect of duty , or for faults of character . If they would sometimes imagine themselves in the place of those whom they control , with some person daily administering reproof to them , in the same tone and style as they employ to those who are under them , it might serve as a useful check to their chidings . It is often the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exacting , and least able to make allowances and receive palliations , are themselves peculiarly sensitive to any thing which implies that they are in fault . By such , the spirit implied in the Divine petition , " forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us , " needs especially to be cherished . One other consideration , is very important . There is no duty , more binding on Christians , than that of patience and meekness under provocations and disappointment . Now , the tendency of every sensitive mind , when thwarted in its wishes , is , to complain and find fault , and that often in tones of fretfulness or anger . But there are few domestics , who have not heard enough of the Bible , to know that angry or fretful fault-finding , from the mistress of a family , when her work is not done to suit her , is not in agreement with the precepts of Christ . They notice and feel the inconsistency ; and every woman , when she gives way to feelings of anger and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lowers herself in their respect , while her own conscience , unless very much blinded , can not but suffer a wound . There are some women , who , in the main , are amiable , who seem impressed with the idea , that it is their office and duty to find fault with their domestics , whenever any thing is not exactly right , and follow their fancied calling without the least appearance of tenderness or sympathy , as if the objects of their discipline were stocks or stones . The writer once heard a domestic , describing her situation in a family which she had left , make this remark of her past employer : " She was a very good housekeeper , allowed good wages , and gave us many privileges and presents ; but if we ever did any thing wrong , she always talked to us just as if she thought we had no feelings , and I never was so unhappy in my life , as while living with her . " And this was said of a kind-hearted and conscientious woman , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has the care of domestics , should cultivate a habit of regarding them with that sympathy and forbearance , which she would wish for herself or her daughters , if deprived of parents , fortune , and home . The fewer advantages they have enjoyed , and the greater difficulties of temper or of habit they have to contend with , the more claims they have on compassionate forbearance . They ought ever to be looked upon , not as the mere ministers to our comfort and convenience , but as the humbler and more neglected children of our Heavenly Father , whom He has sent to claim our sympathy and aid . N FOOTNOTE : N The excellent little work of Miss Sedgwick , entitled ' Live , and Let Live , ' contains many valuable and useful hints , conveyed in a most pleasing narrative form , which every housekeeper would do well to read . The writer also begs leave to mention a work of her own , entitled , ' Letters to Persons engaged in Domestic Service . ' CHAPTER XIX . ON THE CARE OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take proper care of an infant ; for , even if she is never to become the responsible guardian of a nursery , she will often be in situations where she can render benevolent aid to others , in this most fatiguing and anxious duty . The writer has known instances , in which young ladies , who , having been trained , by their mothers , properly to perform this duty , were , in some cases , the means of saving the lives of infants , and in others , of relieving , by their benevolent aid , sick mothers , from intolerable care and anguish . On this point , Dr. Combe remarks , " All women are not destined , in the course of Nature , to become mothers ; but how very small is the number of those , who are unconnected , by family ties , friendship , or sympathy , with the children of others ! How very few are there , who , at some time or other of their lives , would not find their usefulness and happiness increased , by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their best feelings and affections ! And how important is it , to the mother herself , that her efforts should be seconded by intelligent , instead of ignorant , assistants ! " In order to be prepared for such benevolent ministries , every young lady should improve the opportunity , whenever it is afforded her , for learning how to wash , dress , and tend , a young infant ; and whenever she meets with such a work as Dr. Combe 's , on the management of infants , she ought to read it , and remember its contents . It was the design of the author , to fill this chapter chiefly with extracts from various medical writers , giving some of the most important directions on this subject ; but finding these extracts too prolix for a work of this kind , she has condensed them into a shorter compass . Some are quoted verbatim , and some are abridged , chiefly from the writings of Doctors Combe , Bell , and Eberle , who are among the most approved writers on this subject . " Nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years of existence , are ascribable to mismanagement , and to errors in diet . At birth , the stomach is feeble , and as yet unaccustomed to food ; its cravings are consequently easily satisfied , and frequently renewed . " " At that early age , there ought to be no fixed time for giving nourishment . The stomach can not be thus satisfied . " " The active call of the infant , is a sign , which needs never be mistaken . " But care must be taken to determine between the crying of pain or uneasiness , and the call for food ; and the practice of giving an infant food , to stop its cries , is often the means of increasing its sufferings . After a child has satisfied its hunger , from two to four hours should intervene , before another supply is given . " At birth , the stomach and bowels , never having been used , contain a quantity of mucous secretion , which requires to be removed . To effect this , Nature has rendered the first portions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nurses , however , distrusting Nature , often hasten to administer some active purgative ; and the consequence often is , irritation in the stomach and bowels , not easily subdued . " It is only where the child is deprived of its mother 's milk , as the first food , that some gentle laxative should be given . " It is a common mistake , to suppose , that , because a woman is nursing , she ought to live very fully , and to add an allowance of wine , porter , or other fermented liquor , to her usual diet . The only result of this plan , is , to cause an unnatural fulness in the system , which places the nurse on the brink of disease , and retards , rather than increases , the food of the infant . More will be gained by the observance of the ordinary laws of health , than by any foolish deviation , founded on ignorance . " There is no point , on which medical men so emphatically lift the voice of warning , as in reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discover what is the matter with an infant , its frame is so delicate and so susceptible , and slight causes have such a powerful influence , that it requires the utmost skill and judgement to ascertain what would be proper medicines , and the proper quantity to be given . Says Dr. Combe , " That there are cases , in which active means must be promptly used , to save the child , is perfectly true . But it is not less certain , that these are cases , of which no mother or nurse ought to attempt the treatment . As a general rule , where the child is well managed , medicine , of any kind , is very rarely required ; and if disease were more generally regarded in its true light , not as something thrust into the system , which requires to be expelled by force , but as an aberration from a natural mode of action , produced by some external cause , we should be in less haste to attack it by medicine , and more watchful in its prevention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nursery , the mother may rest assured , that there is something essentially wrong in the treatment of her children . " Much havoc is made among infants , by the abuse of calomel and other medicines , which procure momentary relief , but end by producing incurable disease ; and it has often excited my astonishment , to see how recklessly remedies of this kind are had recourse to , on the most trifling occasions , by mothers and nurses , who would be horrified , if they knew the nature of the power they are wielding , and the extent of injury they are inflicting . " Instead , then , of depending on medicine , for the preservation of the health and life of an infant , the following precautions and preventives should be adopted . Take particular care of the food of an infant . If it is nourished by the mother , her own diet should be simple , nourishing , and temperate . If the child be brought up by hand , the milk of a new-milch cow , mixed with one third water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the only food given , until the teeth come . This is more suitable , than any preparations of flour or arrow-root , the nourishment of which is too highly concentrated . Never give a child bread , cake , or meat , before the teeth appear . If the food appear to distress the child , after eating , first ascertain if the milk be really from a new-milch cow , as it may otherwise be too old . Learn , also , whether the cow lives on proper food . Cows that are fed on still-slops , as is often the case in cities , furnish milk which is very unhealthful . Be sure and keep a good supply of pure and fresh air , in the nursery . On this point , Dr. Bell remarks , respecting rooms constructed without fireplaces , and without doors or windows to let in pure air , from without , " The sufferings of children of feeble constitutions , are increased , beyond measure , by such lodgings as these . An action , brought by the Commonwealth , ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or rent , in which rooms are so constructed as not to allow of free ventilation ; and a writ of lunacy taken out against those , who , with the common-sense experience which all have on this head , should spend any portion of their time , still more , should sleep , in rooms thus nearly air-tight . " After it is a month or two old , take an infant out to walk , or ride , in a little wagon , every fair and warm day ; but be very careful that its feet , and every part of its body , are kept warm : and be sure that its eyes are well protected from the light . Weak eyes , and sometimes blindness , are caused by neglecting this precaution . Keep the head of an infant cool , never allowing too warm bonnets , nor permitting it to sink into soft pillows , when asleep . Keeping an infant 's head too warm , very much increases nervous irritability ; and this is the reason why medical men forbid the use of caps for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially while sleeping , be protected from draughts of air , and from getting cold . Be very careful of the skin of an infant , as nothing tends so effectually to prevent disease . For this end , it should be washed all over , every morning , and then gentle friction should be applied , with the hand , to the back , stomach , bowels , and limbs . The head should be thoroughly washed , every day , and then brushed with a soft hair-brush , or combed with a fine comb . If , by neglect , dirt accumulates under the hair , apply , with the finger , the yolk of an egg , and then the fine comb will remove it all , without any trouble . Dress the infant , so that it will be always warm , but not so as to cause perspiration . Be sure and keep its feet always warm ; and , for this end , often warm them at a fire , and use long dresses . Keep the neck and arms covered . For this purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neck , with long sleeves , to put on over the frock , are now very fashionable . It is better for both mother and child , that it should not sleep on the mother 's arm , at night , unless the weather be extremely cold . This practice keeps the child too warm , and leads it to seek food too frequently . A child should ordinarily take nourishment but twice in the night . A crib beside the mother , with a plenty of warm and light covering , is best for the child ; but the mother must be sure that it is always kept warm . Never cover a child 's head , so that it will inhale the air of its own lungs . In very warm weather , especially in cities , great pains should be taken , to find fresh and cool air , by rides and sailing . Walks in a public square , in the cool of the morning , and frequent excursions in ferry or steam-boats , would often save a long bill for medical attendance . In hot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the infant laid on a mattress , or on folded blankets . A bit of straw matting , laid over a featherbed , and covered with the under sheet , makes a very cool bed for an infant . Cool bathing , in hot weather , is very useful ; but the water should be very little cooler than the skin of the child . When the constitution is delicate , the water should be slightly warmed . Simply sponging the body , freely , in a tub , answers the same purpose as a regular bath . In very warm weather , this should be done two or three times a day , always waiting two or three hours after food has been given . " When the stomach is peculiarly irritable , ( from teething , ) it is of paramount necessity to withhold all the nostrums which have been so falsely lauded as ' sovereign cures for cholera infantum . ' The true restoratives , to a child threatened with disease , are , cool air , cool bathing , and cool drinks of simple water , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Do not take the advice of mothers , who tell of this , that , and the other thing , which have proved excellent remedies in their experience . Children have different constitutions , and there are multitudes of different causes for their sickness ; and what might cure one child , might kill another , which appeared to have the same complaint . A mother should go on the general rule , of giving an infant very little medicine , and then only by the direction of a discreet and experienced physician . And there are cases , when , according to the views of the most distinguished and competent practitioners , physicians themselves are much too free in using medicines , instead of adopting preventive measures . Do not allow a child to form such habits , that it will not be quiet , unless tended and amused . A healthy child should be accustomed to lie or sit in its cradle , much of the time ; but it should occasionally be taken up , and tossed , or carried about , for exercise and amusement . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very strengthening and useful . If the mother fears the soiling of its nice dresses , she can keep a long slip or apron , which will entirely cover the dress , and can be removed , when the child is taken in the arms . A child should not be allowed , when quite young , to bear its weight on its feet , very long at a time , as this tends to weaken and distort the limbs . Many mothers , with a little painstaking , succeed in putting their infants , while awake , into their cradle , at regular hours , for sleep , and induce regularity in other habits , which saves much trouble . In doing this , a child may cry , at first , a great deal ; but for a healthy child , this use of the lungs does no harm , and tends rather to strengthen , than to injure , them . A child who is trained to lie or sit , and amuse itself , is happier than one who is carried and tended a great deal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CHAPTER XX . ON THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN . In regard to the physical education of children , Dr. Clarke , Physician in Ordinary to the Queen of England , expresses views , on one point , in which most physicians would coincide . He says , " There is no greater error in the management of children , than that of giving them animal diet very early . By persevering in the use of an overstimulating diet , the digestive organs become irritated , and the various secretions , immediately connected with , and necessary to , digestion , are diminished , especially the biliary secretion . Children , so fed , become very liable to attacks of fever , and of inflammation , affecting , particularly , the mucous membranes ; and measles , and the other diseases incident to childhood , are generally severe in their attack . " There are some popular notions on the subject of the use of animal food , which need to be corrected . One mistake , is , in supposing that the formation of the human teeth and stomach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Linnaeus says , that the organization of man , when compared with other animals , shows , that " fruits and esculent vegetables constitute his most suitable food . " Baron Cuvier , the highest authority on comparative anatomy , says , " the natural food of man , judging from his structure , appears to consist of fruits , roots , and other succulent parts of vegetables . " Another common mistake , is , that the stimulus of animal food is necessary for the fu//                     