@@771289

txt //TEENTH CENTURIES . ( pp. 1-9 . ) Revival of the Arts  --  Influence of Feudalism  --  Effects of Scholasticism  --  Ecclesiastical Corruptions  --  Papal Infallibility  - -  The sale of Indulgences  --  The Corruptions of the Church  --  Necessity for Reform . CHAPTER II . MARTIN LUTHER AND HIS ASSOCIATES . ( pp. 10-29 . ) The Early Life of Luther  --  Luther 's Early Religious Struggles  --  The Ninety-Five Propositions  --  Erasmus  --  Melancthon  --  Leo X.  --  The Leipsic Disputation  --  Principles of the Leipsic Disputation  --  The Rights of Private Judgment  --  Luther 's Elements of Greatness  -- Excommunication of Luther  --  The Diet of Worms  --  Imprisonment at Wartburg  --  Carlstadt  --  Thomas Muenzer Ulric  --  Zwingle  --  Controversy between Luther and Zwingle  --  Diet of Augsburg  --  League of Smalcalde  --  Death and Character of Luther . CHAPTER III . THE EMPEROR CHARLES V. ( pp. 30-44 . ) Charles V.  --  Spain and France in the Fifteenth Century  --  Wars between Charles and Francis .  --  Diet of Spires  --  Hostilities between Charles and Francis  --  African War  --  Council of Trent  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Heroism of Maurice  --  Misfortunes of Charles  --  Treaty of Passau  --  Character of Charles . CHAPTER IV . HENRY VIII . ( pp. 45-59 . ) Rise of Absolute Monarchy  --  Henry VIII .  --  Rise of Cardinal Wolsey  - -  Magnificence of Henry VIII .  --  Anne Boleyn  --  Queen Catharine  - -  Disgrace and Death of Wolsey  --  More  --  Cranmer  --  Cromwell  --  Quarrel with the Pope  --  Suppression of Monasteries  --  Execution of Anne Boleyn  --  Anne of Cleves  --  Catharine Howard  --  Last Days of Henry  - -  Death of Henry . CHAPTER V. EDWARD VI . AND MARY . ( pp. 60-68 . ) War with Scotland  --  Rebellions and Discontents  --  Rivalry of the great Nobles  --  Religious Reforms  --  Execution of Northumberland  - -  Marriage of the Queen  --  Religious Persecution  --  Character of Mary  - -  Accession of Elizabeth . CHAPTER VI . ELIZABETH . ( pp. 69-81 . ) Mary , Queen of Scots  --  John Knox  --  Marriage of Mary  --  Darnley  - -  Bothwell  --  Civil War in Scotland  --  Captivity of Queen Mary  - -  Execution of Mary  --  Military Preparations of Philip II .  --  Spanish Armada  --  Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Improvements made in the Reign of Elizabeth  - -  Reflections . CHAPTER VII . FRANCIS II. , CHARLES IX. , HENRY III. , AND HENRY IV . ( pp. 82-90 . ) Catharine de Medicis  --  Civil War in France  --  Massacre of St. Bartholomew  --  Henry III .  --  Henry IV .  --  Edict of Nantes  - -  Improvements during the Reign of Henry IV .  --  Peace Scheme of Henry IV .  --  Death of Henry IV .  --  France at the Death of Henry IV . CHAPTER VIII . PHILIP II . AND THE AUSTRIAN PRINCES OF SPAIN . ( pp. 91-96 . ) Bigotry of Philip II .  --  Revolt of the Netherlands  --  Revolt of the Moriscoes  --  Causes of the Decline of the Spanish Monarchy  --  The Increase of Gold and Silver  --  Decline of the Spanish Monarchy . CHAPTER IX . THE JESUITS , AND THE PAPAL POWER IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY . ( pp. 97-107 . ) The Roman Power in the Seventeenth Century  --  Rise of the Jesuits  - -  Rapid Spread of the Jesuits  --  Extraordinary Virtues of the older Jesuits  --  The Constitution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jesuit System  --  The Popes in the Seventeenth Century  --  Nepotism of the Popes  --  Rome in the Seventeenth Century . CHAPTER X. THIRTY YEARS ' WAR . ( pp. 108-119 . ) Political Troubles after the Death of Luther  --  Diet of Augsburg  - -  Commencement of the Thirty Years ' War  --  The Emperor Frederic  --  Count Wallenstein  --  Character of Wallenstein  --  Gustavus Adolphus  --  Loss of Magdeburg  --  Wallenstein reinstated in Power  --  Death of Gustavus Adolphus  --  Assassination of Wallenstein  --  Treaty of Westphalia . CHAPTER XI . ADMINISTRATIONS OF CARDINALS RICHELIEU AND MAZARIN. ( pp. 120-132 . ) Regency of Mary de Medicis  --  Rise of Cardinal de Richelieu  - -  Suppression of the Huguenots  --  The Depression of the great Nobles  - -  Power of Richelieu  --  Character of Richelieu  --  Effects of Richelieu 's Policy  --  Richelieu 's Policy  --  Cardinal de Retz  --  Prince of Conde  - -  Power of Mazarin  --  Death of Mazarin . CHAPTER XII . THE REIGNS OF JAMES I. AND CHARLES . ( pp. 133-180 . ) Accession of James I.  --  The Genius of the Reign of James  - -  Conspiracy of Sir Walter Raleigh  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Earl of Somerset  --  Greatness and Fall of Somerset  --  Duke of Buckingham  --  Lord Bacon  --  Trial and Execution of Raleigh  --  Encroachments of James  --  Quarrel between James and Parliament  --  Death of James  --  The Struggle of Classes  --  Rise of Popular Power  --  Quarrel between the King and the Commons  --  The Counsellors of Charles  --  Death of Buckingham  --  Petition of Right  - -  Earl of Strafford  --  John Hampden  --  Insurrection in Scotland  --  Long Parliament  --  Rebellion of Ireland  --  Flight of the King from London  --  Rise of the Puritans  --  Original Difficulties and Differences  - -  Persecution during the Reign of Elizabeth  --  Archbishops Grindal and Whitgift  --  Persecution under James  --  Puritans in Exile  --  Troubles in Scotland  --  Peculiarities of Puritanism in England  --  Conflicts among the Puritans  --  Character of the Puritans  --  John Hampden  - -  Oliver Cromwell  --  The King at Oxford  --  Cromwell after the Battle of Marston Moor  --  Enthusiasm of the Independents  --  Battle of Naseby  - -  Success of the Parliamentary Army  --  Seizure of the King  --  Triumph of the Independents  --  Cromwell invades Scotland  --  Seizure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHAPTER XIII . PROTECTORATE OF OLIVER CROMWELL . ( pp. 181-191 . ) Storming of Drogheda and Wexford  --  Battle of Worcester  --  Policy of Cromwell  --  The Rump Parliament  --  Dispersion of the Parliament Cromwell assumes the Protectorship  --  The Dutch War  --  Cromwell rules without a Parliament  --  The Protectorate  --  Regal Government restored . CHAPTER XIV . THE REIGN OF CHARLES II . ( pp. 192-210 . ) The Restoration  --  Great Public Rejoicings  --  Reaction to Revolutionary Principles  --  Excellencies in Charles 's Government  - -  Failure of the Puritan Experiment  --  Repeal of the Triennial Bill  - -  Secret Alliance with Louis XIV .  --  Venality and Sycophancy of Parliament  --  Restrictions on the Press  --  Habeas Corpus Act  --  Titus Oates  --  Oates 's Revelations  --  Penal Laws against Catholics  - -  Persecution of Dissenters  --  Execution of Russell and Sydney  - -  Manners and Customs of England  --  Milton  --  Dryden  --  Condition of the People of England . CHAPTER XV . THE REIGN OF JAMES II . ( pp. 211-233 . ) Accession of James II .  --  Monmouth lands in England  --  Battle of Sedgemoor  --  Death of Monmouth  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fox  --  Persecution of the Quakers  - -  Despotic Power of James  --  Favor extended to Catholics  --  High Commission Court  --  Quarrel with the Universities  --  Magdalen College  --  Prosecution of the Seven Bishops  --  Tyranny and infatuation of James  --  Organized Opposition  --  William , Prince of Orange  --  Critical condition of James  --  Invasion of England by William  --  Flight of the King  --  Consummation of the Revolution  --  Declaration of Rights . CHAPTER XVI . LOUIS XIV . ( pp. 234-251 . ) The Power and Resources of Louis  --  His Habits and Pleasures  --  His Military Ambition  --  William , Prince of Orange  --  Second Invasion of Holland  --  Dutch War  --  Madame de Montespan  --  Madame de Maintenon  - -  League of Augsburg  --  Opposing Armies and Generals  --  War of the Spanish Succession  --  Duke of Marlborough  --  Battle of Blenheim  - -  Exertions and Necessities of Louis  --  Treaty of Utrecht  --  Last Days of Louis  --  His Character . CHAPTER XVII . WILLIAM AND MARY . ( pp. 252-270 . ) Irish Rebellion  --  King James in Ireland  --  Freedom of the Press  - -  Act of Settlement  --  Death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newton and John Locke  --  Anne  --  The Duke of Marlborough  - -  Character of Marlborough  --  Whigs and Tories  --  Dr. Henry Sacheverell  --  Union of Scotland and England  --  Duke of Hamilton  --  Wits of Queen Anne 's Reign  --  Swift  --  Pope  --  Bolingbroke  --  Gay  --  Prior  - -  Writers of the Age of Queen Anne . CHAPTER XVIII . PETER THE GREAT , AND RUSSIA . ( pp. 271-289 . ) Early History of Russia  --  The Tartar Conquest  --  Accession of Peter the Great  --  Peter 's Reforms  --  His War with Charles XII .  - -  Charles XII .  --  Building of St. Petersburg  --  New War with Sweden  - -  War with the Turks  --  Peter makes a second Tour  --  Elevation of Catharine  --  Early History of Sweden  --  Introduction of Christianity  --  Gustavus Vasa  --  Early Days of Charles XII  --  Charles 's Heroism  - -  His Misfortunes  --  His Return to Sweden  --  His Death . CHAPTER XIX . GEORGE I. , AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF SIR ROBERT WALPOLE . ( pp. 290-309 . ) Accession of George I.  --  Sir Robert Walpole  --  The Pretender  - -  Invasion of Scotland  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opposition of Walpole  --  Mania for Speculation  --  Bursting of the South Sea Bubble  --  Enlightened policy of Walpole  --  East India Company  --  Resignation of Townshend  --  Unpopularity of Walpole  - -  Decline of his power  --  John Wesley  --  Early life of Wesley  - -  Whitefield  --  Institution of Wesley  --  Itinerancy  --  Great influence and power of Wesley . CHAPTER XX . THE COLONIZATION OF AMERICA AND THE EAST INDIES . ( pp. 310-341 . ) Commercial Enterprise  --  Spanish Conquests and Settlements  - -  Portuguese Discoveries  --  Portuguese Settlements  --  Early English Enterprise  --  Sir Walter Raleigh  --  London Company incorporated  - -  Hardships of the Virginia Colony  --  New Charter of the London Company  --  Rapid Colonization  --  Indian Warfare  --  Governor Harvey  - -  Arbitrary Policy of Charles II .  --  Settlement of New England  - -  Arrival of the Mayflower  --  Settlement of New Hampshire  - -  Constitution of the Colony  --  Doctrines of the Puritans  --  Pequod War  --  Union of the New England Colonies  --  William Penn  --  Settlement of New York  --  Conquest of New Netherlands  --  Discovery of the St. Lawrence  --  Jesuit Missionaries  --  Prosperity of the English Colonies  --  French Encroachments  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  La Bourdonnais and Dupleix  --  Clive 's Victories  --  Conquest of India . CHAPTER XXI . THE REIGN OF GEORGE II . ( pp. 342-359 . ) The Pelhams  --  The Pretender Charles Edward Stuart  --  Surrender of Edinburgh  --  Success of the Pretender  --  The Retreat of the Pretender  --  Battle of Culloden  --  Latter Days of the Pretender  --  Maria Theresa  --  Capture of Louisburg  --  Great Colonial Contest  --  Character of the Duke of Newcastle  --  Unpopularity of the Pelhams  --  Rise of William Pitt  --  Brilliant Military Successes  --  Military Successes in America  --  Victories of Clive in India  --  Resignation of Pitt  --  Peace of Paris . CHAPTER XXII . LOUIS XV . ( pp. 360-379 . ) Regency of the Duke of Orleans  --  John Law  --  Mississippi Company  - -  Popular Delusion  --  Fatal Effects of the Delusion  --  Administration of Cardinal Fleury  --  Cornelius Jansen  --  St. Cyran  --  Arnauld  --  Le Maitre  --  The Labors of the Port Royalists  --  Principles of Jansenism  --  Functions of the Parliament  --  The Bull Unigenitus  --  Madame de Pompadour  --  The Jesuits  --  Exposure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Pope Clement XIV .  --  Death of Ganganelli  --  Death of Louis XV . CHAPTER XXIII . FREDERIC THE GREAT . ( pp. 380-390 . ) Frederic William  --  Accession of Frederic the Great  --  The Seven Years ' War  --  Battle of Rossbach  --  Battle of Leuthen  --  Fall of Dresden  --  Reverses of Frederic  --  Continued Disasters  --  Exhaustion of Prussia by the War  --  Death of Frederic  --  Character of Frederic . CHAPTER XXIV . MARIA THERESA AND CATHARINE II . ( pp. 391-401 . ) The Germanic Constitution  --  The Hungarian War  --  The Emperor Joseph  --  Accession of Maria Theresa  --  She institutes Reforms  --  Successors of Peter the Great  --  Murder of Peter III .  --  Assassination , of Ivan  --  Death of Catharine  --  Her Character . CHAPTER XXV . CALAMITIES OF POLAND . ( pp. 402-408 . ) The Crown of Poland made elective  --  Election of Henry , Duke of Anjou  --  Sobieski assists the Emperor Leopold  --  The Liberum Veto  --  The Fall of Poland . CHAPTER XXVI . THE DECLINE OF THE OTTOMAN EMPIRE . ( pp. 409-415 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conquerors  - -  Progress of the Turks  --  Decline of Turkish Power  --  Turkish Institutions  --  Turkish Character . CHAPTER XXVII . REIGN OF GEORGE III . TO ADMINISTRATION OF WILLIAM PITT . ( pp. 416-431 . ) Military Successes in America  --  Prosecution of Wilkes  --  Churchill  - -  Grafton 's Administration  --  Popularity of Wilkes  --  Taxation of the Colonies  --  Indignation of the Colonies  --  Functions of the Parliament  --  The Stamp Act  --  Lord Chatham  --  Administration of Lord North  - -  Irish Discontents  --  Protestant Association  --  Lord George Gordon 's Riots  --  Parliamentary Reforms . CHAPTER XXVIII . THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION . ( pp. 432-449 . ) Causes of the Revolution  --  Riots and Disturbances  --  Duty on Tea  - -  Port of Boston closed  --  Meeting of Congress  --  Speech of Burke  - -  Battle of Bunker Hill  --  Death of Montgomery  --  Declaration of American Independence  --  Commissioners sent to France  --  Capture of Burgoyne  --  Moral Effects of Burgoyne 's Capture  --  Arrival of La Fayette  --  Evacuation of Philadelphia  --  The Treason of Arnold  - -  Surrender of Lord Cornwallis  --  Resignation of Lord North . CHAPTER XXIX . ADMINISTRATION OF WILLIAM PITT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Life of Pitt  --  Policy of Pitt  --  Difficulties with Ireland  --  The United Irishmen  --  Union of England and Ireland  - -  Condition of Ireland  --  Parliamentary Reform  --  Warren Hastings  --  War with Hyder Ali  --  Robbery of the Princesses of Oude  --  Prosecution of Hastings  --  Edmund Burke  --  Charles James Fox  --  Richard Brinsley Sheridan  --  Bill for the Regulation of India  --  War with Tippoo Saib  --  Conquest of India  --  Consequences of the Conquest  --  War with France  --  Policy of Pitt . CHAPTER XXX . THE FRENCH REVOLUTION . ( pp. 471-495 . ) Causes of the French Revolution  --  Helvetius  --  Voltaire  --  Rousseau  --  Diderot  --  General Influence of the Philosophers  --  Sufferings of the People  --  Degradation of the People  --  Derangement of Finances  - -  Maurepas  --  Turgot  --  Malesherbes  --  Necker  --  Calonne  --  States General  --  The Tiers Etat  --  Commotions  --  Rule of the People  - -  National Federation  --  Flight of the King  --  The Girondists and the Jacobins  --  The National Convention  --  Marat  --  Danton  --  Robespierre  --  General War  --  Reign of Terror  --  Death of Robespierre  --  New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( pp. 496-526 . ) Character of Bonaparte  --  Early Days of Bonaparte  --  Early Services to the Republic  --  The Italian Campaign  --  Battle of Cape St. Vincent  - -  Conquest of Venice by Bonaparte  --  Invasion of Egypt  --  Siege of Acre  --  Reverses of the French  --  Bonaparte First Consul  --  Immense Military Preparations  --  The Reforms of Bonaparte  --  The Code Napoleon  --  Bonaparte becomes Emperor of the French  --  Meditated Invasion of England  --  Battle of Austerlitz  --  Battle of Jena  --  Bonaparte aggrandizes France  --  Aggrandizement of Bonaparte 's Family  --  The Peninsular War  --  Invasion of Russia  --  Battle of Smolensko  --  Retreat of the French  --  Battles of Lutzen and Bautzen  --  Battle of Leipsic  - -  The Allied Powers invade France  --  Peace of Paris  --  Bonaparte escapes from Elba  --  Battle of Waterloo  --  Reflections on Napoleon 's Fall . CHAPTER XXXII . EUROPE ON THE FALL OF NAPOLEON . ( pp. 527-532 . ) Remarkable Men of Genius  --  Condition of Germany  --  Condition of other Powers  --  The United States of America . APPENDIX . Chronological Table , from the Fall of Napoleon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Henry VIII. , 538 Table of the Monarchy of Europe , during the Sixteenth , Seventeenth , and Eighteenth Centuries , 541 Genealogical Table of the Royal Family of England , 543 Genealogical Table of the Bourbons , 544 MODERN HISTORY . CHAPTER I. STATE OF EUROPEAN SOCIETY IN THE FIFTEENTH AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES . The period at which this History commences ,  --  the beginning of the sixteenth century ,  --  when compared with the ages which had preceded it , since the fall of the Roman empire , was one of unprecedented brilliancy and activity . It was a period very fruitful in great men and great events , and , though stormy and turbulent , was favorable to experiments and reforms . The nations of Europe seem to have been suddenly aroused from a state of torpor and rest , and to have put forth new energies in every department of life . The material and the political , the moral and the social condition of society was subject to powerful agitations , and passed through important changes . Great discoveries and inventions had been made . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German , of Mentz , by the name of Gutenberg , in 1441 , and to Peter Schoeffer , in 1444 , changed the whole system of book-making , and vastly increased the circulation of the Scriptures , the Greek and Latin classics , and all other valuable works , which , by the industry of the monkish copyist , had been preserved from the ravages of time and barbarism . Gunpowder , whose explosive power had been perceived by Roger Bacon as early as 1280 , though it was not used on the field of battle until 1346 , had completely changed the art of war and had greatly contributed to undermine the feudal system . The polarity of the magnet , also discovered in the middle ages , and not practically applied to the mariner 's compass until 1403 , had led to the greatest event of the fifteenth century  --  the discovery of America by Christopher Columbus , in 1492 . The impulse given to commerce by this and other discoveries of unknown continents and oceans , by the Portuguese , the Spaniards , the Dutch , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarged on . America revealed to the astonished European her riches in gold and silver ; and Indian spices , and silks , and drugs , were imported , through new channels , into all the countries inhabited by the Teutonic races . Mercantile wealth , with all its refinements , acquired new importance in the eyes of the nations . The world opened towards the east and the west . The horizon of knowledge extended . Popular delusions were dispelled . Liberality of mind was acquired . The material prosperity of the western nations was increased . Tastes became more refined , and social intercourse more cheerful . Sidenote : Revival of the Arts . Art , in all its departments , was every where revived at this epoch . Houses became more comfortable , and churches more splendid . The utensils of husbandry and of cookery were improved . Linen and woollen manufactures supplanted the coarser fabrics of the dark ages . Music became more elaborate , and the present system of notation was adopted . The genius of the sculptor again gave life and beauty to a marble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the ancient Greeks and Romans . Florence , Venice , Milan , and Rome became seats of various schools of this beautiful art , of which Michael Angelo , Correggio , the Carracci , and Raphael were the most celebrated masters , all of whom were distinguished for peculiar excellences , never since surpassed , or even equalled . The Flemish artists were scarcely behind the Italian ; and Rubens , of Antwerp , may well rank with Correggio and Titian . To Raphael , however , the world has , as yet , furnished no parallel . Sidenote : Influence of Feudalism . The political and social structure of society changed . The crusades , long before , had given a shock to the political importance of the feudal aristocracy , and reviving commerce and art had shaken the system to its foundations . The Flemish weavers had arisen , and a mercantile class had clamored for new privileges . In the struggle of classes , and in the misfortunes of nobles , monarchs had perceived the advantages they might gain , and fortunate circumstances enabled them to raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so necessary to the cause of civilization . Feudalism had answered many useful ends in the dark ages . It had secured a reciprocity of duties between a lord and his vassal ; it had restored loyalty , truth , and fidelity among semi-barbarians ; it had favored the cultivation of the soil ; it had raised up a hardy rural population ; it had promoted chivalry , and had introduced into Europe the modern gentleman ; it had ennobled friendship , and spread the graces of urbanity and gentleness among rough and turbulent warriors . But it had , also , like all human institutions , become corrupt , and failed to answer the ends for which it was instituted . It had become an oppressive social despotism ; it had widened the distinction between the noble and ignoble classes ; it had produced selfishness and arrogance among the nobles , and a mean and cringing sycophancy among the people ; it had perpetuated privileges , among the aristocracy , exceedingly unjust , and ruinous to the general welfare of society . It therefore fell before the advancing spirit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ruins . The people , as well as monarchs , had learned the secret of their power . They learned that , by combining their power , they could successfully resist their enemies . The principle of association was learned . Combinations of masses took place . Free cities were multiplied . A population of artificers , and small merchants , and free farmers arose . They discussed their privileges , and asserted their independence . Political liberty was born , and its invaluable blessings were conceived , if they were not realized . Sidenote : Effects of Scholasticism . And the intellectual state of Europe received an impulse as marked and beneficent as the physical and social . The scholastic philosophy , with its dry and technical logic , its abstruse formulas , and its subtle refinements , ceased to satisfy the wants of the human mind , now craving light and absolute knowledge in all departments of science and philosophy . Like feudalism , it had once been useful ; but like that institution , it had also become corrupted , and an object of sarcasm and mockery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sixteenth century ; it had raised up an inquisitive spirit , and had led to profound reflections on the existence of God , on his attributes and will , on the nature of the soul , on the faculties of the mind and on the practical duties of life . But this philosophy became pedantic and cold ; covered , as with a funereal shade , the higher pursuits of life ; and diverted attention from what was practical and useful . That earnest spirit , which raised up Luther and Bacon , demanded , of the great masters of thought , something which the people could understand , and something which would do them good . In poetry , the insipid and immoral songs of the Provencal bards gave place to the immortal productions of the great creators of the European languages . Dante led the way in Italy , and gave to the world the " Divine Comedy "  --  a masterpiece of human genius , which raised him to the rank of Homer and Virgil . Petrarch followed in his steps , and , if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an " enthusiastic songster of ideal love . " He also gave a great impulse to civilization by his labors in collecting and collating manuscripts . Boccaccio also lent his aid in the revival of literature , and wrote a series of witty , though objectionable stories , from which the English Chaucer borrowed the notion of his " Canterbury Tales . " Chaucer is the father of English poetry , and kindled a love of literature among his isolated countrymen ; and was one of the few men who , in the evening of his days , looked upon the world without austerity , and expressed himself with all the vivacity of youthful feeling . Sidenote : Ecclesiastical Corruptions . Such were some of the leading events and circumstances which gave a new life to European society , and created a desire for better days . All of these causes of improvement acted and reacted on each other in various ways , and prepared the way to new and great developments of action and passion . These new energies were , however , unfortunately checked by a combination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which required to be subverted before any great progress could be reasonably expected . These evils were most remarkable in the church itself and almost extinguished the light which Christ and his apostles had kindled . The church looked with an evil eye on many of the greatest improvements and agitations of the age , and attempted to suppress the spirit of insurrection which had arisen against the abuses and follies of past ages . Great ideas were ridiculed , and daring spirits were crushed . There were many good men in the church who saw and who lamented prevailing corruptions , but their voice was overwhelmed by the clamors of interested partisans , or silenced by the authority of the popes . The character of the popes themselves was not what was expected of the heads of the visible church , or what was frequently exhibited in those ignorant and superstitious times , when the papacy fulfilled , in the opinion of many enlightened Protestants , a benevolent mission . None had the disinterestedness of Gregory I. , or the talents of Gregory VII . There had been a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercised for the peace and tranquillity of Europe , when it was uniformly opposed to slavery and war , and when it was a mild and paternal government , which protected innocence and weakness , while it punished injustice and crime . The time was , when popes had been elevated for their piety and learning , and when they lived as saints and died as martyrs . But that time had passed . The Roman church did not keep up with the spirit or the wants of the age , and moreover did not reform itself from vices which had been overlooked in ages of ignorance and superstition . In the fifteenth century , many great abuses scandalized a body of men who should have been the lights of the world ; and the sacred pontiffs themselves set examples of unusual depravity . Julius II . marched at the head of armies . Alexander VI . secured his election by bribery , and reigned by extortion . He poisoned his own cardinals , and bestowed on his son Caesar Borgia  --  an incarnated demon  --  the highest dignities and rewards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest offices in the church for money , to place boys on episcopal thrones , to absolve the most heinous and scandalous crimes for gold , to encourage the massacre of heretics , and to disgrace themselves by infamous vices . And a general laxity of morals existed among all orders of the clergy . They were ignorant , debauched , and ambitious . The monks were exceedingly numerous ; had ceased to be men of prayer and contemplation , as in the days of Benedict and Bernard ; and might be seen frequenting places of demoralizing excitement , devoted to pleasure , and enriched by inglorious gains . But the evils which the church encouraged were more dangerous than the vices of its members . These evils were inherent in the papal system , and were hard to be subverted . There were corruptions of doctrine , and corruptions in the government and customs of the church . Sidenote : Papal Infallibility . There generally prevailed , throughout Christendom , the belief in papal infallibility , which notion subverted the doctrines of the Bible , and placed its truths , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the schoolmen . It favored the various usurpations of the popes , and strengthened the bonds of spiritual despotism . The popes also claimed a control over secular princes , as well as the supremacy of the church . Hildebrand was content with riveting the chains of universal spiritual authority , the evil and absurdity of which can not well be exaggerated ; but his more ambitious successors sought to reduce the kings of the earth to perfect vassalage , and , when in danger of having their monstrous usurpations torn from them , were ready to fill the world with discord and war . But the worldly popes of the fifteenth century also aspired to be temporal princes . They established the most elegant court in Europe ; they supported large armies ; they sought to restore the splendor of imperial Rome ; they became ambitious of founding great families ; they enriched their nephews and relations at the sacrifice of the best interests of their church ; they affected great state and dignity ; they built gorgeous palaces ; they ornamented their capital with pictures and statues . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawful revenues of the popes were insufficient to gratify their extravagance and pomp . But money , nevertheless , they must have . In order to raise it , they resorted to extortion and corruption . They imposed taxes on Christendom , direct and indirect . These were felt as an intolerable burden ; but such was the superstition of the times , that they were successfully raised . But even these were insufficient to gratify papal avarice and rapacity . They then resorted , in their necessities , to the meanest acts , imposed on the simplicity of their subjects , and finally adopted the most infamous custom which ever disgraced the world . Sidenote : The Sale of Indulgences . They pardoned sins for money  --  granted sales of indulgences for crime . A regular scale for absolution was graded . A proclamation was made every fifty , and finally every twenty-five years , of a year of jubilee , when plenary remission of all sin was promised to those who should make a pilgrimage to Rome . And so great was the influx of strangers , and consequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasion , it was collected into piles by rakes . It is computed that two hundred thousand deluded persons visited the city in a single month . But the vast sums they brought to Rome , and the still greater sums which were obtained by the sale of indulgences , and by various taxations , were all squandered in ornamenting the city , and in supporting a luxurious court , profligate cardinals , and superfluous ministers of a corrupted religion . Then was erected the splendid church of St. Peter , more after the style of Grecian temples , than after the model of the Gothic cathedrals of York and Cologne . Glorious was that monument of reviving art ; wonderful was its lofty dome ; but the vast sums required to build it opened the eyes of Christendom to the extravagance and presumption of the popes ; and this splendid trophy of their glory also became the emblem of their broken power . Their palaces and temples made an imposing show , but detracted from their real strength , which consisted in the affections of their spiritual subjects . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was but a poor substitute for the invisible power of love ,  --  in all ages , and among all people , " that cheap defence " which supports thrones and kingdoms . Sidenote : The Corruptions of the Church . Another great evil was , the prevalence of an idolatrous spirit . In the churches and chapels , and even in private families , were innumerable images of saints , pictures of the Virgin , relics , crucifixes , &c.,; designed at first to kindle a spirit of devotion among the rude and uneducated , but gradually becoming objects of real adoration . Intercessions were supposed to be made by the Virgin Mary , and by favorite saints , more efficacious with Deity than the penitence and prayers of the erring and sinful themselves . The influence of this veneration for martyrs and saints was degrading to the mind , and became a very lucrative source of profit to the priests , who peddled the bones and relics of saints as they did indulgences , and who invented innumerable lies to attest the genuineness and antiquity of the objects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great system of fraud and avarice which the church permitted . Again ; the public worship of God was in a language the people could not understand , but rendered impressive by the gorgeous dresses of the priests , and the magnificence of the altar , and the images and vessels of silver and gold , reflecting their splendor , by the light of wax candles , on the sombre pillars , roofs , and windows of the Gothic church , and the effect heightened by exciting music , and other appeals to the taste or imagination , rather than to the reason and the heart . The sermons of the clergy were frivolous , and ill adapted to the spiritual wants of the people . " Men went to the Vatican , " says the learned and philosophical Ranke , " not to pray , but to contemplate the Belvidere Apollo . They disgraced the most solemn festivals by open profanations . The clergy , in their services , sought the means of exciting laughter . One would mock the cuckoo , and another recite indecent stories about St. Peter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely shocked at the infidel spirit which prevailed among the clergy , who were hostile to the circulation of the Scriptures , and who encouraged persecutions and inquisitions . This was the age when the dreadful tribunal of the Inquisition flourished , although its chief enormities were perpetrated in Spain and Portugal . It never had an existence in England , and but little influence in France and Germany . But if the Church did not resort , in all countries , to that dread tribunal which subjected youth , beauty , and innocence to the inquisitorial vengeance of narrow-minded Dominican monks , still she was hostile to free inquiry , and to all efforts made to emancipate the reason of men . The spirit of religious persecution , which inflamed the Roman Church to punish all dissenters from the doctrine and abuses she promulgated , can never be questioned . The Waldenses and Albigenses had suffered , in darker times , almost incredible hardships and miseries  --  had been almost annihilated by the dreadful crusade which was carried on against them , so that two hundred thousand had perished for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this wholesale massacre , but to those instances of individual persecution which showed the extreme jealousy and hatred of Rome of all new opinions . John Huss and Jerome of Prague were publicly burned for attempting to reform the church , and even Savonarola , who did not deny the authority of the popes , was condemned to the flames for denouncing the vices of his age , rather than the evils of the church . Sidenote : Necessity for Reform . These multiplied evils , which checked the spirit of improvement , called loudly for reform . Councils were assembled for the purpose ; but councils supported , rather than diminished , the evils of which even princes complained . The reform was not destined to come from dignitaries in the church or state ; not from bishops , nor philosophers , nor kings , but from an obscure teacher of divinity in a German university , whom the genius of a reviving and awakened age had summoned into the field of revolutionary warfare . It was reserved for Martin Luther to commence the first successful rebellion against the despotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom of thought , and a general spirit of reform , which ten centuries had seen . The most prominent event in modern times is unquestionably the Protestant Reformation , and it was by far the most momentous in its results . It gave rise , directly or indirectly , to the great wars of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries , as well as to those rival sects which agitated the theological world . It is connected with the enterprises of great monarchs , with the struggle of the Huguenots and Puritans , with the diffusion of knowledge , and with the progress of civil and religious liberty in Europe . An event , therefore , of such interest and magnitude , may well be adopted as a starting point in modern history , and will , accordingly , be the first subject of especial notice . History is ever most impressive and philosophical when great changes and revolutions are traced to the agency of great spiritual ideas . Moreover , modern history is so complicated , that it is difficult to unravel it except by tracing the agency of great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nobles . CHAPTER II . MARTIN LUTHER AND HIS ASSOCIATES . Sidenote : The Early Life of Luther . Martin Luther was born the 10th of November , 1483 , at Eisleben , in Saxony . His father was a miner , of Mansfield , and his ancestors were peasants , who lived near the summit of the Thuringian Forest . His early years were spent at Mansfield , in extreme poverty , and he earned his bread by singing hymns before the houses of the village . At the age of fifteen , he went to Eisenach , to a high school , and at eighteen entered the university of Erfurt , where he made considerable progress in the sciences then usually taught , which , however , were confined chiefly to the scholastic philosophy . He did not know either Greek or Hebrew , but read the Bible in Latin . In 1505 , he took his degree of bachelor of arts , and , shortly after , his religious struggles commenced . He had witnessed a fearful tempest , which alarmed him , while on a visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much depressed by the death of an intimate friend . In that age , the serious and the melancholy generally sought monastic retreats , and Luther , thirsty after divine knowledge , and anxious to save his soul , resolved to forsake the world , and become a monk . He entered an Augustinian monastery at Erfurt , soon after obtaining his first degree . But the duties and studies of monastic life did not give his troubled soul the repose he sought . He submitted to all the irksome labors which the monks imposed ; he studied the fathers and the schoolmen ; he practised the most painful austerities , and fastings , and self-lacerations : still he was troubled with religious fears . His brethren encouraged his good works , but his perplexities and doubts remained . In this state of mind , he was found by Staupitz , vicar-general of the order , who was visiting Erfurt , in his tour of inspection , with a view to correct the bad morals of the monasteries . He sympathized with Luther in his religious feelings , treated him with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and also the works of St. Augustine whose theological views he himself had embraced . Although St. Augustine was a great oracle in the Roman church , still , his doctrines pertaining to personal salvation differed in spirit from those which were encouraged by the Roman Catholic divines generally , who attached less importance to justification by faith than did the venerated bishop of Hyppo . In that age of abuses , great importance was attached , by the church , to austerities , penance , and absolutions for money . But Luther , deeply imbued with the spirit of Augustine , at length found light , and repose , and joy , in the doctrine of justification by faith alone . This became more and more the idea of his life , especially at this time . The firmness of his convictions on this point became extraordinary , and his spiritual gladness now equalled his former depression and anxiety . He was soon to find a sphere for the development of his views . Luther was consecrated as a priest in 1507 , and in 1508 he was invited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professor in the new university which he had established at Wittemberg . He was now twenty-five years of age , and the fact , that he should have been selected , at that early age , to teach dialectics , is a strong argument in favor of his attainments and genius . He now began to apply himself to the study of the Greek and Hebrew , and delivered lectures on biblical theology ; and his novel method , and great enthusiasm , attracted a crowd of students . But his sermons were more striking even than his lectures , and he was invited , by the council of Wittemberg , to be the preacher for the city . His eloquence , his learning , and his zeal , now attracted considerable attention , and the elector himself visited Wittemberg to hear him preach . In 1512 , he was sent on an embassy to Rome , and , while in Italy , obtained useful knowledge of the actual state of the hierarchy , and of morals and religion . Julius II. , a warlike pontiff , sat on the throne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the scene of folly , dissipation , and clerical extortion . Luther returned to Germany completely disgusted with every thing he had seen  --  the levity and frivolity of the clergy , and the ignorance and vices of the people . He was too earnest in his religious views and feelings to take much interest in the works of art , or the pleasures , which occupied the attention of the Italians ; and the impression of the general iniquity and corruption of Rome never passed away , and probably gave a new direction to his thoughts . Sidenote : Luther 's Early Religious Struggles . On his return , in 1512 , he was made doctor of divinity , then a great distinction , and renewed his lectures in the university with great ardor . He gave a new impulse to the studies , and a new form to the opinions of both professors and students . Lupinus and Carlstadt , his colleagues , were converts to his views . All within his sphere were controlled by his commanding genius , and extraordinary force of character . He commenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomas Aquinas , whom he accused of Pelagianism . He also attacked Aristotle , the great idol of the schools , and overwhelmed scholasticism with sarcasm and mockery . Such was the state of things when the preachers of indulgences , whom Leo X. had encouraged , in order to raise money for St. Peter 's Church , arrived in the country round the Elbe . They had already spread over Germany , Switzerland , and France . Their luxury and extravagance were only equalled by their presumption and insolence . All sorts of crime were pardoned by these people for money . Among the most remarkable of these religious swindlers and peddlers was Tetzel . He was a friar of the Dominicans , apostolical commissioner , inquisitor , and bachelor of theology . He united profligate morals with great pretensions to sanctity ; was somewhat eloquent , so far as a sonorous voice was concerned , and was very bold and haughty , as vulgar men , raised to eminence and power , are apt to be . But his peculiarity consisted in the audacity of his pretensions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever captivated by rhetoric and anecdote . " Indulgences , " said he , " are the most precious and sublime of God 's gifts . " " I would not exchange my privileges for those of St. Peter in heaven ; for I have saved more souls , with my indulgences , than he , with his sermons . " " There is no sin so great that the indulgence can not remit it : even repentance is not necessary : indulgences save not the living alone ,  --  they save the dead . " " The very moment that the money clinks against the bottom of this chest , the soul escapes from purgatory , and flies to heaven . " " And do you know why our Lord distributes so rich a grace ? The dilapidated Church of St. Peter and St. Paul is to be restored , which contains the bodies of those holy apostles , and which are now trodden , dishonored , and polluted . " Sidenote : The Ninety-Five Propositions . Tetzel found but few sufficiently enlightened to resist him , and he obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luther 's intensest detestation ; and he accordingly wrote ninety-five propositions , and nailed them , in 1517 , to the gates of the church , in which he denounced the traffic in indulgences , and traced the doctrine of absolution to the usurped power of the pope . He denied the value of his absolution , and maintained that the divine favor would only be granted on the condition of repentance and faith . In these celebrated propositions , he struck at the root of scholastic absurdities , and also of papal pretensions . The spirit which they breathed was bold , intrepid , and magnanimous . They electrified Germany , and gave a shock to the whole papal edifice . They had both a religious and a political bearing ; religious , in reference to the grounds of justification , and political , in opening men 's eyes to the unjust and ruinous extortions of Rome . Among those who perceived with great clearness the political tendency of these propositions , and rejoiced in it , was the elector of Saxony himself , the most powerful prince of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the vast sums which had been drained from his subjects . He also lamented the corruptions of the church , and probably sympathized with the theological opinions of Luther . He accordingly protected the bold professor , although he did not openly encourage him , or form an alliance with him . He let things take their course . Well did Frederic deserve the epithet of Wise . Sidenote : Erasmus  --  Melancthon . There was another great man who rejoiced in the appearance of Luther 's theses ; and this was Erasmus , the greatest scholar of his age , the autocrat of letters , and , at that time , living in Basle . He was born in Rotterdam , in 1467 , of poor parents , but early attracted notice for his attainments , and early emancipated himself from the trammels of scholasticism , which he hated and despised as cordially as Luther himself . He also attacked , with elegant sarcasm the absurdities of his age , both in literature and morals . He denounced the sins and follies of the monks , and spoke of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his literary talent and taste . He was a great Greek scholar , and published a critical edition of the Testament , which he accompanied with a Latin translation . In this , he rendered great service to the reformers , especially to Luther . His fascinating style and extensive erudition gave him great literary fame . But he was timid , conservative , and vain ; and sought to be popular , except among the monks , whom he uniformly ridiculed . One doctor hated him so cordially , that he had his picture hung up in his study , that he might spit in his face as often as he pleased . So far as Luther opposed monkery and despotism , his sympathies were with him . But he did not desire a radical reformation , as Luther did , and always shunned danger and obloquy . He dreaded an insurrection among the people , and any thing which looked either revolutionary or fanatical . Luther , therefore , much as he was gratified by his favor at first , soon learned to distrust him ; and finally these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was too prominent an actor in the great drama about to be performed , to be omitted in this sketch of great men who were on the side of reform . He was born in 1497 , and was , therefore , fourteen years younger than Luther . He was educated under the auspices of the celebrated Greek scholar Reuchlin , who was also a relative . At twelve , he was sent to the university of Heidelberg ; at fourteen , was made bachelor of arts ; and at seventeen , doctor of philosophy . He began to lecture publicly at the age of seventeen ; and , for his extraordinary attainments , was invited to Wittemberg , as professor of ancient languages , at the age of twenty-one . He arrived there in 1518 , and immediately fell under the influence of Luther , who , however , acknowledged his classical attainments . He was considered a prodigy ; was remarkably young looking , and so boyish , that the grave professors conceived but little hope of him at first . But , when he delivered his inaugural oration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were removed . Luther himself was enthusiastic in his praises , and a friendship commenced between them , which was never weakened by a quarrel . The mildness and gentleness of Philip Melancthon strongly contrasted with the boldness , energy , and tumultuous passions of Luther . The former was the more learned and elegant ; the latter was the superior genius  --  a genius for commanding men , and guiding great enterprises . Sidenote : Melancthon  --  Leo X. But there was another great personage , who now viewed the movement of Luther with any thing but indifference ; and this was Leo X. , the reigning pope when the theses were published . He belonged to the illustrious family of the Medici , and was chosen cardinal at the age of thirteen . He was the most elegant and accomplished of all the popes , patronized art and literature , and ornamented his capital with palaces , churches , and statues . But with his sympathy for intellectual excellence , he was prodigal , luxurious , and worldly . Indeed , his spirit was almost infidel . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he commenced his reign , the papal possessions were more extensive and flourishing , than at any previous period . His leading error was , his recklessness in the imposition of taxes , even on the clergy themselves , by which he lost their confidence and regard . With a very fine mind , he was , nevertheless , quite unfitted for his station and his times . Thus far , he had allowed the outcry which Luther had raised against indulgences to take its course , and even disregarded the theses , which he supposed originated in a monkish squabble . But the Emperor Maximilian was alarmed , and wrote to the pope an account of Luther 's differences with Tetzel . Frederic of Saxony had also written to his holiness , to palliate the conduct of Luther . When such powerful princes became interested , Leo was startled . He summoned Luther to Rome , to be tried by Prierias . Luther , not daring to refuse , and not willing to obey , wrote to his friend Spalatin to use his influence with the elector to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing to please Frederic , appointed De Vio , his legate , to investigate the matter . Luther accordingly set out for Augsburg , in obedience to the summons of De Vio , although dissuaded by many of his friends . He had several interviews with the legate , by whom he was treated with courtesy and urbanity , and by whom he was dissuaded from his present courses . But all the persuasion and argument of the cardinal legate were without effect on the mind of Luther , whose convictions were not to be put aside by either kindness or craft . De Vio had hoped that he could induce Luther to retract ; but , when he found him fixed in his resolutions , he changed his tone , and resorted to threats . Luther then made up his mind to leave Augsburg ; and , appealing to the decision of the sovereign pontiff , whose authority he had not yet openly defied , he fled from the city , and returned to Wittemberg , being countenanced by the elector , to whom he also addressed letters . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sidenote : The Leipsic Disputation . The next event in the progress of Luther was the Leipsic disputation , June , 1519 . The pope seemed willing to make one more effort to convince Luther , before he proceeded to more violent courses . There was then at his court a noble Saxon , Charles Miltitz , whose talents and insinuating address secured him the high office of chamberlain to the pope . He accordingly was sent into his native country , with the dignity of legate , to remove the difficulties which De Vio had attempted . He tried persuasion and flattery , and treated the reformer with great civility . But Luther still persisted in refusing to retract , and the matter was referred to the elector archbishop of Treves . While the controversy was pending , Dr. Eck , of the university of Ingolstadt , a man of great scholastic ingenuity and attainment , and proud of the prizes of eight universities , challenged the professors of Wittemberg to a public controversy on Grace and Free Will . He regarded a disputation with the eye of a practised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over North Germany . Leipsic was the appointed arena , and thither resorted the noble and the learned of Saxony . Eck was among the first who arrived , and , soon after , came Carlstadt , Luther , and Melancthon . Sidenote : Principles of the Leipsic Disputation . The place for the combat was a hall in the royal palace of Duke George , cousin to the elector Frederic , which was arranged and ornamented with great care , and which was honored by the presence of the duke , and of the chief divines and nobles of Northern Germany . Carlstadt opened the debate , which did not excite much interest until Luther 's turn came , the antagonist whom Eck was most desirous to meet , and whose rising fame he hoped to crush by a brilliant victory . Ranke thus describes Luther 's person at this time . " He was of the middle size , and so thin as to be mere skin and bone . He possessed neither the thundering voice , nor the ready memory , nor the skill and dexterity , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of manhood and in the fulness of his strength . His voice was melodious and clear ; he was perfectly versed in the Bible , and its aptest sentences presented themselves unbidden to his mind ; above all , he inspired an irresistible conviction that he sought the truth . He was always cheerful at home , and a joyous , jocose companion at table ; he even , on this grave occasion , ascended the platform with a nosegay in his hand ; but , when there , he displayed the intrepid and self-forgetting earnestness arising from the depth of a conviction , until now , unfathomed , even by himself . He drew forth new thoughts , and placed them in the fire of the battle , with a determination that knew no fear and no personal regard . His features bore the traces of the storms that had passed over his soul , and of the courage with which he was prepared to encounter those which yet awaited him . His whole aspect evinced profound thought , joyousness of temper , and confidence in the future . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the papacy , which , at once intelligible and important , riveted universal attention . " Eck , with great erudition and masterly logic , supported the claim of the pope , from the decrees of councils , the opinions of scholastics , and even from those celebrated words of Christ to Peter  --  " Thou art Peter , and on this rock will I build my church , " &c.; Luther took higher and bolder ground , denied the infallibility of councils , and appealed to Scripture as the ultimate authority . Eck had probably the advantage over his antagonist , so far as dialectics were concerned , being a more able disputant ; but Luther set at defiance mere scholastic logic , and appealed to an authority which dialectics could not reach . The victory was claimed by both parties ; but the result was , that Luther no longer acknowledged the authority of the Roman church , and acknowledged none but the Scriptures . Sidenote : The Rights of Private Judgment . The Leipsic disputation was the grand intellectual contest of the Reformation , and developed its great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sects and parties among the Protestants rally . This is the idea , that the Scriptures are the only ultimate grounds of authority in religion , and that , moreover , every man has a right to interpret them for himself . The rights of private judgment  --  that religion is a matter between the individual soul and God , and that every man is answerable to his own conscience alone how he interprets Scripture  --  these constitute the great Protestant platform . Different sects have different views respecting justification , but all profess to trace them to the Scriptures . Luther 's views were similar to those of St. Augustine  --  that " man could be justified by faith alone , " which was his great theological doctrine  --  a doctrine adopted by many who never left the communion of the Church of Rome , before and since his day , and a doctrine which characterized the early reformers , Zwingle , Calvin , Knox , Cranmer , and the Puritans generally . It is as absurd to say that Luther 's animating principle in religion was not this doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely in its recognition . After Luther 's convictions were settled on this point , and he had generally and openly declared them , the main contest of his life was against the papacy , which he viewed as the predicted Antichrist  --  the " scarlet mother of abominations . " It is not the object of the writer of this History to defend or oppose Luther 's views , or argue any cause whatever , but simply to place facts in their true light , which is , to state them candidly . Although the Leipsic controversy brought out the great principle of the Reformation , Luther 's views , both respecting the true doctrines and polity of the church , were not , on all points , yet developed , and were only gradually unfolded , as he gained knowledge and light . It was no trifling matter , even to deny the supremacy of the Roman church in matters of faith . He was thus placed in the position of Huss and Jerome , and other reformers , who had been destroyed , with scarcely an exception . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the great dignitaries of the church , with the universities , and with the whole scholastic literature . He had to expect the violent opposition and vengeance of the pope , of the monks , of the great ecclesiastical dignitaries , of the most distinguished scholars , and of those secular princes who were friendly to Rome . He had none to protect him but a prince of the empire , powerful , indeed , and wise , but old and wavering . There were but few to uphold and defend him  --  the satirical Erasmus , who was called a second Lucian , the feeble Staupitz , the fanatical Carlstadt , and the inexperienced Melancthon . The worldly-minded , the learned , the powerful , and the conservative classes were his natural enemies . But he had reason and Scripture on his side , and he appealed to their great and final verdict . He had singular faith in the power of truth , and the gracious protection of God Almighty . Reposing on the greatness of his cause , and the providence of the omnipotent Protector , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories , and malice of man . His weapon was truth . For truth he fought , and for truth he was ready to die . The sophistries of the schools he despised ; they had distorted and mystified the truth . And he knew them well , for he had been trained in the severest dialectics of his time , and , though he despised them , he knew how to use them . The simple word of God , directed to the reason and conscience of men , seemed alone worthy of his regard . Sidenote : Luther 's Elements of Greatness . But , beside Scripture and unperverted reason , he had another element of power . He was master of the sympathies and passions of the people . His father was a toiling miner . His grandfather was a peasant . He had been trained to penury ; he had associated with the poor ; he was a man of the people ; he was their natural friend . He saw and lamented their burdens , and rose up for their deliverance . And the people distinguished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw the sincerity , earnestness , and labors of the new apostle of liberty , and believed in him , and made an idol of him . They would protect him , and honor him , and obey him , and believe what he taught them , for he was their friend , whom God had raised up to take off their burdens , and point a way to heaven , without the intercession of priests , or indulgences , or penance . Their friend was to expose the corruptions of the clergy , and to give battle to the great arch enemy who built St. Peter 's Church from their hard-earned pittances . A spirit from heaven enlightened those to whom Luther preached , and they rallied around his standard , and swore never to separate , until the great enemies of the poor and the oppressed were rendered powerless . And their sympathies were needed , and best services , too ; for the great man of the age  --  the incarnated spirit of liberty  --  was in danger . Sidenote : Excommunication of Luther . The pope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the majesty of his mighty name , and , as the successor of St. Peter , hurled those weapons which had been thunderbolts in the hands of the Gregories and the Innocents . From his papal throne , and with all the solemnity of God 's appointed vicegerent , he denounced the daring monk of Wittemberg , and sentenced him to the wrath of God , and to the penalty of eternal fire . Luther was excommunicated by a papal bull , and his writings were condemned as heretical and damnable . This was a dreadful sentence . Few had ever resisted it successfully , even monarchs themselves . Excommunication was still a fearful weapon , and used only in desperate circumstances . It was used only as the last resort ; for frequency would destroy its power . In the middle ages , this weapon was omnipotent ; and the middle ages had but just passed away . No one could stand before that awful anathema which consigned him to the wrath of incensed and implacable Deity . Much as some professed to despise the sentence , still , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if accompanied with an interdict . Children were left unburied . The churches were closed . The rites of religion were suspended . A funereal shade was spread over society . The fears of hell haunted every imagination . No reason was strong enough to resist the sentence . No arm was sufficiently powerful to remove the curse . It hung over a guilty land . It doomed the unhappy offender , who was cursed , wherever he went , and in whatever work he was engaged . But Luther was strong enough to resist it , and to despise it . He saw it was an imposition , which only barbarous and ignorant ages had permitted . Moreover , he perceived that there was now no alternative but victory or death ; that , in the great contest in which he was engaged , retreat was infamy . Nor did he wish to retreat . He was fighting for oppressed humanity , and death even , in such a cause , was glory . He understood fully the nature and the consequence of the struggle . He perceived the greatness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of view . No man but a Luther would have been equal to it ; no man , before him , ever had successfully rebelled against the pope . It is only in view of this circumstance , that his intrepidity can be appreciated . What did the Saxon monk do , when the papal bull was published ? He assembled the professors and students of the university , declared his solemn protest against the pope as Antichrist , and marched in procession to the gates of the Castle of Wittemberg , and there made a bonfire , and cast into it the bull which condemned him , the canon law , and some writings of the schoolmen , and then reentered the city , breathing defiance against the whole power of the pope , glowing in the consciousness that the battle had commenced , to last as long as life , and perfectly secure that the victory would finally be on the side of truth . This was in 1520 , on the 10th of December . The attention of the whole nation was necessarily drawn to this open resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnest , and the religious , was expressed for him . Never was popular interest more absorbing , in respect to his opinions , his fortunes , and his fate . The spirit of innovation became contagious , and pervaded the German mind . It demanded the serious attention of the emperor himself . Sidenote : The Diet of Worms . A great Diet of the empire was convened at Worms , and thither Luther was summoned by the temporal power . He had a safe-conduct , which even so powerful a prince as Charles V. durst not violate . In April , 1521 , the reformer appeared before the collected dignitaries of the German empire , both spiritual and temporal , and was called upon to recant his opinions as heretical in the eyes of the church , and dangerous to the peace of the empire . Before the most august assembly in the world , without a trace of embarrassment , he made his defence , and refused to recant . " Unless , " said he , " my errors can be demonstrated by texts from Scripture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not safe for a man to go against his conscience . Here I am . I can do no otherwise . God help me ! Amen . " This declaration satisfied his friends , though it did not satisfy the members of the diet . Luther was permitted to retire . He had gained the confidence of the nation . From that time , he was its idol , and the acknowledged leader of the greatest insurrection of human intelligence which modern times have seen . The great principles of the reformation were declared . The great hero of the Reformation had planted his cause upon a rock . And yet his labors had but just commenced . Henceforth , his life was toil and vexation . New difficulties continually arose . New questions had to be continually settled . Luther , by his letters , was every where . He commenced the translation of the Scriptures ; he wrote endless controversial tracts ; his correspondence was unparalleled ; his efforts as a preacher were prodigious . But he was equal to it all ; was wonderfully adapted to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About this time commenced his voluntary imprisonment at Wartburg , among the Thuringian forests : he being probably conducted thither by the orders of the elector of Saxony . Here he was out of sight , but not out of mind ; and his retirement , under the disguise of a knight , gave him leisure for literary labor . In the old Castle of Wartburg , a great part of the Scriptures was translated into that beautiful and simple version , which is still the standard of the German language . Sidenote : Carlstadt . While Luther was translating the Scriptures , in his retreat , Wittemberg was the scene of new commotions , pregnant with great results . There were many of the more zealous converts to the reformed doctrines , headed by Carlstadt , dean of the faculty of theology , who were not content with the progress which had been made , and who desired more sweeping and radical changes . Such a party ever exists in all reforms ; for there are some persons who are always inclined to ultra and extravagant courses . Carlstadt was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sincere , and amiable , but did not know where to stop ; and the experiment was now to be tried , whether it was possible to introduce a necessary reform , without annihilating also all the results of the labors of preceding generations . Carlstadt 's mind was not well balanced , and to him the reformation was only a half measure , and a useless movement , unless all the external observances of religion and the whole economy of the church were destroyed . He abolished , or desired to abolish , all priestly garments , all fasts and holydays , all pictures in the churches , and all emblematical ceremonies of every kind . He insisted upon closing all places of public amusement , the abolition of all religious communities , and the division of their possessions among the poor . He maintained that there was no need of learning , or of academic studies , and even went into the houses of the peasantry to seek explanation of difficult passages of Scripture . For such innovations , the age was certainly not prepared , even had they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luther was shocked at extravagances which served to disgust the whole Christian world , and jeopardize the cause in which he had embarked . So , against the entreaties of the elector , and in spite of the ban of the empire , he returned to Wittemberg , a small city , it was true , but a place to which had congregated the flower of the German youth . He resolved to oppose the movements of Carlstadt , even though opposition should destroy his influence . Especially did he declare against all violent measures to which the ultra reformers were inclined , knowing full well , that , if his cause were sullied with violence or fanaticism , all Christendom would unite to suppress it . His sermons are , at this time , ( 1522 , ) pervaded with a profound and conservative spirit , and also a spirit of conciliation and love , calculated to calm passions , and carry conviction to excited minds . His moderate counsels prevailed , the tumults were hushed , and order was restored . Carlstadt was silenced for a time ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points where he had truth on his side . One of these was , in reference to the presence of Christ 's body in the Eucharist , which Carlstadt totally denied . He taught " that the Lord 's supper was purely symbolic , and was simply a pledge to believers of their redemption . " But Luther saw , in every attempt to exhibit the symbolical import of the supper , only the danger of weakening the authority of Scripture , which was his stronghold , and became exceedingly tenacious on that point ; carried his views to the extreme of literal interpretation , and never could emancipate himself from the doctrines of Rome respecting the eucharist . Carlstadt , finding himself persecuted at Wittemberg left the city , and , as soon as he was released from the presence of Luther , began to revive his former zeal against images also , and was the promoter of great disturbances . He at last sought refuge in Strasburg , and sacrificed fame , and friends , and bread to his honest convictions . Sidenote : Thomas Muenzer . But , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his extravagances were copied with still greater zeal . Many pretended to special divine illumination  --  the great central principle of all fanaticism . Among these was Thomas Muenzer , of Zwickau , mystical , ignorant , and conceited , but sincere and simple hearted . " Luther , " said he , " has liberated men 's consciences from the papal yoke , but has not led them in spirit towards God . " Considering himself as called upon by a special revelation to bring men into greater spiritual liberty , he went about inflaming the popular mind , and raising discontents , and even inciting to a revolt . Religion now became mingled with politics , and social and political evils were violently resisted , under the garb of religion . An insurrection at last arose in the districts of the Black Forest , ( 1524 , ) near the sources of the Danube , and spread from Suabia to the Rhine provinces , until it became exceedingly formidable . Then commenced what is called the " peasants ' war , " which was only ended by the slaughter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , after all , were chiefly political , the details belong to our chapter on political history . For this insurrection of the peasantry , however , Luther expressed great detestation ; although he availed himself of it to lecture the princes of Germany on their duties as civil rulers . The peasant war was scarcely ended , when Luther married Catharine Bora ; and , as she was a nun , and he was a monk , the marriage gave universal scandal . But this marriage , which proved happy , was the signal of new reforms . Luther now emancipated himself from his monastic fetters , and lifted up his voice against the whole monastic system . Eight years had elapsed since he preached against indulgences . During these eight years , reform had been gradual , and had now advanced to the extreme limit it ever reached during the life of the reformer . But , in another quarter , it sprang up with new force , and was carried to an extent not favored in Germany . It was in Switzerland that the greatest approximation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of primitive Christianity . Sidenote : Ulric Zwingle . The great hero of this Swiss movement was Ulric Zwingle , the most interesting of all the reformers . He was born in 1484 , and educated amid the mountains of his picturesque country , and , like Erasmus , Reuchlin , Luther , and Melancthon , had no aristocratic claims , except to the nobility of nature . But , though poor , he was well educated , and was a master of the scholastic philosophy and of all the learning of his age . Like Luther , he was passionately fond of music , and played the lute , the harp , the violin , the flute and the dulcimer . There was no more joyous spirit in all Switzerland than his . Every one loved his society , and honored his attainments , and admired his genius . Like Luther and Erasmus , he was disgusted with scholasticism , and regretted the time he had devoted to its study . He was ordained in 1506 , by the bishop of Constance , and was settled in Zurich in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from that which the clergy generally led , being one of dissipation and pleasure . But he was studious , and became well acquainted with the fathers , and with the original Greek . Only gradually did light dawn upon him , and this in consequence of his study of the Scriptures , not in consequence of Luther 's preaching . He had no tempests to withstand , such as shook the soul of the Saxon monk . Nor had he ever devoted himself with the same ardor to the established church . Nor was he so much interested on doctrinal points of faith . But he saw with equal clearness the corruptions of the church , and preached with equal zeal against indulgences and the usurpations of the popes . The reformation of morals was the great aim of his life . His preaching was practical and simple , and his doctrine was , that " religion consisted in trust in God , loving God , and innocence of life . " Moreover , he took a deep interest in the political relations of his country , and was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him the town of Zurich was indebted for its emancipation from the episcopal government of Constance , and also for a reformation in all the externals of the church . He inspired the citizens with that positive spirit of Protestantism , which afterwards characterized Calvin and the Puritans . He was too radical a reformer to suit Luther , although he sympathized with most of his theological opinions . Sidenote : Controversy between Luther and Zwingle . On one point , however , they differed ; and this difference led to an acrimonious contest , quite disgraceful to Luther , and the greatest blot on his character , inasmuch as it developed , to an extraordinary degree , both obstinacy and dogmatism , and showed that he could not bear contradiction or opposition . The quarrel arose from a difference of views respecting the Lord 's supper , Luther maintaining not exactly the Roman Catholic doctrine of transubstantiation , but something approximating to it  --  even the omnipresence of Christ 's body in the sacred elements . He relinquished the doctrine of the continually repeated miracle , but substituted a universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the opinions of the schoolmen on this point , we see his conservative spirit ; for he did not deny tradition , unless it was expressly contradicted by Scripture . He would have maintained the whole structure of the Latin church , had it not been disfigured by modern additions , plainly at variance with the Scriptures ; and so profoundly was he attached to the traditions of the church , and to the whole church establishment , that he only emancipated himself by violent inward storms . But Zwingle had not this lively conception of the universal church , and was more radical in his sympathies . He took Carlstadt 's view of the supper , that it was merely symbolic . Still he shrunk from a rupture with Luther , which , however , was unavoidable , considering Luther 's views of the subject and his cast of mind . Luther rejected all offers of conciliation , and , as he considered it essential to salvation to believe in the real presence of Christ in the sacrament , he refused to acknowledge Zwingle as a brother . Zwingle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restore , what he conceived to be , the earliest forms in which Christianity had manifested itself . He designed to restore a worship purely spiritual . He rejected all rites and ceremonies , not expressly enjoined in the Bible . Luther insisted in retaining all that was not expressly forbidden . And this was the main point of distinction between them and their adherents . But Zwingle contemplated political , as well as religious , changes , and , as early as 1527 , two years before his conference with Luther at Marburg , had projected a league of all the reformers against the political authorities which opposed their progress . He combated the abuses of the state , as well as of the church . This opposition created great enemies against him among the cantons , with their different governments and alliances . He also secured enthusiastic friends , and , in all the cantons , there was a strong democratic party opposed to the existing oligarchies , which party , in Berne and Basle , St. Gall , Zurich , Appenzell , Schaffhausen , and Glarus , obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and finally to civil war between the different cantons , those which adhered to the old faith being assisted by Austria . Lucerne , Uri Schwytz , Zug , Unterwalden took the lead against the reformed cantons , the foremost of which was Zurich , where Zwingle lived . Zurich was attacked . Zwingle , from impulses of patriotism and courage , issued forth from his house , and joined the standard of his countrymen , not as a chaplain , but as an armed warrior . This was his mistake . " They who take the sword shall perish with the sword . " The intrepid and enlightened reformer was slain in 1531 , and , with his death , expired the hopes of his party . The restoration of the Roman Catholic religion immediately commenced in Switzerland . Luther , more wise than Zwingle , inasmuch as he abstained from politics , continued his labors in Germany . And they were immense . The burdens of his country rested on his shoulders . He was the dictator of the reformed party , and his word was received as law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the support it received from some of the most powerful of the German princes , it became formidable , even in a political point of view . Nearly one half of Germany embraced the reformed faith . Sidenote : Diet of Augsburg . The illustrious Charles V. had now , for some time , been emperor , and , in the prosecution of his conquests , found it necessary to secure the support of united Germany , especially since Germany was now invaded by the Turks . In order to secure this support , he found it necessary to make concessions in religion to his Protestant subjects . At the diet of Augsburg , ( 1530 , ) where there was the most brilliant assemblage of princes which had been for a long time seen in Germany , the celebrated confession of the faith of the Protestants was read . It was written by Melancthon , in both Latin and German , on the basis of the articles of Torgau , which Luther had prepared . The style was Melancthon 's ; the matter was Luther 's . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the faith of the Protestants  --  the name they assumed at the second diet of Spires , in 1529  --  and the remaining seven recounted the errors and abuses of Rome . It was subscribed by the Elector of Saxony , the Marquis of Brandenburg , the Duke of Lunenburg , the Landgrave of Hesse , the Prince of Anhalt , and the deputies of the imperial cities Nuremberg and Reutlingen . But the Catholics had the ascendency in the diet , and the " Confession of Augsburg " was condemned . But the emperor did not venture on any decisive measures for the extirpation of the " heresy . " He threatened and published edicts , but his menaces had but little force . Nevertheless , the Protestant princes assembled , first at Smalcalde , and afterwards at Frankfort , for an alliance of mutual defence ,  --  the first effective union of free princes and states against their oppressors in modern Europe ,  --  and laid the foundation of liberty of conscience . Hostilities , however , did not commence , since the emperor was desirous of uniting Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Worms and Augsburg against the Protestants , and made important concessions , and promised them undisturbed enjoyment of their religion . This was a great triumph to the Protestants , and as great a shock to the Papal power . Sidenote : League of Smalcalde . The Confession of Augsburg and the League of Smalcalde form an important era of Protestantism , since , by these , the reformed faith received its definite form , and was moreover guaranteed . The work for which Luther had been raised up was now , in the main , accomplished . His great message had been delivered and heard . Sidenote : Death and Character of Luther . After the confirmation of his cause , his life was perplexed and anxious . He had not anticipated those civil commotions which he now saw , sooner or later , were inevitable . With the increase of his party was the decline of spirituality . Political considerations , also , with many , were more prominent than moral . Religion and politics were mingled together , not soon to be separated in the progress of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among themselves . There was a lamentable want of harmony between the Germans and the Swiss . Luther had quarrelled with nearly every prominent person with whom he had been associated , except Melancthon , who yielded to him implicit obedience . But , above all , the Anabaptist disorders , which he detested , and which distracted the whole bishopric of Muenster , oppressed and mortified him . Worn out with cares , labors , and vexations , which ever have disturbed the peace and alloyed the happiness of great heroes , and from which no greatness is exempt , he died at Eisleben , in 1545 , while on a visit to his native place in older to reconcile dissensions between the counts of Mansfeldt . Luther 's name is still reverenced in Germany , and , throughout all Protestant countries , he is regarded as the greatest man connected with the history of the church since the apostolic age . Others have been greater geniuses , others more learned , others more devout , and others more amiable and interesting ; but none ever evinced greater intrepidity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had his faults : he was irritable , dogmatic , and abusive in his controversial writings . He had no toleration for those who differed from him  --  the fault of the age . But he was genial , joyous , friendly , and disinterested . His labors were gigantic ; his sincerity unimpeached ; his piety enlightened ; his zeal unquenchable . Circumstances and the new ideas of his age , favored him , but he made himself master of those circumstances and ideas , and , what is more , worked out ideas of his own , which were in harmony with Christianity . The Reformation would have happened had there been no Luther , though at a less favorable time ; but , of all the men of his age that the Reformation could least spare , Martin Luther stands preeminent . As the greatest of reformers , his name will be ever honored. * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  The attention of the student is directed only to the most prominent and valuable works which treat of Luther and the Protestant reformation . All the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allusion is made to those merely which are accessible and useful . Among them may be mentioned , as most important , Ranke 's History of the Reformation ; D'Aubigne 's History of the Reformation ; Michelet 's Life of Luther ; Audin 's Life of Luther , a Catholic work , written with great spirit , but not much liberality ; Stebbing 's History of the Reformation ; a Life of Luther , by Rev. Dr. Sears , a new work , written with great correctness and ability ; Guizot 's Lectures on Civilization ; Plank 's Essay on the Consequences of the Reformation . CHAPTER III . THE EMPEROR CHARLES V. Sidenote : Charles V. When Luther appeared upon the stage , the great monarchies of Europe had just arisen upon the ruins of those Feudal states which survived the wreck of Charlemagne 's empire . The Emperor of Germany , of all the monarchs of Europe , had the greatest claim to the antiquity and dignity of his throne . As hereditary sovereign of Austria , Styria , Carinthia , and the Tyrol , he had absolute authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emperor , he had an indirect influence over Saxony , the Palatinate , the three archbishoprics of Treves , Mentz , and Cologne , and some Burgundian territories . Sidenote : Spain and France in the Fifteenth Century . But the most powerful monarchy , at this time , was probably that of France ; and its capital was the finest city in Europe , and the resort of the learned and elegant from all parts of Christendom . All strangers extolled the splendor of the court , the wealth of the nobles , and the fame of the university . The power of the monarch was nearly absolute , and a considerable standing army , even then , was ready to obey his commands . Spain , at the beginning of the sixteenth century , was ruled by Ferdinand and Isabella , who , by their marriage , had united the crowns of Castile and Arragon . The conquest of Granada and the discovery of America had added greatly to the political importance of Spain , and laid the foundation of its future greatness under Philip II . England , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in European politics as the other powers to which allusion has been made , but it was , nevertheless , a flourishing and united kingdom . Henry VII. , the founder of the house of Tudor , sat on the throne , and was successful in suppressing the power of the feudal nobility , and in increasing the royal authority . Kings , in the fifteenth century , were the best protectors of the people , and aided them in their struggles against their feudal oppressors . England , however , had made but little advance in commerce or manufactures , and the people were still rude and ignorant . The clergy , as in other countries , were the most intelligent and wealthy portion of the population , and , consequently , the most influential , although disgraced by many vices . Italy then , as now , was divided into many independent states , and distracted by civil and religious dissensions . The duchy of Milan was ruled by Ludovico Moro , son of the celebrated Francis Sforza . Naples , called a kingdom , had just been conquered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Medici . Venice , whose commercial importance had begun to decline , was controlled by an oligarchy of nobles . The chair of St. Peter was filled by pope Alexander VI. , a pontiff who has obtained an infamous immortality by the vices of debauchery , cruelty , and treachery . The papacy was probably in its most corrupt state , and those who had the control of its immense patronage , disregarded the loud call for reformation which was raised in every corner of Christendom . The popes were intent upon securing temporal as well as spiritual power , and levied oppressive taxes on both their spiritual and temporal subjects . The great northern kingdoms of Europe , which are now so considerable ,  --  Russia , Denmark , Sweden , and Norway ,  --  did not , at the beginning of the sixteenth century , attract much attention . They were plunged in barbarism and despotism , and the light of science or religion rarely penetrated into the interior . The monarchs were sensual and cruel , the nobles profligate and rapacious , the clergy ignorant and corrupt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their degradation , with no aspirations for freedom and no appreciation of the benefits of civilization . Such heroes as Peter and Gustavus Adolphus had not yet appeared . Nor were these northern nations destined to be immediately benefited by the impulse which the reformation gave , with the exception of Sweden , then the most powerful of these kingdoms . The Greek empire became extinct when Constantinople was taken by the Turks , in 1453 . On its ruins , the Ottoman power was raised . At the close of the fifteenth century , the Turkish arms were very powerful , and Europe again trembled before the Moslems . Greece and the whole of Western Asia were obedient to the sultan . But his power did not reach its culminating point until a century afterwards . Such were the various states of Europe when the Reformation broke out . Maximilian was emperor of Germany , and Charles V. had just inherited , from his father , Philip the Fair , who had married a daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella , the kingdom of Spain , in addition to the dominion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1519 , the youthful sovereign of Spain and the Netherlands came into possession of the Austrian dominions ; and the electors , shortly after , chose him emperor of Germany . He was born at Ghent , A. D. 1500 , and was educated with great care . He early displayed his love of government , and , at fifteen , was present at the deliberations of the cabinet . But he had no taste for learning , and gave but few marks of that genius which he afterwards evinced . He was much attached to his Flemish subjects , and , during the first year of his reign , gave great offence to the grandees of Spain and the nobles of Germany by his marked partiality for those men who had been his early companions . It is difficult to trace , in the career of Charles V. , any powerful motives of conduct , separate from the desire of aggrandizement . The interests of the church , with which he was identified , and the true welfare of his subjects , were , at different times , sacrificed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other thrones of Europe , his dreams of power might possibly have been realized . But at this period there happened to be a constellation of princes . Sidenote : Wars between Charles and Francis . The greatest of these , and the chief rival through life of Charles , was Francis I. of France . He had even anticipated an election to the imperial crown , which would have made him more powerful than even Charles himself . The electors feared both , and chose Frederic of Saxony ; but he declined the dangerous post . Charles , as Archduke of Austria , had such great and obvious claims , that they could not be disregarded . He was therefore the fortunate candidate . But his election was a great disappointment to Francis , and he could not conceal his mortification . Peace could not long subsist between two envious and ambitious princes . Francis was nearly of the same age as Charles , had inherited nearly despotic power , was free from financial embarrassments , and ruled over an united and loyal people . He was therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthened himself by alliances with the Swiss and Venetians . Charles sought the favor of the pope and Henry VIII . of England . The real causes of war were mutual jealousies , and passion for military glory . The assigned causes were , that Charles did not respect the claims of Francis as king of Naples ; and , on the other hand , that Francis had seized the duchy of Milan , which was a fief of the empire , and also retained the duchy of Burgundy , the patrimonial inheritance of the emperor . The political history of Europe , for nearly half a century , is a record of the wars between these powerful princes , of their mutual disasters , disappointments , and successes . Other contests were involved in these , and there were also some which arose from causes independent of mutual jealousy , such as the revolt of the Spanish grandees , of the peasants in Germany , and of the invasion of the empire by the Turks . During the reign of Charles , was also the division of the princes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contest which , after the death of Charles , convulsed Germany for thirty years . But the Thirty Years ' War was a religious war  --  was one of the political consequences of the Reformation . The wars between Charles and Francis were purely wars of military ambition . Charles had greater territories and larger armies ; but Francis had more money , and more absolute control over his forces . Charles 's power was checked in Spain by the free spirit of the Cortes , and in Germany by the independence of the princes , and by the embarrassing questions which arose out of the Reformation . It would be tedious to read the various wars between Charles and his rival . Each of them gained , at different times , great successes , and each experienced , in turn , the most humiliating reverses . Francis was even taken prisoner at the battle of Pavia , in 1525 , and confined in a fortress at Madrid , until he promised to the victors the complete dismemberment of France  --  an extorted promise he never meant to keep . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violated all his oaths , and Europe was again the scene of fresh hostilities . The passion of revenge was now added to that of ambition , and , as the pope had favored the cause of Francis , the generals of Charles invaded Italy . Rome was taken and sacked by the constable Bourbon , a French noble whom Francis had slighted , and cruelties and outrages were perpetrated by the imperial forces which never disgraced Alaric or Attila . Charles affected to be filled with grief in view of the victories of his generals , and pretended that they acted without his orders . He employed every artifice to deceive indignant Christendom , and appointed prayers and processions throughout Spain for the recovery of the pope 's liberty , which one stroke of his pen could have secured . Thus it was , that the most Catholic and bigoted prince in Europe seized the pope 's person , and sacked his city , at the very time when Luther was prosecuting his reform . And this fact shows how much more powerfully the emperor was influenced by political , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of God in permitting the only men , who could have arrested the reformation , to spend their strength in battling each other , rather than the heresy which they deplored . Had Charles been less powerful and ambitious , he probably would have contented himself in punishing heretics , and in uniting with his natural ally , the pope , in suppressing every insurrection which had for its object the rights of conscience and the enjoyment of popular liberty . The war was continued for two years longer between Francis and Charles , with great acrimony , but with various success , both parties being , at one time , strengthened by alliances , and then again weakened by desertions . At last , both parties were exhausted , and were willing to accede to terms which they had previously rejected with disdain . Francis was the most weakened and disheartened , but Charles was the most perplexed . The troubles growing out of the Reformation demanded his attention , and the Turks , at this period a powerful nation , were about invading Austria . The Spaniards murmured at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with difficulty obtained . Hence the peace of Cambray , August 5 , 1529 ; which was very advantageous to Charles , in consequence of the impulsive character of Francis , and his impatience to recover his children , whom he had surrendered to Charles in order to recover his liberty . He agreed to pay two millions of crowns for the ransom of his sons , and renounce his pretensions in the Low Countries and Italy . He , moreover , lost reputation , and the confidence of Europe , by the abandonment of his allies . Charles remained the arbiter of Italy , and was attentive to the interests of all who adhered to him . With less chivalry than his rival , he had infinitely more honor . Cold , sagacious , selfish , and ambitious , he was , however , just , and kept his word . He combined qualities we often see in selfish men  --  a sort of legal and technical regard to the letter of the law , with the constant violation of its spirit . A Shylock might not enter a false @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a most extortionate bargain . Charles , after the treaty of Cambray was signed , visited Italy with all the pomp of a conqueror . At Genoa , he honored Doria with many marks of distinction , and bestowed upon the republic new privileges . He settled all his difficulties with Milan , Venice , and Florence , and reestablished the authority of the Medici . He was then crowned by the pope , whom he had trampled on , as King of Lombardy and Emperor of the Romans , and hastened into Germany , which imperatively required his presence , both on account of dissensions among the princes , which the reformation caused , and the invasion of Austria by three hundred thousand Turks . He resolved to recover the old prerogatives of the emperor of Germany , and crush those opinions which were undermining his authority , as well as the power of Rome , with which his own was identified . Sidenote : Diet of Spires . A Diet of the empire was accordingly summoned at Spires , in order to take into consideration the state of religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It met on the 15th of March , 1529 , and the greatest address was required to prevent a civil war . All that Charles could obtain from the assembled princes was , the promise to prevent any further innovations . A decree to that effect was passed , against which , however , the followers of Luther protested , the most powerful of whom were the Elector of Saxony , the Marquis of Brandenburg , the Landgrave of Hesse , the Duke of Lunenburg , the Prince of Anhalt , and the deputies of fourteen imperial cities . This protest gave to them the name of Protestants  --  a name ever since retained . Soon after , the diet assembled at Augsburg , when the articles of faith among the Protestants were read ,  --  known as the Confession of Augsburg ,  --  which , however , the emperor opposed . In consequence of his decree , the Protestant princes entered into a league at Smalcalde , ( December 22 , 1530 , ) to support one another , and defend their religion . Circumstances continually occurred to convince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was impossible in Germany , and moreover , he saw it was for his interest  --  to which his eye was peculiarly open  --  to unite all the German provinces in a vigorous confederation . Accordingly after many difficulties , and with great reluctance , terms of pacification were agreed upon at Nuremburg , ( 1531 , ) and ratified in the diet at Ratisbon , shortly after , by which it was agreed that no person should be molested in his religion , and that the Protestants , on their part , should assist the emperor in resisting the invasion of the Turks . The Germans , with their customary good faith , furnished all the assistance they promised , and one of the best armies ever raised in Germany , amounting to ninety thousand foot , and thirty thousand horse , took the field , commanded by the emperor in person . But the campaign ended without any memorable event , both parties having erred from excessive caution . Sidenote : Hostilities between Charles and Francis . Francis soon availed himself of the difficulties and dangers of his rival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his old claims , courted the favor of the German Protestants , and renewed hostilities . He marched towards Italy , and took possession of the dominions of the duke of Savoy , whom the emperor , at this juncture , was unable to assist , on account of his African expedition against the pirate Barbarossa . This noted corsair had built up a great power in Tunis and Algiers , and committed shameful ravages on all Christian nations . Charles landed in Africa with thirty thousand men , took the fortress of Goletta , defeated the pirate 's army , captured his capital , and restored the exiled Moorish king to his throne . In the midst of these victories Francis invaded Savoy . Charles was terribly indignant , and loaded his rival with such violent invectives that Francis challenged him to single combat . The challenge was accepted , but the duel was never fought . Charles , in his turn , invaded France , with a large army , for that age  --  forty thousand foot and ten thousand horse ; but the expedition was unfortunate . Francis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortunate in his general Montmorency , who seemed possessed with the spirit of a Fabius . The emperor , at last , was compelled to return ingloriously , having lost half of his army without having gained a single important advantage . The joy of Francis , however , was embittered by the death of the dauphin , attributed by some to the infamous Catharine de Medicis , wife of the Duke of Orleans , in order to secure the crown to her husband . War did not end with the retreat of Charles , but was continued , with great personal animosity , until mutual exhaustion led to a truce for ten years , concluded at Nice , in 1538 . Both parties had exerted their utmost strength , and neither had obtained any signal advantage . Notwithstanding their open and secret enmity , they had an interview shortly after the truce , in which both vied with each other in expressions of esteem and friendship , and in the exhibition of chivalrous courtesies  --  a miserable mockery , as shown by the violation of the terms of the truce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : African Wars . These were , doubtless , facilitated by Charles 's unfortunate expedition against Algiers in 1541 , by which he gained nothing but disgrace . His army was wasted by famine and disease , and a tempest destroyed his fleet . All the complicated miseries which war produces were endured by his unfortunate troops , but a small portion of whom ever returned . Francis , taking advantage of these misfortunes , made immense military preparations , formed a league with the Sultan Solyman , and brought five armies into the field . He assumed the offensive , and invaded the Netherlands , but obtained no laurels . Charles formed a league with Henry VIII. , and the war raged , with various success , without either party obtaining any signal advantage , for three years , when a peace was concluded at Crespy , in 1544 . Charles , being in the heart of France with an invading army , had the apparent advantage but the difficulty of retreating out of France in case of disaster , and the troubles in Germany , forced him to suspend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offended because he had conceded so much to the Protestants , and the Turks pressed him on the side of Hungary . Moreover , he was afflicted with the gout , which indisposed him for complicated enterprises . In view of these things , he made peace with Francis , formed a strong alliance with the pope , and resolved to extirpate the Protestant religion , which was the cause of so many insurrections in Germany . Sidenote : Council of Trent . In the mean time , the pope resolved to assemble the famous Council of Trent , the legality of which the Protestants denied . It met in December , 1545 , and was the last general council which the popes ever assembled . It met with a view of healing the dissensions of the church , and confirming the authority of the pope . The princes of Europe hoped that important reforms would have been made ; but nothing of consequence was done , and the attention of the divines was directed to dogmas rather than morals . The great number of Italian bishops enabled the pope to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the remonstrance of the German , Spanish , and French prelates , and the ambassadors of the different monarchs , who also had seats in the council . The decrees of this council , respecting articles of faith , are considered as a final authority by the Roman church . It denounced the reform of Luther , and confirmed the various ecclesiastical usurpations which had rendered the reformation necessary . It lasted twenty-two years , at different intervals , during the pontificate of five popes . The Jesuits , just rising into notice , had considerable influence in the council , in consequence of the learning and ability of their representatives , and especially of Laynez , the general of the order . The Dominicans and Franciscans manifested their accustomed animosities and rivalries , and questions were continually proposed and agitated , which divided the assembly . The French bishops , headed by the Cardinal of Lorraine , were opposed to the high pretensions of the Italians , especially of Cardinal Morone , the papal legate ; but , by artifice and management , the more strenuous adherents of the pope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , died three distinguished persons  --  Henry VIII . of England , Francis I. , and Luther . Charles V. was freed from his great rival , and from the only private person in his dominions he had reason to fear . He now , in good earnest , turned his attention to the internal state of his empire , and resolved to crush the Reformation , and , by force , if it were necessary . He commenced by endeavoring to amuse and deceive the Protestants , and evinced that profound dissimulation , which was one of his characteristics . He formed a strict alliance with the pope , made a truce with Solyman , and won over to his side Maurice and other German princes . His military preparations and his intrigues alarmed the Protestants , and they prepared themselves for resistance . Religious zeal seconded their military ardor . One of the largest armies , which had been raised in Europe for a century , took the field , and Charles , shut up in Ratisbon , was in no condition to fight . Unfortunately for the Protestants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their power , but he was one of those few persons who remained haughty and inflexible in the midst of calamities . He pronounced the ban of the empire against the Protestant princes , who were no match for a man who had spent his life in the field : they acted without concert , and committed many errors . Their forces decreased , while those of the emperor increased by large additions from Italy and Flanders . Instead of decisive action , the Protestants dallied and procrastinated , unwilling to make peace , and unwilling to face their sovereign . Their army melted away , and nothing of importance was effected . Sidenote : Treachery of Maurice . Maurice , cousin to the Elector of Saxony , with a baseness to which history scarcely affords a parallel , deserted his allies , and joined the emperor , purely from ambitious motives , and invaded the territories of his kinsman with twelve thousand men . The confederates made overtures of peace , which being rejected , they separated , and most of them submitted to the emperor . He treated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humiliating terms , forced them to renounce the league of Smalcalde , to give up their military stores , to admit garrisons into their cities , and to pay large contributions in money . The Elector of Saxony and the Landgrave of Hesse , however held out ; and such was the condition of the emperor , that he could not immediately attack them . But the death of Francis gave him leisure to invade Saxony , and the elector was defeated at the battle of Muhlhausen , ( 1547 , ) and taken prisoner . The captive prince approached the victor without sullenness or pride . " The fortune of war , " said he , " has made me your prisoner , most gracious emperor , and I hope to be treated  --   --  " Here Charles interrupted him  --  " And am I , at last , acknowledged to be emperor ? Charles of Ghent was the only title you lately allowed me . You shall be treated as you deserve . " At these words he turned his back upon him with a haughty air . Sidenote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prince was closely guarded by Spanish soldiers , and brought to a trial before a court martial , at which presided the infamous Duke of Alva , afterwards celebrated for his cruelties in Holland . He was convicted of treason and rebellion , and sentenced to death  --  a sentence which no court martial had a right to inflict on the first prince of the empire . He was treated with ignominious harshness , which he bore with great magnanimity , but finally made a treaty with the emperor , by which , for the preservation of his life , he relinquished his kingdom to Maurice . The landgrave was not strong enough to resist the power of Charles , after all his enemies were subdued , and he made his submission , though Charles extorted the most rigorous conditions , he being required to surrender his person , abandon the league of Smalcalde , implore pardon on his knees , demolish his fortifications , and pay an enormous fine . In short , it was an unconditional submission . Beside infinite mortifications , he was detained a prisoner , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to insult  --  an act of fraud and injustice which inspired the prince , and the Protestants , generally , with unbounded indignation . The Elector of Brandenburg and Maurice in vain solicited for his liberty , and showed the infamy to which he would be exposed if he detained the landgrave a prisoner . But the emperor listened to their remonstrances with the most provoking coolness , and showed very plainly that he was resolved to crush all rebellion , suppress Protestantism , and raise up an absolute throne in Germany , to the subversion of its ancient constitution . To all appearances , his triumph was complete . His great rival was dead ; his enemies were subdued and humiliated ; Luther 's voice was hushed ; and immense contributions filled the imperial treasury . He now began to realize the dreams of his life . He was unquestionably , at that time , the most absolute and powerful prince Europe has ever seen since Charlemagne , with the exception of Napoleon . But what an impressive moral does the history of human greatness convey ! The hour of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Pride goeth before destruction . " Charles V. , with all his policy and experience , overreached himself . The failure of his ambitious projects and the restoration of Protestantism , were brought about by instruments the least anticipated . Sidenote : Heroism of Maurice .. Sidenote : Misfortunes of Charles .. The cause of Protestantism and the liberties of Germany were endangered by the treachery of Maurice , who received , as his reward , the great electorate of Saxony . He had climbed to the summit of glory and power . Who would suppose that this traitor prince would desert the emperor , who had so splendidly rewarded his services , and return to the rescue of those princes whom he had so basely betrayed ? But who can thread the labyrinth of an intriguing and selfish heart ? Who can calculate the movements of an unprincipled and restless politician ? Maurice , at length , awoke to the perception of the real condition of his country . He saw its liberties being overturned by the most ambitious man whom ten centuries had produced . He saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true one , in danger of being wrecked . He was , moreover , wounded by the pride , coldness , and undisguised selfishness of the emperor . He was indignant that the landgrave , his father-in-law , should be retained a prisoner , against all the laws of honor and of justice . He resolved to come to the rescue of his country . He formed his plans with the greatest coolness , and exercised a power of dissimulation that has no parallel in history . But his address was even greater than his hypocrisy . He gained the confidence of the Protestants , without losing that of the emperor . He even obtained the command of an army which Charles sent to reduce the rebellious city of Magdeburg , and , while he was besieging the city , he was negotiating with the generals who defended it for a general union against the emperor . Magdeburg surrendered in 1551 . Its chieftains were secretly assured that the terms of capitulation should not be observed . His next point was , to keep the army together until his schemes were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoughts now centred on the council of Trent . So he proposed sending Protestant divines to the council , but delayed their departure by endless negotiations about the terms of a safe conduct . He , moreover , formed a secret treaty with Henry II. , the successor of Francis , whose animosity against Charles was as intense as was that of his father . When his preparations were completed , he joined his army in Thuringia , and took the field against the emperor , who had no suspicion of his designs , and who blindly trusted to him , deeming it impossible that a man , whom he had so honored and rewarded , could turn against him . March 18 , 1552 , Maurice published his manifesto , justifying his conduct ; and his reasons were , to secure the Protestant religion , to maintain the constitution of the empire , and deliver the Landgrave of Hesse from bondage . He was powerfully supported by the French king , and , with a rapidly increasing army , marched towards Innspruck , where the emperor was quartered . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desertion , and was in no condition to resist him . He endeavored to gain time by negotiations , but these were without effect . Maurice , at the head of a large army , advanced rapidly into Upper Germany . Castles and cities surrendered as he advanced , and so rapid was his progress , that he came near taking the emperor captive . Charles was obliged to fly , in the middle of the night , and to travel on a litter by torchlight , amid the passes of the Alps . He scarcely left Innspruck before Maurice entered it  --  but too late to gain the prize he sought . The emperor rallied his armies , and a vigorous war was carried on between the contending parties , to the advantage of the Protestants . The emperor , after a while , was obliged to make peace with them , for his Spanish subjects were disgusted with the war , his funds were exhausted , his forces dispersed , and his territories threatened by the French . On the 2d of August , 1552 , was concluded the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landgrave to his dominions , the freedom of religion to the Protestants , and the preservation of the German constitution . The sanguine hopes of the emperor were dispelled , and all his ambitious schemes defeated , and he left to meditate , in the intervals of the pains which he suffered from the gout , on the instability of all greatness , and the vanity of human life . Maurice was now extolled as extravagantly as he had been before denounced , and his treachery justified , even by grave divines . But what is most singular in the whole affair , was , that the French king , while persecuting Protestants at home , should protect them abroad . But this conduct may confirm , in a signal manner , the great truth of history , that God regulates the caprice of human passions , and makes them subservient to the accomplishment of his own purposes . Sidenote : Treaty of Passau . The labors and perplexities of Charles V. were not diminished by the treaty of Passau . He continued his hostilities against the French and against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Metz , which was gallantly defended by the Duke of Guise . To his calamities in France , were added others in Italy . Sienna revolted against his government , and Naples was threatened by the Turks . The imperialists were unsuccessful in Italy and in Hungary , and the Archduke Ferdinand was obliged to abandon Transylvania . But war was carried on in the Low Countries with considerable vigor . Charles , whose only passion was the aggrandizement of his house , now projected a marriage of his son , Philip , with Mary , queen of England . The queen , dazzled by the prospect of marrying the heir of the greatest monarch in Europe , and eager to secure his powerful aid to reestablish Catholicism in England , listened to his proposal , although it was disliked by the nation . In spite of the remonstrance of the house of commons , the marriage treaty was concluded , and the marriage celebrated , ( 1554 . ) Sidenote : Character of Charles V. Soon after , Charles formed the extraordinary resolution of resigning his dominions to his son @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the only instance of a prince , capable of holding the reins of government , who had adopted a similar course . All Europe was astonished at the resolution of Charles , and all historians of the period have moralized on the event . But it ceases to be mysterious , when we remember that Charles was no nearer the accomplishment of the ends which animated his existence , than he was thirty years before ; that he was disgusted and wearied with the world ; that he suffered severely from the gout , which , at times , incapacitated him for the government of his extensive dominions . It was never his habit to intrust others with duties and labors which he could perform himself , and he felt that his empire needed a more powerful protector than his infirmities permitted him to be . He was grown prematurely old , he felt his declining health ; longed for repose , and sought religious consolation . Of all his vast possessions , he only reserved an annual pension of one hundred thousand crowns ; resigning Spain and the Low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Germany to his brother Ferdinand , who had already been elected as King of the Romans . He then set out for his retreat in Spain , which was the monastery of St. Justus , near Placentia , situated in a lovely vale , surrounded with lofty trees , watered by a small brook , and rendered attractive by the fertility of the soil , and the delightful temperature of the climate . Here he spent his last days in agricultural improvements and religious exercises , apparently regardless of that noisy world which he had deserted forever , and indifferent to those political storms which his restless ambition had raised . Here his grandeur and his worldly hopes were buried in preparing himself for the future world . He lived with great simplicity , for two years after his retreat , and died ( 1558 , ) from the effects of the gout , which , added to his great labors , had shattered his constitution . He was not what the world would call a great genius , like Napoleon ; but he was a man of great sagacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cautious , cold , and selfish ; had but little faith in human virtue , and was a slave , in his latter days , to superstition . He was neither affable nor courteous , but was sincere in his attachments , and munificent in rewarding his generals and friends . He was not envious nor cruel , but inordinately ambitious , and intent on aggrandizing his family . This was his characteristic defect , and this , in a man so prominent and so favored by circumstances , was enough to keep Europe in a turmoil for nearly half a century . * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  Robertson 's History of Charles V. Ranke 's History of the Reformation . Kohlrausch 's History of Germany . Russell 's Modern Europe . The above-mentioned authors are easily accessible , and are all that are necessary for the student . Robertson 's History is a classic , and an immortal work . CHAPTER IV . HENRY VIII . The history of Europe in the sixteenth century is peculiarly the history of the wars of kings , and of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The monotonous , and almost exclusive , record of royal pleasures and pursuits shows in how little consideration the people were held . They struggled , and toiled , and murmured as they do now . They probably had the same joys and sorrows as in our times . But , in these times , they have considerable influence on the government , the religion , the literature , and the social life of nations . In the sixteenth century , this influence was not so apparent ; but power of all kinds seemed to emanate from kings and nobles ; at least from wealthy and cultivated classes . When this is the case , when kings give a law to society , history is not unphilosophical which recognizes chiefly their enterprises and ideas . Sidenote : Rise of Absolute Monarchy . The rise of absolute monarchy on the ruins of feudal states is one of the chief features of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries . There was every where a strong tendency to centralization . Provinces , before independent , were controlled by a central government . Standing armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from nobles the right to coin money , administer justice , and impose taxes . The power of the crown became supreme and unlimited . But some monarchs were more independent than others , in proportion as the power of nobles was suppressed , or , as the cities sided with the central government , or , as provinces were connected and bound together . The power of Charles V. was somewhat limited , in Spain , by the free spirit of the Cortes , and , in Germany , by the independence of the princes of the empire . But , in France and England , the king was more absolute , although he did not rule over so great extent of territory as did the emperor of Germany ; and this is one reason why Francis I. proved so strong an antagonist to his more powerful rival . The history of France , during the reign of this monarch , is also the history of Charles V. , since they were both engaged in the same wars ; which wars have already been alluded to . Both of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles did not realize his dream of universal empire , neither did Francis leave his kingdom , at his death , in a more prosperous state than he found it . Francis I. was succeeded by his son Henry II. , a warlike prince , but destitute of prudence , and under the control of women . His policy , however , was substantially that of his father , and he continued hostilities against the emperor of Germany , till his resignation . He was a bitter persecutor of the Protestants , and the seeds of subsequent civil wars were sown by his zeal . He was removed from his throne prematurely , being killed at a tournament , in 1559 , soon after the death of Charles V. Tournaments ceased with his death . Sidenote : Henry VIII . The reign of Henry VIII. , the other great contemporary of Charles V. , merits a larger notice , not only because his reign was the commencement of a new era in England , but , also , because the affairs , which engaged his attention , are not much connected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year 1509 , in his eighteenth year , without opposition , and amid the universal joy of the nation ; for his manners were easy and frank , his disposition was cheerful , and his person was handsome . He had made respectable literary attainments , and he gave promise of considerable abilities . He was married , soon after his accession , to Catharine , daughter of the King of Spain , and the first years of his reign were happy , both to himself and to his subjects . He had a well-filled treasury , which his father had amassed with great care , a devoted people and an obedient parliament . All circumstances seemed to conspire to strengthen his power , and to make him the arbiter of Europe . But this state did not last long . The young king was resolved to make war on France , but was diverted from his aim by troubles in Scotland , growing out of his own rapacity  --  a trait which ever peculiarly distinguished him . These troubles resulted in a war with the Scots , who were defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walter Scott , in his Marmion , has immortalized . The Scotch commanders , Lenox and Argyle , both perished , as well as the valiant King James himself . There is scarcely an illustrious Scotch family who had not an ancestor slain on that fatal day , September 9 , 1513 . But the victory was dearly bought , and Surrey , the English general , afterwards Duke of Norfolk , was unable to pursue his advantages . Sidenote : Rise of Cardinal Wolsey . About this time , the celebrated Cardinal Wolsey began to act a conspicuous part in English affairs . His father was a butcher of Ipswich ; but was able to give his son a good education . He studied at Oxford , was soon distinguished for his attainments , and became tutor to the sons of the Marquis of Dorset . The marquis gave him the rich living of Limington ; but the young parson , with his restless ambition , and love of excitement and pleasure , was soon wearied of a country life . He left his parish to become domestic chaplain to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fox , bishop of Winchester , who shared with the Earl of Surrey the highest favors of royalty . The minister and diplomatist , finding in the young man learning , tact , vivacity , and talent for business , introduced him to the king , hoping that he would prove an agreeable companion for Henry , and a useful tool for himself . But those who are able to manage other people 's business , generally are able to manage their own . The tool of Fox looked after his own interest chiefly . He supplanted his master in the loyal favor , and soon acquired more favor and influence at court than any of the ministers or favorites . Though twenty years older than Henry , he adapted himself to all his tastes , flattered his vanity and passions , and became his bosom friend . He gossiped with him about Thomas Aquinas , the Indies , and affairs of gallantry . He was a great refiner of sensual pleasures , had a passion for magnificence and display , and a real genius for court entertainments . He could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ songs , and join in the dance . He was blunt and frank in his manners ; but these only concealed craft and cunning . " It is art to conceal art , " and Wolsey was a master of all the tricks of dissimulation . He rose rapidly after he had once gained the heart of the king . He became successively dean of York , papal legate , cardinal , bishop of Lincoln , archbishop of York , and lord chancellor . He also obtained the administration and the temporalities of the rich abbey of St. Albans , and of the bishoprics of Bath and Wells , Durham and Winchester . By these gifts , his revenues almost equalled those of the crown ; and he squandered them in a style of unparalleled extravagance . He dressed in purple and gold , supported a train of eight hundred persons , and built Hampton Court . He was the channel through which the royal favors flowed . But he made a good chancellor , dispensed justice , repressed the power of the nobles , encouraged and rewarded literary men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most powerful subject that England has ever seen . Even nobles were proud to join his train of dependants . There was nothing sordid or vulgar , however , in all his ostentation . Henry took pleasure in his pomp , for it was a reflection of the greatness of his own majesty . Sidenote : Magnificence of Henry VIII . The first years of the reign of Henry VIII. , after the battle of Flodden Field , were spent in pleasure , and in great public displays of magnificence , which charmed the people , and made him a popular idol . Among these , the interview of the king with Francis I. is the most noted , on the 4th of June , 1520 ; the most gorgeous pageant of the sixteenth century , designed by Wolsey , who had a genius for such things . The monarchs met in a beautiful valley , where jousts and tournaments were held , and where was exhibited all the magnificence which the united resources of France and England could command . The interview was sought by Francis to win , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to counterbalance the advantages which it was supposed Charles V. had gained on a previous visit to the king at Dover . The getting up of the " Field of the Cloth of Gold " created some murmurs among the English nobility , many of whom were injured by the expensive tastes of Wolsey . Among these was the Duke of Buckingham , hereditary high constable of England , and connected with the royal house of the Plantagenets . Henry , from motives of jealousy , both on account of his birth and fortune , had long singled him out as his victim . He was , also , obnoxious to Wolsey , since he would not flatter his pride , and he had , moreover , insulted him . It is very easy for a king to find a pretence for committing a crime ; and Buckingham was arrested , tried , and executed , for making traitorous prophecies . His real crime was in being more powerful than it suited the policy of the king . With the death of Stafford , Duke of Buckingham , in 1521 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the death of Buckingham , the king made himself notorious for his theological writings against Luther , whose doctrines he detested . He ever had a taste for theological disputation , and a love of the schoolmen . His tracts against Luther , very respectable for talent and learning , though disgraced by coarse and vulgar vituperation , secured for him the favor of the pope , who bestowed upon him the title of " Defender of the Faith ; " and a strong alliance existed between them until the divorce of Queen Catharine . The difficulties and delays , attending this act of cruelty and injustice , constitute no small part of the domestic history of England during the reign of Henry VIII . Any event , which furnishes subjects of universal gossip and discussion , is ever worthy of historical notice , inasmuch as it shows prevailing opinions and tastes . Queen Catharine , daughter of Ferdinand , King of Spain , was eight years older than her husband , whom she married in the first year of his reign . She had been previously married to his brother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For several years after her marriage with Henry VIII. , her domestic happiness was a subject of remark ; and the emperor , Charles V. , congratulated her on her brilliant fortune . She was beautiful , sincere , accomplished ; religious , and disinterested , and every way calculated to secure , as she had won , the king 's affections . Sidenote : Anne Boleyn . But among her maids of honor there was one peculiarly accomplished and fascinating , to whom the king transferred his affections with unwonted vehemence . This was Anne Boleyn , daughter of Sir Thomas Boleyn , who , from his great wealth , married Elizabeth Howard , daughter of the first duke of Norfolk . This noble alliance brought Sir Thomas Boleyn into close connection with royalty , and led to the appointment of his daughter to the high post which she held at the court of Queen Catharine . It is probable that the king suppressed his passion for some time ; and it would have been longer concealed , even from its object , had not his jealousy been excited by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northumberland . The king at last made known his passion ; but the daughter of the Howards was too proud , or too politic , or too high principled , to listen to his overtures . It was only as queen of England , that she would return the passion of her royal lover . Moreover , she resolved to be revenged on the all-powerful cardinal , for assisting in her separation from Percy , whom she loved with romantic attachment . The king waited four years , but Anne remained inflexibly virtuous . He then meditated the divorce from Catharine , as the only way to accomplish the object which now seemed to animate his existence . He confided the matter to his favorite minister ; but Wolsey was thunderstruck at the disclosure , and remained with him four hours on his knees , to dissuade him from a step which he justly regarded as madness . Here Wolsey appears as an honest man and a true friend ; but royal infatuation knows neither wisdom , justice , nor humanity . Wolsey , as a man of the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had hitherto pursued  --  that of flattering the humors of his absolute master . Wolsey , however , recommended the king to consult the divines ; for Henry pretended that , after nearly twenty years of married life , he had conscientious scruples about the lawfulness of his marriage . The learned English doctors were afraid to pronounce their opinions , and suggested a reference to the fathers . But the king was not content with their authority ; he appealed to the pope , and to the decisions of half of the universities of Europe . It seems very singular that a sovereign so unprincipled , unscrupulous , and passionate , and yet so absolute and powerful as was Henry , should have wasted his time and money in seeking countenance to an act on which he was fully determined , and which countenance he never could reasonably hope to secure . But his character was made up of contradictions . His caprice , violence , and want of good faith , were strangely blended with superstition and reverence for the authority of the church . His temper urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his injustice produced no shame , although he was restrained somewhat by the opinions of the very men whom he did not hesitate to murder . Sidenote : Queen Catharine . Queen Catharine , besides being a virtuous and excellent woman , was powerfully allied , and was a zealous Catholic . Her repudiation , therefore , could not take place without offending the very persons whose favor the king was most anxious to conciliate especially the Emperor Charles , her nephew , and the pope , and all the high dignitaries and adherents of the church . Even Wolsey could not in honor favor the divorce , although it was his policy to do so . In consequence of his intrigues , and the scandal and offence so outrageous an act as the divorce of Catharine must necessarily produce throughout the civilized world , Henry long delayed to bring the matter to a crisis , being afraid of a war with Charles V. , and of the anathemas of the pope . Moreover , he hoped to gain him over , for the pope had sent Cardinal Campeggio to London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court to hear the case . But it was the farthest from his intention to grant the divorce , for the pope was more afraid of Charles V. than he was of Henry VIII . Sidenote : Disgrace and Death of Wolsey . The court settled nothing , and the king 's wrath now turned towards Wolsey , whom he suspected of secretly thwarting his measures . The accomplished courtier , so long accustomed to the smiles and favors of royalty , could not bear his disgrace with dignity . The proudest man in England became , all at once , the meanest . He wept , he cringed , he lost his spirits ; he surrendered his palace , his treasures , his honors , and his offices , into the hands of him who gave them to him , without a single expostulation : wrote most abject letters to " his most gracious , most merciful , and most pious sovereign lord ; " and died of a broken heart on his way to a prison and the scaffold . " Had I but served my God as diligently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have given me over in my gray hairs "  --  these were the words of the dying cardinal ; his sad confessions on experiencing the vanity of human life . But the vindictive prince suffered no word of sorrow or regret to escape him , when he heard of the death of his prime minister , and his intimate friend for twenty years . Sidenote : More  --  Cranmer  --  Cromwell . Shortly after the disgrace of Wolsey , which happened nearly a year before his death , ( 1529 , ) three remarkable men began to figure in English politics and history . These were Sir Thomas More , Thomas Cranmer , and Thomas Cromwell . More was the most accomplished , most learned , and most enlightened of the three . He was a Catholic , but very exemplary in his life , and charitable in his views . In moral elevation of character , and beautiful serenity of soul , the annals of the great men of his country furnish no superior . His extensive erudition and moral integrity alone secured him the official station which Wolsey held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the king , and his conversation , so enlivened by wit , and so rich and varied in matter , caused his society to be universally sought . He discharged his duties with singular conscientiousness and ability ; and no one ever had cause to complain that justice was not rendered him . Cranmer 's elevation was owing to a fortunate circumstance , notwithstanding his exalted merit . He happened to say , while tutor to a gentleman of the name of Cressy , in the hearing of Dr. Gardiner , then secretary to Henry , that the proper way to settle the difficulty about the divorce was , to appeal to learned men , who would settle the matter on the sole authority of the Bible , without reference to the pope . This remark was reported to the king , and Cranmer was sent to reside with the father of Anne Boleyn , and was employed in writing a treatise to support his opinion . His ability led to further honors , until , on the death of Warham , archbishop of Canterbury , he was appointed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance in the kingdom , and from which no king , however absolute , could eject him , except by the loss of life . We shall see that , in all matters of religion , Cranmer was the ruling spirit in England until the accession of Mary . Cromwell 's origin was even more obscure than that of Wolsey 's ; but he received his education at one of the universities . We first hear of him as a clerk in an English factory at Antwerp , then as a soldier in the army of the Constable Bourbon when it sacked Rome , then as a clerk in a mercantile house in Venice , and then again as a lawyer in England , where he attracted the attention of Wolsey , who made him his solicitor , and employed him in the dissolution of monasteries . He then became a member of the house of commons , where his address and business talents were conspicuous . He was well received at court , and confirmed in the stewardship of the monasteries , after the disgrace of his master . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and , at one of these , he recommended him to deny the authority of the pope altogether , and declare himself supreme head of the church . The boldness of this advice was congenial to the temper of the king , worried by the opposition of Rome to his intended divorce , and Cromwell became a member of the privy council . His fortune was thus made by his seasonable advice . All who opposed the king were sure to fall , and all who favored him were sure to rise , as must ever be the case in an absolute monarchy , where the king is the centre and the fountain of all honor and dignity . With such ministers as Cranmer and Cromwell , the measures of Henry were now prompt and bold . Queen Catharine was soon disposed of ; she was divorced and disgraced , and Anne Boleyn was elevated to her throne , ( 1533 . ) The anathemas of the pope and the outcry of all Europe followed . Sir Thomas More resigned the seals , and retired to poverty and solitude . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Refusing to take the oath of supremacy to Henry , as head of the church as well as of the state , he was executed , with other illustrious Catholics . The execution of More was the most cruel and uncalled-for act of the whole reign , and entailed on its author the execrations of all the learned and virtuous men in Europe , most of whom appreciated the transcendent excellences of the murdered chancellor , the author of the Utopia , and the Boethius of his age . Sidenote : Quarrel with the Pope . The fulminations of the pope only excited Henry to more decided opposition . The parliament , controlled by Cromwell , acknowledged him as the supreme head of the Church of England , and the separation from Rome was final and irrevocable . The tenths were annexed to the crown , and the bishops took a new oath of supremacy . The independence of the Church of England , effected in 1535 , was followed by important consequences , and was the first step to the reformation , afterwards perfected by Edward VI . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political considerations , the reformers in England , during the reign of Henry VIII. , should be considered chiefly in a political point of view . The separation from Rome , during the reign of this prince , was not followed by the abolition of the Roman Catholic worship , nor any of the rites and ceremonies of that church . Nor was religious toleration secured . Every thing was subservient to the royal conscience , and a secular , instead of an ecclesiastical pope , still reigned in England . Sidenote : Abolition of Monasteries . Henry soon found that his new position , as head of the English Church , imposed new duties and cares : he therefore established a separate department for the conduct of ecclesiastical affairs , over which he placed the unscrupulous , but energetic Cromwell  --  a fit minister to such a monarch . A layman , who hated the clergy , and who looked solely to the pecuniary interests of his master , was thus placed over the highest prelates of the church . But Cromwell , in consulting the pecuniary interests of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the kingdom . He was a sagacious and practical man of the world , and was disgusted with the vices of the clergy , and especially with the custom of sending money to Rome , in the shape of annates and taxes . This evil he remedied , which tended greatly to enrich the country , for the popes at this time were peculiarly extortionate . He then turned his attention to the reform of the whole monastic institution , but with an eye also to its entire destruction . Cromwell hated the monks . They were lazy , ignorant , and debauched . They were a great burden on the people , and were as insolent and proud as they were idle and profligate . The country swarmed with them . The roads , taverns , and the houses of the credulous were infested with them . Cranmer , who sympathized with the German reformers , hated them on religious grounds , and readily cooeperated with Cromwell ; while the king , whose extortion and rapacity knew no bounds , listened , with glistening eye , to the suggestions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astounded with the intelligence that parliament had passed a bill , giving to the king and his heirs all the monastic establishments in the kingdom , which did not exceed two hundred pounds a year . Three hundred and eighty thus fell at a blow , whereby the king was enriched by thirty-two thousand pounds a year , and one hundred thousand pounds ready money  --  an immense sum in that age . By this spoliation , perhaps called for , but exceedingly unjust and harsh , and in violation of all the rights of property , thousands were reduced to beggary and misery , while there was scarcely an eminent man in the kingdom who did not come in for a share of the plunder . Vast grants of lands were bestowed by the king on his favorites and courtiers , in order to appease the nation ; and thus the foundations of many of the great estates of the English nobility were laid . The spoliations , however , led to many serious riots and insurrections , especially in Lincolnshire . At one place there were forty thousand rebels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Suppression of Monasteries . The rapacious king was not satisfied with the plunder he had secured , and , in 1539 , the final suppression of all the monasteries in England was decreed . Then followed the seizure of all the church property in England connected with monasteries  --  shrines , relics , gold and silver vessels of immense value and rarity , lands , and churches . Canterbury , Bath , Merton , Stratford , Bury St. Edmonds , Glastonbury , and St. Albans , suffered most , and many of those beautiful monuments of Gothic architecture were levelled with the dust . Their destruction deprived the people of many physical accommodations , for they had been hospitals and caravansaries , as well as " cages of unclean birds . " Neither the church nor the universities profited much from the confiscation of so much property , and only six new bishoprics were formed , and only fourteen abbeys were converted into cathedrals and collegiate churches . The king and the nobles were the only gainers by the spoil ; the people obtained no advantage in that age , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pope 's supremacy , and suppressing the monasteries , where were collected the treasures of the middle ages , one would naturally suppose that the king would have gone farther , and changed the religion of his people . But Henry hated Luther and his doctrines , and did not hate the pope , or the religion of which he was the sovereign pontiff . He loved gold and new wives better than the interests of the Catholic church . Reform proceeded no farther in his reign ; while , on the other hand , he caused a decree to pass both houses of his timid , complying parliament , by which the doctrines of transubstantiation , the communion of one kind , the celibacy of the clergy , masses , and auricular confession , were established ; and any departure from , or denial of , these subjected the offender to the punishment of death . Sidenote : Execution of Anne Boleyn . But Henry had new domestic difficulties long before the suppression of monasteries  --  the great political act of Thomas Cromwell . His new wife , Anne Boleyn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the very time when she had reached the summit of power , and the gratification of all worldly wishes . She had been very vain , and fond of display and of ornaments ; but the latter years of her life were marked by her munificence , and attachment to the reform doctrines . But her power ceased almost as soon as she became queen . She could win , but she could not retain , the affections of her royal husband . His passion subsided into languor , and ended in disgust . The beauty of Anne Boleyn was soon forgotten when Jane Seymour , her maid of honor , attracted the attention of Henry . To make this lady his wife now became the object of his life , and this could only be effected by the divorce of his queen , who gave occasion for scandal by the levity and freedom of her manners . Henry believed every insinuation against her , because he wished to believe her guilty . There was but a step between the belief of guilt and the resolution to destroy her . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to trial , condemned without evidence , and executed without remorse . Even Cranmer , whom she had honored and befriended , dared not defend her , although he must have believed in her innocence . He knew the temper of the master whom he served too well to risk much in her defence . She was the first woman who had been beheaded in the annals of England . Not one of the Plantagenet kings ever murdered a woman . But the age of chivalry was past , and the sentiments it encouraged found no response in the bosom of such a sensual and vindictive monarch as was Henry VIII . The very day after the execution of that accomplished lady , for whose sake the king had squandered the treasures of his kingdom , and had kept Christendom in a ferment , he married Jane Seymour , " the fairest , discreetest , and most meritorious of all his wives , " as the historians say , yet a woman who did not hesitate to steal the affections of Henry and receive his addresses , while his queen was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so before her , and suffered a natural retribution . Jane Seymour lived only eighteen months after her marriage , and died two days after giving birth to a son , afterwards Edward VI . She was one of those passive women who make neither friends nor enemies . She indulged in no wit or repartee , like her brilliant but less beautiful predecessor , and she passed her regal life without uttering a sentence or a sentiment which has been deemed worthy of preservation . Sidenote : Anne of Cleves  --  Catharine Howard . She had been dead about a month , when the king looked round for another wife , and besought Francis I. to send the most beautiful ladies of his kingdom to Calais , that he might there inspect them , and select one according to his taste . But this Oriental notion was not indulged by the French king , who had more taste and delicacy ; and Henry remained without a wife for more than two years , the princesses of Europe not being very eager to put themselves in the power of this royal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he was affianced to Anne , daughter of the Duke of Cleves , whose home was on the banks of the Rhine , in the city of Dusseldorf . The king no sooner set his eyes on her than he was disappointed and disgusted , and gave vent to his feelings before Cromwell , calling her a " great Flanders mare . " Nevertheless , he consummated his marriage , although his disgust constantly increased . This mistake of Cromwell was fatal to his ambitious hopes . The king vented on him all the displeasure which had been gathering in his embittered soul . Cromwell 's doom was sealed . He had offended an absolute monarch . He was accused of heresy and treason ,  --  the common accusations in that age against men devoted to destruction ,  --  tried by a servile board of judges , condemned , and judicially murdered , in 1540 . In his misfortunes , he showed no more fortitude than Wolsey . The atmosphere of a court is fatal to all moral elevation . But , before his execution , Anne of Cleves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catharine Howard , granddaughter of the victor of Flodden Field , became queen of England . The king now fancied that his domestic felicity was complete ; but , soon after his marriage , it was discovered that his wife had formerly led a dissolute life , and had been unfaithful also to her royal master . When the proofs of her incontinence were presented to him , he burst into a flood of tears ; but soon his natural ferocity returned , and his guilty wife expiated her crime by death on the scaffold , in 1542 . Henry 's sixth and last wife was Catharine Parr , relict of Lord Latimer , a woman of great sagacity , prudence , and good sense . She favored the reformers , but had sufficient address to keep her opinions from the king , who would have executed her , had he suspected her real views . She survived her husband , who died four years after her marriage , in 1547 . Sidenote : Last Days of Henry . The last years of any tyrant are always melancholy , and those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His finances were deranged , his treasury exhausted , and his subjects discontented . He was often at war with the Scots , and different continental powers . He added religious persecution to his other bad traits , and executed , for their opinions , some of the best people in the kingdom . His father had left him the richest sovereign of Europe , and he had seized the abbey lands , and extorted heavy sums from his oppressed people ; and yet he was poor . All his wishes were apparently gratified ; and yet he was the most miserable man in his dominions . He exhausted all the sources of pleasure , and nothing remained but satiety and disgust . His mind and his body were alike diseased . His inordinate gluttony made him most inconveniently corpulent , and produced ulcers and the gout . It was dangerous to approach this " corrupt mass of dying tyranny . " It was impossible to please him , and the least contradiction drove him into fits of madness and frenzy . In his latter days , he ordered , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Norfolk , the first nobleman of the kingdom , who had given offence to the Earl of Hertford , uncle to the young prince of Wales , and the founder of the greatness of the Seymours . But the tyrant died before the sentence was carried into effect , much to the joy of the good people of England , whom he had robbed and massacred . Several thousands perished by the axe of the executioner during his disgraceful reign , and some of them were the lights of the age , and the glory of their country . Tyrannical as was Henry VIII. , still he ever ruled by the laws . He did not abolish parliament , or retrench its privileges . The parliament authorized all his taxes , and gave sanction to all his violent measures . The parliament was his supple instrument ; still , had the parliament resisted his will , doubtless he would have dissolved it , as did the Stuart princes . But it was not , in his reign , prepared for resistance , and the king had every thing after his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By nature , he was amiable , generous , and munificent . But his temper was spoiled by self-indulgence and incessant flattery . The moroseness he exhibited in his latter days was partly the effect of physical disease , brought about , indeed , by intemperance and gluttony . He was faithful to his wives , so long as he lived with them ; and , while he doted on them , listened to their advice . But few of his advisers dared tell him the truth ; and Cranmer himself can never be exculpated from flattering his perverted conscience . No one had the courage to tell him he was dying but one of the nobles of the court . He died , in great agony , June , 1547 , in the thirty-eighth year of his reign , and the fifty-sixth of his age , and was buried , with great pomp , in St. George Chapel , Windsor Castle . * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  The best English histories of the reign of Henry VIII . are the standard ones of Hume and Lingard . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also excellent . Burnet should be consulted in reference to ecclesiastical matters , and Hallam , in reference to the constitution . See also the lives of Wolsey , Sir Thomas More , and Cranmer . The lives of Henry 's queens have been best narrated by Agnes Strickland . CHAPTER V. EDWARD VI . AND MARY . Sidenote : War with Scotland . Henry VIII . was succeeded by his son , Edward VI. , a boy of nine years of age , learned , pious , and precocious . Still he was a boy ; and , as such , was a king but in name . The history of his reign is the history of the acts of his ministers . The late king left a will , appointing sixteen persons , mostly members of his council , to be guardians of his son , and rulers of the nation during his minority . The Earl of Hertford , being uncle of the king , was unanimously named protector . The first thing the council did was to look after themselves , that is , to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Essex , Marquis of Northampton ; Lisle , Earl of Warwick ; the Chancellor Wriothesley , Earl of Southampton . At the head of these nobles was Somerset . He was a Protestant , and therefore prosecuted those reforms which Cranmer had before projected . Cranmer , as member of the council , archbishop of Canterbury , and friend of Somerset , had ample scope to prosecute his measures . The history of this reign is not important in a political point of view , and relates chiefly to the completion of the reformation , and to the squabbles and jealousies of the great lords who formed the council of regency . The most important event , of a political character , was a war with Scotland , growing out of the attempts of the late king to unite both nations under one government . In consequence , Scotland was invaded by the Duke of Somerset , at the head of eighteen thousand men . A great battle was fought , in which ten thousand of the Scots were slain . But the protector was compelled to return to England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence of cabals at court . His brother , Lord Seymour , a man of reckless ambition , had married the queen dowager , and openly aspired to the government of the kingdom . He endeavored to seduce the youthful king , and he had provided arms for ten thousand men . The protector sought to win his brother from his treasonable designs by kindness and favors ; but , all his measures proving ineffectual , he was arrested , tried , and executed , for high treason . Sidenote : Rebellions and Discontents . But Somerset had a more dangerous enemy than his brother ; and this was the Earl of Warwick , who obtained great popularity by his suppression of a dangerous insurrection , the greatest the country had witnessed since Jack Cade 's rebellion , one hundred years before . The discontent of the people appears to have arisen from their actual suffering . Coin had depreciated , without a corresponding rise of wages , and labor was cheap , because tillage lands were converted to pasturage . The popular discontent was aggravated by the changes which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to appreciate . The priests and ejected monks increased the discontent , until it broke out into a flame . The protector made himself unpopular with the council by a law which he caused to be passed against enclosures ; and , as he lost influence , his great rival , Warwick , gained power . Somerset , at last , was obliged to resign his protectorship ; and Warwick , who had suppressed the rebellion , formed the chief of a new council of regency . He was a man of greater talents than Somerset , and equal ambition , and more fitted for stormy times . As soon as his power was established , and the country was at peace , and he had gained friends , he began to execute those projects of ambition which he had long formed . The earldom of Northumberland having reverted to the crown , Warwick aspired to the extinct title and the estates , and procured for himself a grant of the same , with the title of duke . But there still remained a bar to his elevation ; and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though disgraced and unpopular , was still powerful . It is unfortunate to be in the way of a great man 's career , and Somerset paid the penalty of his opposition  --  the common fate of unsuccessful rivals in unsettled times . He was accused of treason , condemned , and executed , ( 1552 . ) Sidenote : Rivalry of the Great Nobles . Northumberland , as the new dictator , seemed to have attained the highest elevation to which a subject could aspire . In rank , power , and property , he was second only to the royal family , but his ambition knew no bounds , and he began his intrigues to induce the young king , whose health was rapidly failing , and who was zealously attached to Protestantism , to set aside the succession of his sister Mary to the throne , really in view of the danger to which the reformers would be subjected , but under pretence of her declared illegitimacy , which would also set aside the claims of the Princess Elizabeth . Mary , Queen of Scots , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the late king , and the succession would therefore devolve on the Lady Jane Grey , granddaughter of the Duke of Suffolk and of the French queen , whom he hoped to unite in marriage with his son . This was a deeply-laid scheme , and came near being successful , since Edward listened to it with pleasure . Northumberland then sought to gain over the judges and other persons of distinction , and succeeded by bribery and intimidation . At this juncture , the young king died , possessed of all the accomplishments which could grace a youth of sixteen , but still a tool in the hands of his ministers . Sidenote : Religious Reforms . Such were the political movements of this reign  --  memorable for the rivalries of the great nobles . But it is chiefly distinguished for the changes which were made in the church establishment , and the introduction of the principles of the continental reformers . No changes of importance were ever made beyond what Cranmer and his associates effected . Indeed , all that an absolute monarch could do , was done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The people quietly  --  except in some rural districts  --  acquiesced in the change . Most of the clergy took the new oath of allegiance to Edward VI. , as supreme head of the church ; and very few suffered from religious persecution . There is no period in English history when such important changes were made , with so little bloodshed . Cranmer always watched the temper of the nation , and did nothing without great caution . Still a great change was effected  --  no less than a complete change from Romanism to Protestantism . But it was not so radical a reform as the Puritans subsequently desired , since the hierarchy and a liturgy , and clerical badges and dresses , were retained . It was the fortune of Cranmer , during the six years of Edward 's reign , to effect the two great objects of which the English church has ever since been proud  --  the removal of Roman abuses , and the establishment of the creed of Luther and Calvin ; and this without sweeping away the union of church and state , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The papal power was completely subverted . Nothing more remained to be done by Cranmer . He had compiled the Book of Common Prayer , abolished the old Latin service , the worship of images , the ceremony of the mass , and auricular confessions . He turned the altars into communion tables , set up the singing of psalms in the service , caused the communion to be administered in both kinds to the laity , added the litany to the ritual , prepared a book of homilies for the clergy , invited learned men to settle in England , and magnificently endowed schools and universities . The Reformation is divested of much interest , since it was the work of authority , rather than the result of popular convictions . But Cranmer won immortal honor for his skilful management , and for making no more changes than he could sustain . A large part of the English nation still regard his works as perfect , and are sincerely and enthusiastically attached to the form which he gave to his church . The hopes of his party were suddenly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlled , 6th of July , 1553 . The succession to the throne fell to the Princess Mary , or , as princesses were then called , the Lady Mary ; nor could all the arts of Northumberland exclude her from the enjoyment of her rights . This ambitious nobleman contrived to keep the death of Edward VI . a secret two days , and secure from the Mayor and Alderman of London a promise to respect the will of the late king . In consequence , the Lady Jane Grey was proclaimed Queen of England . " So far was she from any desire of this advancement , that she began to act her part of royalty with many tears , thus plainly showing to those who had access to her , that she was forced by her relations and friends to this high , but dangerous post . " She was accomplished , beautiful , and amiable , devoted to her young husband , and very fond of Plato , whom she read in the original . Sidenote : Execution of Northumberland . But Mary 's friends exerted themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than that of Catholicism  --  gained ground . Northumberland was unequal to this crisis , and he was very feebly sustained . His forces were suppressed , his schemes failed , and his hopes fled . From rebellion , to the scaffold , there is but a step ; and this great nobleman suffered the fate of Somerset , his former rival . His execution confirms one of the most striking facts in the history of absolute monarchies , when the idea of legitimacy is firmly impressed on the national mind ; and that is , that no subject , or confederacy of subjects , however powerful , stand much chance in resisting the claims or the will of a legitimate prince . A nod or a word , from such a king , can consign the greatest noble to hopeless impotence . And he can do this from the mighty and mysterious force of ideas alone . Neither king nor parliament can ever resist the omnipotence of popular ideas . When ideas establish despots on their thrones , they are safe . When ideas demand their dethronement , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mary was the period of the most unchecked absolutism in England . Mary was apparently a powerless woman when Lady Jane Grey was proclaimed queen by the party of Northumberland , and still she had but to signify her intentions to claim her rights , and the nation was prostrate at her feet . The Protestant party dreaded her accession ; but loyalty was a stronger principle than even Protestantism , and she was soon firmly established in the absolute throne of Henry VIII . Then almost immediately followed a total change in the administration , which affected both the political and religious state of the country . Those who had languished in confinement , on account of their religion , obtained their liberty , and were elevated to power . Gardiner , Bonner , and other Catholic bishops , were restored to their sees , while Cranmer , Ridley , Latimer , Hooper Coverdale , and other eminent Protestants , were imprisoned . All the statutes of Edward VI . pertaining to religion were repealed , and the queen sent assurances to the pope of her allegiance to his see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England , and a man of great probity , moderation , and worth , was sent as legate of the pope . Gardiner , Bishop of Winchester , was made lord chancellor , and became the prime minister . He and his associates recommended violent councils ; and a reign , unparalleled in England for religious persecution , commenced . Sidenote : Marriage of the Queen . Soon after the queen 's accession , she married Philip , son of the Emperor Charles , and heir of the Spanish monarchy . This marriage , brought about by the intrigues of the emperor , and favored by the Catholic party , was quite acceptable to Mary , whose issue would inherit the thrones of Spain and England . But ambitious matches are seldom happy , especially when the wife is much older than the husband , as was the fact in this instance . Mary , however , was attached to Philip , although he treated her with great indifference . This Spanish match , the most brilliant of that age , failed , however , to satisfy the English , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Spain . In consequence of this disaffection , a rebellion broke out , in which Sir Thomas Wyatt was the most conspicuous , and in which the Duke of Suffolk , and even the Lady Jane and her husband , were implicated , though unjustly . The rebellion was easily suppressed , and the leaders sent to the Tower . Then followed one of the most melancholy executions of this reign  --  that of the Lady Jane Grey , who had been reprieved three months before . The queen urged the plea of self-defence , and the safety of the realm  --  the same that Queen Elizabeth , in after times , made in reference to the Queen of the Scots . Her unfortunate fate excited great popular compassion , and she suffered with a martyr 's constancy , and also her husband  --  two illustrious victims , sacrificed in consequence of the ambition of their relatives , and the jealousy of the queen . The Duke of Suffolk , the father of Lady Jane , was also executed , and deserved his fate , according to the ideas of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrificed , both because she was a Protestant and the next heiress to the throne . But she carefully avoided giving any offence , and managed with such consummate prudence , that she was preserved for the future glory and welfare of the realm . Sidenote : Religious Persecution . The year 1555 opened gloomily for the Protestants . The prisons were all crowded with the victims of religious persecution , and bigoted inquisitors had only to prepare their fagots and stakes . Over a thousand ministers were ejected from their livings , and such as escaped further persecution fled to the continent . No fewer than two hundred and eighty-eight persons , among whom were five bishops , twenty-one clergymen , fifty-five women , and four children , were burned for religious opinions , besides many thousands who suffered various other forms of persecution . The constancy of Ridley , Latimer , and Hooper has immortalized their names on the list of illustrious martyrs : but the greatest of all the victims was Cranmer , Archbishop of Canterbury . The most artful and insinuating promises were held out to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were promised him , if he would consent to betray his cause . In an evil hour , he yielded to the temptation , and consented to sell his soul . Timid , heartbroken , and old , the love of life and the fear of death were stronger than the voice of conscience and his duty to his God . But , when he found he was mocked , he came to himself , and suffered patiently and heroically . His death was glorious , as his life was useful ; and the sincerity of his repentance redeemed his memory from shame . Cranmer may be considered as the great author of the English Reformation , and one of the most worthy and enlightened men of his age ; but he was timid , politic , and time-serving . The Reformation produced no perfect characters in any country . Some great defect blemished the lives of all the illustrious men who have justly earned imperishable glory . But the character of such men as Cranmer , and Ridley , and Latimer , present an interesting contrast to those of Gardiner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some lenity in the latter years of this reign of Mary ; but the latter , the Bishop of London , gloated to the last in the blood which he caused to be shed . He even whipped the Protestant prisoners with his own hands , and once pulled out the beard of an heretical weaver , and held his finger in the flame of a candle , till the veins shrunk and burnt , that he might realize what the pain of burning was . So blind and cruel is religious intolerance . But Providence ordered that the religious persecution , which is attributed to Mary , but which , in strict justice , should be ascribed to her counsellors and ministers , should prepare the way for a popular and a spiritual movement in the subsequent reign . The fires of Smithfield , and the cruelties of the pillory and the prison , opened the eyes of the nation to the spirit of the old religion , and also caused the flight of many distinguished men to Frankfort and Geneva , where they learned the principles of both religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seed of the church "  --  a sublime truth , revealed to Cranmer and Ridley amid the fires which consumed their venerable bodies ; and not to them merely , but to all who witnessed their serenity , and heard their shouts of triumph when this mortal passed to immortality . Heretics increased with the progress of persecution , and firm conviction took the place of a blind confession of dogmas . " It was not , " says Milman , " until Christ was lain in his rock-hewn sepulchre , that the history of Christianity commenced . " We might add , it was not until the fires of Smithfield were lighted , that great spiritual ideas took hold of the popular mind , and the intense religious earnestness appeared which has so often characterized the English nation . The progress which man makes is generally seen through disaster , suffering , and sorrow . This is one of the fundamental truths which history teaches . Sidenote : Character of Mary . The last years of the reign of Mary were miserable to herself , and disastrous to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affections , and left England forever . She embarked in a ruinous war with France , and gained nothing but disgrace . Her health failed , and her disposition became gloomy . She continued , to the last , most intolerant in her religious opinions , and thought more of restoring Romanism , than of promoting the interests of her kingdom . Her heart was bruised and broken , and her life was a succession of sorrows . It is fashionable to call this unfortunate queen the " bloody Mary , " and not allow her a single virtue ; but she was affectionate , sincere , high-minded , and shrunk from the dissimulation and intrigue which characterized " the virgin queen "  --  the name given to her masculine but energetic successor . Mary was capable of the warmest friendship ; was attentive and considerate to her servants , charitable to the poor , and sympathetic with the unfortunate , when not blinded by her religious prejudices . She had many accomplishments , and a very severe taste , and was not addicted to oaths , as was Queen Elizabeth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bigoted Catholic ; and how could partisan historians see or acknowledge her merits ? Sidenote : Accession of Elizabeth . But her reign was disastrous , and the nation hailed with enthusiasm the accession of Elizabeth , on the 17th of November , 1558 . With her reign commences a new epoch , even in the history of Europe . Who does not talk of the Elizabethan era , when Protestantism was established in England , when illustrious poets and philosophers adorned the literature of the country , when commerce and arts received a great impulse , when the colonies in North America were settled , and when a constellation of great statesmen raised England to a pitch of glory not before attained ? * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  See Hume 's , and Lingard 's , and other standard Histories of England ; Miss Strickland 's Lives of the Queens of England ; Burnet 's History of the Reformation ; Life of Cranmer ; Fox 's Book of Martyrs . These works contain all the easily-accessible information respecting the reigns of Edward and Mary , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daughter of Henry VIII. , by Anne Boleyn , was in her twenty-sixth year when she ascended the throne . She was crowned the 15th of June , 1559 , and soon assembled her parliament and selected her ministers . After establishing her own legitimacy , she set about settling the affairs of the church , but only restored the Protestant religion as Cranmer had left it . Indeed , she ever retained a fondness for ceremonial , and abhorred a reform spirit among the people . She insisted on her supremacy , as head of the church , and on conformity with her royal conscience . But she was not severe on the Catholics , and even the gluttonous and vindictive Bonner was permitted to end his days in peace . As soon as the Protestant religion was established , the queen turned her attention towards Scotland , from which much trouble was expected . Sidenote : Mary , Queen of Scots . Scotland was then governed by Mary , daughter of James V. , and had succeeded her father while a mere infant , eight days after her birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dauphin , afterwards King of France , by which marriage she was Queen of France as well as of Scotland . Sidenote : John Knox . According to every canonical law of the Roman church , the claim of Mary Stuart to the English throne was preferable to that of her cousin Elizabeth . Her uncles , the Guises , represented that Anne Boleyn 's marriage had never been lawful , and that Elizabeth was therefore illegitimate . In an evil hour , she and her husband quartered the arms of England with their own , and assumed the titles of King and Queen of Scotland and England . And Elizabeth 's indignation was further excited by the insult which the pope had inflicted , in declaring her birth illegitimate . She , therefore , resolved to gratify , at once , both her ambition and her vengeance , encouraged by her ministers , who wished to advance the Protestant interest in the kingdom . Accordingly , Elizabeth , with consummate art , undermined the authority of Mary in Scotland , now distracted by religious as well as civil commotions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abhorrence and disgust of the opinions and customs of the reformers , especially of John Knox , whose influence in Scotland was almost druidical . The Catholics resolved to punish with fire and sword , while the Protestants were equally intent on defending themselves with the sword . And it so happened that some of the most powerful of the nobility were arrayed on the side of Protestantism . But the Scotch reformers were animated with a zeal unknown to Cranmer and his associates . The leaders had been trained at Geneva , under the guidance of Calvin , and had imbibed his opinions , and were , therefore , resolved to carry the work of reform after the model of the Genevan church . Accordingly , those pictures , and statues , and ornaments , and painted glass , and cathedrals , which Cranmer spared , were furiously destroyed by the Scotch reformers , who considered them as parts of an idolatrous worship . The antipathy to bishops and clerical vestments was equally strong , and a sweeping reform was carried on under the dictatorship of Knox . Elizabeth had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reformer and his movements , than had Mary herself , and never could forgive him for his book , written at Geneva , aimed against female government , called the " First Blast of a Trumpet against the monstrous Regiment of Women . " But Knox cared not for either the English or the Scottish queens , and zealously and fearlessly prosecuted his work , and gained over to his side the moral strength of the kingdom . Of course , a Catholic queen resolved to suppress his doctrines ; but nearly the whole Scottish nobility rallied around his standard , marching with the Bible in one hand , and the sword in the other . The queen brought in troops from France to support her insulted and tottering government , which only increased the zeal of the Protestant party , headed by the Earls of Argyle , Arran , Morton , and Glencairn , and James Stuart , Prior of St. Andrews , who styled themselves " Lords of the Congregation . " A civil war now raged in Scotland , between the queen regent , who wished to suppress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Protestants , who comprised a great part of the nation , and who were resolved on the utter extirpation of Romanism and the limitation of the regal power . The Lords of the Congregation implored the aid of England , which Elizabeth was ready to grant , both from political and religious motives . The Protestant cause was in the ascendant , when the queen regent died , in 1560 . The same year died Francis II. , of France ; and Mary , now a widow , resolved to return to her own kingdom . She landed at Leith , August , 1561 , and was received with the grandest demonstration of joy . For a time , affairs were tolerably tranquil , Mary having intrusted the great Protestant nobles with power . She was greatly annoyed , however , by Knox , who did not treat her with the respect due to a queen , and who called her Jezebel ; but the reformer escaped punishment on account of his great power . Sidenote : Marriage of Mary  --  Darnley . In 1565 , Mary married her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lennox ,  --  a match exceedingly distasteful to Elizabeth , who was ever jealous of Mary , especially in matrimonial matters , since the Scottish queen had not renounced her pretensions to the throne of her grandfather , Henry VII . The character of Elizabeth now appears in its worst light ; and meanness and jealousy took the place of that magnanimity which her admirers have ascribed to her . She fomented disturbances in Scotland , and incited the queen 's natural brother , the Prior of St. Andrews , now Earl of Murray , to rebellion , with the expectation of obtaining the government of the country . He formed a conspiracy to seize the persons of Mary and her husband . The plot was discovered , and Murray fled to England ; but it was still unremittingly pursued , till at length it was accomplished . Darnley , the consort of Mary , was a man of low tastes , profligate habits , and shallow understanding . Such a man could not long retain the affections of the most accomplished woman of her age , accustomed to flattery , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost . Disgust and coldness therefore took place . Darnley , enraged at this increasing coldness , was taught to believe that he was supplanted in the queen 's affections by an Italian favorite , the musician Rizzio , whom Mary had made her secretary . He therefore signed a bond , with certain lords , for the murder of the Italian , who seems to have been a man of no character . One evening , as the queen was at supper , in her private apartment , with the countess of Argyle and Rizzio , the Earl of Morton , with one hundred and sixty men , took possession of the palace of Holyrood , while Darnley himself showed the way to a band of ruffians to the royal presence . Rizzio was barbarously murdered in the presence of the queen , who endeavored to protect him . Darnley , in thus perpetrating this shocking murder , was but the tool of some of the great lords , who wished to make him hateful to the queen , and to the nation , and thus prepare the way for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was contrived for the murder of Darnley , of which Murray was probably the author . Shortly after , the house , in which he slept , was blown up by gunpowder , in the middle of the night . Sidenote : Bothwell  --  Civil War in Scotland . The public voice imputed to the Earl of Bothwell , a great favorite of the queen , the murder of Darnley . Nor did the queen herself escape suspicion . " But no inquiry or research , " says Scott , " has ever been able to bring us either to that clear opinion upon the guilt of Mary which is expressed by many authors , or guide us to that triumphant conclusion in favor of her innocence of all accession , direct or tacit , to the death of her husband , which others have maintained with the same obstinacy . " But whatever doubt exists as to the queen 's guilt , there is none respecting her ministers  --  Maitland , Huntley , Morton , and Argyle . Still they offered a reward of two thousand pounds for the discovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principal : and yet the ministers associated with him , and the queen , entirely exculpated him . He was brought to a trial , on the formal accusation of the Earl of Lennox , in the city of Edinburgh , which he was permitted to obtain possession of . In a place guarded by his own followers , it was not safe for any witnesses to appear against him , and he was therefore acquitted , though the whole nation believed him guilty . Mary was rash enough to marry , shortly after , the man whom public opinion pronounced to be the murderer of her husband ; and Murray , her brother , was so ambitious and treacherous , as to favor the marriage , with the hope that the unpopularity of the act would lead to the destruction of the queen , and place him at the helm of state . No sooner was Mary married to Bothwell , than Murray and other lords threw off the mask , pretended to be terribly indignant , took up arms against the queen , with the view of making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from her husband . Bothwell escaped to Norway , and the queen surrendered herself , at Carberry Hill , to the insurgent army , the chiefs of which instantly assumed the reins of government , and confined the queen in the castle of Lochleven , and treated her with excessive harshness . Shortly after , ( 1567 , ) she resigned her crown to her infant son , and Murray , the prime mover of so many disturbances , became regent of the kingdom . Murray was a zealous Protestant , and had the support of Knox in all his measures , and the countenance of the English ministry . Abating his intrigue and ambition , he was a most estimable man , and deserved the affections of the nation , which he retained until his death . M'Crie , in his Life of Knox , represents him as a model of Christian virtue and integrity , and every way worthy of the place he held in the affections of his party . Sidenote : Captivity of Queen Mary . The unfortunate queen suffered great unkindness in her lonely confinement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , clamored for her death , as an adulteress and a murderer . She succeeded in escaping from her prison , raised an army , marched against the regent , was defeated at the battle of Langside , fled to England , and became , May , 1568 , the prisoner-guest of her envious rival . Elizabeth obtained the object of her desires . But the captivity of Mary , confined in Tutbury Castle , against all the laws of hospitality and justice , gave rise to incessant disturbances , both in England and Scotland , until her execution , in 1587 . And these form no inconsiderable part of the history of England for seventeen years . Scotland was the scene of anarchy , growing out of the contentions and jealousies of rival chieftains , who stooped to every crime that appeared to facilitate their objects . In 1570 , the regent Murray was assassinated . He was succeeded by his enemy , the Earl of Lennox , who , in his turn , was shot by an assassin . The Earl of Mar succeeded him , but lived only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his many crimes but retribution at last overtook him , being executed when James assumed the sovereignty . Sidenote : Execution of Mary . Meanwhile , the unfortunate Mary pined in hopeless captivity . It was natural for her to seek release , and also for her friends to help her . Among her friends was the Duke of Norfolk , the first nobleman in England , and a zealous Catholic . He aspired to her hand ; but Elizabeth chose to consider his courtship as a treasonable act , and Norfolk was arrested . On being afterwards released , he plotted for the liberation of Mary , and his intrigues brought him to the block . The unfortunate captive , wearied and impatient , naturally sought the assistance of foreign powers . She had her agents in Rome , France , Spain , and the Low Countries . The Catholics in England espoused her cause , and a conspiracy was formed to deliver her , assassinate Elizabeth , and restore the Catholic religion . From the fact that Mary was privy to that part of it which concerned her own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , found guilty by a court incompetent to sit on her case , and executed without remorse , 8th February , 1587 . Few persons have excited more commiseration than this unfortunate queen , both on account of her exalted rank , and her splendid intellectual accomplishments . Whatever obloquy she merited for her acts as queen of Scotland , no one can blame her for meditating escape from the power of her zealous but more fortunate rival ; and her execution is the greatest blot in the character of the queen of England , at this time in the zenith of her glory . Next to the troubles with Scotland growing out of the interference of Elizabeth , the great political events of the reign were the long and protracted war with Spain , and the Irish rebellion . Both of these events were important . Spain was at this time governed by Philip II. , son of the emperor Charles , one of the most bigoted Catholics of the age , and allied with Catharine de Medicis of France for the entire suppression of Protestantism . She incited her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Philip established the inquisition in Flanders . This measure provoked an insurrection , to suppress which the Duke of Alva , one of the most celebrated of the generals of Charles V. , was sent into the Netherlands with a large army , and almost unlimited powers . The cruelties of Alva were unparalleled . In six years , eighteen thousand persons perished by the hands of the executioner , and Alva counted on the entire suppression of Protestantism by the mere force of armies . He could count the physical resources of the people , but he could not estimate the degree of their resistance when animated by the spirit of liberty or religion . Providence , too , takes care of those who strive to take care of themselves . A great leader appeared among the suffering Hollanders , almost driven to despair  --  the celebrated William of Nassau , Prince of Orange . He appeared as the champion of the oppressed and insulted people ; they rallied around his standard , fought with desperate bravery , opened the dikes upon their cultivated fields , expelled their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But they could not have withstood the gigantic power of the Spanish monarchy , then in the fulness of its strength , and the most powerful in Europe , had it not been for aid rendered by Elizabeth . She compassionated their sufferings , and had respect for their cause . She entered into an alliance , defensive and offensive , and the Netherlands became the great theatre of war , even after they had thrown off the Spanish yoke . Although the United Provinces in the end obtained their liberty , they suffered incredible hardships , and lost some of the finest of their cities , Antwerp among the rest , long the rival of Amsterdam , and the scene of Rubens 's labors . Sidenote : Military Preparations of Philip II . The assistance which Elizabeth rendered to the Hollanders , of course , provoked the resentment of Philip II. , and this was increased by the legalized piracies of Sir Francis Drake , in the West Indies , and on the coasts of South America . This commander , in time of peace , insisted on a right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , by the law of nations , is piracy . Philip , according to all political maxims , was forced to declare war with England , and he made immense preparations to subdue it . But the preparations of Elizabeth to resist the powerful monarch were also great , and Drake performed brilliant exploits on the sea , among other things , destroying one hundred ships in the Bay of Cadiz , and taking immense spoil . The preparations of the Spanish monarch were made on such a gigantic scale , that Elizabeth summoned a great council of war to meet the emergency , at which the all-accomplished Sir Walter Raleigh took a leading part . His advice was to meet the Spaniards on the sea . Although the royal navy consisted , at this time , of only thirty-six sail , such vigorous measures were prosecuted , that one hundred and ninety-one ships were collected , manned by seventeen thousand four hundred seamen . The merchants of London granted thirty ships and ten thousand men , and all England was aroused to meet the expected danger . Never was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given of the popularity of a sovereign . Indeed , Elizabeth was always popular with the nation ; and with all her ceremony , and state , and rudeness to the commons , and with all their apparent servility , she never violated the laws , or irritated the people by oppressive exactions . Many acts of the Tudor princes seem to indicate the reign of despotism in England , but this despotism was never grievous , and had all the benignity of a paternal government . Capricious and arbitrary as Elizabeth was , in regard to some unfortunate individuals who provoked her hatred or her jealousy , still she ever sedulously guarded the interests of the nation , and listened to the counsel of patriotic and able ministers . When England was threatened with a Spanish invasion , there was not a corner of the land which did not rise to protect a beloved sovereign ; nor was there a single spot , where a landing might be effected , around which an army of twenty thousand could not be rallied in forty-eight hours . Sidenote : Spanish Armada . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England ; and , as his " Invincible Armada " of one hundred and thirty ships , left the mouth of the Tagus , commanded by Medina Sidonia , and manned by the noblest troops of Spain , he fancied his hour of triumph was at hand . But his hopes proved dreams , like most of the ambitious designs of men . The armada met with nothing but misfortunes , both from battle and from storms . Only fifty ships returned to Spain . An immense booty was divided among the English sailors , and Elizabeth sent , in her turn , a large fleet to Spain , the following year , ( 1589 , ) under the command of Drake , which , after burning a few towns , returned ingloriously to England , with a loss of ten thousand men . The war was continued with various success till 1598 , when a peace was negotiated . The same year , died Philip II. , and Lord Burleigh , who , for forty years , directed the councils of Elizabeth , and to whose voice she ever listened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Essex . Burleigh was not a great genius , but was a man admirably adapted to his station and his times ,  --  was cool , sagacious , politic , and pacific , skilful in the details of business competent to advise , but not aspiring to command . He was splendidly rewarded for his services , and left behind him three hundred distinct landed estates . Sidenote : Irish Rebellion . Meanwhile the attention of the queen was directed to the affairs of Ireland , which had been conquered by Henry II . in the year 1170 , but over which only an imperfect sovereignty had been exercised . The Irish princes and nobles , divided among themselves , paid the exterior marks of obedience , but kept the country in a constant state of insurrection . The impolitic and romantic projects of the English princes for subduing France , prevented a due attention to Ireland , ever miserably governed . Elizabeth was the first of the English sovereigns to perceive the political importance of this island , and the necessity for the establishment of law and order . Besides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Dublin , and attempted to civilize the half-barbarous people . Unfortunately , she also sought to make them Protestants , against their will , which laid the foundation of many subsequent troubles , not yet removed . A spirit of discontent pervaded the country , and the people were ready for rebellion . Hugh O'Neale , the head of a powerful clan , and who had been raised to the dignity of Earl of Tyrone , yet attached to the barbarous license in which he had been early trained , fomented the popular discontents , and excited a dangerous rebellion . Hostilities , of the most sanguinary character , commenced . The queen sent over her favorite , the Earl of Essex , with an army of twenty thousand men , to crush the rebellion . He was a brave commander , but was totally unacquainted with the country and the people he was expected to subdue , and was , consequently , unsuccessful . But his successor , Lord Mountjoy , succeeded in restoring the queen 's authority , though at the cost of four millions and a half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland was devastated with fire and sword , and suffered every aggravation of accumulated calamities . Sidenote : The Earl of Essex . Meanwhile , Essex , who had returned to England against the queen 's orders , was treated with coldness , deprived of his employments , and sentenced to be confined . This was more than the haughty favorite could bear , accustomed as he had been to royal favor . At first , he acquiesced in his punishment , with every mark of penitence , and Elizabeth was beginning to relax in her severity for she never intended to ruin him ; but he soon gave vent to his violent temper , indulged in great liberties of speech , and threw off all appearance of duty and respect . He even engaged in treasonable designs , encouraged Roman Catholics at his house , and corresponded with James VI . of Scotland about his succession . His proceedings were discovered , and he was summoned before the privy council . Instead of obedience , he armed himself and his followers , and , in conjunction with some discontented nobles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an insurrection in London , where he was very popular with the citizens . He was captured and committed to the Tower , with the Earl of Southampton . These rash but brave noblemen were tried by their peers , and condemned as guilty of high treason . In this trial , the celebrated Bacon appeared against his old patron , and likened him to the Duke of Guise . The great lawyer Coke , who was attorney-general , compared him to Catiline . Essex disdained to sue the queen for a pardon , and was privately beheaded in the Tower . He merited his fate , if the offence of which he was guilty deserved such a punishment . It is impossible not to be interested in the fate of a man so brave , high-spirited , and generous , the idol of the people , and the victor in so many enterprises . Some historians maintain that Elizabeth relented , and would have saved her favorite , had he only implored her clemency ; but this statement is denied by others ; nor have we any evidence to believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had honored him , could have averted his fate . Elizabeth may have wept for the death of the nobleman she had loved . It is certain that , after his death , she never regained her spirits , and that a deep melancholy was visible in her countenance . All her actions showed a deeply-settled inward grief , and that she longed for death , having tasted the unsubstantial nature of human greatness . She survived the execution of Essex two years , but lived long enough to see the neglect into which she was every day falling , and to feel that , in spite of all her glory and power , she was not exempted from drinking the cup of bitterness . Sidenote : Character of Elizabeth . Whatever unamiable qualities she evinced as a woman , in spite of her vanity , and jealousy , and imperious temper , her reign was one of the most glorious in the annals of her country . The policy of Burleigh was the policy of Sir Robert Walpole  --  that of peace , and a desire to increase the resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were raised without murmur ; the people were loyal and contented ; the Protestant religion was established on a firm foundation ; and a constellation of great men shed around her throne the bright rays of immortal genius . The most unhappy peculiarity of her reign was the persecution of the Non-conformists , which , if not sanguinary , was irritating and severe . For some time after the accession of Elizabeth , the Puritans were permitted to indulge in their peculiarities , without being excluded from the established church ; but when Elizabeth felt herself secure , then they were obliged to conform , or suffered imprisonment , fines , and other punishments . The original difficulty was their repugnance to the surplice , and to some few forms of worship , which gradually extended to an opposition to the order of bishops ; to the temporal dignities of the church ; to the various titles of the hierarchy ; to the jurisdiction of the spiritual courts ; to the promiscuous access of all persons to the communion table ; to the liturgy ; to the observance of holydays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organs ; to the presentation of living by patrons ; and finally , to some of the doctrines of the established church . The separation of the Puritans from the Episcopal church , took place in 1566 ; and , from that time to the death of Elizabeth , they enjoyed no peace , although they sought redress in the most respectful manner , and raised no opposition to the royal authority . Thousands were ejected from their livings , and otherwise punished , for not conforming to the royal conscience . But persecution and penal laws fanned a fanatical spirit , which , in the reign of Charles , burst out into a destructive flame , and spread devastation and ruin through all parts of the kingdom . If the queen and her ministers did not understand the principles of religious toleration , they pursued a much more enlightened policy in regard to all financial and political subjects , than during any former reign . The commercial importance of England received a new impulse . The reign of Henry VIII . was a reign of spoliation . The king was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not keep pace with his spendthrift habits . The value of the abbey lands which Henry seized amounted , a century after his death , to six million pounds . The lands of the abbey of St. Alban 's alone rented for two hundred thousand pounds . The king debased the coin , confiscated chapels and colleges , as well as monasteries , and raised money by embargoes , monopolies , and compulsory loans . Sidenote : Improvements Made in the Reign of Elizabeth . But Elizabeth , instead of contracting debts , paid off the old ones , restored the coin to its purity , and was content with an annual revenue of five hundred thousand pounds , even at a time when the rebellion in Ireland cost her four hundred thousand pounds . Her frugality equalled the rapacity of her father , and she was extravagant only in dress , and on great occasions of public rejoicings . But her economy was a small matter compared with the wise laws which were passed respecting the trade of the country , by which commercial industry began to characterize the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and colonial settlements . Sir Francis Drake circumnavigated the globe , and the East India Company was formed . Under the auspices of Sir Walter Raleigh , Virginia was discovered and colonized . Unfortunately , also , the African slave trade commenced  --  a traffic which has been productive of more human misery , and led to more disastrous political evils , than can be traced to any other event in the history of modern times . During this reign , the houses of the people became more comfortable ; chimneys began to be used ; pewter dishes took the place of wooden trenchers , and wheat was substituted for rye and barley ; linen and woollen cloth was manufactured ; salads , cabbages , gooseberries , apricots , pippins , currants , cherries , plums , carnations , and the damask rose were cultivated , for the first time . But the great glory of this reign was the revival of literature and science . Raleigh , " the soldier , the sailor , the scholar , the philosopher , the poet , the orator , the historian , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prince of poets , the immortal Shakspeare , then wrote those plays , which , for moral wisdom and knowledge of the human soul , appear to us almost to be dictated by the voice of inspiration . The prince of philosophers too , the great miner and sapper of the false systems of the middle ages , Francis Bacon , then commenced his career , and Spenser dedicated to Elizabeth his " Fairy Queen , " one of the most truly poetical compositions that genius ever produced . The age produced also great divines ; but these did not occupy so prominent a place in the nation 's eye as during the succeeding reigns . Sidenote : Reflections . While the virgin queen was exercising so benign an influence on the English nation , great events , though not disconnected with English politics , were taking place on the continent . The most remarkable of these was the persecution of the Huguenots . The rise and fortunes of this sect , during the reigns of Henry II. , Francis II. , Charles IX. , Henry III. , and Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had , in that age , been conducted upon the principles it now is , the sufferings of the Huguenots would always be noticed . It is our province to describe just what a modern newspaper would have alluded to , had it been printed three hundred years ago . It would not have been filled with genealogies of kings , but with descriptions of great popular movements . And this is history . * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  For the history of this reign , see Hume , Lingard , and Hallam ; Miss Strickland 's Queens of England ; Life of Mary , Queen of Scots ; M'Crie 's Life of Knox ; Robertson 's History of Scotland ; Macaulay 's Essay on Nares 's Life of Burleigh ; Life of Sir Walter Raleigh ; Neale 's History of the Puritans . Kenilworth may also be profitably read . CHAPTER VII . FRANCIS II. , CHARLES IX. , HENRY III. , AND HENRY IV . The history of France , from the death of Francis I. to the accession of Henry IV . is virtually the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil wars which grew out of them . The Huguenotic contest , then , is a great historical subject , and will be presented in connection with the history of France , until the death of Henry IV. , the greatest of the French monarchs , and long the illustrious head of the Protestant party . The reform doctrines first began to spread in France during the reign of Francis I. As early as 1523 , he became a persecutor , and burned many at the stake , among whom the descendants of the Waldenses were the most numerous . In 1540 , sentence was pronounced against them by the parliament of Aix . Their doctrines were the same in substance as those of the Swiss reformers . While this persecution was raging , John Calvin fled from France to Ferrara , from which city he proceeded to Geneva . This was in the year 1536 , when his theological career commenced by the publication of his Institutes , which were dedicated to Francis I. , one of the most masterly theological works ever written , although compended from the writings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ text-book of the Swiss and French reformers , were distasteful to the French king , and he gave fresh order for the persecution of the Protestants . Notwithstanding the hostility of Francis , the new doctrines spread , and were embraced by some of the most distinguished of the French nobility . The violence of persecution was not much arrested during the reign of Henry II. , and , through the influence of the Cardinal of Lorraine , the inquisition was established in the kingdom . Sidenote : Catharine de Medicis . The wife of Henry II . was the celebrated Catharine de Medicis ; and she was bitterly opposed to the reform doctrines , and incited her husband to the most cruel atrocities . Francis II . continued the persecution , and his mother , Catharine , became virtually the ruler of the nation . The power of the queen mother was much increased when Francis II . died , and when his brother , Charles IX. , a boy of nine years of age , succeeded to the French crown . She exercised her power by the most unsparing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There had been some hope that Protestantism would be established in France ; but it did not succeed , owing to the violence of the persecution . It made , however , a desperate struggle before it was overcome . At the head of the Catholic party were the queen regent , the Cardinal of Lorraine , the Duke of Guise , his brother , and the Constable Montmorency . They had the support of the priesthood , of the Spaniards , and a great majority of the nation . The Protestants were headed by the King of Navarre , father of Henry IV. , the Prince of Conde , his brother , and Admiral Coligny ; and they had the sympathy of the university , the parliaments , and the Protestants of Germany and England . Sidenote : Civil War in France . Between these parties a struggle lasted for forty years , with various success . Persecution provoked resistance , but resistance did not lead to liberty . Civil war in France did not secure the object sought . Still the Protestants had hope , and , as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground . Their conduct was not marked by the religious earnestness which characterized the Puritans , or by the same strength of religious principle . Moreover , political motives were mingled with religious . The contest was a struggle for the ascendency of rival chiefs , as well as for the establishment of reformed doctrines . The Bourbons hated the Guises , and the Guises resolved to destroy the Bourbons . In the course of their rivalry and warfare , the Duke of Guise was assassinated , and the King of Navarre , as well as the Prince of Conde , were killed . Charles IX . was fourteen years of age when the young king of Navarre ,  --  at that time sixteen years of age ,  --  and his cousin , the Prince of Conde , became the acknowledged heads of the Protestant party . Their education was learned in the camp and the field of battle . Charles IX. , under the influence of his hateful mother , finding that civil war only destroyed the resources of the country , without weakening the Protestants , made peace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In order to cover his designs he gave his sister , Margaret de Valois , in marriage to the King of Navarre , first prince of the blood , then nineteen years of age . Admiral Coligny was invited to Paris , and treated with distinguished courtesy . Sidenote : Massacre of St. Bartholomew . It was during the festivities which succeeded the marriage of the King of Navarre that Coligny was murdered , and the signal for the horrid slaughter of St. Bartholomew was given . At midnight , August 23 , 1572 , the great bell at the Hotel de Ville began to toll ; torches were placed in the windows , chains were drawn across the streets , and armed bodies collected around the hotels . The doors of the houses were broken open , and neither age , condition , nor sex was spared , of such as were not distinguished by a white cross in the hat . The massacre at Paris was followed by one equally brutal in the provinces . Seventy thousand people were slain in cold blood . The King of Navarre and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship with the king , and by renouncing the Protestant religion . Most of the European courts expressed their detestation of this foulest crime in the history of religious bigotry ; but the pope went in grand procession to his cathedral , and ordered a Te Deum to be sung in commemoration of an event which steeped his cause in infamy to the end of time . The Protestants , though nearly exterminated , again rallied , and the King of Navarre and his cousin the Prince of Conde escaped , renounced the religion which had been forced on them by fear of death , and prosecuted a bloody civil war , with the firm resolution of never abandoning it until religious liberty was guarantied . Meanwhile , Charles IX . died , as it was supposed , by poison . His last hours were wretched , and his remorse for the massacre of St. Bartholomew filled his soul with agony . He beheld spectres , and dreamed horrid dreams ; his imagination constantly saw heaps of livid bodies , and his ears were assailed with imaginary groans . He became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of factions and insurrections . But he was a timid and irresolute king , and was but the tool of his infamous mother , the grand patroness of assassins , against whom , on his death bed , he cautioned the king of Navarre . Sidenote : Henry III .  --  Henry IV . He was succeeded by his brother , the King of Poland , under the title of Henry III . The persecutions of the Huguenots were renewed , and the old scenes of treachery , assassination , and war were acted over again . The cause of religion was lost sight of in the labyrinth of contentions , jealousies , and plots . Intrigues and factions were endless . Nearly all the leaders , on both sides , perished by the sword or the dagger . The Prince of Conde , the Duke of Guise , and his brother , the Cardinal of Lorraine , were assassinated . Shortly after , died the chief mover of all the troubles , Catharine de Medicis , a woman of talents and persuasive eloquence , but of most unprincipled ambition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ licentiousness of the court , and even the worst vices of her sons , that she might make them subservient to her designs . All her passions were subordinate to her calculations of policy , and every womanly virtue was suppressed by the desire of wielding a government which she usurped . Henry III . soon followed her to the grave , being , in turn , assassinated by a religious fanatic . His death ( 1589 ) secured the throne to the king of Navarre , who took the title of Henry IV . Henry IV. , the first of the Bourbon line , was descended from Robert , the sixth son of St. Louis , who had married the daughter and heiress of John of Burgundy and Agnes of Bourbon . He was thirty-six years of age when he became king , and had passed through great experiences and many sorrows . Thus far he had contended for Protestant opinions , and was the acknowledged leader of the Protestant party in France . But a life of contention and bloodshed , and the new career opened to him as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he did not hesitate to accept the condition which the French nobles imposed , before they would take the oaths of allegiance . This was , that he should abjure Protestantism . " My kingdom , " said he , " is well worth a mass . " It will be ever laid to his reproach , by the Protestants , that he renounced his religion for worldly elevation . Nor is it easy to exculpate him on the highest principles of moral integrity . But there were many palliations for his conduct , which it is not now easy to appreciate . It is well known that the illustrious Sully , his prime minister , and , through life , a zealous Protestant , approved of his course . It was certainly clear that , without becoming a Catholic , he never could peaceably enjoy his crown , and France would be rent , for another generation , by those civil wars which none lamented more than Henry himself . Besides , four fifths of the population were Catholics , and the Protestants could not reasonably expect to gain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this Henry was willing to grant . It should also be considered that the king , though he professed the reform doctrines , was never what may be called a religious man , being devoted to pleasure , and to schemes of ambition . It is true he understood and consulted the interests of his kingdom , and strove to make his subjects happy . Herein consists his excellence . As a magnanimous , liberal-minded , and enterprising man , he surpassed all the French kings . But it is ridiculous to call him a religious man , or even strongly fixed in his religious opinions . " Do you , " said the king to a great Protestant divine , " believe that a man may be saved by the Catholic religion ? " " Undoubtedly , " replied the clergyman , " if his life and heart be holy . " " Then , " said the king , " prudence dictates that I embrace the Catholic religion , and not yours ; for , in that case , according to both Catholics and Protestants , I may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I shall not be saved , according to the Catholics . " But the king 's conversion to Catholicism did not immediately result in the tranquillity of the distracted country . The Catholics would not believe in his sincerity , and many battles had to be fought before he was in peaceable enjoyment of his throne . But there is nothing so hateful as civil war , especially to the inhabitants of great cities ; and Paris , at last , and the chief places in the kingdom , acknowledged his sway . The king of Spain , the great Catholic prelates , and the pope , finally perceived how hopeless was the struggle against a man of great military experience , with a devoted army and an enthusiastic capital on his side . The peace of Verviens , in 1598 , left the king without foreign or domestic enemies . From that period to his death , his life was devoted to the welfare of his country . Sidenote : Edict of Nantes . His first act was the celebrated Edict of Nantes , by which the Huguenots had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion , and public worship , except in the court , the army , and within five leagues of Paris . They were eligible to all offices , civil and military ; and all public prosecutions , on account of religion , were dropped . This edict also promulgated a general amnesty for political offences , and restored property and titles , as before the war ; but the Protestants were prohibited from printing controversial books , and were compelled to pay tithes to the established clergy . Henry IV. , considering the obstacles with which he had to contend , was the greatest general of the age ; but it is his efforts in civilization which entitle him to his epithet of Great . Sidenote : Improvements during the Reign of Henry IV . The first thing which demanded his attention , as a civil ruler , was the settlement of the finances  --  ever the leading cause of troubles with the French government . These were intrusted to the care of Rosny , afterward Duke of Sully , the most able and upright of all French financiers  --  a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever continued to be the minister and the confidant of the king , and maintained his position without subserviency or flattery , almost the only man on the records of history who could tell , with impunity , wholesome truths to an absolute monarch . So wise were his financial arrangements , that a debt of three hundred million of livres was paid off in eight years . In five years , the taxes were reduced one half , the crown lands redeemed , the arsenals stored , the fortifications rebuilt , churches erected , canals dug , and improvements made in every part of the kingdom . On the death of the king , he had in his treasury nearly fifty millions of livres . Under the direction of this able minister , the laws were enforced , robbery and vagrancy were nearly stopped , and agriculture received a great impulse . But economy was the order of the day . The king himself set an illustrious example , and even dressed in gray cloth , with a doublet of taffeta , without embroidery , dispensed with all superfluity at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management and economy of the king enabled him to make great improvements , besides settling the deranged finances of the kingdom . He built innumerable churches , bridges , convents , hospitals , fortresses , and ships . Some of the finest palaces which adorn Paris were erected by him . He was also the patron of learning , the benefits of which he appreciated . He himself was well acquainted with the writings of the ancients . He was particularly fond of the society of the learned , with whom he conversed with freedom and affability . He increased the libraries , opened public schools , and invited distinguished foreigners to Paris , and rewarded them with stipends . Lipsius , Scaliger , and De Thou , were the ornaments of his court . And his tender regard to the happiness and welfare of his subjects was as marked as his generous appreciation of literature and science . It was his ambition to be the father of his people ; and his memorable saying , " Yes , I will so manage matters that the poorest peasant in my kingdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , moreover , be enabled to put a fowl in the pot on a Sunday , " has alone embalmed his memory in the affections of the French nation , who , of all their monarchs , are most partial to Henry IV . Sidenote : Peace Scheme of Henry IV . But this excellent king was also a philanthropist , and cherished the most enlightened views as to those subjects on which rests the happiness of nations . Though a warrior , the preservation of a lasting peace was the great idea of his life . He was even visionary in his projects to do good ; for he imagined it was possible to convince monarchs that they ought to prefer purity , peace , and benevolence , to ambition and war . Hence , he proposed to establish a Congress of Nations , chosen from the various states of Europe , to whom all international difficulties should be referred , with power to settle them  --  a very desirable object , the most so conceivable ; for war is the greatest of all national calamities and crimes . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attract much attention ; and , even had it been encouraged , would have been set aside in the next generation . What would such men as Frederic the Great , or Marlborough , or Louis XIV. , or Napoleon have cared for such an object ? But Henry , in his scheme , also had in view the regulation of such forces as the European monarchs should sustain , and this arose from his desire to preserve the " Balance of Power "  --  the great object of European politicians in these latter times . Sidenote : Death of Henry IV . But Henry was not permitted , by Providence , to prosecute his benevolent designs . He was assassinated by a man whom he had never injured  --  by the most unscrupulous of all misguided men  --  a religious bigot . The Jesuit Ravaillac , in a mood , as it is to be hoped , bordering on madness , perpetrated the foul deed . But Henry only suffered the fate of nearly all the distinguished actors in those civil and religious contentions which desolated France for forty years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifty-seven , having reigned twenty-one years , nine of which were spent in uninterrupted warfare . By his death the kingdom was thrown into deep and undissembled mourning . Many fell speechless in the streets when the intelligence of his assassination was known ; others died from excess of grief . All felt that they had lost more than a father , and nothing was anticipated but storms and commotions . He left no children by his wife , Margaret de Valois , who proved inconstant , and from whom he was separated . By his second wife , Mary de Medicis , he had three children , the oldest of whom was a child when he ascended the throne , by the title of Louis XIII . His daughter , Henrietta , married Charles I. of England . Though great advances were made in France during this reign , it was still far from that state of civilization which it attained a century afterwards . It contained about fifteen million of inhabitants , and Paris about one hundred and fifty thousand . The nobles were numerous and powerful , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not exactly slaves , but were reduced to great dependence , were uneducated , degraded , and enjoyed but few political or social privileges . They were oppressed by the government , by the nobles , and by the clergy . The highest official dignitary was the constable , the second the keeper of the seals , the third the chamberlain , then the six or eight marshals , then the secretary of state , then gentlemen of the household , and military commanders . The king was nearly absolute . The parliament was a judicial tribunal , which did not enact laws , but which registered the edicts of the king . Commerce and manufactures were extremely limited , and far from flourishing ; and the arts were in an infant state . Architecture , the only art in which half-civilized nations have excelled , was the most advanced , and was displayed in the churches and royal palaces . Paris was crowded with uncomfortable houses , and the narrow streets were favorable to tumult as well as pestilence . Tapestry was the most common and the most expensive of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room , often reached a sum which would be equal , in these times , to one hundred thousand dollars . The floors of the palaces were spread with Turkey carpets . Chairs were used only in kings ' palaces , and carriages were but just introduced , and were clumsy and awkward . Mules were chiefly used in travelling , the horses being reserved for war . Dress , especially of females , was gorgeous and extravagant ; false hair , masks , trailed petticoats , and cork heels ten inches high , were some of the peculiarities . The French then , as now , were fond of the pleasures of the table , and the hour for dinner was eleven o'clock . Morals were extremely low , and gaming was a universal passion , in which Henry IV . himself extravagantly indulged . The advice of Catharine de Medicis to her son Charles IX . showed her knowledge of the French character , even as it exists now : " Twice a week give public assemblies , for the specific secret of the French government is , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restless you must occupy them , during peace , either with business or amusement , or else they will involve you in trouble . " Sidenote : France at the Death of Henry IV . Such was France , at the death of Henry IV. , 1610 , one of the largest and most powerful of the European kingdoms , though far from the greatness it was destined afterwards to attain . A more powerful monarchy , at this period , was Spain . As this kingdom was then in the zenith of its power and glory , we will take a brief survey of it during the reign of Philip II. , the successor of Charles V. , a person to whom we have often referred . With his reign are closely connected the struggles of the Hollanders to secure their civil and religious independence . The Low Countries were provinces of Spain , and therefore to be considered in connection with Spanish history . * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  For a knowledge of France during the reign of Henry IV. , see James 's History of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Huguenots . Rankin 's and Crowe 's Histories of France are the best in English , but far inferior to Sismondi 's , Millot 's , and Lacretelle 's . Sully 's Memoirs throw considerable light on this period , and Dumas 's Margaret de Valois may be read with profit . CHAPTER VIII . PHILIP II . AND THE AUSTRIAN PRINCES OF SPAIN . Sidenote : Bigotry of Philip II . Spain can not be said to have been a powerful state until the reign of Ferdinand and Isabella ; when the crowns of Castile and Arragon were united , and when the discoveries of Columbus added a new world to their extensive territories . Nor , during the reign of Ferdinand and Isabella , was the power of the crown as absolute as during the sway of the Austrian princes . The nobles were animated by a bold and free spirit , and the clergy dared to resist the encroachments of royalty , and even the usurpations of Rome . Charles V. succeeded in suppressing the power of the nobles , and all insurrections of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gloomy son , Philip II . With Philip commenced the grandeur of the Spanish monarchy . By him , also , were sown the seeds of its subsequent decay . Under him , the inquisition was disgraced by ten thousand enormities , Holland was overrun by the Duke of Alva , and America conquered by Cortes and Pizarro . It was he who built the gorgeous palaces of Spain , and who , with his Invincible Armada , meditated the conquest of England . The wealth of the Indies flowed into the royal treasury , and also enriched all orders and classes . Silver and gold became as plenty at Madrid as in old times at Jerusalem under the reign of Solomon . But Philip was a different prince from Solomon . His talents and attainments were respectable , but he had a jealous and selfish disposition , and exerted all the energies of his mind , and all the resources of his kingdom , to crush the Protestant religion and the liberties of Europe . Among the first acts of his reign was the effort to extinguish Protestantism in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , subject to his authority . The opinions of Luther and Calvin made great progress in this country , and Philip , in order to repress them , created new bishops , and established the Inquisition . The people protested , and these protests were considered as rebellious . Sidenote : Revolt of the Netherlands . At the head of the nobility was William , the Prince of Orange , on whom Philip had conferred the government of Holland , Zealand , Friesland , and Utrecht , provinces of the Netherlands . He was a haughty but resolute and courageous character , and had adopted the opinions of Calvin , for which he lost the confidence of Philip . In the prospect of destruction , he embraced the resolution of delivering his country from the yoke of a merciless and bigoted master . Having reduced the most important garrisons of Holland and Zealand , he was proclaimed stadtholder , and openly threw off his allegiance to Spain . Hostilities , of course , commenced . Alva , the general of Philip , took the old city of Haerlem , and put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the magistrates , and all the Protestant clergy . Don John , Archduke of Austria , and the brother of Philip , succeeded the Duke of Alva , during whose administration the seven United Provinces formed themselves into a confederation , and chose the Prince of Orange to be the general of their armies , admiral of their fleets , and chief magistrate , by the title of stadtholder . But William was soon after assassinated by a wretch who had been bribed by the exasperated Philip , and Maurice , his son , received his title , dignities , and power . His military talents , as the antagonist of the Duke of Parma , lieutenant to Philip , in the Netherlands , secured him a high place in the estimation of warriors . To protect this prince and the infant republic of Holland , Queen Elizabeth sent four thousand men under the Earl of Leicester , her favorite ; and , with this assistance , the Hollanders maintained their ground against the most powerful monarch in Europe , as has been already mentioned in the chapter on Elizabeth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event of his reign was the acquisition of Portugal , to which he laid claim on the death of Don Henry , in 1581 . There were several other claimants , but Philip , with an army of twenty thousand , was stronger than any of the others . He gained a decisive victory over Don Antonio , uncle to the last monarch , and was crowned at Lisbon without opposition . Sidenote : Revolt of the Moriscoes . The revolt of the Moriscoes occupies a prominent place in the annals of this reign . They were Christianized Moors , but , at heart , Mohammedans . A decree had been published that their children should frequent the Christian church , that the Arabic should no longer be used in writing , that both men and women should wear the Spanish costume , that they no longer should receive Mohammedan names , or marry without permission . The Moriscoes contended that no particular dress involved religious opinions , that the women used the veil according to their notions of modesty , that the use of their own language was no sin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motives , but for the sake of cleanliness . These expostulations were , however , without effect . Nothing could move the bigoted king . So revolt followed cruelty and oppression . Great excesses were committed by both parties , and most horrible barbarities were exhibited . The atrocious nature of civil war is ever the same , and presents nearly the same undeviating picture of misery and crime . But in this war there was something fiendish . A clergyman was roasted over a brazier , and the women , wearied with his protracted death , despatched him with their needles and knives . The rebels ridiculed the sacrifice of the mass by slaughtering a pig on the high altar of a church . These insults were retaliated with that cruelty which Spanish bigotry and malice know so well how to inflict . Thousands of defenceless women and children were murdered in violation of the most solemn treaties . The whole Moorish population was finally exterminated , and Granada , with its beautiful mountains and fertile valleys , was made a desert . No less than six hundred thousand were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the Moriscoes were the most ingenious and industrious part of the population ; and their exile contributed to undermine that national prosperity in which , at that day , every Spaniard gloried . But destruction ever succeeds pride : infatuation and blindness are the attendants of despotism . The destruction of the Spanish Armada , and the losses which the Spaniards suffered from Sir Francis Drake and Admiral Hawkins , have already been mentioned . But the pride of Philip was mortified , rather than that his power was diminished . His ambition received a check , and he found it impossible to conquer England . His finances , too , became deranged ; still he remained the absolute master of the richest kingdom in the world . Sidenote : Causes of Decline of the Spanish Monarchy . The decline of the Spanish monarchy dates from his death which took place in his magnificent palace of the Escurial , in 1598 . Under his son Philip III. , decline became very marked , and future ruin could be predicted . The principal cause of the decline of prosperity was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their wealth . In the Spanish dominions , which included Spain , Naples , Milan , Parma , Sicily , Sardinia , the Netherlands , Portugal , and the Indies , there were fifty-four archbishops , six hundred and eighty-four bishops , seven thousand hospitals , one hundred thousand abbeys and nunneries , six hundred thousand monks , and three hundred and ten thousand secular priests  --  a priest to every ten families . Almost every village had a monastery . The diocese of Seville had fourteen thousand priests , nearly the present number of all the clergy of the establishment in England . The cathedral of Seville gave support and occupation to one hundred priests . And this numerous clergy usurped the power and dignities of the state . They also encouraged that frightful inquisition , the very name of which conjures up the most horrid images of death and torture . This institution , committed to the care of Dominican monks , was instituted to put down heresy ; that is , every thing in poetry , philosophy , or religion , which was distasteful to the despots of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people even suspected of heresy , and , on the testimony of two witnesses , could condemn them to torture , imprisonment , and death . Resistance was vain ; complaint was ruin . Arrests took place suddenly and secretly . Nor had the prisoner a knowledge of his accusers , or of the crimes of which he was accused . The most delicate maidens , as well as men of hoary hairs and known integrity , were subjected to every outrage that human nature could bear , or satanic ingenuity inflict . Should the jailer take compassion , and bestow a few crumbs of bread or drops of water , he would be punished as the greatest of traitors . Even nobles were not exempted from the supervision of this court , which was established in every village and town in Portugal and Spain , and which , in the single city of Toledo , condemned , in one year , seventeen thousand people . This institution was tolerated by the king , since he knew very well that there ever exists an intimate union between absolutism in religion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Silver . Sidenote : Decline of the Spanish Monarchy . Besides the spiritual despotism which the clergy of Spain exercised over a deluded people , but a people naturally of fine elements of character , the sudden increase of gold and silver led to luxury , idleness , and degeneracy . Money being abundant , in consequence of the gold and silver mines of America , the people neglected the cultivation of those things which money could procure . Then followed a great rise in the prices of all kinds of provision and clothing . Houses , lands , and manufactures also soon rose in value . Hence money was delusive , since , with ten times the increase of specie , there was a corresponding decrease in those necessaries of life which gold and silver would purchase . Silver and gold are only the medium of trade , not the basis of wealth . The real prosperity of a country depends upon the amount of productive industry . If diamonds were as numerous as crystals , they would be worth no more than crystals . The sudden influx of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the kingdom ; but when habits of industry were lost , and the culture of the soil was neglected , the gold and silver of the Spaniards were exchanged for the productive industry of other nations . The Dutch and the English , whose manufactures and commerce were in a healthy state , became enriched at their expense . With the loss of substantial wealth , that is , industry and economy , the Spaniards lost elevation of sentiment , became cold and proud , followed frivolous pleasures and amusements , and acquired habits which were ruinous . Plays , pantomimes , and bull-fights now amused the lazy and pleasure-seeking nation , while the profligacy of the court had no parallel in Europe , with the exception of that of France . The country became exhausted by war . The finances were deranged , and province after province rebelled . Every where were military reverses , and a decrease of population . Taxes , in the mean while , increased , and a burdened people lamented in vain their misfortune and decline . The reign of Philip IV . was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Catalan insurrection , the loss of Jamaica , the Low Countries , and Portugal , were the results of his misrule and imbecility . So rapidly did Spain degenerate , that , upon the close of the Austrian dynasty , with all the natural advantages of the country , the best harbors and sea-coast in Europe , the richest soil , and the finest climate , and with the possession of the Indies also , the people were the poorest , the most ignorant , and the most helpless in Europe . The death of Charles II. , a miserable , afflicted , superstitious , priest-ridden monarch , left Spain without a king , and the vacant throne became the prize of any monarch in Europe who could raise and send across the Pyrenees the largest army . It fell into the power of Louis XIV. , and the Bourbon princes have ever since in vain attempted the restoration of the broken monarchy to its former glory . But , alas , Spain has , since the spoliation of the Mexicans and Peruvians , only a melancholy history  --  a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Spaniards committed awful crimes in their lust for gold and silver . " They had their request , " but God , in his retributive justice , " sent leanness into their souls . " * * * * * For the history of Spain during the Austrian princes , see a history in Lardner 's Encyclopedia ; Watson 's Life of Philip II. ; James 's Foreign Statesmen ; Schiller 's Revolt of the Netherlands ; Russell 's Modern Europe ; Prescott 's Conquest of Mexico and Peru . CHAPTER IX . THE JESUITS , AND THE PAPAL POWER IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY . Sidenote : The Roman Power in the Seventeenth Century . During the period we have just been considering , the most marked peculiarity was , the struggle between Protestantism and Romanism . It is true that objects of personal ambition also occupied the minds of princes , and many great events occurred , which were not connected with the struggles for religious liberty and light . But the great feature of the age was the insurrection of human intelligence . There was a spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was directed , in the main , to matters of religion . The conflict was not between church and state , but between two great factions in each . " No man asked whether another belonged to the same country as himself , but whether he belonged to the same sect . " Luther , Calvin , Zwingle , Knox , Cranmer , and Bacon were the great pioneers in this march of innovation . They wished to explode the ideas of the middle ages , in philosophy and in religion . They made war upon the Roman Catholic Church , as the great supporter and defender of old ideas . They renounced her authority . She summoned her friends and vassals , rallied all her forces , and , with desperate energy , resolved to put down the spirit of reform . The struggles of the Protestants in England , Germany , France , and the Netherlands , alike manifested the same spirit , were produced by the same causes , and brought forth the same results . The insurrection was not suppressed . Sidenote : Rise of the Jesuits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were carried on by armies , massacres , assassinations , and inquisitions . The duke of Alva 's cruelties in the Netherlands , St. Bartholomew 's massacre in France , inquisitorial tortures in Spain , and Smithfield burnings in England , illustrate this assertion . But more subtle and artful agents were required , especially since violence had failed . Men of simple lives , of undoubted piety , of earnest zeal , and singular disinterestedness to their cause , arose , and did what the sword and the stake could not do ,  --  revived Catholicism , and caused a reaction to Protestantism itself . These men were Jesuits , the most faithful , intrepid , and successful soldiers that ever enlisted under the banners of Rome . The rise and fortunes of this order of monks form one of the most important and interesting chapters in the history of the human race . Their victories , and the spirit which achieved them , are well worth our notice . In considering them , it must be borne in mind , that the Jesuits have exhibited traits so dissimilar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just judgment . While they were achieving their victories , they appeared in a totally different light from what distinguished them when they reposed on their laurels . In short , the earlier and the latter Jesuits were entirely different in their moral and social aspects , although they had the same external organization . The principles of their system were always the same . The men who defended them , at first , were marked by great virtues , but afterwards were deformed by equally as great vices . It was in the early days of Jesuitism that the events we have recorded took place . Hence our notice , at present , will be confined to the Jesuits when they were worthy of respect , and , in some things , even of admiration . Their courage , fidelity , zeal , learning , and intrepidity for half a century , have not been exaggerated . The founder of the order was Ignatius Loyola , a Spanish gentleman of noble birth , who first appeared as a soldier at the siege of Pampeluna , where he was wounded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and disputing about indulgences . He amused himself , on his sick bed , by reading the lives of the saints . His enthusiastic mind was affected , and he resolved to pass from worldly to spiritual knighthood . He became a saint , after the notions of the age ; that is , he fasted , wore sackcloth , lived on roots and herbs , practised austerities , retired to lonely places , and spent his time in contemplation and prayer . The people were attracted by his sanctity , and followed him in crowds . His heart burned to convert heretics ; and , to prepare himself for his mission , he went to the universities , and devoted himself to study . There he made some distinguished converts , all of whom afterwards became famous . In his narrow cell , at Paris , he induced Francis Xavier , Faber , Laynez Bobadilla , and Rodriguez to embrace his views , and to form themselves into an association , for the conversion of the world . On the summit of Montmartre , these six young men , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poverty , chastity , and obedience , and solemnly devoted themselves to their new mission . Sidenote : Rapid Spread of the Jesuit Order . They then went to Rome , to induce the pope to constitute them a new missionary order . But they were ridiculed as fanatics . Moreover , for several centuries , there had been great opposition in Rome against the institution of new monastic orders . It was thought that there were orders enough ; that the old should be reformed , not new ones created . Even St. Dominic and St. Francis had great difficulty in getting their orders instituted . But Loyola and his companions made extraordinary offers . They professed their willingness to go wherever the pope should send them , among Turks , heathens , or heretics , instantly , without condition , or reward . How could the pope refuse to license them ? His empire was in danger ; Luther was in the midst of his victories ; the power of ideas and truth was shaking to its centre the pontifical throne ; all the old orders had become degenerate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to look for efficient support . The venerable Benedictines were revelling in the wealth of their splendid abbeys , while the Dominicans and the Franciscans had become itinerant vagabonds , peddling relics and indulgences , and forgetful of those stern duties and virtues which originally characterized them . All the monks were inexhaustible subjects of sarcasm and mockery . They even made scholasticism ridiculous , and the papal dogmas contemptible . Erasmus laughed at them , and Luther mocked them . They were sensual , lazy , ignorant , and corrupt . The pope did not want such soldiers . But the followers of Loyola were full of ardor , talent , and zeal ; willing to do any thing for a sinking cause ; able to do any thing , so far as human will can avail . And they did not disappoint the pope . Great additions were made . They increased with marvellous rapidity . The zealous , devout , and energetic , throughout all ranks in the Catholic church , joined them . They spread into all lands . They became the confessors of kings , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most successful missionaries . In sixteen years after the scene of Montmartre , Loyola had established his society in the affections and confidence of Catholic Europe , against the voice of universities , the fears of monarchs , and the jealousy of the other monastic orders . In sixteen years , from the condition of a ridiculed fanatic , whose voice , however , would have been disregarded a century earlier or later , he became one of the most powerful dignitaries of the church , influencing the councils of the Vatican , moving the minds of kings , controlling the souls of a numerous fraternity , and making his power felt , even in the courts of Japan and China . Before he died , his spiritual sons had planted their missionary stations amid Peruvian mines , amid the marts of the African slave trade , in the islands of the Indian Ocean , and in the cities of Japan and China . Nay , his followers had secured the most important chairs in the universities of Europe , and had become confessors to the most powerful monarchs , teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its principal pulpits . They had become an organization , instinct with life , endued with energy and will , and forming a body which could outwatch Argus with his hundred eyes , and outwork Briareus with his hundred arms . It had forty thousand eyes open upon every cabinet and private family in Europe , and forty thousand arms extended over the necks of both sovereigns and people . It had become a mighty power in the world , inseparably connected with the education and the religion of the age , the prime mover of all political affairs , the grand prop of absolute monarchies , the last hope of the papal hierarchy . Sidenote : Rapid Spread of the Jesuits . The sudden growth and enormous resources of the " Society of Jesus " impress us with feelings of amazement and awe . We almost attribute them to the agency of mysterious powers , and forget the operations of natural causes . The history of society shows that no body of men ever obtained a wide-spread ascendency , except by the exercise of remarkable qualities of mind and heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When Catholic Europe saw young men , born to fortune and honors , voluntarily surrendering their rank and goods , devoting themselves to religious duties , spending their days in hospitals and schools , wandering , as missionaries , into the most unknown and dangerous parts of the world , exciting the young to study , making great attainments in all departments of literature and science , and shedding a light , wherever they went , by their genius and disinterestedness , it was natural that they would be received as preachers , teachers , and confessors . That they were characterized , during the first fifty years , by such excellencies , has never been denied . The Jesuit missionary called forth the praises of Baxter , and the panegyric of Leibnitz . He went forth , without fear , to encounter the most dreaded dangers . Martyrdom was nothing to him , for he knew that the altar , which might stream with his blood , would , in after times , be a cherished monument of his fame , and an impressive emblem of the power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ converts of Loyola , a Spaniard of rank , traversed a tract of more than twice the circumference of the globe , preaching , disputing , and baptizing , until seventy thousand converts attested the fruits of his mission . In perils , fastings , and fatigues , was the life of this remarkable man passed , to convert the heathen world ; and his labors have never been equalled , as a missionary , except by the apostle Paul . But China and Japan were not the only scenes of the enterprises of Jesuit missionaries . As early as 1634 , they penetrated into Canada , and , shortly after to the sources of the Mississippi and the prairies of Illinois . " My companion , " said the fearless Marquette , " is an envoy of France , to discover new countries ; but I am an ambassador of God , to enlighten them with the gospel . " But of all the missions of the Jesuits , those in Paraguay were the most successful . They there gathered together , in reductions , or villages , three hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common interest , were controlled by a paternal authority , taught useful arts , and trained to enjoy the blessings of civilization . On the distant banks of the La Plata , while the Spanish colonists were hunting the Mexicans and Peruvians with bloodhounds , or the English slave traders were consigning to eternal bondage the unhappy Africans , the Jesuits were realizing the ideal paradise of More  --  a Utopia , where no murders or robberies were committed , and where the blessed flowers of peace and harmony bloomed in a garden of almost primeval loveliness . Sidenote : Extraordinary Virtues of the Older Jesuits . In that age , the Jesuit excelled in any work to which he devoted his attention . He was not only an intrepid missionary , but a most successful teacher . Into the work of education he entered heart and soul . He taught gratuitously , without any crabbed harshness , and with a view to gain the heart . He entered into the feelings of his pupils , and taught them to subdue their tempers , and avoid quarrels and oaths . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rewarded the successful with presents and favors . Hence the schools of the Jesuits were the best in Europe , and were highly praised even by the Protestants . The Jesuits were even more popular as preachers than they were as teachers ; and they were equally prized as confessors . They were so successful and so respected , that they soon obtained an ascendency in Europe . Veneration secured wealth , and their establishments gradually became magnificently endowed . But all their influence was directed to one single end  --  to the building up of the power of the popes , whose obedient servants they were . Can we wonder that Catholicism should revive ? Sidenote : The Constitution of the Jesuits . Again , their constitution was wonderful , and admirably adapted to the ends they had in view . Their vows were indeed substantially the same as those of other monks , but there was among them a more practical spirit of obedience . All the members were controlled by a single will  --  all were passive , instruments in the hands of the general of the order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; admitted , dismissed , dispensed , and punished at his pleasure . His power was irresponsible , and for life . From his will there was no appeal . There were among them many gradations in rank , but each gradation was a gradation in slavery . The Jesuit was bound to obey even his own servant , if required by a superior . Obedience was the soul of the institution , absolute , unconditional , and unreserved  --  even the submission of the will , to the entire abnegation of self . The Jesuit gloried in being made a puppet , a piece of machinery , like a soldier , if the loss of his intellectual independence would advance the interests of his order . The esprit de corps was perfectly wonderful , and this spirit was one secret of the disinterestedness of the body . " Ad majorem Dei gloriam , " was the motto emblazoned on their standards , and written on their hearts ; but this glory of God was synonymous with the ascendency of their association . The unconditional obedience to a single will , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced the interests of the body , and of the pope , to whom they were devoted , still led to the most detestable and resistless spiritual despotism ever exercised by man . The Jesuit , especially when obscure and humble , was a tool , rather than an intriguer . He was bound hand and foot by the orders of his superiors , and they alone were responsible for his actions . Sidenote : Degeneracy of the Jesuits . We can easily see how the extraordinary virtues and attainments of the early Jesuits , and the wonderful mechanism of their system , would promote the growth of the order and the interests of Rome , before the suspicions of good people would be aroused . It was a long time after their piety had passed to fraud , their simplicity to cunning , their poverty to wealth , their humility to pride , and their indifference to the world to cabals , intrigues , and crimes , before the change was felt . And , moreover , it was more than a century before the fruits of the system were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and missions , dangerous notions and customs were taught in them , which gradually destroyed their efficacy . A bad system often works well for a while , but always carries the seeds of decay and ruin . It was so with the institution of Loyola , in spite of the enthusiasm and sincerity of the early members , and the masterly wisdom displayed by the founders . In after times , evils were perceived , which had , at first , escaped the eye . It was seen that the system of education , though specious , and , in many respects , excellent , was calculated to narrow the mind , while it filled it with knowledge . Young men , in their colleges , were taught blindly to follow a rigid mechanical code ; they were closely watched ; all books were taken from them of a liberal tendency ; mutilated editions of such as could not be denied only were allowed ; truths of great importance were concealed or glossed over ; exploded errors were revived , and studies recommended which had no reference to the discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boys were made spies on each other , their spirits were broken , and their tastes perverted . The Jesuits sought to guard the avenues to thought , not to open them , were jealous of all independence of mind , and never sought to go beyond their age , or base any movement on ideal standards . Sidenote : Evils in the Jesuit System . Again , as preachers , though popular and eloquent , they devoted their talents to convert men to the Roman church rather than to God . They were bigoted sectarians ; strove to make men Catholics rather than Christians . As missionaries , they were content with a mere nominal conversion . They gave men the crucifix , but not the Bible , and even permitted their converts to retain many of their ancient superstitions and prejudices . And thus they usurped the authority of native rulers , and sought to impose on China and Japan their despotic yoke . They greatly enriched themselves in consequence of the credulity of the natives , whom they flattered , and wielded an unlawful power . And this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they made no permanent conquests among the millions they converted in Japan . They wished not only to subjugate the European , but the Asiatic mind . Europe did not present a field sufficiently extensive for their cupidity and ambition . Finally , as confessors , they were peculiarly indulgent to those who sought absolution , provided their submission was complete . Then it was seen what an easy thing it was to bear the yoke of Christ . The offender was told that sin consisted in wilfulness , and wilfulness in the perfect knowledge of the nature of sin , according to which doctrine blindness and passion were sufficient exculpations . They invented the doctrine of mental reservation , on which Pascal was so severe . Perjury was allowable , if the perjured were inwardly determined not to swear . A man might fight a duel , if in danger of being stigmatized as a coward ; he might betray his friend , if he could thus benefit his party . The Jesuits invented a system of casuistry which confused all established ideas of moral obligation . They tolerated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same could be made subservient to the apparent interests of the church . Their principle was to do evil that good might come . Above all , they conformed to the inclinations of the great , especially to those of absolute princes , on whom they imposed no painful penance , or austere devotion . Their sympathies always were with absolutism , in all its forms and they were the chosen and trusted agents of the despots of mankind , until even the eyes of Europe were open to their vast ambition , which sought to erect an independent empire within the limits of despotism itself . But the corruptions of the Jesuits , their system of casuistry , their lax morality , their disgraceful intrigues , their unprincipled rapacity , do not belong to the age we have now been considering . These fruits of a bad system had not then been matured ; and the infancy of the society was as beautiful as its latter days were disgraceful and fearful . In a future chapter , we shall glance at the decline and fall of this celebrated institution  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever devised by the craft and wisdom of man . Sidenote : The Popes in the Seventeenth Century . The great patrons of the Jesuits  --  the popes and their empire in the sixteenth century , after the death of Luther  --  demand some notice . The Catholic church , in this century , was remarkable for the reformation it attempted within its own body , and for the zeal , and ability , and virtue , which marked the character of many of the popes themselves . Had it not been for this counter reformation , Protestantism would have obtained a great ascendency in Europe . But the Protestants were divided among themselves , while the Catholics were united , and animated with singular zeal . They put forth their utmost energies to reconquer what they had lost . They did not succeed in this , but they secured the ascendency , on the whole , of the Catholic cause in Europe . For this ascendency the popes are indebted to the Jesuits . Sidenote : Nepotism of the Popes . At the close of the sixteenth century , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All writers celebrated its fertility . Scarcely a foot of land remained uncultivated . Corn was exported , and the ports were filled with ships . The people were courageous , and had great talents for business . The middle classes were peaceful and contented , but the nobles , who held in their hands the municipal authority , were turbulent , rapacious , and indifferent to intellectual culture . The popes were generally virtuous characters , and munificent patrons of genius . Gregory XIII . kept a list of men in every country who were likely to acquit themselves as bishops , and exhibited the greatest caution in appointing them . Sixtus V. , whose father was an humble gardener , encouraged agriculture and manufactures , husbanded the resources of the state , and filled Rome with statues . He raised the obelisk in front of St. Peter 's , and completed the dome of the Cathedral . Clement VIII . celebrated the mass himself , and scrupulously devoted himself to religious duties . He was careless of the pleasures which formerly characterized the popes , and admitted every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ V. had equal talents and greater authority , but was bigoted and cold . Gregory XIV . had all the severity of an ancient monk . The only religious peculiarity of the popes , at the latter end of the sixteenth century , which we unhesitatingly condemn , was , their religious intolerance . But they saw that their empire would pass away , unless they used vigorous and desperate measures to retain it . During this period , the great victories of the Jesuits , the establishment of their colleges , and the splendid endowments of their churches took place . Gregory XV . built , at his own cost , the celebrated church of St. Ignatius , at Rome , and instituted the Propaganda , a missionary institution , under the control of the Jesuits . Sidenote : Rome in the Seventeenth Century . The popes , whether good or bad , did not relinquish their nepotism in this century , in consequence of which great families arose with every pope , and supplanted the old aristocracy . The Barberini family , in one pontificate , amassed one hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as that left by Mazarin . But they , enriched under Urban VII. , had to flee from Rome under Innocent X. Jealousy and contention divided and distracted all the noble families , who vied with each other in titles and pomp , ceremony and pride . The ladies of the Savelli family never quitted their palace walls , except in closely veiled carriages . The Visconti decorated their walls with the portraits of the popes of their line . The Gaetana dwelt with pride on the memory of Boniface VIII . The Colonna and Orsini boasted that for centuries no peace had been concluded in Christendom , in which they had not been expressly included . But these old families had become gradually impoverished , and yielded , in wealth and power , though not in pride and dignity , to the Cesarini , Borghesi , Aldobrandini , Ludovisi , Giustiniani , Chigi , and the Barberini . All these families , from which popes had sprung , had splendid palaces , villas , pictures , libraries , and statues ; and they contributed to make Rome the centre of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was still the moral and social centre of Christendom . It was a place to which all strangers resorted , and from which all intrigues sprung . It was the scene of pleasure , gayety , and grandeur . And the splendid fabric , which was erected in the " ages of faith , " in spite of all the calamities and ravages of time , remained still beautiful and attractive . Since the first secession , in the sixteenth century , Rome has lost none of her adherents , and those , who remained faithful , have become the more enthusiastic in their idolatry. * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  Ranke 's History of the Popes . Father Bouhour 's Life of Ignatius Loyola . A Life of Xavier , by the same author . Stephens 's Essay on Loyola . Charlevoix 's History of Paraguay . Pascal 's Provincial Letters . Macaulay 's Review of Ranke 's History of the Popes . Bancroft 's chapter , in the History of the United States , on the colonization of Canada . " Secreta Monita . " Histoire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Essay . History of Jesuit Missions . The works on the Jesuits are very numerous ; but those which are most accessible are of a violent partisan character . Eugene Sue , in his " Wandering Jew , " has given false , but strong , impressions . Infidel writers have generally been the most bitter , with the exception of English and Scotch authors , in the seventeenth century . The great work of Ranke is the most impartial with which the author is acquainted . Ranke 's histories should never be neglected , of which admirable translations have been made . CHAPTER X. THIRTY YEARS WAR . Sidenote : Political Troubles after the Death of Luther . The contests which arose from the discussion of religious ideas did not close with the sixteenth century . They were , on the other hand , continued with still greater acrimony . Protestantism had been suppressed in France , but not in Holland or Germany . In England , the struggle was to continue , not between the Catholics and Protestants , but between different parties among the Protestants themselves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years was to be carried on before even religious liberty could be guaranteed . This struggle is the most prominent event of the seventeenth century before the English Revolution , and was attended with the most important religious and political consequences . The event itself was one of the chief political consequences of the Reformation . Indeed , all the events of this period either originated in , or became mixed up with , questions of religion . From the very first agitation of the reform doctrines , the house of Austria devoted against their adherents the whole of its immense political power . Charles V. resolved to suppress Protestantism , and would have perhaps succeeded , had it not been for the various wars which distracted his attention , and for the decided stand which the Protestant princes of Germany took respecting Luther and his doctrines . As early as 1530 , was formed the league of Smalcalde , headed by the elector of Saxony , the most powerful of the German princes , next to the archduke of Austria . The princes who formed this league , resolved to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in spite of all opposition from the Catholic powers . But hostilities did not commence until after Luther had breathed his last . The Catholics gained a great victory at the battle of Muehlberg , when the Elector of Saxony was taken prisoner . With the treaty of Smalcalde , the freedom of Germany seemed prostrate forever , and the power of Austria reached its meridian . But the cause of liberty revived under Maurice of Saxony , once its formidable enemy . All the fruits of victory were lost again in the congress of Passau , and the diet of Augsburg , when an equitable peace seemed guaranteed to the Protestants . Sidenote : Diet of Augsburg . The diet of Augsburg , 1555 , the year of the resignation of Charles V. , divided Germany into two great political and religious parties , and recognized the independence of each . The Protestants were no longer looked upon as rebels , but as men who had a right to worship God as they pleased . Still , in reality , all that the Lutherans gained was toleration , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessity , not to justice . Hence , the treaty of Augsburg proved only a truce , not a lasting peace . The boundaries of both parties were marked out by the sword , and by the sword only were they to be preserved . For a while , however , peace was preserved , and might have continued longer , had it not been for the dissensions of Protestants among themselves , caused by the followers of Calvin and Luther . The Lutherans would not include the Calvinists in their communion , and the Calvinists would not accede to the Lutheran church . During these dissensions , the Jesuits sowed tares , and the Protestants lost the chance of establishing their perfect equality with the Catholics . Notwithstanding all the bitterness and jealousy which existed between sects and parties , still the peace of Germany , in a political sense , was preserved during the reign of Ferdinand , the founder of the German branch of the house of Austria , and who succeeded his brother Charles V. On his death , in 1564 , his son Maximilian II. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until his death , in 1576 , Germany enjoyed tranquillity . His successor was his son Rodolph , a weak prince , and incapable of uniting the various territories which were hereditary in his family  --  Austria , Hungary , Transylvania , Bohemia , Moravia , and Styria . There were troubles in each of these provinces , and one after another revolted , until Rodolph was left with but the empty title of emperor . But these provinces acknowledged the sway of his brother Matthias , who had delivered them from the Turks , and had granted the Protestants liberty of conscience . The emperor was weak enough to confirm his brother in his usurpation . In 1612 , he died , and Matthias mounted the imperial throne . Sidenote : Commencement of the Thirty Years War . It was during the reign of this prince , that the Thirty Years ' War commenced . In proportion as the reformed religion gained ground in Hungary and Bohemia ,  --  two provinces very difficult to rule ,  --  the Protestant princes of the empire became desirous of securing and extending their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a new confederacy , called the Evangelical Union . This association was opposed by another , called the Catholic League . The former was supported by Holland , England , and Henry IV. , of France . The humiliation of Austria was the great object of Henry in supporting the Protestant princes of Germany , and he assembled an army of forty thousand men , which he designed to head himself . But , just as his preparations were completed , he was assassinated , and his death and the dissensions in the Austrian family prevented the war breaking out with the fury which afterwards characterized it . The Emperor Matthias died in 1618 , and was succeeded by his cousin Ferdinand , Duke of Styria , who was an inveterate enemy to the Protestant cause . His first care was to suppress the insurrection of the Protestants , which , just before his accession had broken out in Bohemia , under the celebrated Count Mansfeldt . The Bohemians renounced allegiance to Ferdinand II. , and chose Frederic V. , elector palatine , for their king . Frederic unwisely accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bohemians . Frederic was seconded by all the Protestant princes , except the Elector of Saxony , by two thousand four hundred English volunteers , and by eight thousand troops from the United Provinces . But Ferdinand , assisted by the king of Spain and all the Catholic princes , was more than a match for Frederic , who wasted his time and strength in vain displays of sovereignty . Maximilian , Duke of Bavaria , commanded the forces of the Catholics , who , with twenty-five thousand troops from the Low Countries , invaded Bohemia . The Bohemian forces did not amount to thirty thousand , but they intrenched themselves near Prague , where they were attacked ( 1620 ) and routed , with immense slaughter . The battle of Prague decided the fate of Bohemia , put Frederic in possession of all his dominions , and invested him with an authority equal to what any of his predecessors had enjoyed . All his wishes were gratified , and , had he been wise , he might have maintained his ascendency in Germany . But he was blinded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the war extended through Germany , and afterwards throughout Europe . Sidenote : The Emperor Frederic . The emperor had regained his dominions by the victorious arms of Maximilian , Duke of Bavaria . To compensate him , without detriment to himself , he resolved to bestow upon him the dominions of the Count Palatine of the Rhine , who had injudiciously accepted the crown of Bohemia . Frederic must be totally ruined . He was put under the ban of the empire , and his territories were devastated by the Spanish general Spinola , with an army of twenty-five thousand men . Apparently there was no hope for Frederic , or the Protestant cause . The only Protestant princes capable of arresting the Austrian encroachments were the Electors of Saxony and Brandenburg . But the former , John George , preferred the aggrandizement of his house to the emancipation of his country , and tamely witnessed the victories of the emperor , without raising an arm for the relief of the Protestants , of whom he was the acknowledged head . George William of Brandenburg was still more shamefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his dominions ; and he , too , cautiously avoided committing himself to either party . But while these two great princes ingloriously abandoned Frederic to his fate , a single soldier of fortune , whose only treasure was his sword , Ernest Count Mansfield , dared , in the Bohemian town of Pilsen , to defy the whole power of Austria . Undismayed by the reverses of the elector palatine , he succeeded in enlisting an army of twenty thousand men . With such an army , the cause of Frederic was not irretrievably lost . New prospects began to open , and his misfortunes raised up unexpected friends . James of England opened his treasures , and Christian of Denmark offered his powerful support . Mansfeldt was also joined by the Margrave of Baden . The courage of the count palatine revived , and he labored assiduously to arouse his Protestant brethren . Meanwhile , the generals of the emperor were on the alert , and the rising hopes of Frederic were dissipated by the victories of Tilly . The count palatine was again driven from his hereditary dominions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wallenstein . But , though the emperor was successful , his finances were exhausted , and he was disagreeably dependent on Bavaria . Under his circumstances , nothing was more welcome than the proposal of Wallenstein , an experienced officer , and the richest nobleman in Bohemia . Sidenote : Character of Wallenstein . He offered , at his own expense , and that of his friends , to raise , clothe , and maintain an army for the emperor , if he were allowed to augment it to fifty thousand men . His project was ridiculed as visionary ; but the offer was too valuable to be rejected . In a few months , he had collected an army of thirty thousand . His reputation , the prospect of promotion , and the hope of plunder , attracted adventurers from all parts of Germany . Knowing that so large a body could not be held together without great resources , and having none of his own , he marched his troops into the most fertile territories , which had not yet suffered from the war , where they subsisted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were to their enemies . Nothing shows the weakness of the imperial power , with all its apparent strength , and the barbarous notions and customs of the country , more than this grant to Wallenstein . And , with all his heroism and success , he can not now be viewed in any other light than as a licensed robber . He was virtually at the head of a troop of banditti , who fought for the sake of plunder , and who would join any side which would present the greatest hopes of gain . The genius of Schiller , both in his dramas and histories , has immortalized the name of this unprincipled hero , and has excited a strange interest in his person , his family , and his fortunes . He is represented as " born to command . His acute eye distinguished at a glance , from among the multitude , such as were competent , and he assigned to each his proper place . His praise , from being rarely bestowed , animated and brought into full operation every faculty ; while his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discipline . His very appearance excited awe and reverence ; his figure was proud , lofty , and warlike , while his bright , piercing eye expressed profundity of thought , combined with gravity and mystery . His favorite study was that of the stars , and his most intimate friend was an Italian astrologer . He had a fondness for pomp and extravagance . He maintained sixty pages ; his ante-chamber was guarded by fifty life-guards , and his table never consisted of less than one hundred covers . Six barons and as many knights were in constant attendance on his person . He never smiled , and the coldness of his temperament was proof against sensual seductions . Ever occupied with grand schemes , he despised those amusements in which so many waste their lives . Terror was the talisman with which he worked : extreme in his punishments as in his rewards , he knew how to keep alive the zeal of his followers , while no general of ancient or modern times could boast of being obeyed with equal alacrity . Submission to his will was more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the obedience of his troops by capricious orders . He was a man of large stature , thin , of a sallow complexion , with short , red hair , and small , sparkling eyes . A gloomy and forbidding seriousness sat upon his brow , and his munificent presents alone retained the trembling crowd of his dependants . " Such was this enterprising nobleman , to whom the emperor Ferdinand committed so great authority . And the success of Wallenstein apparently justified the course of the emperor . The greater his extortions , and the greater his rewards , the greater was the concourse to his standard . Such is human nature . It is said that , in seven years , Wallenstein exacted not less than sixty millions of dollars from one half of Germany  --  an incredible sum , when the expenditure of the government of England , at this time , was less than two million pounds a year . His armies flourished , while the states through which they passed were ruined . What cared he for the curses of the people , or the complaints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? It was his object to humble all the princes of the empire , and make himself so necessary to the emperor that he would gradually sink to become his tool . He already was created Duke of Friedland , and generalissimo of the imperial armies . Nor had his victorious career met with any severe check , but uninterrupted success seemed to promise the realization of his vast ambition . Germany lay bleeding at his feet , helpless and indignant . But the greatness and the insolence of Wallenstein raised up enemies against him in all parts of the empire . Fear and jealousy increased the opposition , even in the ranks of the Catholics . His dismissal was demanded by the whole college of electors , and even by Spain . Maximilian , Duke of Bavaria , felt himself eclipsed by the successful general , and was at the head of the cabals against him . The emperor felt , at this crisis , as Ganganelli did when compelled to disband the Jesuits , that he was parting with the man to whom he owed all his supremacy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sacrifice . But all Germany was clamorous , and the disgrace of Wallenstein was ordained . Would the ambitious chieftain , at the head of one hundred thousand devoted soldiers , regard the commands of the emperor ? He made up his mind to obey , looking to the future for revenge , and feeling that he could afford to wait for it . Seni had read in the stars that glorious prospects still awaited him . Wallenstein retired to his estates in Bohemia , but maintained the pomp and splendor of a prince of the empire . Sidenote : Gustavus Adolphus . Scarcely had he retired from the command of the army before his services were again demanded . One hero produces another . A Wellington is ever found to oppose a Napoleon . Providence raised up a friend to Germany , in its distress , in the person of Gustavus Adolphus , King of Sweden . It was not for personal aggrandizement that he lent his powerful arm to the Protestant princes , who , thus far , had vainly struggled against Maximilian , Tilly , and Wallenstein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ induced him to land in Germany with fifteen thousand men  --  a small body to oppose the victorious troops of the emperor , but they were brave and highly disciplined , and devoted to their royal master . He himself was indisputably the greatest general of the age , and had the full confidence of the Protestant princes , who were ready to rally the moment he obtained any signal advantage . Henceforth , Gustavus Adolphus was the hero of the war . He was more than a hero ; he was a Christian , regardful of the morals of his soldiers , and devoted to the interests of spiritual religion . He was frugal , yet generous , serene in the greatest danger ; and magnanimous beyond all precedent in the history of kings . On the 20th of May , 1630 , taking his daughter Christiana in his arms , then only four years of age , he presented her to the states as their future sovereign , and made his farewell address . " Not lightly , not wantonly , " said he , " am I about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . God is my witness that I do not fight to gratify my own ambition ; but the emperor has wronged me , has supported my enemies , persecuted my friends , trampled my religion in the dust , and even stretched forth his revengeful arm against my crown . The oppressed states of Germany call loudly for aid , which , by God 's help , we will give them . " I am fully sensible of the dangers to which my life will be exposed . I have never yet shrunk from them , nor is it likely that I shall always escape them . Hitherto , Providence has protected me ; but I shall at last fall in defence of my country and my faith . I commend you to the protection of Heaven . Be just , conscientious , and upright , and we shall meet again in eternity . For the prosperity of all my subjects , I offer my warmest prayer to Heaven ; and bid you all a sincere  --  it may be an eternal  --  farewell . " He had scarcely landed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a treaty with him , and he advanced against Tilly , who now headed the imperial armies . Sidenote : Loss of Magdeburg . The tardiness of the Electors of Saxony and Brandenburg in rendering assistance caused the loss of Magdeburg , the most important fortress of the Protestants . It was taken by assault , even while Gustavus was advancing to its relief . No pen can paint , and no imagination can conceive , the horrors which were perpetrated by the imperial soldiers in the sack of that unfortunate place . Neither childhood nor helpless age  --  neither youth , beauty , sex , nor rank could disarm the fury of the conquerors . No situation or retreat was sacred . In a single church fifty-three women were beheaded . The Croats amused themselves with throwing children into the flames . Pappenheim 's Walloons stabbed infants at the breast . The city was reduced to ashes , and thirty thousand of the inhabitants were slain . But the loss of this important city was soon compensated by the battle of Leipsic , 1630 , which the King of Sweden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elector of Saxony at last rendered valuable aid . The rout of Tilly , hitherto victorious , was complete , and he himself escaped only by chance . Saxony was freed from the enemy , while Bohemia , Moravia , Austria , and Hungary , were stripped of their defenders . Ferdinand was no longer secure in his capital ; the freedom of Germany was secured . Gustavus was every where hailed as a deliverer , and admiration for his genius was only equalled by the admiration of his virtues . He rapidly regained all that the Protestants had lost , and the fruits of twelve years of war were snatched away from the emperor . Tilly was soon after killed , and all things indicated the complete triumph of the Protestants . It was now the turn of Ferdinand to tremble . The only person who could save him was dismissed and disgraced . Tilly was dead . Munich and Prague were in the hands of the Protestants , while the king of Sweden traversed Germany as a conqueror , law giver , and judge . No fortress was inaccessible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards were planted in Bavaria , Bohemia , the Palatinate , Saxony , and along the banks of the Rhine . Meanwhile the Turks were preparing to attack Hungary , and a dangerous insurrection threatened his own capital . None came to his assistance in the hour of peril . On all sides , he was surrounded by hostile armies , while his own forces were dispirited and treacherous . Sidenote : Wallenstein Reinstated in Power . From such a hopeless state he was rescued by the man whom he had injured , but not until he had himself to beg his assistance . Wallenstein was in retirement , and secretly rejoiced in the victories of the Swedish king , knowing full well that the emperor would soon be compelled to summon him again to command his armies . Now he could dictate his terms . Now he could humiliate his sovereign , and at the same time obtain all the power his ambition craved . He declined entering his service unless he had the unlimited command of all the armies of Austria and Spain . No commission in the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own approval . He demanded the ordinary pay , and an imperial hereditary estate . In short , he demanded sovereign authority ; and with such humiliating terms the emperor , in his necessities , was obliged to comply . Sidenote : Death of Gustavus Adolphus . No sooner did he raise his standard , than it was resorted to by the unprincipled , the rapacious , and the needy from all parts of the empire . But Wallenstein now resolved to pursue , exclusively , his own selfish interests , and directed all his aims to independent sovereignty . When his forces were united with those of Maximilian , he found himself at the head of sixty thousand men . Then really commenced the severity of the contest , for Wallenstein was now stronger than Gustavus . Nevertheless , the heroic Swede offered to give his rival battle at Nuremburg , which was declined . He then attacked his camp , but was repulsed with loss . At last , the two generals met on the plains of Lutzen , in Saxony , 1632 . During the whole course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against each other , nor had so much been staked on the chance of a battle . Victory declared for the troops of Gustavus , but the heroic leader himself was killed , in the fulness of his glory . It was his fortune to die with an untarnished fame . " By an untimely death , " says Schiller , " his protecting genius rescued him from the inevitable fate of man  --  that of forgetting moderation in the intoxication of success , and justice in the plenitude of power . It may be doubted whether , had he lived longer , he would still have deserved the tears which Germany shed over his grave , or maintained his title to the admiration with which posterity regards him ,  --  as the first and only just conqueror that the world has produced . But it was no longer the benefactor of Germany who fell at Lutzen ; the beneficent part of his career Gustavus Adolphus had already terminated ; and now the greatest service which he could render to the liberties of Germany was  --  to die . The all-engrossing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivocal assistance of an over-powerful protector gave place to a more noble self-exertion on the part of the estates ; and those who formerly were the mere instruments of his aggrandizement , now began to work for themselves . The ambition of the Swedish monarch aspired , unquestionably , to establish a power within Germany inconsistent with the liberties of the estates . His aim was the imperial crown ; and this dignity , supported by his power , would be liable to more abuse than had ever been feared from the house of Austria . His sudden disappearance secured the liberties of Germany , and saved his own reputation , while it probably spared him the mortification of seeing his own allies in arms against him , and all the fruits of his victories torn from him by a disadvantageous peace . " After the battle of Lutzen we almost lose sight of Wallenstein , and no victories were commensurate with his reputation and abilities . He continued inactive in Bohemia , while all Europe was awaiting the exploits which should efface the remembrance of his defeat . He exhausted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conduct seems singular and treacherous . His enemies at the imperial court now renewed their intrigues , and his conduct was reviewed with the most malicious criticism . But he possessed too great power to be openly assailed by the emperor , and measures were concerted to remove him by treachery . Wallenstein obtained notice of the designs against him , and now , too late , resolved on an open revolt . But he was betrayed , and his own generals , on whom he counted , deserted him , so soon as the emperor dared to deprive him of his command . But he was only removed by assassination , and just at the moment when he deemed himself secure against the whole power of the emperor . No man , however great , can stand before an authority which is universally deemed legitimate , however reduced and weakened that authority may be . In times of anarchy and revolution , there is confusion in men 's minds respecting the persons in whom legitimate authority should be lodged , and this is the only reason why rebellion is ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treaty of Westphalia . The death of Wallenstein , in 1634 , did not terminate the war . It raged eleven years longer , with various success , and involved the other European powers . France was then governed by Cardinal Richelieu , who , notwithstanding his Catholicism , lent assistance to the Protestants , with a view of reducing the power of Austria . Indeed , the war had destroyed the sentiments which produced it , and political motives became stronger than religious . Oxenstiern and Richelieu became the master spirits of the contest , and , in the recesses of their cabinets , regulated the campaigns of their generals . Battles were lost and won on both sides , and innumerable intrigues were plotted by interested statesmen . After all parties had exhausted their resources , and Germany was deluged with the blood of Spaniards , Hollanders , Frenchmen , Swedes , besides that of her own sons , the peace of Westphalia was concluded , ( 1648 , )  --  the most important treaty in the history of Europe . All the princes and states of the empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they enjoyed before the troubles in Bohemia , in 1619 . The religious liberties of the Lutherans and Calvinists were guaranteed , and it was stipulated that the Imperial Chamber should consist of twenty-four Protestant members and twenty-six Catholic , and that the emperor should receive six Protestants into the Aulic Council , the highest judicial tribunal in the empire . This peace is the foundation of the whole system of modern European politics , of all modern treaties , of that which is called the freedom of Germany , and of a sort of balance of power among all the countries of Western Europe . Dearly was it purchased , by the perfect exhaustion of national energies , and the demoralizing sentiments which one of the longest and bloodiest wars in human history inevitably introduced . * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  Schiller 's History of the Thirty Years ' War . Russell 's Modern Europe . Coleridge 's Translation of Wallenstein . Kohlrausch 's History of Germany . See also a history of Germany in Dr. Lardner 's Cyclopedia . History of Sweden . Plank on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schiller , however is a classic , and is exceedingly interesting and beautiful . CHAPTER XI . ADMINISTRATIONS OF CARDINALS RICHELIEU AND MAZARIN . While Germany was rent with civil commotions , and the power of the emperors was limited by the stand taken against it by the Protestant princes , France was ruled with an iron hand , and a foundation was laid for the despotism of Louis XIV . The energetic genius of Cardinal Richelieu , during the whole period of the thirty years ' war , affected the councils of all the different courts of Europe . He was indisputably the greatest statesman of his age and nation . To him France is chiefly indebted for the ascendency she enjoyed in the seventeenth century . Had Henry IV . lived to the age of Louis XIV. , France would probably have been permanently greater , although the power of the king might not have been so absolute . Sidenote : Regency of Mary de Medicis . When Henry IV . died , he left his kingdom to his son Louis XIII. , a child nine years of age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a regent . The Parliament of Paris , in whom this right seems to have been vested , nominated the queen mother , Mary de Medicis , and the young king , in a bed of justice ,  --  the greatest of the royal prerogatives ,  --  confirmed his mother in the regency . Her regency was any thing but favorable to the interests of the kingdom . The policy of the late king was disregarded , and a new course of measures was adopted . Sully , through whose counsels the reign of Henry IV . had been so beneficent , was dismissed . The queen regent had no sympathy with his views . Neither the corrupt court nor the powerful aristocracy cared any thing for the interests of the people , for the improvement of agriculture , commerce , and manufactures , for the regulation of the finances , or for increasing the productive industry of the country , on which its material prosperity ever depends . The greedy courtiers obtained from a lavish queen the treasures which the wise care of Henry had amassed , and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The foreign policy also was changed , and a strong alliance was made with the pope , with Spain , and with the Jesuits . On the retirement of the able and incorruptible Sully , favorites of no talent or worth arose to power . Concini , an Italian , controlled the queen regent , and through him all her favors flowed . He was succeeded by Luynes , a mere falconer , who made himself agreeable to the young king , and usurped the power of Concini , when the king attained his majority . He became constable of France , the highest officer in the realm , and surpassed all the old nobility in arrogance and cupidity . His mismanagement and selfishness led to an insurrection of some of the great nobles among whom were Conde and D'Epernon . Sidenote : Rise of Cardinal de Richelieu . While the kingdom was thus convulsed with civil war , and in every way mismanaged , Richelieu , Bishop of Lucon , appeared upon the stage . He was a man of high birth , was made doctor of the Sorbonne at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-five , a bishop . During the ascendency of Mancini , he attracted the attention of the queen , and was selected as secretary of state . Soon after the death of Luynes , he obtained a cardinal 's hat , and a seat in the council . The moment he spoke , his genius predominated , and the monarch , with all his pride , bowed to the ascendency of intellect , and yielded , with a good grace , to a man whom it was impolitic to resist . From that moment , in 1622 , the reins of empire were in the hands of a master , and the king himself , were it not for the splendor of his court , would have disappeared from the eye , both of statesmen and historians . The reign of anarchy , for a quarter of a century , at least , was over , and the way was prepared for the aggrandizement of the French monarchy . When Richelieu came into power , universal disorder prevailed . The finances were deranged , the Huguenots were troublesome , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France ,  --  weakened , distracted , and anarchical . She had lost her position among the great powers , and Austria threatened to overturn the political relations of all the states of Europe . Austria , in the early part of the seventeenth century , was , unquestionably , the leading power in Christendom , and her ascendency boded no good to the liberties which men were beginning to assert . Sidenote : Suppression of the Huguenots . Three great objects animated the genius of Richelieu , and in the attainment of these he was successful . These were , the suppression of the Huguenots , as a powerful party , the humiliation of the great barons , and the reduction of the power of Austria . For these objects he perseveringly contended for twenty years ; and his struggles and intrigues to secure these ends constitute the history of France during the reign of Louis XIII . And they affected not only France , but the whole continent . His policy was to preserve peace with England and Spain ,  --  the hereditary enemies of France ,  --  with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while he suppressed their religion within his own realm . It was the true policy of England to prevent the ruin of the Huguenots in France , as before she had aided the Protestants in Holland . But , unfortunately , England was then ruled by James and Charles , and they were controlled by profligate ministers , who were the tools of the crafty cardinal . A feeble assistance was rendered by James , but it availed nothing . In order to annihilate the political power of the Huguenots ,  --  for Richelieu cared more for this than for their religious opinions ,  --  it was necessary that he should possess himself of the city of La Rochelle , on the Bay of Biscay , a strong fortress , which had resisted , during the reign of Charles IX. , the whole power of the Catholics , and which continued to be the stronghold of the Huguenots . Here they could always retire and be safe , in times of danger . It was strongly fortified by sea , as well as by land ; and only a vigorous blockade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But England was mistress of the ocean , and supplies from her would always relieve the besieged . After ineffectual but vigorous attempts to take the city by land , Richelieu determined to shut up its harbor , first by stakes , and then by a boom . Both of these measures failed . But the military genius of the cardinal was equal to his talents as a statesman . He remembered what Alexander did at the siege of Tyre . So , with a volume of Quintus Curtius in his hand , he projected and finished a mole , half a mile in length , across a gulf , into which the tide flowed . In some places , it was eight hundred and forty feet below the surface of the water , and sixty feet in breadth . At first , the besieged laughed at an attempt so gigantic and difficult . But the work steadily progressed , and the city was finally cut off from communication with the sea . The besieged , wasted by famine , surrendered ; the fortifications were destroyed , the town lost its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forever . But no vengeance was taken on the heroic citizens , and they were even permitted to enjoy their religion . Fifteen thousand , however , perished at this memorable siege . The next object of Richelieu was the humiliation of Austria . But the detail of his military operations would be complicated and tedious , since no grand and decisive battles were fought by his generals , and no able commanders appeared . Turenne and Conde belonged to the next age . The military operations consisted in frontier skirmishes , idle sieges , and fitful expeditions , in which , however , the cardinal had the advantage , and by which he gained , since he could better afford to pay for them . War is always ruinously expensive , and that party generally is successful which can the longer furnish resources . It is a proof that religious bigotry did not mainly influence him , since he supported the Protestant party . All motives of a religious kind were absorbed in his prevailing passion to aggrandize the French monarchy . Had it not been for the intrigues and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been secured , and Austria might again have overturned the " Balance of Power . " Sidenote : The Depression of the Great Nobles . The third great aim of the minister , and the one which he most systematically pursued to the close of his life , was the depression of the nobles , whose power was dangerously exercised . They had almost feudal privileges , were enormously wealthy , numerous , corrupt , and dissolute . His efforts to suppress their power raised up numerous conspiracies . Among the earliest was one supported by the queen mother and Gaston , Duke of Orleans , brother to the king , and presumptive heir to the throne . Connected with this conspiracy were the Dukes of Bourbon and Vendome , the Prince de Chalais , and several others of the highest rank . It was intended to assassinate the cardinal and seize the reins of government . But he got timely notice of the plot , informed the king , and guarded himself . The conspirators were too formidable to be punished in a body ; so he dissembled and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatened the king with resignation , and frightened him by predicting a civil war . In consequence , the king gave orders to arrest his brothers , the Dukes of Bourbon and Vendome , while the Prince of Chalais was executed . The Duke of Orleans , on the confession of Chalais , fled from the kingdom . The queen mother was arrested , Bassompierre was imprisoned in the Bastile , and the Duke of Guise sent on a pilgrimage to Rome . The powerful D'Epernon sued for pardon . Still Richelieu was not satisfied . He resolved to humble the parliament , because it had opposed an ordinance of the king declaring the partisans of the Duke of Orleans guilty of treason . It had rightly argued that such a condemnation could not be issued without a trial . " But , " said the artful minister to the weak-minded king , " to refuse to verify a declaration which you yourself announced to the members of parliament , is to doubt your authority . " An extraordinary council was convened , and the parliament , which was simply a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They went in solemn procession , carrying with them the record which showed their refusal to register the edict . The king received them with stately pomp . They were required to kneel in his presence , and their decree was taken from the record and torn in pieces before their eyes , and the leading members were suspended and banished . The Court of Aids , by whom the money edicts were registered , also showed opposition . The members left the court when the next edict was to be registered . But they were suspended , until they humbly came to terms . " All the malcontents , the queen , the prince , the nobles , the parliament , and the Court of Aids hoped for the support of the people , and all were disappointed . " And this is the reason why they failed and Richelieu triumphed . There never have been , among the French , disinterestedness and union in the cause of liberty , which never can be gained without perseverance and self-sacrifice . The next usurpation of Richelieu was the erection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no record of its proceedings should be preserved , and the members of which should be selected by himself . This court was worse than that of the Star Chamber . Richelieu showed a still more culpable disregard of the forms of justice in the trial of Marshal Marrillac , charged with crimes in the conduct of the army . He was brought before a commission , and not before his peers , condemned , and executed . In view of this judicial murder , the nobles , generally , were filled with indignation and alarm . They now saw that the minister aimed at the complete humiliation of their order , and therefore made another effort to resist the cardinal . At the head of this conspiracy was the Duke of Montmorency , admiral and constable of France , one of the most powerful nobles in the kingdom . He was governor of Provence , and deeply resented the insult offered to his rank in the condemnation of Marrillac . He moreover felt indignant that the king 's brother should be driven into exile by the hostility of a priest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Duke of Orleans , was defeated , tried , and executed for rebellion , against the entreaty and intercession of the most powerful families . Sidenote : Power of Richelieu . The cardinal minister was now triumphant over all his enemies . He had destroyed the political power of the Huguenots , extended the boundary of France , and decimated the nobles . He now turned his attention to the internal administration of the kingdom . He created a national navy , protected commerce and industry , rewarded genius , and formed the French Academy . He attained a greater pitch of greatness than any subject ever before or since enjoyed in his country , greater even than was possessed by Wolsey . Wolsey , powerful as he was , lived , like a Turkish vizier , in constant fear of his capricious master . But Richelieu controlled the king himself . Louis XIII . feared him , and felt that he could not reign without him . He did not love the cardinal , and was often tempted to dismiss him , but could never summon sufficient resolution . Richelieu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the king , the royal mistresses , or even all united , since he obtained an ascendency over all , doomed the queen mother to languish in exile at Cologne , and compelled the duke of Orleans to succumb to him . He was chief of three of the principal monastic orders , and possessed enormous wealth . He erected a palace as grand as Hampton Court , and appeared in public with great pomp and ceremony . Sidenote : Character of Richelieu . But an end came to his greatness . In 1642 , a mortal malady wasted him away ; he summoned to his death bed his royal master ; recommended Mazarin as his successor ; and died like a man who knew no remorse , in the fifty-eighth year of his age , and the eighteenth of his reign as minister . He was eloquent , but his words served only to disguise his sentiments ; he was direct and frank in his speech , and yet a perfect master of the art of dissimulation ; he could not be imposed upon , and yet was passionately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doses that it seemed hyperbolical ; he was not learned , yet appreciated learning in others , and magnificently rewarded it ; he was fond of pleasure , and easily fascinated by women , and yet was cold , politic , implacable , and cruel . But he was a great statesman , and aimed to suppress anarchy and preserve law . In view of his labors to preserve order , we may almost excuse his severity . " Placed , " says Montresor , as quoted by Miss Pardoe , " at an equal distance between Louis IX. , whose aim was to abolish feudality , and the national convention , whose attempt was to crush aristocracy , he appeared , like them , to have received a mission of blood from heaven . " The high nobility , repulsed under Louis XI . and Francis I. , almost entirely succumbed under Richelieu , preparing , by its overthrow , the calm , unitarian , and despotic reign of Louis XIV. , who looked around him in vain for a great noble , and found only courtiers . The great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , almost entirely disappeared under the ministry of the cardinal . The Guises , who had touched with their hand the sceptre of Henry III. , the Condes , who had placed their foot on the steps of the throne of Henry IV. , and Gaston , who had tried upon his brow the crown of Louis XIII. ,  --  all returned , at the voice of the minister , if not into nothingness , at least into impotency . All who struggled against the iron will , enclosed in that feeble body , were broken like glass . And all the struggle which Richelieu sustained , he did not sustain for his own sake , but for that of France . All the enemies , against whom he contended , were not his enemies merely , but those of the kingdom . If he clung tenaciously by the side of a king , whom he compelled to live a melancholy , unhappy , and isolated life , whom he deprived successively of his friends , of his mistresses , and of his family , as a tree is stripped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its bark , it was because friends , mistresses , and family exhausted the sap of the expiring royalty , which had need of all its egotism to prevent it from perishing . For it was not intestinal struggles merely ,  --  there was also foreign war , which had connected itself fatally with them . All those great nobles whom he decimated , all those princes of the blood whom he exiled , were inviting foreigners to France ; and these foreigners , answering eagerly to the summons , were entering the country on three different sides ,  --  the English by Guienne , the Spaniards by Roussillon , and the Austrians by Artois . Sidenote : Effects of Richelieu 's Policy . " He repulsed the English by driving them to the Isle of Re , and by besieging La Rochelle ; the Spaniards , by creating beside them the new kingdom of Portugal ; and the imperialists , by detaching Bavaria from its alliance , by suspending their treaty with Denmark , and by sowing dissensions in the Catholic league . His measures were cruel , but not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Lorraine and Spain ; Montmorency fell , but he had entered France with arms in his hand ; Cinq-Mars fell , but he had invited foreigners into the kingdom . Bred a simple priest , he became not only a great statesman , but a great general . And when La Rochelle fell before those measures to which Schomberg and Bassompierre were compelled to bow , he said to the king , ' Sire , I am no prophet , but I assure your majesty that if you will condescend to act as I advise you , you will pacificate Italy in the month of May , subjugate Languedoc in the month of July , and be on your return in the month of August . ' And each of these prophecies he accomplished in its time and place , and in such wise that , from that moment , Louis XIII . vowed to follow forever the counsels of a man by which he had so well profited . Finally , he died , as Montesquieu asserts , after having made the monarch enact the secondary character in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abased the king , but after having made his reign illustrious ; and after having mowed down rebellion so close to the soil , that the descendants of those who had composed the league could only form the Fronde , as , after the reign of Napoleon , the successors of the La Vendee of ' 93 could only execute the Vendee of ' 32 . " Louis XIII . did not long survive this greatest of ministers . Naturally weak , he was still weaker by disease . He was reduced to skin and bone . In this state , he called a council , nominated his queen , Anne of Austria , regent , during the minority of his son Louis XIV. , then four years of age , and shortly after died , in 1643 . Sidenote : Richelieu 's Policy . Mazarin , the new minister , followed out the policy of Richelieu . The war with Austria and Spain was continued , which was closed , on the Spanish side , by the victory of Rocroi , in 1643 , obtained by the Prince of Conde @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-six thousand Spaniards , killing eight thousand , and taking six thousand prisoners  --  one of the bloodiest battles ever fought . The great Conde here obtained those laurels which subsequent disgrace could never take away . The war on the side of Germany was closed , in 1648 , by the peace of Westphalia . Turenne first appeared in the latter campaign of this long war , but gained no signal victory . Cardinal Mazarin , a subtle and intriguing Italian , while he pursued the policy of Richelieu , had not his genius or success . He was soon involved in domestic troubles . The aristocracy rebelled . Had they been united , they would have succeeded ; but their rivalries , jealousies , and squabbles divided their strength and distracted their councils . Their cause was lost , and Mazarin triumphed , more from their divisions than from his own strength . He first had to oppose a clique of young nobles , full of arrogance and self-conceit , but scions of the greatest families . They hoped to recover the ancient ascendency of their houses . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Guise . They made use , as their tool , of Madame Chevreuse , the confidential friend of the queen regent . And she demanded of the minister that posts of honor and power should be given to her friends , which would secure that independence which Richelieu had spent his life in restraining . Mazarin tried to amuse her , but , she being inexorable , he was obliged to break with her , and a conspiracy was the result , which , however , was easily suppressed . Sidenote : Cardinal de Retz . But a more formidable enemy appeared in the person of De Retz , coadjutor archbishop of Paris , and afterwards cardinal , a man of boundless intrigue , unconquerable ambition , and restless discontent . To detail his plots and intrigues , would be to describe a labyrinth . He succeeded , however , in keeping the country in perpetual turmoil , now inflaming the minds of the people , then exciting insurrections among the nobles , and then , again , encouraging the parliaments in resistance . He never appeared as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He did not escape suspicion , but committed no overt acts by which he could be punished . He and the celebrated Duchess de Longueville , a woman who had as great a talent for intrigue as himself , were the life and soul of the Fronde  --  a civil war which ended only in the reestablishment of the monarchy on a firmer foundation . As the Fronde had been commenced by a troop of urchins , who , at the same time , amused themselves with slings , the wits of the court called the insurgents frondeurs , or slingers , insinuating that their force was trifling , and their aim mischief . Sidenote : Prince of Conde . Nevertheless , the Frondeurs kept France in a state of anarchy for six years , and they were headed by some of the most powerful nobles , and even supported by the Parliament of Paris . The people , too , were on the side of the rebels , since they were ground down by taxation , and hoped to gain a relief from their troubles . But the rebels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage , and the parliament itself lacked the perseverance and intrepidity necessary to secure its liberty . The civil war of the Fronde , though headed by discontented nobles , and animated by the intrigues of a turbulent ecclesiastic , was really the contest between the parliament and the arbitrary power of the government . And the insurrection would have been fearful and successful , had the people been firm or the nobles faithful to the cause they defended . But the English Revolution , then in progress , and in which a king had been executed , shocked the lovers of constitutional liberty in France , and reacted then , even as the French Revolution afterwards reacted on the English mind . Moreover , the excesses which the people perpetrated at Paris , alarmed the parliament and the nobles who were allied with it , while it urged on the ministers to desperate courses . The prince of Conde , whose victories had given him an immortality , dallied with both parties , as his interests served . Allied with the court , he could overpower the insurgents ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sometimes he sided with the minister and sometimes with the insurgents , but in neither case unless he exercised a power and enjoyed a remuneration dangerous in any government . Both parties were jealous of him , both feared him , both hated him , both insulted him , and both courted him . At one time , he headed the royal troops to attack Paris , which was generally in the hands of the people and of parliament ; and then , at another , he fought like a tiger to defend himself in Paris against the royal troops . He had no sympathy with either the parliament or the people , while he fought for them ; and he venerated the throne , while he rebelled against it . His name was Louis de Bourbon , and he was a prince of the blood . He contended against the crown only to wrest from it the ancient power of the great nobles ; and to gain this object , he thought to make the parliament and the Parisian mob his tools . The parliament , sincerely devoted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and only leagued with them to secure their services . The crafty Mazarin quietly beheld these dissensions , and was sure of ultimate success , even though at one time banished to Cologne . And , like a reed , he was ever ready to bend to difficulties he could not control . But he stooped to conquer . He at last got the Prince of Conde , his brother the Prince of Conti , and the Duke of Longueville , in his power . When the Duke of Orleans heard of it , he said , " He has taken a good haul in the net ; he has taken a lion , a fox , and a monkey . " But the princes escaped from the net , and , leagued with Turenne , Bouillon , La Rochefoucault , and other great nobles reached Paris , and were received with acclamations of joy by the misguided people . Then , again , they obtained the ascendant . But the ascendency was no sooner gained than the victors quarrelled with themselves , and with the parliament , for whose cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when united , to have deprived the queen regent of her authority , and to have established constitutional liberty in France . But they would not unite . There was no spirit of disinterestedness , nor of patriotism , nor public virtue , without which liberty is impossible , even though there were forces enough to batter down Mount Atlas . Conde , the victor , suffered himself to be again bribed by the court . He would not persevere in his alliance with either nobles or the parliament . He did not unite with the nobles because he felt that he was a prince . He did not continue with the parliament , because he had no sympathy with freedom . The cause of the nobles was lost for want of mutual confidence ; that of the parliament for lack of the spirit of perseverance . The parliament , at length , grew weary of war and of popular commotions , and submitted to the court . All parties hated and distrusted each other , more than they did the iron despotism of Mazarin . The power of insurgent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was driven from Paris . The Duchess de Longueville sought refuge in the vale of Port Royal ; and , in the Jansenist doctrines , sought that happiness which earthly grandeur could not secure . Conde quitted Paris to join the Spanish armies . The rest of the rebellious nobles made humble submission . The people found they had nothing to gain from any dominant party , and resigned themselves to another long period of political and social slavery . The magistrates abandoned , in despair and disgust , their high claims to political rights , while the young king , on his bed of justice , decreed that parliament should no more presume to discuss or meddle with state affairs . The submissive parliament registered , without a murmur , the edict which gave a finishing stroke to its liberties . The Fronde war was a complete failure , because all parties usurped powers which did not belong to them , and were jealous of the rights of each other . The nobles wished to control the king , and the magistracy put itself forward to represent the commons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative of the nation , and the body to which it should have appealed . The Fronde rebellion was a failure , because it did not consult constitutional forms , because it formed unnatural alliances , and because it did not throw itself upon the force of immortal principles , but sought to support itself by mere physical strength rather than by moral power , which alone is the secret and the glory of all great internal changes . Sidenote : Power of Mazarin . The return of Cardinal Mazarin to power , as the minister of Louis XIV. , was the era of his grandeur . His first care was to restore the public finances ; his second was to secure his personal aggrandizement . He obtained all the power which Richelieu had enjoyed , and reproved the king , and such a king as Louis XIV. , as he would a schoolboy . He enriched and elevated his relatives , married them into the first families of France ; and amassed a fortune of two hundred millions of livres , the largest perhaps that any subject has secured in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but this greatest of all human dignities , he was not permitted to obtain . A fatal malady seized him , and the physicians told him he had not two months to live . Some days after , he was seen in his dressing-gown , among his pictures , of which he was extravagantly fond , and exclaimed , " Must I quit all these ? Look at that Correggio , this Venus of Titian , this incomparable deluge of Carracci . Farewell , dear pictures , that I have loved so dearly , and that have cost me so much . " Sidenote : Death of Mazarin . The minister lingered awhile , and amused his last hours with cards . He expired in 1661 ; and no minister after him was intrusted with such great power . He died unlamented , even by his sovereign , whose throne he had preserved , and whose fortune he had repaired . He had great talents of conversation , was witty , artful , and polite . He completed the work which Richelieu began ; and , at his death , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France . * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  Louis XIV . et son Siecle . Miss Pardoe 's History of Louis XIV . Voltaire 's and James 's Lives of Louis XIV . Memoirs of Cardinal Richelieu . Memoirs of Mazarin . Memoires de Mademoiselle de Montpensier . Memoires du Duc de Saint Simon . Life of Cardinal de Retz , in which the Fronde war is well traced . Memoir of the Duchess de Longueville . Lacretelle 's History of France . Rankin 's History of France . Sismondi 's History of France . Crowe 's History , in Lardner 's Cyclopedia . Rowring 's History of the Huguenots . Lord Mahon 's Life of the Prince of Conde . The above works are the most accessible to the American student . CHAPTER XII . THE REIGNS OF JAMES I. AND CHARLES I. While the Protestants in Germany were struggling for religious liberty , and the Parliaments of France for political privileges , there was a contest going on in England for the attainment of the same great ends . With the accession of James I. a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance of the House of Commons , and their struggles for civil and religious liberty . The Commons had not been entirely silent during the long reign of Elizabeth , but members of them occasionally dared to assert those rights of which Englishmen are proud . The queen was particularly sensitive to any thing which pertained to her prerogative , and generally sent to the Tower any man who boldly expressed his opinion on subjects which she deemed that she and her ministers alone had the right to discuss . These forbidden subjects were those which pertained to the management of religion , to her particular courts , and to her succession to the crown . She never made an attack on what she conceived to be the constitution , but only zealously defended what she considered as her own rights . And she was ever sufficiently wise to yield a point to the commons , after she had asserted her power , so that concession , on her part , had all the appearance of bestowing a favor . She never pushed matters to extremity , but gave way in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wisdom ; so that , in spite of all her crimes and caprices , she ever retained the affections of the English people . Sidenote : Accession of James I. The son of her rival Mary Stuart , Queen of Scots , ascended the throne , ( 1603 , ) under the title of James I. , and was the first of the Stuart kings . He had been king of Scotland under the title of James VI. , and had there many difficulties to contend with , chiefly in consequence of the turbulence of the nobles , and the bigotry of the reformers . He was eager to take possession of his English inheritance , but was so poor that he could not begin his journey until Cecil sent him the money . He was crowned , with great ceremony , in Westminster Abbey , on the 25th of June . The first acts of his reign were unpopular ; and it was subsequently disgraced by a continual succession of political blunders . To detail these , or to mention all the acts of this king , or the events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this History . Moreover , from this period , modern history becomes very complicated and voluminous , and all that can be attempted in this work is , an allusion to the principal events . Sidenote : The Genius of the Reign of James . The genius of this reign is the contest between royal prerogative and popular freedom . The proceedings in parliament were characterized by a spirit of boldness and resistance never before manifested , while the speeches and acts of the king were marked by an obstinate and stupid pertinacity to those privileges which absolute kings extorted from their subjects in former ages of despotism and darkness . The boldness of the Commons and the bigotry of the king led to incessant disagreement and discontent ; and , finally , under Charles I. , to open rupture , revolution , and strife . The progress of this insurrection and contest furnishes one of the most important and instructive chapters in the history of society and the young student can not make himself too familiar with details , of which our limits forbid a description . The great Puritan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after two revolutions , and nearly a century of anxiety , suffering , and strife . Providence raised up , during the whole of the Stuart dynasty , great patriots and statesmen , who had an eye to perceive the true interests and rights of the people , and a heart and a hand to defend them . No period and no nation have ever been more fertile in great men than England was from the accession of James I. to the abdication of James II. , a period of eighty-five years . Shakspeare , Raleigh , Coke , Bacon , Cecil , Selden , Pym , Wentworth , Hollis , Leighton , Taylor , Baxter , Howe , Cromwell , Hampden , Blake , Vane , Milton , Clarendon , Burnet , Shaftesbury , are some of the luminaries which have shed a light down to our own times , and will continue to shine through all future ages . They were not all contemporaneous , but they all took part , more or less , on one side or the other , in the great contest of the seventeenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divines , they alike made their age an epoch , and their little island the moral centre of the world . But we must first allude to some of the events of the reign of James I. , before the struggle between prerogative and liberty attracted the attention of Europe . Sidenote : Conspiracy of Sir Walter Raleigh . One of the first was the conspiracy against the king , in which Lord Cobham and Sir Walter Raleigh were engaged . We lament that so great a favorite with all readers as Sir Walter Raleigh , so universal a genius , a man so learned , accomplished , and brave , should have even been suspected of a treasonable project , and without the excuse of some traitors , that they wished to deliver their country from tyranny . But there is no perfection in man . Sir Walter was restless and ambitious , and had an eye mainly to his own advantage . His wit , gallantry , and chivalry were doubtless very pleasing qualities in a courtier , but are not the best qualities of a patriot . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the favor of his sovereign , and because the king took away the monopolies he had enjoyed . Hence , in conjunction with other disappointed politicians , he was accused of an attempt to seize the king 's person , to change the ministry , and to place the Lady Arabella Stuart on the throne . Against Raleigh appeared no less a person than the great Coke , who prosecuted him with such vehemence that Raleigh was found guilty , and condemned to death . But the proofs of his guilt are not so clear as the evidence of his ambition ; and much must be attributed to party animosity . Though condemned , he was not executed ; but lived to write many more books , and make many more voyages , to the great delight both of the cultivated and the adventurous . That there was a plot to seize the king is clear , and the conspirators were detected and executed . Raleigh was suspected of this , and perhaps was privy to it ; but the proofs of his crime were not apparent , except to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who compared the different plots to Samson 's foxes , joined in the tails , though their heads were separated . Sidenote : Gunpowder Plot . Sidenote : Persecution of the Catholics . The most memorable event at this time in the domestic history of the kingdom was the Gunpowder Plot , planned by Catesby and other disappointed and desperate Catholics for the murder of the king , and the destruction of both houses of parliament . Knowing the sympathies of James for their religion , the Catholics had expected toleration , at least . But when persecution continued against them , some reckless and unprincipled men united in a design to blow up the parliament . Percy , a relation of the Earl of Northumberland , was concerned in the plot , and many of the other conspirators were men of good families and fortunes , but were implacable bigots . They hired a cellar , under the parliament house , which had been used for coals ; and there they deposited thirty-one barrels of gunpowder , waiting several months for a favorable time to perpetrate one of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fawkes , one of the number , should set fire to the train . They were all ready , and the 5th of November , 1605 , was at hand , the day to which parliament was prorogued ; but Percy was anxious to save his kinsman from the impending ruin , Sir Everard Digby wished to warn some of his friends , and Tresham was resolved to give his brother-in-law , Lord Mounteagle , a caution . It seems that this peer received a letter so peculiar , that he carried it to Cecil , who showed it to the king , and the king detected or suspected a plot . The result was , that the cellar was explored by the lord chamberlain , and Guy Fawkes himself was found , with all the materials for striking a light , near the vault in which the coal and the gunpowder were deposited . He was seized , interrogated , tortured , and imprisoned ; but the wretch would not reveal the names of his associates , although he gloried in the crime he was about to commit , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperate remedies , the maxim of the Jesuits . But most of the conspirators revealed their guilt by flight . They might have escaped , had they fled from the kingdom ; but they hastened only into the country to collect their friends , and head an insurrection , which , of course , was easily suppressed . The leaders in this plot were captured and executed , and richly deserved their fate , although it was clear that they were infatuated . But in all crime there is infatuation . It was suspected that the Jesuits were at the bottom of the conspiracy ; and the whole Catholic population suffered reproach from the blindness and folly of a few bigots , from whom no sect or party ever yet has been free . But there is no evidence that any of the Catholic clergy were even privy to the intended crime , which was known only to the absolute plotters . Some Jesuits were indeed suspected , arrested , tortured , and executed ; but no evidence of guilt was brought against them sufficient to convict them . But their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and horror . Nothing ever made a more lasting and profound impression on the English mind than this intended crime ; and it strengthened the prejudices against the Catholics even more than the persecutions under Queen Mary . Had the crime been consummated , it would only have proved a blunder . It would have shocked and irritated the nation beyond all self-control ; and it is probable that the whole Catholic population would have been assassinated , or hunted out , as victims for the scaffold , in every corner of England . It proved , however , a great misfortune , and the severest blow Catholicism ever received in England . Thus God overrules all human wickedness . There was one person who suffered , in consequence of the excited suspicions of the nation , whose fate we can not but compassionate ; and this person was the Earl of Northumberland , who was sentenced to pay a fine of thirty thousand pounds , to be deprived of all his offices , and to be imprisoned in the Tower for life , and simply because he was the head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Indeed , penal statutes against the Catholics were fearfully multiplied . No Catholic was permitted to appear at court , or live in London , or within ten miles of it , or remove , on any occasion , more than five miles from his home , without especial license . No Catholic recusant was permitted to practise surgery , physic , or law ; to act as judge , clerk , or officer of any court or corporation ; or perform the office of administrator , executor , or guardian . Every Catholic who refused to have his child baptized by a Protestant , was obliged to pay , for each omission , one hundred pounds . Every person keeping a Catholic servant , was compelled to pay ten pounds a month to government . Moreover , every recusant was outlawed ; his house might be broken open ; his books and furniture destroyed ; and his horses and arms taken from him . Such was the severe treatment with which the Catholics , even those who were good citizens , were treated by our fathers in England ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jurists , divines , and statesmen which England has produced . And yet some maintain that there has been no progress in society , except in material civilization ! Sidenote : Robert Carr , Earl of Somerset . One of the peculiarities of the reign of James was , the ascendency which favorites obtained over him , so often the mark of a weak and vacillating mind . Henry VIII . and Elizabeth had their favorites ; but they were ministers of the royal will . Moreover , they , like Wolsey , Cromwell , Burleigh , and Essex , were great men , and worthy of the trust reposed in them . But James , with all his kingcraft and statecraft , with all his ostentation and boasts of knowledge and of sagacity , reposed his confidence in such a man as Villiers , Duke of Buckingham . It is true he also had great men to serve him ; Cecil was his secretary , Bacon was his chancellor , and Coke was his chief justice . But Carr and Villiers rose above them all in dignity and honor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ master . Sidenote : Greatness and Fall of Somerset . Robert Carr was a Scottish gentleman , poor and cunning , who had early been taught that personal beauty , gay dress , and lively manners , would make his fortune at court . He first attracted the attention of the king at a tilting match , at which he was the esquire to Lord Dingwall . In presenting his lord 's shield to the king , his horse fell and threw him at James 's feet . His leg was broken , but his fortune was made . James , struck with his beauty and youth , and moved by the accident , sent his own surgeon to him , visited him himself , and even taught him Latin , seeing that the scholastic part of his education had been neglected . Indeed , James would have made a much better schoolmaster than king ; and his pedantry and conceit were beyond all bounds , so that Bacon styled him , either in irony or sycophancy , " the Solomon of the age . " Carr now became the pet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presents were bestowed on him , all bowed down to him as they would have done to a royal mistress ; and Cecil and Suffolk vied with each other in their attempts to secure the favor of his friends . He gradually eclipsed every great noble at court , was created Viscount Rochester , received the Order of the Garter , and , when Cecil , then Earl of Salisbury , died , received the post of the Earl of Suffolk as lord chamberlain , he taking Cecil 's place as treasurer . Rochester , in effect , became prime minister , as Cecil had been . He was then created Earl of Somerset , in order that he might marry the Countess of Essex , the most beautiful and fascinating woman at the English court . She was daughter of the Earl of Suffolk , and granddaughter of the old Duke of Norfolk , executed in 1572 , and , consequently , belonged to the first family in the realm . She was married to Essex at the age of thirteen , but treated him with contempt and coldness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might marry Carr she obtained a divorce from her husband on the most frivolous grounds , and through the favor of the king , who would do any thing for the man he delighted to honor . She succeeded in obtaining her end , and caused the ruin of all who opposed her wishes . But she proved a beautiful demon , a fascinating fury , as might be expected from such an unprincipled woman , although ennobled by " the blood of all the Howards . " Her reign lasted , however , only during the ascendency of her husband . For a time , " glorious days were succeeded by as glorious nights , when masks and dancings had a continual motion , and when banquetings rapt up the spirit of the sacred king , and kept it from descending to earthly things . " But whatever royal favor stamps , royal favor , like fashion , leaves . Carr was supplanted by Villiers , and his doom was sealed . For the murder of his old friend Sir Thomas Overbury , who died in the Tower , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countess were tried , found guilty , and disgraced . But he was not executed , and , after a few years ' imprisonment , retired to the country , with his lady , to reproach and hate each other . Their only child , the Lady Anna Carr , a woman of great honor and virtue , married the first duke of Bedford , and was the mother of Lord Russell who died on the scaffold , a martyr to liberty , in the reign of Charles II . The origin of the noble families of England is curious . Some few are descended from successful Norman chieftains , who came over with William the Conqueror , and whose merit was in their sword . Others are the descendants of those who , as courtiers , statesmen , or warriors , obtained great position , power , and wealth , during former reigns . Many owe their greatness to the fact that they are the offspring of the illegitimate children of kings , or the descendants of the ignoble minions of kings . Some few are enrolled in the peerage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smaller number for the eminent services they have rendered their country like Wellington , Brougham , or Ellenborough . A vast majority can boast only the merit or the successful baseness of their ancestors . But all of them are interlinked by marriages , and therefore share together the glory or the shame of their progenitors , so far as glory and shame can be transmitted from father to son , independently of all individual virtue or vice . Sidenote : Duke of Buckingham . Sidenote : Lord Bacon . Carr was succeeded in the royal favor by Villiers , and he , more fortunate , ever retained the ascendency over the mind and heart of James , as well as of his son Charles I. George Villiers owed his fortune , not to his birth or talents , but to his fine clothes , his Parisian manners , smooth face , tall figure , and bland smiles . He became cup-bearer , then knight , then gentleman of the privy council , then earl , then marquis , and finally duke of Buckingham , lord high admiral , warden of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Windsor Castle , and chief justice in eyre of the parks and forests . " The doting and gloating king " had taught Somerset Latin ; he attempted to teach Buckingham divinity , and called him ever by the name of " Steenie . " And never was there such a mixture of finery , effeminacy , insolence , and sycophancy in any royal minion before or since . Beau Brummell never equalled him in dress , Wolsey in magnificence , Mazarin in peculation , Walpole in corruption , Jeffries in insolence , or Norfolk in pride . He was the constant companion of the king , to whose vices he pandered , and through him the royal favor flowed . But no rewards , or favors , or greatness satisfied him ; not so much because he was ambitious , as because , like a spoiled child , he did not appreciate the magnitude of the gifts which were bestowed on him . Nor did he ever know his place ; but made love to the queen of France herself , when he was sent on an embassy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground down the people by taxes , and taught the king to disregard the affections of his subjects , and to view them as his slaves . But such a triumph of iniquity could not be endured ; and Buckingham was finally assassinated , after he had gained an elevation higher than any English subject ever before attained , except Wolsey , and without the exercise of any qualities which entitled him to a higher position than a master of ceremonies at monarch as James ; but how can we understand that such a man as Lord Bacon , the chancellor , the philosopher , the statesman , the man of learning , genius , and wisdom , should have bowed down to the dust , in vile subserviency , to this infamous favorite of the king . Surely , what lessons of the frailty of human nature does the reign of James teach us ! The most melancholy instance of all the singular cases of human inconsistency , at this time , is the conduct of the great Bacon himself , who reached the zenith of his power during this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while exercising the highest judicial authority in the land , on which alone his shame rests , but his insolent conduct to his inferiors , his acquiescence in wrong , his base and unmanly sycophancy , his ingratitude to his friends and patrons , his intense selfishness and unscrupulous ambition while climbing to power , and , above all , his willingness to be the tool of a despot who trampled on the rights and liberties which God had given him to guard ; and this in an age of light , of awakened intelligence , when even his crabbed rival Coke was seeking to explode the abuses of the Dark Ages . But " the difference between the soaring angel and the creeping snake , was but a type of the difference between Bacon the philosopher and Bacon the attorney-general , Bacon seeking for truth and Bacon seeking for the Seals . " As the author of the Novum Organum , as the pioneer of modern science , as the calm and patient investigator of nature 's laws , as the miner and sapper of the old false systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writer for future generations , he has received , as he has deserved , all the glory which admiring and grateful millions can bestow , of his own nation , and of all nations . No name in British annals is more illustrious than his , and none which is shaded with more lasting shame . Pope alone would have given him an immortality as the " wisest , brightest , meanest of mankind . " The only defence for the political baseness of Bacon  --  and this is insufficient  --  is , that all were base around him . The years when he was in power are among the darkest and most disgraceful in English history . Sidenote : Trial and Execution of Raleigh . Allusion has been made to the reign of favorites ; but this was but a small part of the evils of the times . Every thing abroad and at home was mismanaged . Patents of monopolies were multiplied ; the most grievous exactions were made ; indefensible executions were ordered ; the laws were perverted ; justice was sold ; and an ignominious war was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Raleigh was a disgrace to the king , the court , and the nation , because the manner of it was so cowardly and cruel . He had been convicted , in the early part of the reign , of treason , and committed to the Tower . There he languished twelve years , amusing himself by writing a universal history , and in seeking the elixir of life ; for , in the mysteries of chemistry , and in the mazes of historical lore , as in the intrigues of courts , and dangers of camps , he was equally at home . He was released from his prison in order to take command of an adventurous expedition to Guiana in quest of gold . In a former voyage he had visited the banks of the Oronoco in quest of the city of Manoa , where precious stones and gold existed in exhaustless treasures . That El Dorado he could not find ; but now , in prison , he proposed to Secretary Winwood an expedition to secure what he had before sought in vain . The king wavered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while he longed for gold , as the traveller does for water on the desert of Sahara , he was afraid of giving offence to the Spanish ambassador . But his cupidity was the stronger feeling , and Raleigh was sent with fourteen ships to the coasts of South America . The expedition was in every respect unfortunate to Raleigh and to the king . The gallant commander lost his private fortune and a promising son , the Spaniards attacked his armament , his troops mutinied and deserted , and he returned to England , with a sullied fame , to meet a disappointed sovereign and implacable enemies . In such times , failure is tantamount to crime , and Raleigh was tried for offences he never committed . The most glaring injustice , harshness , and sophistry were resorted to , even by Bacon ; but still Raleigh triumphantly defended himself . But no innocence or eloquence could save him ; and he was executed on the sentence which had been pronounced against him for treason fifteen years before . To such meanness and cowardice did his enemies resort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  if crime he ever committed  --  had long been consigned to oblivion . Sidenote : Encroachments of James . But we can not longer dwell on the lives of eminent individuals during the reign of James . However interesting may be the details of their fortunes , their history dwindles into insignificance when compared with the great public injuries which an infatuated monarch inflicted . Not cruel in his temper , not stained by personal crimes , quite learned in Greek and Latin , but weak and ignorant of his duties as a king , he was inclined to trespass on the rights of his subjects . As has been already remarked , the genius of his reign was the contest between prerogative and liberty . The Commons did not acquiesce in his measures , or yield to his wishes , as they did during the reign of Elizabeth . He had a notion that the duty of a king was to command , and that of the subject was to obey , in all things ; that kings ruled by divine right , and were raised by the Almighty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a parliament which swarmed with Puritans , and who were not careful to conceal their views from the king . They insisted on their privileges as tenaciously as the king insisted on his prerogative , and often came into collision with him . And they instituted an inquiry into monopolies , and attacked the monstrous abuses of purveyance , and the incidents of feudal tenure , by which , among other things , the king became guardian to wards , and received the profits of their estates during their minority . These feudal claims , by which the king , in part , received his revenue , were every year becoming less valuable to the crown , and more offensive to the people . The king , at length , was willing to compound , and make a bargain with the Commons , by which he was to receive two hundred thousand pounds a year , instead of the privileges of wardship , and other feudal rights . But his necessities required additional grants , which the Commons were unwilling to bestow ; and the king then resorted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turbulent of the Commons to prison , and frequently dissolved parliament . He was resolved to tax the people if supplies were not granted him , while the Commons maintained that no taxation could be allowed without their consent . Moreover , the Commons refused to grant such supplies as the king fancied he needed , unless certain grievances were redressed , among which was the High Commission Court , an arbitrary tribunal , which fined and imprisoned without appeal . But James , though pressed for money , stood firm to his notions of prerogative , and supplied his most urgent necessities by illegal means . People were dragged to the Star Chamber , on all kinds of accusations , that they might be sentenced to pay enormous fines ; new privileges and monopolies were invented , and new dignities created . Baronets , who are hereditary knights , were instituted , and baronetcies were sold for one thousand pounds each . Sidenote : Quarrel between James and Parliament . But the monopolies which the king granted , in order to raise money , did not inflame the Commons so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the infanta of Spain . James flattered himself that this Spanish match , to arrange which he had sent Buckingham to the court of Madrid , would procure the restitution of the Palatinate to the elector , who had been driven from his throne . But the Commons thought differently . They , as well as the people generally , were indignant in view of the inactivity of the government in not sending aid to the distressed Protestants of Germany ; and the loss of the Palatinate was regarded as a national calamity . They saw no good which would accrue from an alliance with the enemies and persecutors of these Protestants ; but , on the other hand , much evil . As the constitutional guardians , therefore , of the public welfare and liberty , they framed a remonstrance to the king , representing the overgrown power of Austria as dangerous to the liberties of Europe , and entreated his majesty to take up arms against Spain , which was allied with Austria , and by whose wealth Austrian armies were supported . James was inflamed with indignation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government ; and he forthwith wrote a letter to the speaker of the House of Commons , commanding him to admonish the members " not to presume to meddle with matters of state which were beyond their capacity , and especially not to touch on his son 's marriage . " The Commons , not dismayed , and conscious of strength , sent up a new remonstrance in which they affirmed that they were entitled to interpose with their counsel in all matters of state , and that entire freedom of speech was their ancient and undoubted right , transmitted from their ancestors . The king , in reply , told the Commons , that " their remonstrance was more like a denunciation of war , than an address of dutiful subjects , and that their pretension to inquire into state affairs was a plenipotence to which none of their ancestors , even during the weakest reigns , had ever dared to aspire . " He farther insinuated that their privileges were derived from royal favor . On this , the Commons framed another protest ,  --  that the liberties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ancient and undoubted birthright of Englishmen , and that every member has the right of freedom of speech . This protest they entered upon their journals , upon which James lost all temper , ordered the clerk to bring him the journals , erased the protestation with his own hand , in presence of the judges and the council , and then dissolved the parliament . Nothing else of note occurred in this reign , except the prosecution of the Spanish match , which was so odious to the nation that Buckingham , to preserve his popularity , broke off the negotiations , and by a system of treachery and duplicity as hateful as were his original efforts to promote the match . War with Spain was the result of the insult offered to the infanta and the court . An alliance was now made with France , and Prince Charles married Henrietta Maria , daughter of Henry IV . The Commons then granted abundant supplies for war , to recover the Palatinate ; and liberty of conscience was granted by the monarch , on the demands of Richelieu , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sidenote : Death of James I. Shortly after , ( March 27 , 1625 , ) King James died at Theobalds , his favorite palace , from a disease produced by anxiety , gluttony , and sweet wines , after a reign in England of twenty-two years ; and his son , Charles I. , before the breath was out of his body , was proclaimed king in his stead . The course pursued by James I. was adopted by his son ; and , as their reigns were memorable for the same struggle , we shall consider them together until revolution gave the victory to the advocates of freedom . Charles I. was twenty-five years of age when he began his reign . In a moral and social point of view he was a more respectable man than his father , but had the same absurd notions of the royal prerogative , the same contempt of the people , the same dislike of constitutional liberty , and the same resolution of maintaining the absolute power of the crown , at any cost . He was moreover , perplexed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great necessities , and was dependent on the House of Commons for aid to prosecute his wars and support the dignity of the crown . But he did not consider the changing circumstances and spirit of the age , and the hostile and turbulent nature of his people . He increased , rather than diminished , the odious monopolies which irritated the nation during the reign of his father ; he clung to all the old feudal privileges ; he retained the detestable and frivolous Buckingham as his chief minister ; and , when Buckingham was assassinated , he chose others even more tyrannical and unscrupulous ; he insisted on taxing the people without their consent , threw contempt on parliament , and drove the nation to rebellion . In all his political acts he was infatuated , after making every allowance for the imperfections of human nature . A wiser man would have seen the rising storm , and might possibly have averted it . But Charles never dreamed of it , until it burst in all its fury on his devoted head , and consigned him to the martyr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still more his blindness . And so great was this blindness , that it almost seems as if Providence had marked him out to be a victim on the altar of human progress . With the reign of Charles commences unquestionably the most exciting period of English history , and a period to which historians have given more attention than to any other great historical era , the French Revolution alone excepted . The attempt to describe the leading events in this exciting age and reign would be , in this connection , absurd ; and yet some notice of them can not be avoided . Sidenote : The Struggle of Classes . For more than ten centuries , great struggles have been going on in society between the dominant orders and sects . The victories gained by the oppressed millions , over their different masters , constitute what is called the Progress of Society . Defenders of the people have occasionally arisen from orders to which they did not belong . When , then , any great order defended the cause of the people against the tyranny and selfishness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in civil and social freedom . When Feudalism weighed fearfully upon the people , " the clergy sought , on their behalf , a little reason , justice , and humanity , and the poor man had no other asylum than the churches , no other protectors than the priests ; and , as the priests offered food to the moral nature of man , they acquired a great ascendency , and the preponderance passed from the nobles to the clergy . " By the aid of the church , royalty also rose above feudalism , and aided the popular cause . The church , having gained the ascendency , sought then to enslave the kings of the earth . But royalty , borrowing help from humiliated nobles and from the people , became the dominant power in Europe . Sidenote : Rise of Popular Power . In these struggles between nobles and the clergy , and between the clergy and kings , the people had acquired political importance . They had obtained a knowledge of their rights and of their strength ; and they were determined to maintain them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or kings ; but they bent all their energies to suppress the power of the latter , since the two former had been already humiliated . The struggle of the people against royalty is preeminently the genius of the English Revolution . It is to be doubted whether any king could have resisted the storm of popular fury which hurled Charles from his throne . But no king could have managed worse than he , no king could be more unfortunately and unpropitiously placed ; and his own imprudence and folly hastened the catastrophe . The House of Commons , which had acquired great strength , spirit , and popularity during the reign of James , fully perceived the difficulties and necessities of Charles , but made no adequate or generous effort to relieve him from them . Some of the more turbulent rejoiced in them . They knew that kings , like other men , were selfish , and that it was not natural for people to part with their privileges and power without a struggle , even though this power was injurious to the interests of society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popes had fought desperately in the struggle of classes ; and it was only from their necessities that either kings or people had obtained what they demanded . King Charles , no more than Pope Boniface VIII. , would surrender , as a boon to man , without compulsion , his supposed omnipotence . Sidenote : Quarrel between the King and the Commons . The king ascended his throne burdened by the debts of his father , and by an expensive war , which the Commons incited , but would not pay for . They granted him , to meet his difficulties and maintain his honor , the paltry sum of one hundred and forty thousand pounds , and the duties of tonnage and poundage , not for life , as was customary , but for a year . Nothing could be more provoking to a young king . Of course , the money was soon spent , and the king wanted more , and had a right to expect more . But , if the Commons granted what the king required , he would be made independent of them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England did before him . So they resolved not to grant necessary supplies to carry on the government , unless the king would part with the prerogatives of an absolute prince , and those old feudal privileges which were an abomination in the eyes of the people . Charles was not the man to make such a bargain . Few kings , in his age , would have seen its necessity . But necessity there was . Civil war was inevitable , without a compromise , provided both parties were resolved on maintaining their ground . But Charles fancied that the Commons could be browbeaten and intimidated into submission ; and , moreover , in case he was brought into collision with his subjects , he fancied that he was stronger than they , and could put down the spirit of resistance . In both of these suppositions he was wrong . The Commons were firm , and were stronger than he was , because they had the sympathy of the people . They believed conscientiously , especially the Puritans , that he was wrong ; that God gave him no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entitled , by the eternal principles of justice , and by the spirit of the constitution , to civil and religious liberty , in the highest sense of that term . They believed that their rights were inalienable and absolute ; that , among them , they could not be taxed without their own consent ; and that their constitutional guardians , the Commons , should be unrestricted in debate . These notions of the people were ideas . On ideas all governments rest . No throne could stand a day unless the people felt they owed it their allegiance . When the main support of the throne of Charles was withdrawn , the support of popular ideas , and this support given to the House of Commons , at issue with the sovereign , what could he do ? What could Louis XVI . do one hundred and fifty years afterwards ? What could Louis Philippe do in our times ? A king , without the loyalty of the people , is a phantom , a mockery , and a delusion , unless he have physical force to sustain him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel they are not bound to obey , and if it is not for their interest to obey . Now Charles had neither loyalty nor force to hold him on his throne . The agitations of an age of unprecedented boldness in speculations destroyed the former ; the House of Commons would not grant supplies to secure the latter . And they would not grant supplies , because they loved themselves and the cause of the people better than they loved their king . In short , it was only by his concessions that they would supply his necessities . He would not make the concessions , and the contest soon ended in an appeal to arms . Sidenote : The Counsellors of Charles . But Charles was not without friends , and some of his advisers were men of sagacity and talent . It is true they did not fully appreciate the weakness of the king , or the strength of his enemies ; but they saw his distress , and tried to remove it . They , very naturally in such an age , recommended violent courses  --  to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all his feudal privileges , to pawn the crown jewels , even , in order to raise money ; for money , at all events , he must have . They advised him to arrest turbulent and incendiary members of the Commons , to prorogue and dissolve parliaments , to raise forced loans , to impose new duties , to shut up ports , to levy fresh taxes , and to raise armies friendly to his cause . In short , they recommended unconstitutional measures  --  measures which both they and the king knew to be unconstitutional , but which they justified on the ground of necessity . And the king , in his perplexity , did what his ministers advised . But every person who was sent to the Tower , every new tax , every sentence of the Star Chamber , every seizure of property , every arbitrary command , every violation of the liberties of the people , raised up new enemies to the king , and inflamed the people with new discontents . Sidenote : Death of Buckingham  --  Petition of Right . At first the Commons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ redress of grievances , if the king 's favorite adviser and minister were removed . Besides , they all hated Buckingham  --  peers , commons , and people ,  --  and all sought his downfall . He had no friends among the people , as Essex had in the time of Elizabeth . His extravagance , pomp , and insolence disgusted all orders ; and his reign seemed to be an insult to the nation . Even the people regarded him as an upstart , setting himself above the old nobility , and enriching himself by royal domains , worth two hundred eighty-four thousand three hundred and ninety-five pounds . So the Commons violently attacked his administration , and impeached him . But he was shielded by the king , and even appointed to command an expedition to relieve La Rochelle , then besieged by Richelieu . But he was stabbed by a religious fanatic , by the name of Felton , as he was about to embark at Portsmouth . His body was removed to London , and he was buried with great state in Westminster Abbey , much lamented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the worst ministers , but not the worst man , which that age despised , ( 1628 . ) Meanwhile the indignant Commons persevered with their work . They passed what is called the " Petition of Right , "  --  a string of resolutions which asserted that no freeman ought to be detained in prison , without being brought to trial , and that no taxes could be lawfully levied , without consent of the Commons  --  the two great pillars of the English constitution , yet truths involved in political difficulty , especially in cases of rebellion . The personal liberty of the subject is a great point indeed ; and the act of habeas corpus , passed in later times , is a great step in popular freedom ; but , if never to be suspended , no government could guard against conspiracy in revolutionary times . The Petition of Right , however , obtained the king 's assent , though unwillingly , grudgingly , and insincerely given ; and the Commons , gratified for once , voted to the king supplies . But Charles had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to unconstitutional measures , as before . But he felt the need of able counsellors . His " dear Steenie " was dead , and he knew not in whom to repose confidence . Sidenote : Earl of Strafford . The demon of despotism raised up an agent in the person of Thomas Wentworth , a man of wealth , talents , energy , and indomitable courage ; a man who had , in the early part of his career , defended the cause of liberty ; who had even suffered imprisonment sooner than contribute to an unlawful loan , and in whom the hopes of the liberal party were placed . But he was bribed . His patriotism was not equal to his ambition . Seduced by a peerage , and by the love of power , he went over to the side of the king , and defended his arbitrary rule as zealously as he had before advocated the cause of constitutional liberty . He was created Viscount Wentworth , and afterwards earl of Strafford  --  the most prominent man of the royalist party , and the greatest traitor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His picture , as painted by Vandyke , and hung up in the princely hall of his descendant , Earl Fitzwilliam , is a faithful portrait of what history represents him  --  a cold , dark , repulsive , unscrupulous tyrant , with an eye capable of reading the secrets of the soul , a brow lowering with care and thought , and a lip compressed with determination , and twisted into contempt of mankind . If Wentworth did not love his countrymen , he loved to rule over them : and he gained his end , and continued the prime minister of absolutism until an insulted nation rose in their might , and placed his head upon the block . Sidenote : John Hampden . Under the rule of this minister , whom every one feared , the Puritans every where fled , preferring the deserts of America , with freedom , to the fair lands of England , with liberty trodden under foot . The reigns of both James and Charles are memorable for the resistance and despair of this intrepid and religious sect , in which were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country . Pym , Cromwell , Hazelrig , and even Hampden , are said to have actually embarked ; but Providence detained them in England , they having a mission of blood to perform there . In another chapter , the Puritans , their struggles , and principles , will be more fully presented ; and we therefore , in this connection , abstain from further notice . It may , however , be remarked , that they were the most inflexible enemies of the king , and were determined to give him and his minister no rest until all their ends were gained . They hated Archbishop Laud even more intensely than they hated Wentworth ; and Laud , if possible , was a greater foe to religious and civil liberty . Strafford and Laud are generally coupled together in the description of the abuses of arbitrary power . The churchman , however , was honest and sincere , only his views were narrow and his temper irritable . His vices were those of the bigot  --  such as disgraced St. Dominic or Torquemada , but faults which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churchism and toryism ; and his zeal in defence of royal prerogative and the divine rights of bishops has won for him the panegyrics of his friends , as well as the curses of his enemies . For Strafford , too , there is admiration , but only for his talents , his courage , his strength  --  the qualities which one might see in Milton 's Satan , or in Carlyle 's picture gallery of heroes . While the king and his minister were raising forced loans and contributions , sending members of the House of Commons to the Tower , fining , imprisoning , and mutilating the Puritans , a new imposition called out the energies of a great patriot and a great man , John Hampden  --  a fit antagonist of the haughty Wentworth . This new exaction was a tax called ship money . It was devised by Chief Justice Finch and Attorney-General Noy , two subordinate , but unscrupulous tools of despotism , and designed to extort money from the inland counties , as well as from the cities , for furnishing ships  --  a demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even when threatened by the Spanish Armada . Clarendon even admits that this tax was not for the support of the navy , " but for a spring and magazine which should have no bottom , and for an everlasting supply on all occasions . " And this the nation completely understood , and resolved desperately to resist . Hampden , though a wealthy man , refused to pay the share assessed on him , which was only twenty shillings , deeming it an illegal tax . He was proceeded against by the crown lawyers . Hampden appealed to a decision of the judges in regard to the legality of the tax , and the king permitted the question to be settled by the laws . The trial lasted thirteen days , but ended in the condemnation of Hampden , who had shown great moderation , as well as courage , and had won the favor of the people . It was shortly after this that Hampden , as some historians assert , resolved to leave England with his cousin Oliver Cromwell . But the king prevented the ships , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sailing . Hampden was reserved for new trials and new labors . Sidenote : Insurrection in Scotland . About a month after Hampden 's condemnation , an insurrection broke out in Scotland , which hastened the crisis of revolution . It was produced by the attempt of Archbishop Laud to impose the English liturgy on the Scottish nation , and supplant Presbyterianism by Episcopacy . The revolutions in Scotland , from the time of Knox , had been popular ; not produced by great men , but by the diffusion of great ideas . The people believed in the spiritual independence of their church , and not in the supremacy of a king . The instant , therefore , that the Episcopal worship was introduced , by authority , in the cathedral of Edinburgh , there was an insurrection , which rapidly spread through all parts of the country . An immense multitude came to Edinburgh to protest against the innovation , and crowded all the houses , streets , and halls of the city . The king ordered the petitioners home , without answering their complaints . They obeyed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of resistance was made , and a provisional government appointed . All classes joined the insurgents , who , menaced , but united , at last bound themselves , by a solemn league and covenant , not to separate until their rights and liberties were secured . A vast majority of all the population of Scotland  --  gentlemen , clergy , citizens , and laborers , men , women , and children  --  assembled in the church , and swore fealty to the covenant . Force , of course , was necessary to reduce the rebels , and civil war commenced in Scotland . But war increased the necessities of the king , and he was compelled to make peace with the insurgent army . Eleven years had now elapsed since the dissolution of the last parliament , during which the king had attempted to rule without one , and had resorted to all the expedients that the ingenuity of the crown lawyers could suggest , in order to extort money . Imposts fallen into desuetude , monopolies abandoned by Elizabeth , royal forests extended beyond the limits they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without end , imprisonments , tortures , and executions ,  --  all marked these eleven years . The sum for fines alone , in this period , amounted to more than two hundred thousand pounds . The forest of Rockingham was enlarged from six to sixty miles in circuit , and the earl of Salisbury was fined twenty thousand pounds for encroaching upon it . Individuals and companies had monopolies of salt , soap , coals , iron , wine , leather , starch , feathers , tobacco , beer , distilled liquors , herrings , butter , potash , linen cloth , rags , hops , gunpowder , and divers other articles , which , of course , deranged the whole trade of the country . Prynne was fined ten thousand pounds , and had his ears cut off , and his nose slit , for writing an offensive book ; and his sufferings were not greater than what divers others experienced for vindicating the cause of truth and liberty . At last , the king 's necessities compelled him to summon another parliament . He had exhausted every expedient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he was overburdened with debts . Sidenote : Long Parliament . On the 13th of April , 1640 , the new parliament met . It knew its strength , and was determined now , more than ever , to exercise it . It immediately took the power into its own hands , and from remonstrances and petitions it proceeded to actual hostilities ; from the denunciation of injustice and illegality , it proceeded to trample on the constitution itself . It is true that the members were irritated and threatened , and some of their number had been seized and imprisoned . It is true that the king continued his courses , and was resolved on enforcing his measures by violence . The struggle became one of desperation on both sides  --  a struggle for ascendency  --  and not for rights . One of the first acts of the House of Commons was the impeachment of Strafford . He had been just summoned from Ireland , where , as lord lieutenant , he had exercised almost regal power and regal audacity ; he had been summoned by his perplexed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he obeyed , foreseeing the storm . He had scarcely arrived in London when the intrepid Pym accused him of high treason . The Lords accepted the accusation , and the imperious minister was committed to the Tower . The impeachment of Laud soon followed ; but he was too sincere in his tyranny to understand why he should be committed . Nor was he feared , as Strafford was , against whom the vengeance of the parliament was especially directed . A secret committee , invested with immense powers , was commissioned to scrutinize his whole life , and his destruction was resolved upon . On the 22d of March his trial began , and lasted seventeen days , during which time , unaided , he defended himself against thirteen accusers , with consummate ability . Indeed , he had studied his charges and despised his adversaries . Under ordinary circumstances , he would have been acquitted , for there was not sufficient evidence to convict him of high treason ; but an unscrupulous and infuriated body of men were thirsting for his blood , and it was proposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by act of parliament , on its own paramount authority , with or without the law . The bill passed , in spite of justice , in spite of the eloquence of the attainted earl . He was condemned , and remanded to the Tower . Had the king been strong he would have saved his minister ; had he been magnanimous , he would have stood by him to the last . But he had neither the power to save him , nor the will to make adequate sacrifices . He feebly interposed , but finally yielded , and gave his consent to the execution of the main agent of all his aggressions on the constitution he had sworn to maintain . Strafford deserved his fate , although the manner of his execution was not according to law . Sidenote : Rebellion of Ireland . A few months after the execution of Strafford , an event occurred which proved exceedingly unfortunate to the royal cause ; and this was the rebellion of Ireland , and the massacre of the Protestant population , caused , primarily , by the oppressive government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late lord lieutenant . In the course of a few weeks , the English and Scottish colonies seemed almost uprooted ; one of the most frightful butcheries was committed that ever occurred . The Protestants exaggerated their loss ; but it is probable that at least fifty thousand were massacred . The local government of Dublin was paralyzed . The English nation was filled with deadly and implacable hostility , not against the Irish merely , but against the Catholics every where . It was supposed that there was a general conspiracy among the Catholics to destroy the whole nation ; and it was whispered that the queen herself had aided the revolted Irish . The most vigorous measures were adopted to raise money and troops for Ireland . The Commons took occasion of the general spirit of discontent and insurrection to prepare a grand remonstrance on the evils of the kingdom , which were traced to a " coalition of Papists , Arminian bishops and clergymen , and evil courtiers and counsellors . " The Commons recited all the evils of the last sixteen years , and declared the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the arbitrary power of the sovereign . The king , in reply , told the Commons that their remonstrance was unparliamentary ; that he could not understand what they meant by a wicked party ; that bishops were entitled to their votes in parliament ; and that , as to the removal of evil counsellors , they must name whom they were . The remonstrance was printed and circulated by the Commons , which was of more effect than an army could have been . Thus were affairs rapidly reaching a crisis , when the attempt to seize five of the most refractory and able members of parliament consummated it . The members were Hollis , Hazelrig , Pym , Hampden , and Strode ; and they were accused of high treason . This movement of the king was one of the greatest blunders and one of the most unconstitutional acts he ever committed . The Commons refused to surrender their members ; and then the king went down to the house , with an armed force , to seize them . But Pym and others got intelligence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he arrived . " The baffled tyrant returned to Whitehall with his company of bravoes , " while the city of London sheltered Hampden and his friends . The shops were shut , the streets were filled with crowds , and the greatest excitement prevailed . The friends of Charles , who were inclined to constitutional measures , were filled with shame . It was now feared that the king would not respect his word or the constitution , and , with all his promises , was still bent on tyrannical courses . All classes , but bigoted royalists , now felt that something must be done promptly , or that their liberties would be subverted . Then it was , and not till then , that the Commons openly defied him , while the king remained in his palace , humbled , dismayed , and bewildered , " feeling , " says Clarendon , " the trouble and agony which usually attend generous minds upon their having committed errors ; " or , as Macaulay says , " the despicable repentance which attends the bungling villain , who , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only committed a folly . " Sidenote : Flight of the King from London . In a few days , the king fled from Whitehall , which he was never destined to see again till he was led through it to the scaffold . He went into the country to raise forces to control the parliament , and the parliament made vigorous measures to put itself and the kingdom in a state of resistance . On the 23d of April , the king , with three hundred horse , advanced to Hull , and were refused admission by the governor . This was tantamount to a declaration of war . It was so considered . Thirty-two Lords , and sixty members of the Commons departed for York to join the king . The parliament decreed an army , and civil war began . Before this can be traced we must consider the Puritans , which is necessary in order fully to appreciate the Revolution . The reign of Charles I. was now virtually ended , and that of the Parliament and Cromwell had begun . * * * * * Sidenote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves did not occur until the reign of Elizabeth , and were first caused by difficulties about a clerical dress , which again led to the advocacy of simpler forms of worship , stricter rules of life , more definite forms of faith , and more democratic principles of government , both ecclesiastical and civil . The first promoters of these opinions were the foreign divines who came from Geneva , at the invitation of Cranmer , of whom Peter Martyr , Martin Bucer , John a Lasco , were the most distinguished . Some Englishmen , also , who had been travelling on the continent , brought with them the doctrines of Calvin . Among these was Hooper , who , on being nominated to the bishopric of Gloucester , refused to submit to the appointed form of consecration and admission . He objected to what he called the Aaronical habits  --  the square cap , tippet , and surplice , worn by bishops . But dissent became more marked and determined when the exiles returned to England , on the accession of Elizabeth , and who were for advancing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and her advisers , generally , were content with King Edward 's liturgy ; but the majority of the exiles desired the simpler services of Geneva . The new bishops , most of whom had been their companions abroad , endeavored to soften them for the present , declaring that they would use all their influence at court to secure them indulgence . The queen herself connived at non-conformity , until her government was established , but then firmly declared that she had fixed her standard , and insisted on her subjects conforming to it . The bishops , seeing this , changed their conduct , explained away their promises , and became severe towards their dissenting brethren . The standard of the queen was the Thirty-Nine Articles . She admitted that the Scriptures were the sole rule of faith , but declared that individuals must interpret Scripture as expounded in the articles and formularies of the English church , in violation of the great principle of Protestantism , which even the Puritans themselves did not fully recognize  --  the right and the duty of every individual to interpret Scripture himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not . Sidenote : Original Difficulties and Differences . The first dissenters did not claim this right , but only urged that certain points , about which they felt scruples , should be left as matters indifferent . On all essential points , they , as well as the strictest conformists , believed in the necessity of a uniformity of public worship , and of using the sword of the magistrate in defence of their doctrines . The standard of conformity , according to the bishops , was the queen 's supremacy and the laws of the land ; according to the Puritans , the decrees of provincial and national synods . At first , many of the Puritans overcame their scruples so far as to comply with the required oath and accept livings in the Establishment . But they indulged in many irregularities , which , during the first year of the reign of Elizabeth , were winked at by the authorities . " Some performed , " says an old author , " divine service in the chancel , others in the body of the church ; some in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulpit , with their faces to the people ; some keeping precisely to the order of the book ; some intermix psalms in metre ; some say with a surplice , and others without one . The table stands in the body of the church in some places , in others it stands in the chancel ; in some places the table stands altarwise , distant from the wall a yard , in others in the middle of the chancel , north and south . Some administer the communion with surplice and cap , some with a surplice alone , others with none ; some with chalice , others with a communion cup , others with a common cup ; some with unleavened bread , and some with leavened ; some receive kneeling , others standing , others sitting ; some baptize in a font , some in a basin ; some sign with the sign of the cross , other sign not ; some minister with a surplice , others without ; some with a square cap , others with a round cap ; some with a button cap , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clothes , some in common clothes . " These differences in public worship , which , by many , were considered as indifferent matters , and by others were unduly magnified , seem to have constituted the chief peculiarity of the early Puritans . In regard to the queen 's supremacy , the union of church and state , the necessity of supporting religion by law , and articles of theological belief , there was no disagreement . Most of the non-conformists were men of learning and piety , and among the ornaments of the church . The metropolitan bishop , at this time , was Parker , a great stickler for the forms of the church , and very intolerant in all his opinions . He and others of the bishops had been appointed as commissioners to investigate the causes of dissent , and to suspend all who refused to conform to the rubric of the church . Hence arose the famous Court of the Ecclesiastical Commission , so much abused during the reigns of James and Charles . Sidenote : Persecution during the Reign of Elizabeth . Under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ livings for non-conformity , and sent to wander in a state of destitution . Among these were some of the most learned men in the church . They had no means of defence or livelihood , and resorted to the press in order to vindicate their opinions . For this they were even more harshly dealt with ; an order was issued from the Star Chamber , that no person should print a book against the queen 's injunctions , upon the penalty of fines and imprisonment ; and authority was given to church-wardens to search all suspected places where books might be concealed . Great multitudes suffered in consequence of these tyrannical laws . But the non-conformists were further molested . They were forbidden to assemble together to read the Scriptures and pray , but were required to attend regularly the churches of the Establishment , on penalty of heavy fines for neglect . At length , worried , disgusted , and irritated , they resolved upon setting up the Genevan service , and upon withdrawing entirely from the Church of England . The separation , once made , ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Puritans soon after opposed the claims of bishops as a superior order of the clergy . They were opposed to the temporal dignities annexed to the episcopal office to the titles and office of archdeacons , deans , and chapters ; to the jurisdiction of spiritual courts ; to the promiscuous access of all persons to the communion ; to the liturgy ; to the prohibition , in the public service of prayer , by the clergyman himself ; to the use of godfathers and godmothers ; to the custom of confirmation ; to the cathedral worship and organs ; to pluralities and non-residency ; to the observance of Lent and of the holy days ; and to the appointment of ministers by the crown , bishops , or lay patrons , instead of election by the people . The schism was now complete , and had grown out of such small differences as refusing to bow at the name of Jesus , and to use the cross in baptism . In our times , the Puritans would have been permitted to worship God in their own way , but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Religious toleration was not then understood or practised ; and it was the fault of the age , since the Puritans themselves , when they obtained the power , persecuted with great severity the Quakers and the Catholics . But , during the whole reign of Elizabeth , especially the life of Archbishop Parker , they were in a minority , and suffered  --  as minorities ever have suffered  --  all the miseries which unreasonable majorities could inflict . Sidenote : Archbishops Grindal and Whitgift . Archbishop Grindal , who succeeded Parker in 1575 , recommended milder measures to the queen ; but she had no charity for those who denied the supremacy of her royal conscience . Grindal was succeeded , in 1583 , by Dr. Whitgift , the antagonist of the learned Dr. Cartwright , and he proved a ruler of the church according to her majesty 's mind . He commenced a most violent crusade against the non-conformists , and was so harsh , cruel , and unreasonable , that Cecil  --  Lord Burleigh  --  was obliged to remonstrate , being much more enlightened than the prelate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " your twenty-four articles , and I find them so curiously penned , that I think that the Spanish Inquisition used not so many questions to entrap the priests . " Nevertheless fines , imprisonment , and the gibbet continued to do their work in the vain attempt to put down opinions , till within four or five years of the queen 's death when there was a cessation of persecution . Sidenote : Persecution under James . Sidenote : Puritans in Exile . But the Scottish Solomon , as James was called , renewed the severity which Elizabeth found it wise to remit . Hitherto , the Puritans had been chiefly Presbyterians ; but now the Independents arose , who carried their views still further , even to wildness and radicalism . They were stricter Calvinists , and inclined to republican views of civil government . Consequently , they were still more odious than were the Presbyterians to an arbitrary government . They were now persecuted for their doctrines of faith , as well as for their forms of worship . The Church of England retained the thirty-nine articles ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Arminius , and among them was the primate himself . So strictly were Arminian doctrines cherished , that no person under a dean was permitted to discourse on predestination , election , reprobation , efficacy , or universality of God 's grace . And the king himself would hear no doctrines preached , except those he had condemned at the synod of Dort . But this act was aimed against the Puritans , who , of all parties , were fond of preaching on what was called " the Five Points of Calvinism . " But they paid dearly for their independence . James absolutely detested them , regarded them as a sect insufferable in a well-governed commonwealth , and punished them with the greatest severity . Their theological doctrines , their notions of church government , and , above all , their spirit of democratic liberty , were odious and repulsive . Archbishop Bancroft , who succeeded Whitgift in 1604 , went beyond all his predecessors in bigotry , but had not their commanding intellects . His measures were so injudicious , so vexatious , so annoying , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if possible , still more estranged . With the popular discontents , and with the progress of persecution , their numbers increased , both in Scotland and England . With the increase of Puritanism was also a corresponding change in the Church of England , since ceremony and forms increased almost to a revival of Catholicism . And this reaction towards Rome , favored by the court , incensed still more the Puritans , and led to language unnecessarily violent and abusive on their side . Their controversial tracts were pervaded with a spirit of bitterness and treason which , in the opinion of James , fully justified the imprisonments , fines , and mutilations which his minister inflicted . The Puritans , in despair , fled to Holland , and from thence to New England , to establish , amid its barren hills and desolate forests , that worship which alone they thought would be acceptable to God . Persecution elevated them , and none can deny that they were characterized by moral virtues and a spirit of liberty which no people ever before or since exhibited . Almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many good people who did not join their ranks . James 's death did not remit their sufferings ; but , by this time , they had so multiplied that they became a party too formidable to be crushed . The High Commission Court and the Star Chamber still filled the prisons and pillories with victims ; but every sentence of these courts fanned the flame of discontent , and hastened the catastrophe which was rapidly approaching . The volcano , over whose fearful brink the royal family and the haughty hierarchy were standing , was now sending forth those frightful noises which indicated approaching convulsions . During the years that Charles dispensed with the parliaments , when Laud was both minister and archbishop , the persecution reached its height , and also popular discontent . During this period , the greatest emigration was made to New England , and even Hampden and Cromwell contemplated joining their brethren in America . Arianism and Popery advanced with Puritanism , and all parties prepared for the approaching contest . The advocates of royal usurpation became more unreasonable , the friends of popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , exercised it without reflection . The history of the times is simply this  --  despotism striving to put Puritanism and liberty beneath its feet , and Puritanism aiming to subvert the crown . But the greatest commotions were in Scotland , where the people were generally Presbyterians ; and it was the zeal of Archbishop Laud in suppressing these , and attempting to change the religion of the land , which precipitated the ruin of Charles I. Sidenote : Troubles in Scotland . Ever since the time of Knox , Scotland had been the scene of violent religious animosities . In that country , the reformation , from the first , had been a popular movement . It was so impetuous , and decided under the guidance of the uncompromising Knox , that even before the dethronement of Mary , it was complete . In the year 1592 , through the influence of Andrew Melville , the Presbyterian government was fairly established , and King James is said to have thus expressed himself : " I praise God that I was born in the time of the light of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ king of the purest kirk in the world . " The Church of Scotland , however , had severe struggles from the period of its institution , 1560 , to the year 1584 , when the papal influence was finally destroyed by the expulsion of the earl of Arran from the councils of the young king . Nor did these struggles end even there . James , perceiving that Episcopacy was much more consonant with monarchy than Presbyterianism , attempted to remodel the Scottish church on the English basis , which attempt resulted in discontent and rebellion . James , however , succeeded in reducing to contempt the general assemblies of the Presbyterian church , and in confirming Archbishop Spotswood in the chief administration of ecclesiastical affairs , which , it must be confessed , were regulated with great prudence and moderation . When Charles came to the throne , he complained of the laxity of the Scotch primate , and sent him a set of rules by which he was to regulate his conduct . Charles also added new dignities to his see , and ordained that he , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which irritated the proud Scotch nobility . He moreover contemplated the recovery of tithes and church lands for the benefit of the Episcopal government , and the imposition of a liturgy on the Scotch nation , a great majority of whom were Presbyterians . This was the darling scheme of Laud , who believed that there could scarcely be salvation out of his church , and which church he strove to make as much like the Catholic as possible , and yet maintain independence of the pope . But nothing was absolutely done towards changing the religion of Scotland until Charles came down to Edinburgh ( 1633 ) to be crowned , when a liturgy was prepared for the Scotch nation , subjected to the revision of Laud , but which was not submitted to or seen by , the General Assembly , or any convocation of ministers in Scotland . Nothing could be more ill timed or ill judged than this conflict with the religious prejudices of a people zealously attached to their own forms of worship . The clergy united with the aristocracy , and both with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his ministers as tyrannical and unjust . The canons , especially , which Laud had prepared , were , in the eyes of the Scotch , puerile and superstitious ; they could not conceive why a Protestant prelate should make so much account of the position of the font or of the communion table , turned into an altar . Indeed , his liturgy was not much other than an English translation of the Roman Missal , and excited the detestation of all classes . Yet it was resolved to introduce it into the churches , and the day was fixed for its introduction , which was Easter Sunday , 1637 . But such a ferment was produced , that the experiment was put off to Sunday , 23d of July . On that day , the archbishops and bishops , lords of session , and magistrates were all present , by command , in the Church of St. Giles . But no sooner had the dean opened the service book , and begun to read out of it , than the people , who had assembled in great crowds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Edinburgh , who was to preach , stepped into the pulpit , and attempted to appease the tumultuous people . But this increased the tumult , when an old woman , seizing a stool , hurled it at the bishop 's head . Sticks , stones , and dirt followed the stool , with loud cries of " Down with the priest of Baal ! " " A pape , a pape ! " " Antichrist ! " " Pull him down ! " This was the beginning of the insurrection , which spread from city to village , until all Scotland was in arms , and Episcopacy , as an established religion , was subverted . In February , 1638 , the covenant was drawn up in Edinburgh , and was subscribed to by all classes , in all parts of Scotland ; and , in November , the General Assembly met in Glasgow , the first that had been called for twenty years , and Presbyterianism was reestablished in the kingdom , if not legally , yet in reality . From the day on which the Convocation opened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kirk reigned supreme , there being no power in the government , or in the country , able or disposed to resist or question its authority . This was the golden age of Presbyterianism , when the clergy enjoyed autocratic power  --  a sort of Druidical ascendency over the minds and consciences of the people , in affairs temporal as well as spiritual . Sidenote : Peculiarities of Puritanism in England . Puritanism did not pervade the English , as it did the Scotch mind , although it soon obtained an ascendency . Most of the great political chieftains who controlled the House of Commons , and who clamored for the death of Strafford and Laud , were Puritans . But they were not all Presbyterians . In England , after the flight of the king from Whitehall , the Independents attracted notice , and eventually seized the reins of government . Cromwell was an Independent . The difference between these two sects was chiefly in their views about government , civil and ecclesiastical . Both Presbyterians and Independents were rigid Calvinists , practised a severe morality , were opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observed the Sabbath , and attached great importance to the close observance of the Mosaic ritual . The Presbyterians were not behind the Episcopalians in hatred of sects and a free press . They had their model of worship , and declared it to be of divine origin . They looked upon schism as the parent of licentiousness , insisted on entire uniformity , maintained the divine right of the clergy to the management of ecclesiastical affairs , and claimed the sword of the magistrate to punish schismatics and heretics . They believed in the union of church and state , but would give the clergy the ascendency they possessed in the Middle Ages . They did not desire the entire prostration of royal authority , but only aimed to limit and curtail it . The Independents wished a total disruption of church and state , and disliked synods almost as much as they did bishops . They believed that every congregation was a distinct church , and had a right to elect the pastor . They preferred the greatest variety of sects to the ascendency of any one , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts , and claimed the right of each church to reject , punish , or receive members . In politics , they wished a total overthrow of the government  --  monarchy , aristocracy , and prelacy ; and were averse to any peace which did not secure complete toleration of opinions , and the complete subversion of the established order of things . Sidenote : Conflicts among the Puritans . Between the Presbyterians and the Independents , therefore , there could not be any lasting sympathy or alliance . They only united to crush the common foe ; and , when Charles was beheaded , and Cromwell installed in power , they turned their arms against each other . The great religious contest , after the rise of Cromwell , was not between the Puritans and the Episcopalians , but between the different sects of Puritans themselves . At first , the Independents harmonized with the Presbyterians . Their theological and ethical opinions were the same , and both cordially hated and despised the government of the Stuarts . But when the Presbyterians obtained the ascendency , the Independents were grieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the parent of all heresy and schism . While in power , the Presbyterians shackled the press , and their intolerance brought out John Milton 's famous tract on the liberty of unlicensed printing  --  one of the most masterly arguments which the advocates of freedom have ever made . The idea that any dominant religious sect should be incorporated with the political power , was the fatal error of Presbyterianism , and raised up enemies against it , after the royal power was suppressed . Cromwell was persuaded that the cause of religious liberty would be lost unless Presbyterianism , as well as Episcopacy , was disconnected with the state ; and hence one great reason of his assuming the dictatorship . And he granted a more extended toleration than had before been known in England , although it was not perfect . The Catholics and the Quakers were not partakers of the boon which he gave to his country ; so hard is it for men to learn the rights of others , when they have power in their own hands . Sidenote : Character of the Puritans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general swarm of sectaries which an age of unparalleled religious excitement had produced . It is difficult to conceive of the intensity of the passions which inflamed all parties of religious disputants . But if the Puritan contest developed fanatical zeal , it also brought out the highest qualities of mind and heart which any age has witnessed . With all the faults and weaknesses of the Puritans , there never lived a better class of men ,  --  men of more elevated piety , more enlarged views , or greater disinterestedness , patriotism , and moral worth . They made sacrifices which our age can scarcely appreciate , and had difficulties to contend with which were unparalleled in the history of reform . They made blunders which approximated to crimes , but they made them in their inexperience and zeal to promote the cause of religion and liberty . They were conscientious men  --  men who acted from the fear of God , and with a view to promote the highest welfare of future generations . They launched their bark boldly upon an unknown sea , and heroically endured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immortal blessings on their children and country . More prudent men would have avoided the perils of an unknown navigation ; but , by such men , a great experiment for humanity would not have been tried . It may have failed , but the world has learned immortal wisdom from the failure . But the Puritans were not mere adventurers or martyrs . They have done something of lasting benefit to mankind , and they have done this by the power of faith , and by loyalty to their consciences , perverted as they were in some respects . The Puritans were not agreeable companions to the idle , luxurious , or frivolous ; they were rigid ever , to austerity ; their expressions degenerated into cant , and they were hostile to many innocent amusements . But these were peculiarities which furnished subjects of ridicule merely , and did not disgrace or degrade them . These were a small offset to their moral wisdom , their firm endurance , their elevation of sentiment , their love of liberty , and their fear of God . Such are the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect great and useful reforms . * * * * * We now return to consider the changes which they attempted in government . The civil war , of which Cromwell was the hero , now claims our attention . The refusal of the governor of Hull to admit the king was virtually the declaration of war , for which both parties had vigorously prepared . The standard of the king was first raised in Nottingham , while the head-quarters of the parliamentarians were in London . The first action of any note was the battle of Edge Hill , ( October 23 , 1642 , ) but was undecisive . Indeed , both parties hesitated to plunge into desperate war , at least until , by skirmishings and military manoeuvres , they were better prepared for it . The forces of the belligerents , at this period , were nearly equal but the parliamentarians had the ablest leaders . It was the misfortune of the king to have no man of commanding talents , as his counsellor , after the arrest of Strafford . Hyde , afterwards lord chancellor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royalist party . Falkland and Culpeper were also eminent men ; but neither of them was the equal of Pym or Hampden . Sidenote : John Hampden . The latter was doubtless the ablest man in England at this time , and the only one who could have saved it from the evils which afterwards afflicted it . On him the hopes and affections of the nation centred . He was great in council and great in debate . He was the acknowledged leader of the House of Commons . He was eloquent , honest , unwearied , sagacious , and prudent . " Never had a man inspired a nation with greater confidence : the more moderate had faith in his wisdom ; the more violent in his devoted patriotism ; the more honest in his uprightness ; the more intriguing in his talents . " He spared neither his fortune nor his person , as soon as hostilities were inevitable . He subscribed two thousand pounds to the public cause , took a colonel 's commission , and raised a regiment of infantry , so well known during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its intrepid leader ,  --  " Vestigia nulla retrorsum . " He possessed the talents of a great statesman and a great general , and all the united qualities requisite for the crisis in which he appeared  --  " the valor and energy of Cromwell , the discernment and eloquence of Vane , the humanity and moderation of Manchester , the stern integrity of Hale , the ardent public spirit of Sydney . Others could conquer ; he alone could reconcile . A heart as bold as his brought up the cuirassiers who turned the tide of battle on Marston Moor . As skilful an eye as his watched the Scottish army descending from the heights over Dunbar . But it was when , to the sullen tyranny of Laud and Charles , had succeeded the fierce conflict of sects and factions , ambitious of ascendency , and burning for revenge ; it was when the vices and ignorance , which the old tyranny had generated , threatened the new freedom with destruction , that England missed that sobriety , that self-command , that perfect soundness of judgment , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutions furnishes no parallel , or furnishes a parallel in Washington alone . " 1 Footnote 1 : Macaulay . Sidenote : Oliver Cromwell . This great man was removed by Providence from the scene of violence and faction at an early period of the contest . He was mortally wounded in one of those skirmishes in which the detachments of both armies had thus far engaged , and which made the campaigns of 1642-3 so undecided , so tedious , and so irritating  --  campaigns in which the generals of both armies reaped no laurels , and which created the necessity for a greater genius than had thus far appeared . That genius was Oliver Cromwell . At the battle of Edge Hill he was only captain of a troop of horse , and at the death of his cousin Hampden , he was only colonel . He was indeed a member of the Long Parliament , as was Hampden , and had secured the attention of the members in spite of his slovenly appearance and his incoherent , though earnest speeches . Under his rough and clownish exterior , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three penetrating intellects ; but they were shortly to appear , and to be developed , not in the House of Commons , but on the field of battle . The rise of Oliver Cromwell can scarcely be dated until the death of John Hampden ; nor were the eyes of the nation fixed on him , as their deliverer , until some time after . The Earl of Essex was still the commander of the forces , while the Earl of Bedford , Lord Manchester , Lord Fairfax , Skippon , Sir William Waller , Leslie , and others held high posts . Cromwell was still a subordinate ; but genius breaks through all obstacles , and overleaps all boundaries . The time had not yet come for the exercise of his great military talents . The period of negotiation had not fully passed , and the king , at his head-quarters at Oxford , " that seat of pure , unspotted loyalty , " still hoped to amuse the parliament , gain time , and finally overwhelm its forces . Prince Rupert  --  brave , ardent , reckless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage . The parliament was perplexed and the people were disappointed . On the whole , the king 's forces were in the ascendant , and were augmenting ; while plots and insurrections were constantly revealing to the parliamentarians the dangers which threatened them . Had not an able leader , at this crisis , appeared among the insurgents , or had an able general been given to Charles , it is probable that the king would have secured his ends ; for popular enthusiasm without the organization which a master spirit alone can form , soon burns itself out . Sidenote : The King at Oxford . The state of the contending parties , from the battle of Edge Hill , for nearly two years , was very singular and very complicated . The king remained at Oxford , distracted by opposing counsels , and perplexed by various difficulties . The head-quarters of his enemies , at London , were no less the seat of intrigues and party animosities . The Presbyterians were the most powerful , and were nearly as distrustful of the Independents as they were of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as they did a defeat by him , and the dissensions among the various sects and leaders were no secret in the royalist camp , and doubtless encouraged Charles in his endless intrigues and dissimulations . But he was not equal to decisive measures , and without them , in revolutionary times , any party must be ruined . While he was meditating and scheming , he heard the news of an alliance between Scotland and the parliament , in which the Presbyterian interest was in the ascendency . This was the first great blow he received since the commencement of the war , and the united forces of his enemies now resolved upon more vigorous measures . At the opening of the campaign , the parliament had five armies  --  that of the Scots , of twenty-one thousand ; that of Essex , ten thousand five hundred ; that of Waller , five thousand one hundred ; that of Manchester , fourteen thousand ; and that of Fairfax , five thousand five hundred  --  in all , about fifty-six thousand men , of whom the committee of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Essex and Waller invested Oxford , while Fairfax , Manchester , and the Scots met under the walls of York . Thus these two great royalist cities were attacked at once by all the forces of parliament . Charles , invested by a stronger force , and being deprived of the assistance of the princes , Rupert and Maurice , his nephews , who were absent on their marauding expeditions , escaped from Oxford , and proceeded towards Exeter . In the mean time , he ordered Prince Rupert to advance to the relief of York , which was defended by the marquis of Newcastle . The united royalist army now amounted to twenty-six thousand men , with a numerous and well appointed cavalry ; and this great force obliged the armies of the parliament to raise the siege of York . Had Rupert been contented with this success , and intrenched himself in the strongest city of the north of England , he and Newcastle might have maintained their ground ; but Rupert , against the advice of Newcastle , resolved on an engagement with the parliamentary generals , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ouse , five miles from the city . The next day after the relief of York was fought the famous battle of Marston Moor , ( July 2 , 1644 , ) the bloodiest in the war , which resulted in the entire discomfiture of the royalist forces , and the ruin of the royal interests at the north . York was captured in a few days . Rupert retreated to Lancashire to recruit his army , and Newcastle , disgusted with Rupert , and with the turn affairs had taken , withdrew beyond seas . The Scots soon stormed the town of Newcastle , and the whole north of England fell into the hands of the victors . Sidenote : Cromwell after the Battle . Sidenote : Enthusiasm of the Independents . This great battle was decided by the ability of Cromwell , now lieutenant-general in the army of the parliament . He had distinguished himself in all subordinate stations , in the field of battle , in raising forces , and in councils of war , for which he had been promoted to serve as second under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not apparent to the parliament until the battle of Marston Moor , and on him the eyes of the nation now began to be centred . He was now forty-five years of age , in the vigor of his manhood , burning with religious enthusiasm , and eager to deliver his country from the tyranny of Charles I. , and of all kings . He was an Independent and a radical , opposed to the Episcopalians , to the Presbyterians , to the Scots , to all moderate men , to all moderate measures , to all jurisdiction in matters of religion , and to all authority in political affairs , which did not directly emanate from the people , who were called upon to regulate themselves by their individual reason . He was the idol of the Independent party , which now began to gain the ascendency in that stormy crisis . For three years , the Presbyterians had been in the ascendant , but had not realized the hopes or expectations of the enthusiastic advocates of freedom . By turns imperious and wavering , fanatical and moderate , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruin him ; to depress Episcopacy , but to establish another religion by the sword of the magistrate . Their leaders were timid , insincere , and disunited ; few among them had definite views respecting the future government of the realm : and they gradually lost the confidence of the nation . But the Independents reposed fearlessly on the greatness and grandeur of their abstract principles , and pronounced , without a scruple , those potent words which kindled a popular enthusiasm  --  equality of rights , the just distribution of property , and the removal of all abuses . Above all , they were enthusiasts in religion , as well as in liberty , and devoutly attached to the doctrines of Calvin . They abominated all pleasures and pursuits which diverted their minds from the contemplation of God , or the reality of a future state . Cromwell himself lived in the ecstasy of religious excitement . His language was the language of the Bible , and its solemn truths were not dogmas , but convictions to his ardent mind . In the ardor of his zeal and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of England were to rise in simultaneous confederation , shake off all the old shackles of priests and kings , and be governed in all their actions , by the principles of the Bible . A sort of Jewish theocracy was to be restored on earth , and he was to be the organ of the divine will , as was Joshua of old , when he led the Israelites against the pagan inhabitants of the promised land . Up to this time , no inconsistencies disgraced him . His prayers and his exhortations were in accordance with his actions , and the most scrutinizing malignity could attribute nothing to him but sincerity and ardor in the cause which he had so warmly espoused . As magistrate , as member of parliament , as farmer , or as general , he slighted no religious duties , and was devoted to the apparent interests of England . Such a man , so fervent , enthusiastic , honest , patriotic , and able , of course was pointed out as a future leader , especially when his great military talents were observed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he became the most marked and influential man in England . Hampden had offered up his life as a martyr , and Pym , the great lawyer and statesman , had died from exhaustion . Essex had won no victory commensurate with the public expectations , and Waller lost his army by desertions and indecisive measures . Both Essex and Manchester , with their large estates , their aristocratic connections , and their Presbyterian sympathies , were afraid of treating the king too well . The battle of Newbury , which shortly after was gained by the parliamentarians , was without decisive results , in consequence of the indecision of Manchester . The parliament and the nation looked for another leader , who would pursue his advantages , and adopt more vigorous measures . At this point , the Presbyterians would have made peace with the king , who still continued his insincere negotiations ; but it was too late . The Independents had gained the ascendency , and their voice was for war  --  no more dallying , no more treaties , no more half measures , but uncompromising war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Independents must be the absolute rulers of England . Then was passed ( April 3 , 1645 ) the famous Self-Denying Ordinance , by which all members of parliament were excluded from command in the army , an act designed to get rid of Essex and Manchester , and prepare the way for the elevation of Cromwell . Sir Thomas Fairfax was appointed to the supreme command , and Cromwell was despatched into the inland counties to raise recruits . But it was soon obvious that the army could do nothing without him , although it was remodelled and reenforced ; and even Fairfax and his officers petitioned parliament that Cromwell might be appointed lieutenant-general again , and commander-in-chief of the horse ; which request was granted , and Cromwell rejoined the army , of which he was its hope and idol . Sidenote : Battle of Naseby . He joined it in time to win the most decisive battle of the war , the battle of Naseby , June 14 , 1645 . The forces of both armies were nearly balanced , and the royalists were commanded by the king @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rout of the king 's forces was complete , his fortunes were prostrated , and he was driven , with the remnants of his army , from one part of the kingdom to the other , while the victorious parliamentarians were filled with exultation and joy . Cromwell , however , was modest and composed , and ascribed the victory to the God of battles , whose servant , he fancied , he preeminently was . Sidenote : Success of the Parliamentary Army . The parliamentary army continued its successes . Montrose gained the battle of Alford ; Bridgewater surrendered to Fairfax ; Glasgow and Edinburgh surrendered to Montrose ; Prince Rupert was driven from Bristol , and , as the king thought , most disgracefully , which misfortune gave new joy to the parliament , and caused new thanksgivings from Cromwell , who gained the victory . From Bristol , the army turned southward , and encountered what royalist force there was in that quarter , stormed Bridgewater , drove the royalist generals into Cornwall , took Winchester , battered down Basing House , rich in provisions , ammunition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes of the king in the south of England . Charles fled from Oxford , secretly , to join the Scottish army . By the 24th of June , 1646 , all the garrisons of England and Wales , except those in the north , were in the hands of the parliament . In July , the parliament sent their final propositions to the king at Newcastle , which were extremely humiliating , and which he rejected . Negotiations were then entered into between the parliament and the Scots , which were long protracted , but which finally ended in an agreement , by the Scots , to surrender the king//                     