@@7799

Calvert , George Henry , 1803-1889 : WASHINGTON . from A nation 's birth ( 1876 ) I. THE RIVER . The wooded banks are silent each to each , Far sundered as by rounding lake ; To grasp the tideful flood 's ambitious reach The heavens a dim horizon make : Fitly these woven grandeurs feed Moods which a mighty presence here doth breed . The fires of spring are kindled on the shores : Cherry and dogwood flame in white ; Blossoms in green the life from sassafras cores ; But warmest is the redbud 's light : To each a deeper glow results From his soul 's heat who ruleth now my pulse . Its hungry flanks the cork-buoyed seine spreads wide ; The boatman 's call is heard afar ; The distant craft like friendly spectres glide ; But all to me transfigured are : For over all himself impends ; To each his worth benignant blessing lends . Potomac ! great thou art from thy great flood ; Greater as seat of empire vast ; But greatest , that thy breezes nursed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For whom aye sacred shalt thou be , With Avon , Tibur , holiest Galilee . II . THE SALUTE . Once more in hardy conflict met The mother proud and daughter bold , To slay and mangle , fright and fret ,  --  A quarrel that was new and old . For England , rankling with the past , And angered at our forward port , Insult and taunt upon us cast , Which first awakened no retort ; For ours are arms of puissant peace , The axe than sword we rather wield , And take our joy in sure increase By thoughtful work in shop and field But England pushed her will so far , She threatened very freedom 's life : Then flung we loose the flag of war , And leapt resolved into the strife ; Where unknit thews such buffets dealt , The unshaken giant heaved with groans , And England , startled , bodeful felt More than her marrow in our bones . That through the Capital was heard A foeman 's drum , to us was shame ; Deeper to England , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of flaring roofs in haste Her prows and banners seaward turned ; And on Potomac 's broadening waste A frigate 's signals fearless burned . Descending , she with proud disdain Anchored abreast a threatening fort ; Then stormy poured her iron rain , That shook the shores with far report . The fort 's resistance quickly slept : Dark scornful , on her downward path Again the frigate silent swept ; Wrath that she could not slake her wrath . Summer still warmed the autumn wind , And verdure shared with reddening tints The leafy wealth , and breezes kind Shook on the water tenderest prints , As with her shade that westward swept , With spars and masts sail-crested all , The frowning frigate mutely crept , Like goblin through a festival . " Whose house stands there ? "  --  And he , thus asked , Answered , " Mount Vernon . " By the name The Captain 's recollection tasked  --  " The home of Washington ? " " The same . " " And lies he buried there ? " The words Stooped , laden with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hymn the birds , There is the body 's still abode . " His eyes grew deeper . By degrees , As one with vast imaginings Possest , who in high distance sees Resplendent forms of palmy things , An earnest joy perfused his face : Unconsciously his cap he raised With a religious knightly grace , As , inward wrought , afar he gazed . " Beat to quarters . " The order flew Swift to the hot pugnacious drum , At whose loved voice upsprang the crew , Thinking another fight was come . But soon ' t was whispered ' mong the men , When each stood braced beside his gun , That death was not their duty then , But calm salute to Washington . By the strong cannon 's measured speech Was tamed the roughness of their pride , As wrinkles on a wintry beach By sounding blows from landward tide . And when had passed the smoke away Passed too was hate and scorn and wrath : Within her breast for night was day , As swam the frigate down her path . His holy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brave : A mighty conqueror in his life , A mightier is he in his grave . III . TRIBUTE . Sublimer man than ever threw To eager Time a virgin name ,  --  So greatly pure it quickly grew The wisest monitor of fame ; A nation 's breath is breath of thine , Commingled at each human birth : Of our vast freedom 's life the wine Is draughts from thy deep manly worth . The robust beauty of one life Tingles in each unfolding heart , A strength forever in the strife Of right ' gainst wrong 's compulsive art . Sublimest man of all the years , The years are proud to walk with thee : On Time 's hoar brow thy greatness rears His crown of lordliest majesty . 1858.                     