@@7475

Sill , Edward Rowland , 1841-1887 : Many-rippling laughter comes from Poems , in Decennial record ( 1872 ) Air  --  " Twinkling Stars . " Many-rippling laughter comes , From the hoary sea ; In their rock-roofed crystal homes , Sea nymphs smile their sympathy ; While with careless joy we raise To the sky each heart-felt tone ; While we sing thy lasting praise Noble class of Sixty-one ! Chorus  --  Ever shine as bright as now Noble Sixty-one ! Glories crown thy radiant brow , Now Biennial is done . Voices from the echoing rocks Peal along the cry , Trees unbowed by tempest shocks Thrill their leaves in sympathy ; Waves in low , sad accents sing On the melancholy shore , While our joyful voices ring Now Biennial is o'er . Chorus  --  Ever shine as bright as now , etc . Bound by ties of brotherhood Clasping hand in hand , Long our golden chains have stood  --  All our life they yet shall stand ; Many a threatening blow has come Trying hard those links to part , Still as first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to heart . Chorus  --  Ever shine as bright , etc . From the beaming sky above , Stars look calmly down , Soothing with their smile of love All the roughness of night 's frown ; So the stars of Love and Trust , Shed their fairy , golden light Through the gath'ring of life 's dust , Through the frowning of life 's night . Chorus  --  Ever shine as bright as now Noble Sixty-one , Glories crown thy radiant brow , Now Biennial is done . Sill , Edward Rowland , 1841-1887 : Juniors here from Poems , in Decennial record ( 1872 ) Air  --  " Nellie Bly . " Juniors here , Round the bier , Let us chant our woe , Sophomore year is dead and gone , And fast the tear-drops flow . For thy Face , Bi- Ennial ! we pine ; For thy sleep of death we weep These cataracts of brine . Let our tunes , Jolly Junes , Shake the elms o'erhead ; Bawl and bellow every fel- ( 1 ) O , Sophomore year is dead ! Softly Sing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t is past , we roar at last , Biennials are o'er . Now we 're out , Raise the shout , Hurrah for ' 61 ! The siege is raised , for , Heaven be praised ! Biennials are done ! Out , men ! Shout , then ; Let the chorus ring . Lungs were made to use , boys , And songs were made to sing . Cherished ever , Never , never Can our friendship fail For each other and our mother  --  Alma Mater  --  Yale . Louder , then , Once again Swell the sounding song , Till full and free , far out to sea , The echoes roll along . Though we say " Good-bye , " to-day , Wheresoe'er we sail , We 'll wake the echoes long and loud , Of Yale , our dear old Yale . Singing , Ringing , Tones shall never fail , As we bare to every air The flag of brave old Yale .                     