@@510566

THE JUDICIAL RECORD OF THE LATE CHIEF JUSTICE . qwq achieve distinction in the field of statesmanship , and has thns enlarged his views of the functions of government and its relations to society , and gained a broader knowledge of the attributes and office of the law , is thereby further recommended for the bench , and entitled to claim special merit and fitness3 and that exclusion from the bench for political reasons should extend only to mere politicians , whose public repntations are in no part founded upon or owing to any distinction at the bar or in the lore and science of the law , and not to those who are equal to the greatest as jurists , and wise over all as statesmen . An unanswerable argument , derived from experience , in favor of this position is the judicial record of the three Chief Justices whose names have been mentioned . They were all , when appointed , politicians ; or , to use the word in its higher acceptation , they were all statesmen , without other than professional reputations as jurists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rare qualities which distinguish the great judge , nor exceeded in the high attainments which are his qualification . Learned in the law they were , and equally learned in politics , in literature , and in the sciences . Without the first accomplishment they would not have consented to accept the place , and without the others they would not have shone so conspicuously in it . The great reputations they earned as judges were , without doubt , due , more than to all other causes , to their profound knowledge of the world , and practical acquaintance with the details of government , obtained in the public service as representatives of the people , and as officers and ministers of state . In the various political stations which they filled they acquired that intimate knowledge of the workings of our complex system of government , of the relations of the several co-ordinate branches to each other , and of the whole to the States which compose it , which enabled them as judges so to adjust the net-work of the fabric-the law  --  and so to apply its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and give effect to all those constitutional checks and balances which were devised and intended by the framers to produce and secure a proper equilibrium of power , and thus insure duration  --  the primary object of all government . And it is owing to the general deficiency in such public knowledge on the part of the judges of the inferior courts , both State and Federal , that we have the frequent conflict of jurisdiction between the authorities they respectively represent , from which the Union has suffered so much in the past , and has so much to fear in the future . On the one hand , a Federal question is not recognized where it exists ; and , on the other hand , one is seen where it does not exist . Jurisdiction is assumed and exercised in both cases , judgment is entered , and the result is a certain clash in the execution , if the right has a champion , and , if not , the inevitable enforcement of error . The judges are , in many instances , remarkable only for their unfitness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues of their obscure tribunals form part of a vast system of jurisprudence which , in some form and in some degree , is affected by their determinations , but proceed as if their jurisdiction was independent and final , and their decisions direct emanations from the fountain of*ustice . Never was a man , with or without judicial training , assigned a more difficult trust , at a more critical period , than was confided to the late Chief Justice by his appointment as head of the judiciary of the United States . And few have brought to the performance of grave judicial duty higher discretion and firmness , greater ability and moderation , or serener self-possession than did he . These enabled him from the first to fulfill promptly every requirement of the position , and to bear himself as one accustomed to its restraints . He was at home in the traditional gown from the day he took his seat , and his manner was as of one " always and altogether a judge . " Although Mr. Chase had never claimed great distinction as a lawyer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jurist by those acquainted with his professional career and competent to judge . And being endowed with physical strength equal to his mental energy , he was no sooner commissioned than he entered upon the work of preparation with all the application of which he was capable , and with a firm resolution to do honor to the place , rather than to be honored by it . With this determination he studied the best models of judicial style , familiarized himself with any principle of law his practice had not encountered , and mastered the practice , rules , and decisions of the tribunal over which he was to preside . And so well did he accomplish the task that the bar of the court and his brethren on the bench were astonished to find his opinions at once , as one of the latter has expressed it , " models of judicial excellence . " His knowledge of every department of the law was discovered to be deep and profound , and his acquaintance with precedents wide as the range of decisions . This was early remarked-so early that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this paper first became familiar with the affairs of the court , the fact was already the wonder of the profession , and the exclamation of his late political associates . It is clear , from a close comparison of styles , that , unless nature endowed them with such similar mental organizations as to beget in their , minds like processes of reasoning , his // immediate predecessor , Chief Justice Taney , was his chosen model , and that from habitual study of his works he imbibed from him a manner of judicial composition strikingly identical . There is in their judicial writings the same succinct statement of facts , the same directness in dealing with the main question in a case , and care to avoid irrelevant and immaterial matters suggested in the argument . There is the same skill in grouping , and order in arranging the subjects of discussion , and the same faculty of marshaling conclusions so that they swell and increase in momentum as the opinion proceeds , and culminate in convincing logic as it concludes . There is the same elegance of diction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing from subject to subject . There is the same concentration , the sa me precision and power , and a like absence of abruptness , coarseness , and incongruity . There isno assertion , no declamation , no prolixity , but , in brief , the presence and absence of every thing required to make their opinions exact parallels ofjudicial completeness and intellectual mastery . It is not clalined that this eminent jurist was his special study , admiration , and example because he did not find great excellence elsewhere-for to do so would be to do injustice to his estimate of others , and violence to truth  --  but because Mr. Taney 's terse , unimaginative style peculiarly recommended itself to his taste as a forcible and compact form of expression for judicial utterances , better adapted to the uses of reason and logic than the more rhetorical and embellished forms . Marshall was also an ideal of his of what a judge should be ; but his more elaborate and metaphorical style had not the sympathetic charm for him which he found in the simple , synthetic sentences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own writings . Soon after Mr. Chase 's appointment he remarked to a fl'iend that he was to take the place left vacant by Marshall and Taney , and referred to them as two of the greatest judges the world had yet produced , adding that he should have to be a hard student to acquit himself creditably as their successor . But that he has acquitted himself so well , and with such distinction as will give his friends no cause to fear in this behalf , while it will give his own successor ground for apprehension lest there shall be too great a contrast in the records of the two incumbencies , is beyond doubt ; and this fact should have great weight with our good President when casting about for the proper qualifications with which to fill the place . No other position in the country bears any relation to this in importance , as the great respect of the people for the office and their reliance upon the court attest ; and if there be those who would assume it unhesitatingly , without distrust of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very persons who are not competent to its duties . The country has already suffered too much from a lamentable , humiliating , and dangerous lack of character , capacity , and integrity on the bench ; and it is shown by experience that these failings commonly go together , and are to be found associated in the same person . And of the two , the failure of judicial integrity is least to be feared , for it is readily detected , and is always guarded against ; but a lack of capacity is the more to be dreaded , because , unless absolutely disqualifying , it is never remedied , and constantly weakens and discredits the canons of the law . Concise language and perspicuity in the statement of premises and conclusions were the glory of the common-lawjurists , and have immortalized many names in the annals of judicature . And these excellences of style and brevity should be the emulation of those in our country who are charged with the interpretation and application of statutory enactments , in the administration of which there is much room for misapprehension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for adjudication . But there seems to be little effort on the part of a great majority of our judges to acquire those virtues of accuracy and explicit enunciation which characterized and still adorn English jurisprudence ; and the consequence is that it is an every-day occurrence in our courts to find opposing counsel citing the same case as an authority in support of antagonistic theories , because its points are so carelessly put and its conclusions so loosely drawn that they can not be understood , and maybe construed to meet the necessities of counsel at pleasure . This is a shame to the profession which produces the bench , and to the bench , which , in turn , educates the profession . And to effect improvement in the courts of original jurisdiction it is in the highest degree essential that the appellate tribunals , and especially those of last resort , shall furnish models for their study , instruction , and elevation . In view of all this , is it possible to conceive of higher responsibility than devolves upon him who is charged with the duty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , under the elective system , if they fail to secure the best men for the bench ; for they are not fitted to judge of the qualifications of candidates and to choose between them ; and if they were , there is no adequate opportunity for conference in respect of public matters open to the mass of electors . And this is probably the secret of the judicial incompetency , grossness , and corruption which prevail in many of our large cities . But there is no apology proper to be offered for the elevation of other than the most eminent ability and unquestioned // purity to the bench , where the selection is confided to an intelligent Executive . He has at command the means of ascertaining all the necessary facts touching the fitness of tbose whose qualifications are considered , and need not fail in his duty to the public . When Mr. Chase entered upon the duties of Chief Justice the country was in the crisis of its existence . The Union was threatened with destruction by the attempted withdrawal of several of its members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes of security against a foreign foe only , and was not a voluntary bond on the part of the States to enforce their own involuntary adherence to the general government . And whether the power which had been assumed and exercised by the legislative and executive branches to coerce the seceding States , and to preserve the integrity of the Union by force , was lodged in the government by virtue of any provision or inteudment of the Constitution , was yet to be authoritatively declared by the other co-ordinate branch . Preceding and following this was a multiform variety of other questions , preliminary and resultant , scarcely less important , raised by the war , which the developments of peace had never evolved for adjudication , and which were then pressing at the bar of the court for that final determination which was to establish a memorable page of precedents for the future government of the country and guidance of the world . Among the earliest of these was a long list of prize and other cases , presenting every class of questions which could proceed from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rendered a series of decisions which alone would have placed him in the front rank of jurists , and insured a meed of fame falling to the lot of few judges , and sufficient to fill the measure of an honorable ambition . In his second year the great Milligan case was decided , although the formal opinions were not delivered until the commencement of the next term . Milligan , a citizen of Indiana , was arrested , tried , and convicted by military commission of conspiring against the government , and sentenced to be hung on the 19th of May , 1865 . Habeas corpus was issued , and the Circuit Court divided in opinion on the questions presented , and certified them to the Supreme Court for answer . Mr. Justice Davis delivered the opinion of the court , which , by its conservative character and spirit , gave him the prominence he attained as a candidate for the Presidency before the Cincinnati Conventiou . It was , in substance , that a person who is a resident of a loyal State , where he is arrested , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebellion , nor connected with the military or naval service , can not be regarded as a prisoner of war ; nor , even when the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus is suspended , be tried ( the courts being open ) otherwise than by the ordinary courts of law . The constitutional guaranty of trial by jury is intended for a state of war as well as for a state of peace ; and military commissions , organized during the late war in a State not invaded and not engaged in rebellion , in which the Federal courts are open and in the proper and unobstructed exercise of their judicial functions , had no jurisdiction to try , convict , or sentence for any criminal offense a citizen who was neither a resident of a rebellious State , nor a prisoner of war , nor a person in the military or naval service . And Congress could not invest them with any such power . To all of this the Chief Justice assented , except as to the declaration that it was not in the power of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at such a time , and except as to the conclusion that when the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus is suspended there are no cases in which trial and punishment by military commission , in States where civil courts are open , may be authorized by Congress . In a dissenting opinion as to these particulars , citing the case of Indiana as a military district and an invaded State , he said : " We can not donbt that in such a time of public danger Congress had power under the constitution to provide for the organization of a military commission , and for trial by that commission of persons engaged in the conspiracy . The fact that the Federal courts were open was regarded by Congress as a sufficient reason for not exercising the power ; but that fact could not deprive Congress of the right to exercise it . Those courts might be open and in the unobstructed exercise of their functions , and yet wholly incompetent to avert threatened danger , or to punish , with adequate promptitude and certainty , the guilty conspirators . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were loyal to the government . But it might have been otherwise . In times of rebellion and civil war it may often happen , indeed , that judges and marshals will be in active sympathy with the rebels , and courts their most efficient allies . ' Mr. Justice Davis had said in his opinion that civil liberty and this kind of martial law could not endure together-that they were in irreconcilable antagonism , and in the conflict one or the other must perish ; for the nation can not be always at peace , and has no right to expect that it will always have wise and humane rulers , sincerely attached to the principles of the Constitution ; and that the time might come when wicked and ambitious men would fill the place once occupied by Washington and Lincoln ; and if this right were conceded , and the calamities of war should befall us again , the dangers to human lijberty are frightful to contemplate ; and that if our fathers had failed to provide against just such a con tingency , 1y rendering it impos // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would have been false to the trust reposed in them . Here was . a wide difference in judicial opinion on the subject of the distribution and restriction of the powers of government under the Constitution , and upon the question of the sources of danger to the Union , aud which very evenly divided the court . The Chief Justice and three associate justices preferred to trust the exercise of a dangerous but necessary power in time of war to the Executive chosen by the whole loyal people , rather than to confide it to the discretion of a sectional tribunal which , in consequence of secret disloyalty , might decline to enforce it . And they believed the framers of the republic had entertained this view , and so constructed the organic law as to give it effect . Mr. Justice Davis and four of his associates saw no such danger of a failure of justice in the courts at such a time as would justify the investiture of the President with arbitrary authority , which was liable at any moment to be unduly exerted ; and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And is remains to be seen by future generations which is correct , the intimation of danger from executive usurpation , or the apprehension of evil from a corrupt or disloyal judiciary ; and also , by inference , which of these was the contingency foreseen and provided against by the authors of the Constitution . The decision was on the side of the judiciary ; the dissent in favor of the executive . Time only will try the conclusions . It is interesting to note in a case like this the marked influence of life associations upon the minds even of the best and wisest of men as affecting their judgments through their sympathies . Judge Davis , raised and remaining in the atmosphere of the courts , and further allied to them by a considerable judicial term , was firm in the assertion of civil jurisdiction , and quick to repel attempts at executive encroachment ; and long accustomed to combat the assumptions of the political departments , he was naturally distrustful of their tendencies and jealous of their power . The Chief Justice , although then honoring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the political departments , and became as fully imbued with their sympathies and aspirations as had Judge Davis with the spirit of the judicial department . It was equally natural , therefore , that while striving to be , and believing himself wholly unbiased , he should respond to kindred impulses , and that regarding his experience in the political departments as best qualifying him to judge of the necessity of extreme measures in conjunctures of extreme peril , and feeling that the decision was a blow to the efficiency of the government , he should be impelled to arraign the principle affirmed by a majority of the court as an insufficient postulate , and to declare his conviction that the wisdom of the founders accorded with this view , and intended that such a power should reside in the executive , and prevail in the emergency of war when the public safety reqnired it . And for the whole of his professional life having suffered defeat at the bar of the courts , by alleged judicial evasion , in attempts to gain recognition of certain political rights , now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional , it is not surprising that he should doubt the certain efficiency of the civil judiciary at any time , and for that reason withhold his assent to the proposition that it shall be sole arbiter of justice in time of public danger . Fresh from the absorbing consultations of the executive council , and conscious of its integrity and devotion to liberty , as tested by his own experience and established by results , he could not permit even its future patriotism to be questioned from the bench , without pointing out to the latter the danger of its own defection . Had it been his good fortune to live to the ripe age of his predecessor and judicial prototype , it is possible , and even prQbable , that thirty years of term routine would have deadened the old and begotten in him new sympathies , more iu harmony with the dull monotony of the bench , but less likely to inspire that wholesome interest in public questions and watchful vigilance of public affairs which preserve the animation and usefulness of the judge , renovating his mind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and comprehensiveness to his decisions . And without some attention to public matters , some interest in current events , there is danger of the approach of that destroying malady of those who would be " altogether judges , " which perhaps may be not inaptly termed judicial crystallization-a sort of metempsychosis of the mind by which it passes from the state of personal consciousness and natural sympathies to a condition of morbid abstraction and abnormal devotion , and relinquishing all other aims and aspirations as unworthy , heroically dedicates itself to the perpetual contemplation of judicial ends and essences , as if their proper study required a sacrifice , and they were arbitrary and abstract principles , perfectly ascertained , and to be uniformly applied as contained in the repositories of jndicial learning , and were not simply the collected results of human experience , reduced to systems of government and rules of conduct ever undergoing modification and change in the progress of civilization , and to // THE JUDICIAL RECORD OF THE LATE CHIEF JUSTICE . be as carefully sought and as profitably studied on the latest pages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomes of libraries whose precedents perish with their coverings along the pathway of the generations . Instances of such consecration and absorption are frequent , but the cause is generally misapprehended . That habitual absence of mind which is popularly regarded as an indication of fixed and fathoming thought , is but the listless reverie of mental ennui or enervation , proceeding with legitimate certainty from the strain of a mind unrelieved or overwrought in the investigation and exposition of exclusive subjects . Strong , active minds , invigorated by diversified thought , have no such infirmity . And busy men of the world experience no such weakness in grasping the actual of life 's concerns . It is the offspring of weariness and apathy , and wherever detected is an evidence of impaired faculties , of diminished powers , of incipient intellectual retroversion . If it would be avoided by the bench , the functions of the Judge and the faculties of the man must be equally and evenly exercised , and the senses of the body must be indulged with healthful excitement , even if in direct opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draws its inspiration from the senses , which it refines and elevates ; and when , in obedience to the behests of virtue , it seeks to gain the ascendency by denying them proper gratification , it does but waste its own vitality , weaken its power over the propensities , and by precipitating psychomachy , destroy all . To preserve incus sana rn corpore 8ano , sustain the judge and succor the man , there must be equilibrium of the mental and physical forces , and union of the judicial and personal characters . Where this rule occurs there is true greatness ; where it does not , there is chance result . Following the Milligan case came the scarcely less noted Test Oath cases from Missouri and Arkansas , which resulted in a decision against the validity of such an oath as a means of establishing the fact of loyalty , on the ground that , under the form of creating a qualification or attaching a condition , the States can not in effect inflict punishment for a past act Which was not punishable when the act was committed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requiring clergymen to take an oath that they had never given aid or comfort to or sympathized with the rebellion , as a condition precedent to their entering upon the duties of their vocation , and the act of Congress of 1865 , prescribing a similar oath to be taken by la*vyers before being permitted to practice in the Federal courts , to be in this cx post facto in their operation , and void . In these cases the Chief Justice again took the unpopular side , again leaning to the side of the government , and concurred in an opinion written by Mr. Justice Miller , maintaining that the purpose of the oath prescribed in each case was to require loyalty as a qualification , and not to punish past acts of disloyalty , and that it was therefore within the competency of State authority to impose . And it was said that the cx post facto principle which the majority of the court had discovered in the laws to be affected by their decision could " only be found in those elastic rules of construction which cramp the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercised in certain directions , and enlarge them when they are to be exercised in others . " " No more striking example of this could be given , " it was added , " than the cases before us , in one of which the Constitution of the United States is held to confer no power on Congress to prevent traitors practicing in her courts , while in the other it is held to confer power on this court to nullify a provision of the constitution of the State of Missouri . " Touching the sanctity of the ministerial office , and the inviolability of religious freedom in this country , which had been dwelt upon at length by counsel in theMissouri case , it was said that no restraint had been placed by the Constitution of the United States upon the action of the States in respect of the subject of religion ; but that , on the contrary , in the language of Judge Story , " the whole power over the subject of religion is left exclusively to the State governments , to be acted upon according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The majorityof the courthaving held that the pardon of the President relieved the petitioners from all disabilities of whatever character , the dissenting opinion , conceding the fulluesa of the pardoning power , answered that if the oath prescribed was not a punishment , but merely a requirement of loyalty , as held therein , then the pardon of the President could have no effect to relieve parties from taking it If it was a qualification which Congress and the States have a right to require , the President could not , by pardon or otherwise , dispense with the law requiring such a qualification . The writer remembers to have seen the Chief Justice by impatient gestures put away interruptions by officers of the court , and give undivided attention as the Hon. Reverdy Johnson , then a Senator , and now a private citizen , the Hon. M. H. Carpenter , then a private citizen , and now a Senator , and David Dudley Field , Esq. , then and now a private citizen , exerted their high powers in behalf of the petitioners in these cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressions of disappointment which fell from counsel when it was known by the decision that he was one of those who sustained the " oath of loyalty " in Missouri , and the " iron-clad oath " in the Federal courts . // qwq much restricted , still all powers not delegated to the United States nor prohibited to the States are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people . And we have already had occasion to remark at this term that the people of each State compose a State , having its own government , endowed with all the functions essential to a separate and independent existence , ' and that without the States in union there could be no such political body as the United States . ' ( Lane v. Oregon . ) Not only , therefore , can there be no loss of separate and independent autonomy to the States through their union under the Constitution , but it may be not unreasonably said that the preservation of the States and the maintenance of their governments are as much within the design and care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the maintenance of the national government . The Constitution , in all its provisions , looks to an indestructible Union , composed of indestructible States . * " When , therefore , Texas became one of the United States , she entered into an indissoluble relation . All the obligations of perpetual union , and all the guaranties of republican government in the Union , attached at once to the State . The act which consummated her admission into the Union was something more than a compact ; it was the incorporation of a new member into the political body . And it was final The union between Texas and the other States was as complete , as perpetual , and as indissoluble as the union between the original States . There was no place for reconsideration or revocation , except through revolution or through the consent of the States . " What could be more clear , concise , and convincing than this ? How simple the logic ! " What can be indissoluble , if a perpetual senion made more perfect , is not ? " How grand the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , looks to an indestructible Union , composed of indestructible States . " Thus definitively was the great question settled . And following it a thrill of joy went round the earth . Thc freest and best country known to man was saved to representative government , redeemed from reproach and justified before the world ; and wherever power is prescriptive and rights are prerogative , except as the gifts of princes , there were souls to rejoice . The oppressed in all lands felt that they had still a secure asylum , and republican subjects of Eastern kings and conquerors rapturously saw through the breaking clouds the trinmphal arch of Freedom in the West-the bow of promise on the brow of Empire . That there was such an ark of safety for human hopes and happiness as a composite republic , with a constitutional government operating directly upon the people irrespective of sectional limits , entitled to their undivided allegiance , and clothed with adequate power to protect and defend itself against all foes , from within as well as from without , was an annunciation which shook thrones and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted itself in answer to this invitation at the first opportunity , and the leagued assault upon the unhappy republic south of us , at a time when the act was deemed safe by reason of our domestic difficulties , was punished , and the blood and carnage of Maximilian 's reign and fall were avenged . The same spirit openly declared itself in the limited and milder monarchy of Britain , and loyal subjects of the crown who had stealthily given aid and comfort to our revolting States , and contributed to the fullest demand toward the success of the rebellion , now tremble at the signs of retribution at home and abroad . And the government which winked at their violations of public law , and connived with them to break the shield of democracy in America , and prop the crumbling dynasties of Europe , now shrinks with dismay from the contemplation of republican progress on the soil of sceptres , and hopes to stay the tide of revolution by encouraging still further contributions in the interest of monarchy , to sustain the armies of the Carlists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forum . Such are the fruits of our triumph . For who believes that had the rebellion succeeded , and our Union been dissolved , there would have been any tidings of republicanism in Europe to-day ? No one . On the contrary , it was and is the universal assent that the overthrow of the government of the United States would silence its advocates , stifle its principle , and rob the world of refuge and freedom of a home for centuries to come . The next case of general interest , in point of time , was one of the first importance to the people of the South , involving as it did their entire business and social relations , by jeopardizing civil contracts made while subjected to Confederate authority . It was the case of Thorington v. Smith , from Alabama , determining for its main question whether contracts for the payment of Confederate money , made during the rebellion between parties residing in the Confederate States , could be enforced in the Federal courts . The Chief Justice delivered the opinion of the court , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government as one of paramount force , said : " It seems to follow as a necessary consequence from the actual supremacy of the insurgent government as a belligerent within the territory where it circulated , and from the necessity of civil obedience on the part of all who remained in it , that this currency must be considered in courts of law in the same light as if it had been issued by a foreign government temporarily occupying a part of the territory of the United States . Contractastipulating for payment in this currency can not be regarded , for that reason only , as made in aid of the foreign invasion in the one case or of the domestic insurrection in the other . They have no necessary relations to the hostile government , whether invading or insurgent . They are transactions in the ordinary course of civil society , and though they may indirectly and remotely promote the ends of the unlawful government , are without blame , except when proved to have been entered into with act*-ual intent to further invasion or insurrection . We can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , after the restoration of peace , to the extent of their just obligation . " Thus the necessary dealings of the people over whom the Confederate States exerted // qwq case of Os orn v. Nicholson , from Arkansas , States notes , and received the sanction of Con I gress , to qwq ing to this court for decision the contest between the Territorial and United States marshals in Utah concerning the summoning of juries , establishes an important principle in respect of Territorial organizations , which is of sufficient interest to be set forth here . It was held  --  the Chief Justice delivering the opinion-that the theory upon which the various governments for portions of the territory of the United States have been organized , has ever been that of leaving to the inhabitants all the powers of self-government consistent with the supremacy and supervision of the national authority , and with certain fundamental principles established by Congress . And the fact that judges of the District and Supreme courts of the TerN ritories are appointed by the President under acts of Congress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold " courts of the United States . " Such courts are but the legislative courts of the Territory , created in virtue of the clause which authorizes Congress to make all needful rules and regulations respecting the Territories belonging to the United States . Accordingly , jurors summoned for duty therein under the acts of Congress applicable only to courts of the United States created under the article of the Constitution which relates to the judicial power , are wrongly summoned , and a judgment on their verdict , if properly objected to , can not be sustained . This was a victory for the Territorial officers over the marshal of the United States , and even over the judges of the courts-for the latter had sustained the proceedings of the formerand is a judicial enforcement in a modified form of the old-time theory of squatter soyereiguty , or of the rights of the settlers in the Territories to manage their own affairs in their own way . And it is said that the * Trustee in Trust of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints " regarded it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Territory to establish such domestic institution as they choose , including polygamy . But whether it extends to that extremity will better appear in the light of future events . The last great question in the decision of which the Chief Justice participated was but recently decided , in the Slaughter-House eases from Louisiana , placing a construction upon the Thirteenth and Fourteenth amendments . In those cases it was complained that the Legislature of Louisiana had chartered a slaughter-house company , granting , among other exclusive privileges , for a period of twenty-five years , to seventeen persons , the right to establish and maintain stock-yards , landing-places , and slaughterhouses for the city of New Orleans , at which all stock must be landed , and all animals intended for food must be slaughtered . This charter was attacked as creating a monopoVoa . XLVII. - No. 281. - 49 ly so effectual as to deprive the butchers of the State of the right to continue the business of their lives , unless they would submit to such terms as might be imposed by the company . And this , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which forever prohibits slavery and involuntary servitude in the United States ; the argument being that the seventeen persons composing the company were the dominants of the business monopolized , and the butchers of the State its 8ervients , in such a manner and to such a degree as to render them the involuntary subjects and slaves of an artificial person representing the authority of the State . It was in contravention of that provision of the Fourteenth Amendment which declares that " no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States , nor shall any State deprive any person of life , liberty , or property without due process of law , nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws . " The opinion of the court , delivered by Mr. Justice Miller , stated in brief , sustained the grant of privilege contained in the charter , under the conditions and limitations imposed , as being a police regulation within the power of the State Legislature , unaffected by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thirteenth and Fourteenth amendments . It was not affected by the Thirteenth Amendment , which refers to and is applicable only to personal servitude and not to servitude attached to property , and had for its direct object the permanent freedom of the negro race . Nor was it affected by the Fourteenth Amendment , which distinguishes between citizenship of the United States and citizenship of the States , and refers only to the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States , and not to the privileges and immunities of citizens of a State ( rights of property , etc. ) , and was not intended to protect the citizen of a State against the legislation of the State . The objection that the State has deprived the butchers of liberty and property without due process of law was held to be unsound under former judicial interpretations of the Fifth Amendment , which contains a similar prohibition ; and the clause prohibiting the States from denying to any person the equal protection of the laws was construed as being intended only for the protection of the negro against partial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dissenting opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Field , holding , in substance , that the slaughterhouse company is an odious monopoly , exceeding the limits of the police power of the State , swallowing up the right to pursue a lawful and necessary calling previously enjoyed // by every citizen ; and that if such exclusive privileges can be . granted to seventeen persons , they may , in the discretion of the Legislature , be equally granted to one individual . And if they may be granted for twenty-five years , they may equally be granted for a century , and in perpetuity . Conceding the force of the argument made by counsel for the petitioners under the Thirteenth Amendment , it was not considered necessary to the disposition of the cases in their favor to accept it as entirely correct . But the Fourteenth Amendment was regarded as covering the whole question . It was adopted to obviate objections to the Civil Rights act , and to place the common rights of American citizens under the protection of the national government . A citizen of a State , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen of the United States residing in that State . The fundamental rights , privileges , and immunities which belong to him as a freeman and a free citizen now belong to him as a citizen of the United States , and are not dependent upon his citizenship of any State . They do not derive their existence from State legislation , and can not be destroyed by its power . Under the Fourth Article of the Constitution , providing that " the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States , " no State could create a monopoly in any known trade or manufacture in favor of its own citizens , or any portion of them , which would exclude an equal participation in the trade or manufacture attempted to be monopolized by citizens of other States . And what that clause does for the protection of citizens of one State against the creation of monopolies in favor of citizens of other States , the Fourteenth Amendment does for the protection of every citizen of the United States against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of citizens of the United States , of every one of them , wherever resident , are secured against abridgment in any form by a State . The Fourteenth Amendment places them under the guardianship of the national government . All monopolies in any known trade or manufacture are an invasion of these privileges , for they encroach upon the liberty of citizens to acquire property and pursue happiness , and were held void at common law in the great case of Monopolies decided in the reign of Elizabeth . To citizens of the United States every where , all pursuits , all professions , all avocations , are open , without other restrictions than such as are imposed equally upon all others of the same age , sex , and condition ; and the Fourteenth Amendment makes it essential to the validity of the legislation of every State that this equality of right shall be respected . The opinionconcludes with an expression of regret that the validity of the legislation in Louisiana-so widely departing from the principle of equality-is recognized by a majority of the court ; for by it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one of th' most sacred and imprescriptible rights of man , is violated . A case of some significance , decided at the same time , and , in effect , by the same opinion , was that of Mrs .. Bradwell , of Illinois , who sought to be admitted as an attorney in the courts of that State , and was refused bythe Supreme Court on the ground that females are not eligible under the laws of the State . The judgment was affirmed here , Mr. Justice Miller delivering the opinion , which held that the right to practice law in the State courts is not a privilege or immunity of a citizen of the United States within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment , and that the power of a State to prescribe the qualifications for admission to the bar of its courts is unaffected by that amendment , and this court can not inquire into the reasonableness or propriety of the rules it may prescribe . Justices Field and Bradley concurred in the judgment , but not for the reasons assigned in the opinion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setting forth their views , denying " that it is one of the privileges and immunities of women as citizens to engage in any and every profession , occnpation , or employment in civil life . " The Chief Justice dissented from both of these views , but left of record only that fact to attest his own . It is known , however , that he did prepare a written dissent , in which he briefly reviewed the two opinions , and arrived at the conclusion that no principle was involved in the deczsion . The dissent was based upon the same objections to the construction placed upon the Fourteenth Amendment by a majority of the court which were stated by Mr. Justice Field in the Slaughter-House cases . And it was declared that no principle was established by the decision , because it did not touch upon the great social question lying at the foundation of the proceeding  --  the right of women-under the Constitution of the United States , as amended-to engage generally in the professions and occupations of civil life  --  but only decided the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a citizen of a State . By this dissent the Chief . Justice revealed no new judicial conviction nor political sympathy ; but his non-concurrence with Justices Field and Bradley may be considered as equivalent to an assertion of the rights and relations which they denied . We have now reviewed the leading cases in the record of the late Chief Justice as fully as the purposes of a popular article would // admit of , referring only to others of almost equal importance which it has been impossible to notice ; and it is unhesitatingly submitted to his countrymen that none of his predecessors were ever called upon to consider questions so grave , so pervading and far-reaching in their consequences , as some of those here presented-questions which go to the foundation and structure of the government , and touch its very right to exist ; which led to its origin , have attended its progress , and will pursue its future-questions which proceed not alone from union and peace , with which all our judges are more or less familiar , but grow out of the conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people in their dearest interests and most sacred rights-those exposed to danger and liable to be trampled upon and extinguished in times of public peril . It was the great good fortune of the Chief Justice to survive until all the issues of the war were settled , and to participate personally in their determination ; and the impartial manner in which he passed upon them - so far as man may be impartial-condemning , as we have seen , in a notable instance , one of the most conspicuous measures of his own administration of a department of the government , is the highest as a freeman intent upon preserving the rights of freemen . Magi8trates indicat virum . His opinions will largely control political questions iu future republics , and form the chief bulwark of the people in seasons of danger , as they are mainly directed to the . discussion and elucidation of principles entering into the civil polity of such governments , and particularly affecting their administration in time of war ; and they must necessarily be in many instanees , from the peculiar nature of the cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cited abroad and studied at home with equal profit to the profession , benefit to the bench , and advantage to the people . And should those who come after him seek a mould in which to cast judicial composition , or a type upon which to form judicial character , they may rest upon his writings , and build upon his virtues . And should ambition further pursue the secret of high career , and ask a chart of judicial life , it may still be pointed to the vacant chair of the Chief Justice , and receive for answer the matehless reply which Euripides relates was made to Zene by the oracle at Delphi upon his inquiry in what manner he should live- " That question should be addressed to the dead . "                     