@@503177

VOL . XXII. - OCTOBER , 1876. - No. 4 . NOMINATION AND ELECTION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN . ACCOUNT OF HIS ADMIxIsTBATIOIi. - xo. 2 . AT the time of Mr. Lincoln 's inauguration , the actual existing status and the future of the peopleunionists and secessionists  --  to what extent the law would be resisted on one hand or enforced on the other , were uncertain , indefinite , and unknown . Multitudes , a majority without doubt through the whole of the States South , with perhaps the exception of South Carolina , who had from party considerations or from sincere apprehensions opposed the election of Mr. Lincoln , acquiesced , though disappointed in the result , and were ready to support his administration ; but they were not permitted to do this by the leaders who had possession of the seceding State governments . The President , though well aware of the mischievous intent of the prominent persons in this conspiracy , was reluctant to believe they would resort to armed resistance , and entered upon his duties with the kindest and most tolerant feelings toward all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit had been moved to excess , and became virulent . Extreme partisans in the free States stimulated and encouraged discontent , and were scarcely less malignant in their feelings than the secessionists . In the slave States the positive element overpowered the mild , passive , and peaceably disposed friends of the Union and of social order , who deprecated and shrank from violence . The patriotic citizens knew that there was no cause for rebellion or revolution , and , relylag on the Federal Government , as in the days of Jackson , for protection against rebels , were comparatively quiet and inert . Bold measures and a decisive and energetic policy on the part of the Federal Government , especially the Executive , at the commencement , such as had been displayed by Jackson in the days of nullification , were necessary for their security , and would at the same time have aroused them to duty and to action . The executive power of the Government is by the Constitution vested in the President ; and to pretermit or disregard the legal and necessary cxercise of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in an emergency may be a greater wrong to the country than the assumption or usurpation of undelegated authority , to preserve the national integrity . Mr. Buchanan had been an intelligent Senator , but was inherently a timid and always a calculating politician , sensitive as regarded his party standing , in consequence of early political equivocations , and was undoubtedly more obedient to party requirements from that circumstance . Intending to do what was about right , but usually relying more on the opinio f his asso 28 Entered , according to Act of Congress , In the year 1876 , by SHELDON &amp; CO. , In the offiCe of the Librarian of Congress , at Washington . // ciates than his own convictions-always cautious and irresolute when there was responsibility-he was in those closing days of his administration , with broken and divided counsels , feeble , irresolute , vacillating , and almost imbecile of purpose . Most of his cabinet advisers were unfaithful . The forts of the South were neglected , most of theta were without garrisons , and there was stationed in none of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustain the Government and enforce the laws , or to form a nucleus around which the patriotic citizens could rally to maintain the national supremacy against the scceding State governments . The Federal troops , instead of being stationed where they could render efficient service , had been sent , under Twiggs , a traitor and a renegade , to western Texas , or to territories still more remote , from which or from Texas they could not be speedily recalled . The Southern maritime frontier was in scarcely better condition . The commanders of the navy yards at Pensacola and Norfolk , the only naval stations in the Southern States , were old and inefficient officers , who , if not unfaithful themselves , were surrounded by energetic subordinates that were in sympathy with the secessionists , and ultimately proved faithless . Most of the sailors and naval vessels in commission were on foreign stations . Those which constituted what was called the " home squadron " were in the West Indies or the Gulf of Mexico , about as inaccessible and remote . from immediate communication , except through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The treasury was empty , and the national credit had been impaired by the cond*ict of Cobb , the seceding Secretary , who , until he retired , had charge of the finances . On the change of administration the government was , in all its departments , in a dilapidated and deranged condition , Which had been evidently designed by those who had in view a dissolution of the Union . In the construction of his Cabinet , some of the characteristics of Mr. Lincoln , and the purpose by which he was to be governed in his administration , were developed . New issues had given birth to a new political organization . Old parties had become dismembered and broken into factions . The Democrats were divided , and had presented the previous fall two candidates-Breckenridge and Douglasfor the Presidency . Douglas received and was the undoubted choice of a large majority of his party . He had , however , but few votes from his old opponents . Breckenridge had among his supporters such of the dismembered Whig element of the South as did not give their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If there were men at the South in favor of Mr. Lincoln , or who had a preference for the Republican party and principles , such was the prevailing prejudice and intolerance in that section that no full ticket of electors was permitted to appear . No press was allowed to advocate Lincoln 's election , and to express an opinion favorable to either Republican principles or the Republican candidates was attended with no inconsiderable personal peril . The factious and fragmentary condition of the Democratic party , and the violent sectional hostility of the South toward Republicans , had the effect of strengthening and uniting the new party , composed of both Whigs and Democrats , in the free States , and secured for Mr. Lincoln the electoral vote of each and all of them except New Jersey . Mr. Lincoln was well aware that it was no old and beaten path which he was to travel in administering the government , with veteran associates who had been lifelong political friends engaged in an organization for the same cause , but that without precedents to guide , an untrodden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different departure from that which had been pursued by either of his predecessors . Not only was he to estab // lish an administration differing in many respects from theirs , and to consolidate a new organization , but he was to do this with materials which , in political principles , had been discordant and antagonistic in the past . These previously opposing elements he was to reconcile and bring into harmonious action , and at the same time encounter a violent and unsparing opposition . Quietly , without ostentation , and at the same time without just offence to any , or submission to professed and intrusive advice and inIluence , voluntarily tendered and pressed upon him , he selected for his constitutional advisers persons who , in their antecedents , had politically been opposed , but who were nevertheless representative men of the various elements which elected him , and constituted at his inauguration the Republican party . In his choice of counsellors he kept in view the original purpose of consolidating these elements into one great united party , which would sustain his administration , and ultimately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union . This purpose , distinctly and honestly avowed , led him to invite his own rival Republican competitors to participate in the administration , and also induced him to associate in his Cabinet men of differing political antecedents . Such a policy , however , did not comport with the views and wishes of some of his friends , who , in the overthrow of the Democrats , had anticipated a Whig triumph rather than Republican success . The pressure upon him in that regard , with a view of reviving the Whig party , was for a time very great ; but while he patiently listened and calmly discussed the subject , no argument or appeals caused him to change his original purpose of a Republican administration , without identification with past or committal to current controversies or either of the old political organizations . The individuals composing his Cabinet had but slight previous personal intimacy with Mr. Lincoln , or with each other . There was no concerted or combined effort among the members themselves , or by their respective friends , to influence the President in selecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few managing politicians in New York and Pennsylvania . A very strenuous and persistent effort was made by certain partisans in New York , who had been Whigs , to exclude Mr. Chase , and also to prevent the appointment of either Mr. Blair or Mr. Welles . In the nominating convention at Chicago Mr. Seward had been the chief competitor with Mr. Lincoln , and being also a well known politician and statesman , holding at the time the position of Senator from the State of New York , it was not only desired by his friends , but supposed and generally expected , that he would be offered the State Department . It was intimated by some of his confidential friends that while the tender of this place was due as a matter of courtesy to Mr. Seward , that gentleman would probably decline accepting the office . In that event it was the intention of Mr. Lincoln , who knew not with what sincerity these doubts of the Senator 's acceptance were made , to have invited Mr. Chase to be his Secretary of State . Otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was on the part of both Mr. Seward and Mr. Chase coyness as to accepting a seat in the Cabinet , which , as regarded the former , was more affected than sincere . Mr. Chase may have honestly hesitated to take the second position , for he was very ambitious , and had just been a second time elected to represent Ohio for six years in the Senate , and his taste , studies , and abilities were unquestionably better adapted to legislative than purely financial service . While , therefore , he could not have hesitated for a moment to go into the State Department , he- was not , with his personal aspirations , so ready to relinquish his senatorial term of six years in order to // accept a seat in the Cabinet subject to the pleasure of the President for its continuance , and which , moreover , placed him , while entering upon duties with which he was not familiar , in a position inferior in public estimation to that of his rival political competitor . On the great questions which were pending , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not in strict accord . Mr. Seward , less tenacious of principle , and more pliable in his nature , had expressed a willingness to yield his opinions on the slavery question , and to so revise the Constitution as to make it conform to the demands of the secessioaists . Mr. Chase , on the contrary , was opposed to any concession or compromise which should commit the national Government to the cause or to the perpetuation of slavery beyond the limits prescribed in the Constitution . Mr. Lincoln was well aware of the differences between these two officersdifferences which extended to his supporters-but did not deem it expedient that he should in the then turbulent and excited period commit himself and his administration to either , beyond what was enunciated in his inaugural address . Personally he was opposed to slavery , but being a constitutionalist , he was as decidedly opposed to the schemes of the abolitionists , and determined , while administering the Federal Government , to abstain from any interference with the local law on this subject , or any of the reserved rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disunion question would , when his views and intentions were understood , pass away without a serious conflict , and was confirmed in these hopes by the assurances of his selected ' Secretary of State . Mr. Seward , sanguine by nature , fruitful in expedients , and willing to make concessions , was confident of a speedy restoration of amicable feelings after the change of administration ; and his position and opportunities had been such as to inspire his colleagues as well as the President with a hope that his predictions were not unfounded . Subsequent events proved that these prophetic declarations and assurances , if not baseless , were mere delusions , predicated on no substantial fact or principle , but mere imaginary anticipations of what he would be able to accomplish by expedients . His assurances , if founded on any concert with his opponents , may be taken as an exhibition of his readiness to acquiesce in almost any change of the fundamental law itself to get over a temporary difficulty . There had been , as the President and his Cabinet were advised , some understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as with a portion of Mr. Buchanan 's Cabinet , from which important results were expected after the 4th of March . What sincerity there may have been on the part of the secessionists with whom he held converse , and what were their expectations , other than an absolute acquiescence in their demands , which the declarations of Mr. Sewai*d in his January speech , and his action and proceedings for several weeks subsequent to the accession of Mr. Lincoln , and his official despatch to Mr. Adams , seem to indicate , may never be fully known . Mr. Edwin M. Stanton , the Attorney-General of Mr. Buchanan , had during , the closing months of the Buchanan administration secretly informed Mr. Seward of the proceedings and purposes of the administration of which he was a part ; and from these several sources of communication Mr. Seward persuaded himself that he held the key to all discontent , and that when once in place he could reconcile disagreements and lock up all disturbance . Without knowing precisely how his Secretary of State was to restore hazmony , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seward for intelligence , sagacity , and ability to accomplish what was prophesied **nd promised . It was this almost implicit trust in Mr. Seward at the commence-E // ment which for a time caused serious embarrassment , and almost . forfeited the confidence of the country in the ability and integrity of the President to administer the government . Mr. Chase , though an avowed antislavery man , was solicitous that it should be understood he was not an abolitionist , nor connected with that organization . The schemes for compromise , especially such as involved a change of the Constitution in behalf of slavery , or committed the Government to the support or perpetuation of human bondage in any form , beyond the compromises already made , he strenuously opposed . But he was possessed of unappeasable ambition for official power and distinction ; not that he desired power for personal aggrandizement , but from a belief that he could in position do more than others for his country and for freedom . But the discussions in the winter of 1861 , the excitable and persistent determination of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off Federal allegiance , with the readiness of Mr. Seward fo " meet exaction with concession , " and an expressed willingness to change the Constitution in fundamental particulars to conciliate the secessionists , were incidents not without their influence on the course of Mr. Chase . While he would not consent or be a party to a change of the Constitution in behalf of slavery , he became impressed with doubts and misgivings , from what he heard and witnessed of the emphatic determination of the secession leaders , and from the countenance and support given them by the Democrats in the free States , from the yielding disposition of Mr. Seward , Mr. Crittenden , and other Republicans and friends of the new administration , who were willing to compromise and even to reconstruct the government in order to preserve the national territorial integrity , whether the Union of the States could be maintained . Reconciliation he considered impossible . Civil war he depre*ated , and the way to extri ADMINISTRATION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN . 441 cate the country from its embarrassment and sustain the Government was , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure , or my ability to express , when , retiring one morning from a Cabinet consultation , he made known to me his doubts and misgivings , and that he had come to the conclusion it was best that the States which desired to leave the Union should be permitted to go without hindrance . It was not to be denied , he said , that our government was not one of force , yet it was manifest the Union could not be maintained except by compulsion , and a compulsory Union would be no Union , but war , contention , a despotic exercise of power . In what could this and would this terminate , but an utter subversion of our system and of republican gov-ernment ? It was near the last of the month of March that he thus opened his mind to me . He probably had not at that time communicated his views or speculations to any other person . He certainly had made no such intimations in any of the Cabinet consultations . We had Thft the executive mansion together that morning after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the threatened difficulties , without any satisfactory conclusion ; but it was obvious that Mr. Seward had taken even a more advanced step in that directisn than Mr. Chase , and was prepared to surrender Sumter and other forts in the seceding States to the local authorities , to call a national convention to revise the Constitution and reconstruct the government . The attitude of Mr. Seward caused me little surprise ; for it was well understood by those who knew him that he was an optimist , governed less by convictions and fixed laws than by expedients , and that he had more faith in his skill and management to govern and accomplish a purpose than in the Constitution or any political principle ; but the suggestions of Mr. Chase , who was at the time greatly depressed and dis // qwq was a privilege or right , those above as well as those below the line were entitled to it ; for all sections and States were to be treated alike . If it was not a privilege or right , Congress had committed a great wrong in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its duty faithfully in 1820 , instead of compromising and evading it , we should have been spared present evils , and it did not become the Administration to sanction and attempt to re*stab1ish a palpable wrong . Whatever expedients , schemes , or ideas of compromise any members of the Government may have entertained or projected to satisfy the disunionists , none were adopted , and the policy of Mr. Lincoln was to adhere to the Constitution and observe its requirements and restrictions , without innovations or any change of the organic law , to appease factions . This was of course unsatisfactory to the secessionists , who claimed that these States had already withdrawn from the Union and established a separate government . On the day of his inauguration Mr. Lincoln received through President Buchanan information from Major Anderson , in command of Fort Sumter , that the supplies of his garrison would be exhausted in six weeks . On the succeeding day commissioners from the confederacy of the insurrectionary States arrived in Washington , and soon after requested of the Secretary of State that a day might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An answer was , by concert or understanding between the commissioners and Mr. Seward , delayed for a month . In the mean time the affairs of the government and country , which , with the changes of administration and a new order of things , had been in something of a chaotic condition , were in a degree arranged . While overwhelmed by the disorders and disturbances growing out of the insurrection , the Administration was also beset on every hand to make al most universal and indiscriminate party changes of the Federal officers . The President and some of the Cabinet , particularly the Secretary of State , were disposed to go beyond others in these respects . It was claimed , on one hand , that only Democrats held Federal appointments , but it was said on the other hand that many of these were Union men , opposed to secession , who in their devotion to country had risen above mere party , and that it would be politic and wise to make a distinction between them and those extreme partisans who were secessionists , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very long continuance of Democrats in power , most of the office-holders were of that party , it was evident that in the departments , especially bureau officers and cletks who were faithful and familiar with their duties and knew the acts and traditions of the government and the departments to which they were attached , should be retained , unless they were disunionists or politically offensive , whatever were their private opinions on political questions . Many ardent and extreme party men who were secessionists had , on the change of administration or immediately after , resigned their places . This was particularly the case in the Navy Department , where there was great political demoralization . The voluntary withdrawal of these men , which it was supposed would embarrass the Secretary , in fact relieved him of the necessity of removing many subordinates . Some who remained were not exempt from suspicions , and perhaps one or two from association and social intercourse were infected with the prevailing secession epidemic , but only one , it is believed , proved treacherous or false ; nor is it certain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Navy Department , therefore , nothing of what is called proscription for opinion s sake was exercised ; and what was done was in so quiet a manner , was acknowledged to be so just , and in such contrast with some others , that // a clamor was raised against the Secretary for his forbearance . Exceptions had been taken by men who had been ultra Whigs to his appointment as one of the President 's advisers , on account of his Democratic antecedents , and it was intimated that his opposition to sweeping and indiscriminate removals by'the Administration , and the omission on his part to make changes , was in consequence of old political partialities . The fact was that extensive removals in his department were unnecessary , for the vacancies created could not be immediately filled by competent persons , in whose ability and fidelity he , in the general break-up , had confidence . Nevertheless , after considerable pressure , and statements of what other heads of departments had done , it was proposed , in order to appease the grumblers , that at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaus and one in the department proper . This would , it was said , prevent invidious distinction , comparisons , and complaints , as regarded the other departments , and contribute to consolidate and make uniform the policy of the Administration . There was a species of refined political or party casuistry in this , which it was unnecessary to controvert ; but as the Secretary knew not the views and opinions of each and all the subordinates with whom he had recently been brought in contact , he preferred that the removals thus ordered should be received and considered as an act of the Administration rather than of the department , and therefore devolved on his chiefs the duty of designating which clerks under the rule should be dismissed . While the Secretary of the Navy declined to remove persons from office who were faithful to the government and true to the Union , whatever had been their party antecedents , some others took a different view , and discharged , with little discrimination , such as were Democrats , regardless of their capacity , experience , fitness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , who wished uniform policy and action , to make the request or order for the removal of a few clerks in the Navy Department . There were not many civil appointments at the disposal of the Secretary of the Navy , and these were connected with the navy yards . Most of these were then , as now , under the vicious system . of putting party electioneerers in place , violent partisans . Such were promptly dismissed . It was justly felt that none but reliable and trusty Union men should in the then existing difficulties be retained in positions of responsibility . For years it had been the policy of successful administrations to make sweeping changes of opponents . In the peculiar condition of the country it seemed wise to conciliate and retain such as were patriotic and well disposed , though some opposed it . The President was compelled to face the responsibility and act on these and other questions . In striving to reconcile and bring into united action opposing views , he was accused of wasting his time in a great emergency on mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought to bear upon him , particularly by members of Congress , who should never be permitted io dictate appointments , some things were doubtless done which , under other circumstances , and left to himself , he would have ordered different ly . Extensive removals and appointments were , in the general disorder , not only expected , but absolutely necessary , beyond previous experience , yet never under any administration were greater care and deliberation re .. quired . A host of ravenous partisans from Maine to California  --  a large pro* portion of them Whigs long excluded from office , but who had participated in the election of Mr. Lincoln-filled Washington , and , backed by their Sen. ators and Representatives , besieged the White House and departments , de . manding for themselves or their friends the local appointments , regardless // of the patriotism or real merits of the incumbents . This crowd of active friends , with their importunities , at such a crisis , was of course embarrassing to the new Administration , which commenced its labors with a demoralized government and crumbling Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerate statesmanship for its preservation . Not until the adjournment of the Senate , which held an extra session as usual on the change of administration , was there any let-up on the subject of rem ovals from office . In the mean time the Administration was not remiss in attention to the condition of the country and the disordered state of public affairs . Some members of the Government were confident that hostilities of a serious charactcr would be avoided-all hoped such might be the case ; but there were others who believed a conflict more or less serious was inevitable . The President , though a patient listener to the views and suggestions of others , was nevertheless a keen and attentive observer of all that was said and done , and promised to be done , but he came to no hasty conclusion . us final decision for the relief of Fort Sumter , the most important and immediate question pending , was postponed until the supplies of the garrison were nearly exhausted . To the last moment he and his Cabinet indulged the hope that peace would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lengths that it was not doubted resistance to collecting the revenue would be attempted . In this he was confirmed by General Scott , to whose opinion he early paid great deference , and General Scott , remembering the old nullification conflict under Jackson , apprehended and hoped that the culminating point would be , not in reinforcing Sumter , but in the enforced collection of duties on imports . In fact , both General Scott and Mr. Seward , acting in concert , advised and expected the evacuation of Sumter , which would throw the responsibilities of a collision on the treasury and the navy instead of the military , for the navy would be called upon to sustain the treasury in collecting the duties . Sumter would , in compliance with the advice , and wishes , and views of the Secretary of State and the General-in-Chief , be abandoned . It was at this juncture , and while the determination in regard to Sumter was yet unannounced , that the President , desirous of ascertaining his own strength and that the Administration should know the actual condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addressed to me the following note : EXECUTIVE MANSION , March 18 , 1861 . Sm : I shall be obliged if you will inform me what amount of naval force you could at once place at the control of the revenue service . And also , whether at some distance of time you could so place an additional force , and how much ? and at what time ? Your obedient servant , A. Lracoes. lion . Secretary of the Yavy . To this I , on the 20th , gave him an answer in detail , stating the condition and position of every naval vessel , whether in or out of commission , and the actual personal force employed or authorized by law to be employed , together with an estimate of the time necessary to fit out the vessels which were in ordinary , and to recall the squadrons that were on foreign stations . The letter of Mr. Lincoln was written fourteen days after his inauguration , and twelve days after the Cabinet was installed . It makes no allusion to Forts Sumter or Pickens , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There was extensive espionage , and every movement of the Administration was watched . If any who favored or expected the evacuation of Sumter and Pickens should see the correspondence , their suspicions would not be stimulated by the information asked and given in reply to an order calling for a statement of the naval force , and how much could be placed at the " control of the revenue service . " It was essential that the President should be in possession of the exact condition of the navy should it be necessary to // enforce the collection of the revenue . Had he called for a statement direct without reference to the revenue , or had the Secretary of the Navy presented it without explanation , suspicion would in the then sensitive condition of the public mind in regard to Sumter have been aroused . This would have been particularly the case with those who expected or had given assurance or encouragement that the fort would be evacuated . Besides the Secretary of State and the Generalin-Chief , who advocated and had taken for granted that the fort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position , some of whom soon abandoned the Government , that were in sympathy with the secessionists , but at the time this order was given were watching and waiting events . An attempt to collect the revenue did not alarm them ; an order for a naval force to reinforce Sumter would . The Confederate commissioners , who had been permitted to remain in Washington for an answer to their application to be accredited , were in some way secretly advised of every important measure of the Administration almost as soon as it was under consideration . These would have taken instant alarm had a statement of the naval force been bluntly called for by the President while the course in regard to Sumter was being discussed , or if made by the Secretary for naval purposes ; but when asked for revenue purposes their apprehensions remained undisturbed . It was all-important for the new Administration to gain time , and the President with shrewdness and forbearance wisely kept his own counsel and asked for naval information for a necessary purpose which excited no alarm , and did not disturb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forcible collection of the revenues . It was not until ten days later , and every day was precious , that he surprised his immediate advisers and friends as well as his opponents by announcing his intention to send supplies and reinforcements to Sumter . His purpose and determination he had wisely kept to himself ; and in referring the letter of Major Anderson to General Scott , to ascertain the military view of the subject , as well as in subsequent Cabinet consultations to obtain the opinions of his associates , he was reserved ; but he never , at any time , wavered from the principles and stand taken at the beginning of his administration , and enunciated in his inaugural address . His Cabinet and others concluded , from his reference of the subject to the Gen era that the reinforcement of Sumter was to be disposed of as a military question , and consequently acquiesced in the report of Generals Scott and Totten , but the President himself did not deviate from his original design . A knowledge of the military and naval resources at his disposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intention , and to cover his purpose , he inquired what force could be " at once placed at the control of the revenue service . " Neither the Secretary of State nor General Scott supposed that this information was sought for any other than revenue purposes . Sumter they supposed was , as they had recommended , to be abandoned , and they beyond all others were overwhelmed with surprise when , ten days later , the President announced his determination , so contrary to their advice and expectations . The sagacity , decision , and administrative and executive ability of Mr. Lincoln are exemplified in the skilful manner by which he lulled the suspicions of such of his immediate counsellors as favored a different policy in regard to Fort Sumter . It was the first exhibition of his independent self-reliance , and was conclusive that while he counselled with others , he was himself the President , and acted upon his own convictions GIDEON WELLES .                     