@@509474

CIVIL SERVICE REFORM . AFTER nearly three-quarters of a century of experience the nation demands from government such a change in the management of its daily business that it may cease to blush for its system compared with that of China , or to envy the methods for securing honesty aud sense in the ordinary public civil service that are employed in Turkey . We boast ourselves as apt and intelligent beyond the rest of the world ; we talk of freedom as if we had discovered and regulated it ; and if the thing called business , or its name , had never existed , an American would have invented ho yet among the civilized nations of the earth there is none so stupidly wasteful of its resources-none whose public virtue stands at this moment in greater danger of decay-none that so trusts its everyday work to faithless and worthless hands . Whatever else might have been foretold , at its outset , of our great experiment , the cheap and wise working out of its practical details seemed at least assured ; yet this fair promise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the administration of government affairs would shame a bungler or a knave . What the civil service of the United States government is , how it is manned , watched , and paid , how it compares with those of other nations , whether its duty is well done , and if ill done how that ill-doing may he mended , are subjects worth the instant and serious study of every tax-payer in the land , whether he hopes to form a part of that service himself , or only expects to sustain it , and desires to perfect it for the benefit of those who are to come after him . If in the course of that study some surprising chapters are unfolded-if the tax-payer reads therein that he is cheated and betrayed because his servants do not know or will not do their duty-if he is startled at the careless waste of revenue carelessly collected-if he grows indignant over honesty pinched that fraud may thrive , and corruption lavishing what labor pays-if he shrinks from this picture of himself contemptuously treated as one of a " misera contrihuens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedy in his own hands , and that it is his own house he is called to set in order . As generally defined , the civil officers of a govermnent are those who are not employed in its military and naval service . Not only is this distinction more marked in modern states than in those of ancient times , but the relative mmportance of the civil service has constantly increased with the spread of civilization and national intercourse , and the developing variety of modern life . Of course its agents multiply with the advance of population , but the evernew needs and relations of men , and the fresh fields which science and invention open , have had quite as much to do with enlarging their numbers and diversifying their functions . / // Moreover , the science of government itself is steadily improving by experience , and many systems exist for securing its wise practical administration , some of them of almost unknown antiquity , and others very recently devised or introduced . One is in doubt whether to laugh or to grieve that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles of government , should be almost the last to apply thorough and approved methods of carrying out those principles in detail . Under our own Constitution a further distinction is made among officers of the civil service-between those who are elected by the people or named by the President with confirmation by the Senate , and that far greater number who receive their appointment directly from some superior officer . These last , to borrow an English phrase , might properly be called ) lace-holders . Of the former class are the chief executive officers , the legislators , the judiciary , foreign ministers , and heads of departments . Any discussion as to the mode of their selection , determined as it is by the very frame of our government , belongs to merely political questions , and would be out of place here .. The latter class comprises all the " inferior officers " mentioned by the Constitution , under which Congress , by a series of acts passed at different times as occasion arose in our national progress , has provided for their appointment , either by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courts of law . Among those whose confirmation depends on the Senate , postmasters and consuls may also be classed with the minor officers of the civil service . These men transact the whole administrative business of the government . * do its work in foreign countries as commercial agents , and at home in the collection and paying out of revenue , whether from customs or taxes , in the financial bureaus of the army and navy departments , in the postal service , in matters of claims and accounts against the government , in all business growing out of the census , the public lands , Indian affairs , land warrants , patents , and pensions . They are distributed nmong the different departments in very unequal numbers , the Treasury employing more than all the other departments combined . They are organized in various bureaus , and classified into many grades . And they number more than fifty thousand . It must also be kept in mind that almost every man of these fifty thousand is the centre of a circle of others dependent on him for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before his appointment , the head of an almost endless queue who were struggling to gain possession of his place . The increase in the number of these officials has been far more rapid in proportion than the growth of our population . Upon the organization of the Federal civil service in 1789 , when the several departments of War , the Treasury , and State , or that for Foreign Affairs , as it was then styled , were created , the place-men were " a mere handful " in number . In the year 1802 the roll of officials co'ntained 2622 names . Between the beginning of the present century and the close of the war with England the population of the country nearly doubled , and the officers of the civil service grew in numbers in about the same proportion-reaching 5608 in 1817 . But during the fifty years from 1817 to 1867 , while the population quadrupled , the number of office-holders was multiplied ten times over , and it now exceeds that of the whole force employed , including officers , in the military and naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this increase surpasses , in any great degree , the expanding needs of the government . During the early part of this period of fifty years the rapid growth of our commerce , the additions to our territorial dependencies , the extension of our sea-coast by the cession of Florida , Texas , and California , and the Indian and Mexican wars , all furnished grounds which did not exist at its commencement for the enlargement of this branch of the national service . And more lately , the vast movements and expenditures caused by the rebellion , and the public debt and new system o* taxation which remain among its bitter fruits , have raised the rate of increase in the number of offices far beyond its earlier ratio to that of our expanding population . How many of these public servants might be spared through a reform that would permit the work of the incapable many to be better done by the competent few , and how much of their present cost to the government of thirty millions annually might be economized by the mere cutting off of useless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say here , that if the people , once held the most thrifty on the face of the globe , can afford to go on paying higher prices than any other civilized nation gives for worse service than is any where else rendered in return , its reputation can only be maintained by adding to its fame for cleverness also , through the discovery of some new theory regulating work and wages . The business intrusted to the care of these officials is as diversified as the needs of the government . In foreign lands you may " survey the world from China to Peru , " and you will find in every port of any consequence a commercial agent of the omnipresent American nation . Along our own coasts they are dotted from Castine to Sitka , wherever a light-house gleams or a freight is landed . Throughout all the States and Territories they are scattered in countless post - offices and assessors ' bureaus ; they creep under the Apache 's wigwam , and bivouac along the frontier soldier 's march ; they cluster in masses at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the national capital . And wherever as a fixed point an official is discovered , imagination sees hovering about his place a great cloud of aspirants eager to dislodge or to succeed him . The names of clerks and assistants , given to by far the greater number of these officers of // the civil service , denote clearly enough the class of duties they are expectect to perform . These demand neither genius nor culture , and the education given in our higher schools equips young men sufficiently for their discharge . In the upper brhnches of the service , it is true , superior ability and learning find a place . The consular function especially calls for a wider range of acquirements , including a knowledge of languages and of foreign and international law , besides intelligence enough to collect and transmit correct details as to the resources , commerce , and general statistics of other countries . But for the most part experience and training would soon perfect the ordinary incumbent of a civil office in all that his position requires , beyond the sound , plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , expected to come furnished . Average intelligence is , of course , presupposed . For , strange as the statement may seem to be in the present condition of things , a dull youth has really no more right to ask a sent at a desk in the national offices than he has to expect employment in a merchant 's counting-room . Equally strange in the face of recent disclosures may seem the idea that integrity is a necessary qualification for public place . Yet it should , at least , be required that those official hands be clean through which the immense revenues of this republic-about four hundred millions of dollars yearly -- pass once in the relied on to protect any government from enormous losses by the fraud which the evil wit of men will practice , in spite of all imaginable checks and devices of control . One other essential may be named . To the common mind in all countries government is an abstraction . Whether it be the flesh and blood ruler in his palace , or the ideal sovereignty throned in the capitol , government reveals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agents . Its spirit is present to thought alone , while the machinery by which it works is seen and felt of all men . That machinery , in ordinary times , is the civil service , whose officers bring the supreme power near to every man , intervene actively in his affairs , and come into actual contact with his daily life . When Jackson was President , most United States citizens saw and knew very little of the federal authority , except through its post offices ; now , thanks to the public debt and taxes ! its omnipresence has grown visible , and touches each one sensibly and daily . Now the shape in which government thus discloses its majesty is not a welcome one . The hand it extends to protect is remote , intangible ; while the hand that may not be overlooked nor put aside is that which it stretches out to ask for support . If this function of government is not *a pleasant one for the governed , there is wisdom in performing it with all dignity and courtesy . Abstract reverence and ideal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s feelings into respect for law , when the official who personates it for the time being heightens the inconvenience of his demands by harshness or rudeness in his manner of making them . Civility , and a readiness to inform or oblige , are the duty of every official as much as honesty is . After all , then , there is no mystery in the management of these practical affairs of government . It is not in this sphere that the craft of ruling is displayed . The divinity that doth hedge a king hardly envelops a placeman . The work that the greater part of civil service officers have to do is plain , everyday business , differing only in its forms and its scale from that which is transacted in any countinghouse . The same principles that insure success when applied in mercantile pursuits must be applied to the public service for its proper discharge , and the same mistakes that would ruin a commercial firm must be guarded against if we would shun national loss and dishonor . Good sense , judgment , a plain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public servant need come provided with when he begins his career . How closely has our government followed these simple business rules in the choice of its civil officers , and how well , in consequence , has it got its work done ? The mode of appointment to civil offices in the United States has remained unchanged since its adoption at the formation of the Union . It was then adopted from the practice of the several States , which in their colonial days had borrowed it from the mothcr country . Leaving behind them church establishments and a feudal system of land-laws , the colonists brought over certain other institutions and practices of government quite as unsuited to the new air and soil . Some of these , as the theory of marital rights and the black-letter codes , have been reformed into harmony with modern thought and republican spirit ; but the system of choosing the public servants , dictated by antiquated tradition , still lingers not only unimproved , but even depraved by democratic influences . As if the past had no lessons worth our study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we lag behind all civilized nations in this most practical improvement of its administration . Even England , which has borrowed many of our reforms , has lately in her turn shown us in this a better way . A high tone in the personnel of all great modern governments except our own is secured , in general words , by a fixed standard of fitness for place , rigid examination with open competition to all , strict oversight , regular promotion upon good behavior , and a moderate provision on retirement . It was experience rather than historic examplo that dictated the adoption of these principles . For many reasons the records of ancient times , usually so fertile in warnings and in precedents , could furnish scant teaching upon this // point . In the military and naval service , indeed , from the very nature of the case , efficiency has been secured hy discipline in all wellgoverned states , ancient or modern , and capacity tried by proof . But the civil service of ancient states was unimportant as compared with the military , partly on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments , partly from the prevalence of slavery , in which the masses labored and were controlled by mere force , and most of all from the simplicity of human conditions , contrasted with the complex relations of men to each other in modern life . Two figures represent the public servants of ancient states  --  the soldier and the tax-gatherer ; and often , as in the Persian empire , these two were one . The chief officers intrusted with the collection of revenme were elective in Athens , as the terarian tribunes and questors were at Rome . A hint from Horace gives us light upon the ways and repute of the latter officials-the poet declaring that he can live at his country box more pleasantly and respectably " than if his grandsire , uncle , sire , had all been questors . ' In theory these collectors were held to strict responsibility ; but how their subordinates were appointed , or whether these were any thing more than the tools of their masters ' rapacity , it is not easy to determine . In the provinces of Rome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plunder enormous . It would be interesting to know the detailed arrangements for carrying out the decree of Tiberius , in the time of our Saviour , that all the world should be taxed . And the record of that system begun under Augustus , and perfected by the later emperors , for the mapping out of the whole vast Roman empire into revenuedistricts , would have been invaluable if preserved , as a monument of government labor and an instance of government methods . The modes in which later civilization has led governments to multiply their agents are worthy of remark . One of its first steps , that of commercial and national intercourse , created a new sphere for authority and a new profession of state-that of diplomacy . Athens , indeed , possessed the germ of our modern system of resident embassadors in the Xenii-Athenians of influence and dignity to whom the allied states committed the charge of their interests , especially in those matters of mutual litigation which , with politic art , she managed to draw to her own forum in the last appeal . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a kind of patron for the welfare of certain of the allies or provinces of Rome . So , too , the Grecian states had often a resident to watch their interests or further their intrigues against each other at the Persian court , and special embassies , upon matters of war and peace , were frequent . But the intercourse between ancient nations was so rare , and its usual spirit so unfriendly , that the diplomatic profession , as understood in modern days , can not have had an existence ; still less could public commercial agents , clothed with authority from foreign powers , such as our consuls are , have found a place among them . Turn to colonial establishments , that modern middle ground in government between foreign and home affairs , and we again remark the vast number of officials that have arisen to meet their needs . The civil servants of England in this department are scattered all over the face of the globe , and are counted by thousands ; while our own territorial establishments , which stand somewhat in the relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services of great numbers . Still larger is the multitude introduced by the postal system-that grand moderu device for the circulation of thought , which , flying restlessly from land to laud , interweaves the ideas , the passions , and the interests of mankind , as with the shuttles of some mighty loom . Another peculiar source of patronage is the patent-office  --  the birth of modern inventiveness nursed by modern science . And the fullest and most abounding spring of all our woes of this nature is the modern custom-house , with its army of retainers in all lands  --  a host whose growth is checked in other countries by the progress of free trade , as we may hope that it will begin to dwindle crc long in our own , until it becomes itself a thing of the past . There is one government , however , whose history stretches unbroken from the eldest to the latest days , bridging over with its continuous unity that chasm of the Middle Ages into which the ancient nations of the West crumbled , and out of which the modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in their youthful contempt for its hoary venerableness , the peoples of European descent had not laughed at the thought of learning from the wise men of the East , they might have thence adopted in its completeness the system which they have constructed by painful experience . In China , every office in the state , below the throne , is open to every subject . Education , promoted by such rewards , is universal . Officials are chosen by competitive examinations , are held to their duty by regulations of ingenious strictness , and by a system of espionage and of responsibility for each other , and are promoted or degraded according to their acquirements and faithfulness . No defaulting or useless placeman among the half million employed in China ever resigns , or buys remission of his sentence . Between suicide , granted as a favor , or decapitation , fine , flogging , or convict slavery , the choice of punishments is likely to terrify him into diligence . In the Flowery Kingdom , by a curious inversion of the order of things prevalent among outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory but in fact , subject to the civil , literary mandarins who are civilian governors of provinces taking military command . Were it not for this severe and elaborate system for maintaining talent and honesty in the administration of public affairs , China , with its despotic rule , its gross superstition , // and its obstinate aversion to light from without , would ages ago have sunk into distractioa and barbarism , instead of preserving to this day a sort of paralytic coherence , as respectable as it is queer . Coming westward to a country which we superciliously regard as yet only half civilized , we find in Russia a similar plan of introduction into the civil service . Although strictly modeled upon the military system in its grades , these are open to any of the lowest classes even who can produce certificates of education . Promotion is as regular and discipline as rigid as in the army ; and though corruption prevails in the civil service as every where else in Russia , it exists in spite of the system of appointment , and not hy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would become if that system were looser and less correctly grounded . In Prussia the administration of government is raised to the rank of a science . The benefits flowing from its perfection , in the opinion of an eminent French publicist , almost reconcile the people to the refusal of political rights . Prussia , fighting her way up through centuries from . the position of a petty dukedom to that of a first-class power , incessantly militant , not only became thoroughly penetrated with the spirit of order and discipline , hut realized the need of constant economy of her resources . Within her originally narrow limits she applied , and as these widened she has perfected , a system of public service the most efficient and the least costly in the world . It is a provision of the common law of Prussia that no one shall be appointed to an office unless he possesses the competent qualifications , and has produced evidence of his fitness . Most of the civil service employds are taken from the various preparatory schools throughout the kingdom , open to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have passed through a severe training . Upon applying for an appointment the candidate undergoes a strict scrutiny into his acquirements , intelligence , morals , habits -a thorough sifliug of the man . After a year 's probation , employed in studying the laws and regulations of the service , and a second rigid examination , he receives , if approved , a nomination from the head of a department . As an instance of the seriousness of these tests , we may cite an accomplished American lawyer , a Prussian hy birth , who has passed them , and whose dreams even now , after an interval of thirty years , occasionally take the shape of a nightmare in anticipation of examination . Clerks who are to have . the handling of the public money deposit a guaranty in cash , upon which interest is paid them . Military invalids , if qualified , are selected in preference to civil candidates . Promotion depends upon industry and aptitude , and a pension is allowed upon retirement from age or ill health . The impartiality of the appointing power is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genius of France we might expect the closest study of the prohlein of administration . But whether it he due to their restless temperament or to political partiality and change , the descendants of the " fickle Gauls " have not worked out their theories , as regards the higher branches of the service at least , into those finished results which mark the Prussian system . Asto their choice of inferior place-men , however , in that class which corresponds to the non-elective officers of this country , wise principles are established , and uniform excellence of service prevails . Their efficient consular system dates from the time of Louis XIV . In the carnival of 1789 , when government from top to bottom was destroyed , constructed , and reconstructed , the hases of the civil service were laid firmly and sagaciously enough to have endured to the present time . Napoleon strengthened and improved them , and the studies of later philosophic statesmen have still further developed their plan of civil service . It is , indeed , the only stable pillar in the government edifice of France-untouched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the branches of the revenue and treasury administration candidates undergo repeated examinations , and in many other divisions of the service experience must be gained during a term of probation which tests the fitness and zeal of the aspirant . Once appointed , officials are in fact , if not in law , unremovable during good behavior ; they are promoted , usually in regular line of seniority , upon favorable reports as to their character and efficiency , which are singularly minute and exact ; and they are entitled to a pension in age after faithful service , and to a provision for their families if accidentally disabled . Through these wise arrangements the state secures in its business offices the best work , in their best years , of a chosen class of men , and in the treasury bureaus especially it is believed by competent observers that no government in the world collects so large an amount of revenue with so small , a loss from fraud as that of France . It is a little singular , considering the cleverness in managing business details which the women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ces in the public service , the sex enjoys the right of admission only to a few petty offices in the postal department . We should naturally look to the government of Great Britain , the home of the most practical people in Europe , for an early adoption of the most perfect methods in civil administration . But we would look in vain . The English Constitution , that singular agglomeration of law , tradition , and usage , has indeed always proved flexible enough to admit any improvements persistently demanded by a majority . In our own day we have seen far deeper inroads made upon its supposed sacredness than a change in the mode of appointing place-holders would have wrought . But here , first , we meet that word of sinister meaning which describes the source of official life as Patronage . // The Tudors or Stuarts would , of course , have frowned upon any other claim to office than that of their own favor ; and afterward , so long as the alternations of party victory only shifted power from one set of great houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to place . The order which drove a traffic h 's the dignities of the Church would loosen its grasp reluctantly upon the fifty thousand minor offices of the state . At length , however , so unsatisfactory had the condition of the public service become , that , in 1853 , a Parliamentary commission was appointed for its reorganization . Two years later an Order in Council was issued , naming commissioners to conduct the examination of candidates for the junior posts in the civil service , and the principle of open competition for such examination was formally approved by resolutions of the 1-louse of Commons in 1856 and 1857 . Two years afterward the act for the better government of India sanctioned the system of competition for appointments in the Indian service ; and in 1860 , upon the report of a select committee of the House , the application of that principle to the home service was extended and improved . The clerks to which this regulation applies correspond generally to the " inferior officers " of our system . The commissioners do not appoint-they merely examine-hut without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The inquiry is directed to health , character , knowledge , and ability . The rules as to qualifications are rigidly enforced , and the admissions impartially made to a conditional appointment , which , after a period of satisfactory prohation , is confirmed . Over the official once appointed political changes sweep harmlessly ; his advancement follows , as a matter of course , upon diligence and efficiency ; and provision is made for the superannuated , or those disabled hy ill health . The system as practiced in England is still considered experimental , hut a late report of the commissioners upon the subject , in 1865 , represents it as working extremely well , and it is too decidedly a step in the right direction to be ever retraced . From this spectacle of dull progress and feeble advance toward improvement in civil administration among the decrepit monarchies of the Old World it is , of course , gratifying to turn to the exemplary practice of our young , vigorous , and virtuous republic . Experience has taught the people of Europe that governments exist for the good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principle of our national life , beginning where they ended , can not fail to have applied it wisely and exactly in all the business details of administration . Let us see whether in our civil service we have done any thing more than to shift our colonial swaddling-clothes for the beggarly rags of a scarecrow . Statesmen and people alike in the rest of the civilized world are in accord upon certain cardinal points : That the working business servants of a government should be chosen for their fitness-we reward them with place for foul , often criminal , party service ; that the appointing power should be impartial-our Congressmen trade with offices as bribes for their own re-election ; that a fair opportunity should be given to all competitorswe proscribe the defeated , and shame the deserving away from the scramble ; that civil servants should hold place during good behavior-we cast them out at the end of four years , that they may return at the next period with seven others worse than the first ; that promotion should stimulate fidelity-we invite them to eager plunder while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' hands with unwatched gold , and when they turn thieves , suffer them to run , buy , or swear themselves off ; that when worn down with service they should receive support-we kick them out as paupers whenever they grow too old for tools as rascals ; that diligence , order , and courtesy should pervade all the public offices-with us , some of them are full of negligence and faithlessness , and others reek with corruption , brutality , fraud , and national dishonor . Not a line of this picture is distorted , nor a shade deepened beyond the truth . There are , indeed , among the public servants some honest and capable ones . We do full justice to them  --  the pinch of salt that arrests decay . The system is rotten , but not all gone putrid , or it must have perished . We can endure a little minuter dissection of it without too much disgust . This taint in the life-blood of our administrative system , drawn from its English source of Patronage , delayed very long to develop its corrupting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength and fresh promise to grow at once depraved . The circumstances of the country opened so many untried and boundless fields to talent and energy that these sought in independent action more hope and fruit than places at the capital could yield . Guided by the purest intentions , the appointing powerfound no difficulty in filling , upon personal knowledge of the few applicants , the small number of offices which it had to bestow . Washington did not think it beneath him to inquire the character and fitness of the most insighificant appointees , none of whom ever met an objection in political opinions , or dared to urge personal friendship as a plea . During the first twelve years of our history seventeen persons were removed from subordinate offices , and all for cause . Even the furious party rage of Jefferson 's time disdained to use that weapon for success or revenge . Those wars were not fought with poisoned arrows . Thirty-nine vacancies made among nearly five thousand places , and none of those for political reasons , fill up the list , which not even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a partisan infidel ever laid to his account as sins of favoritism . Down to the end of the second Adams 's term , subordinate officers were chosen // with great care on the ground of their fitness , and retained their places although their party lost power , without a single removal except for good cause . But the advent of Jackson to the Presidency-who seems to have dropped with his military career its ideas of discipline and fair advancement - ushered in a new era in American politics-an era in which party strife took final leave of dignity without regaining fairness , learned to satiate rancor through intrigne , and sacrificed public virtue to success . The journals and correspondence of the day are filled with instances of the disgust and dismay inspired by the innovation of sweeping removals from office on the avowed ground of opinion only . No dark oath ever hound accomplices more strongly in a conspiracy than the single tie of party fealty linked their creatures with the chiefs and managers who then rose to power . To that day and to those men-though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of blended threat and hoast , " To the victors helong the spoils , " which flaunted like a pirate flag over their attack upon the institutions of their country . Never did political quarrel borrow from the dialect of war a more immoral rallying-cry . The famous maxim of despotism , " Quid principi placuit legishabet vigorem , " fitted in its slavishness the temper of the times that suffered it ; but this bandit 's pass-word gave the lie to that equality of right and freedom of thought from which party in modern days is supposed to spring . The proscription lists thus opened by one party were of course filled up by the other in its turn ; and political struggles , becoming for thousands of employ*s qiestions of literal life and death , soon took the character which they have ever since retained , of desperation inflaming conviction , the fight for place embittering and degrading the contest of principles . Our modern practice divorces the ideas of office and duty , which should be indissolubly joined , and substitutes the false notion of a claim to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a prize for the winner ; its posts are all counted , valued , and assigned even before the contest begins ; and each leader points to its pay-roll as lawful plunder , as Bonaparte showed his starving troops the fat plains of Italy . So soon as the result of a Presidential election is known , the whole country from Maine to Mexico , and from Vancouver 's Island to Cape Sable , becomes alive with hordes of migrating office-seekers . It is as if the very dust of the land were turned into the least decent of the plagues of Egypt . For each of the defeated dependents preparing for a departure that for him is ruin , at least a hundred serviceable expectants are crowding toward the sources of patronage . President Lincoln wrote , just after his election , " I am now receiving one-sixth of the nation , which wants to live at the expense of the other five-sixths . " The attack of these famishing packs of place-men is believed to have worried the life out of two Presidents , as it fills the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disgust and annoyance . True , many applicants are fit for office , and among such a multitude some fit ones must be appointed . But the effect of this disgraceful scramble is to deter most men of good character from applying at all , conscious that fitness is the last thing seriously inquired into . No longer the well-known test , " Is he honest , is he capable ? " is applied ; but we are fast nearing the time when the questions asked will be " Is he dishonest enough to stop at no knavery for the party 's sake ? - is he capable of going all lengths , even to crime , to serve the person who procures his nomination ? " The most preposterous and infamous claims  --  a remote relationship , general uselessness and ill-success in life , an election fraud , a newspaper puff ; a wellmanaged riot , a share of expected pay , aid in speculations , ruin from evil courses in party service-are urged and acceded to . This play of base motives , this tragi-comedy of desperate intrigue , culminates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from office of thousands , their replacement by a swarm as worthless and more ravenous , and the cry of disappointed rage or despair risingfrom a hundred throats where one rejoices . One needs a double countenance , half Democritus and half Heraclitus , to do justiceto the humorous grimness of description in the journals a year ago of the multitudes in the Capitol corridors. : Between the downcast and the exulting the scene presents a sort of tattered travesty of that other splendid instance of human baseness  --  the rush of the court of France , upon the cry " le roi est mort , " away from the dead king to greet the living one . This great whirlpool stirs up countless eddies of intrigue and bargaining in every shire and town of the several States . The interests and the evil influences connected with these sweeping changes ramify through all the land , and are set again at their work of mischief , on a smaller scale , as often as any place falls vacant . For though , as of old , our officeholders are a race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not given them to do either-yet it does occasionally happen that conscience or detection causes the abrupt departure of those whose genius for " conveying " develops too rapidly . Some few have even exchanged a bureau for a deserved jail . So long as the present system of appointment is maintained , some such perversion of it is inevitable . Upright purpose and diligent attention on the part of the Executive , and the heads of departments , and chiefs of bureausand we do not believe these are often wanting - must be fruitless , since the immense number and variety of applicants has made that personal knowledge which formerly guided a choice impossible . The appointing power must be governed in its selection , for the most part , by the representations of friends , and especially of the members of Congress . These , from the nature of the case , form a sort of advisory I , // council , each one of whom is supposed to be familiar with the worth and fitness of applicants for office from his own locality , and to bear his share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got through with except by some such distribution of it . This virtual dele*gation of the appointing power becomes fatally connected with a Congressman 's interest . Each one of the hundred solicitors for each vacant place who beset him not only is a voter , but may be also the pivot of an organized machinery of multitudinous voters , and often an unscrupulous adept in party management . Promise and punisbment are in bis hands , and he can back bis demands with the terrors of a plebiscite . When the member 's election is yet to be paid for , and his re-election , perhaps his whole political career , bangs on his choice of a nominee for appointment , how is he likely to choose between modest merit and influential worthlessness ? Human nature can rarely resist such a strain , even were it not proverbial that Congressional virtue is rather eager to embrace than coy to shun such seductions . Necessarily too , under the present system , members are constantly employed in attending to the solicitations , and involved in the intrigues of office-seekers . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to their legislative duties , thus to dehase their office by dancing attendance in ante-chambers , must wound the self-respect of honorable men , and lead to their replacement by others less sensitive and more partisan , and to a gradual decline in the character of our legislators . We do not say , of course , that such a decline , due precisely to this mischief ; is far advanced already . But when the lowest depth is reached , Congressmen , then all self-seeking calculators , may perhaps bethink themselves that with every gift they destroy many hopes , creating ten enemies where they pay or attach one friend , and that thus , by retributive justice , the evil returns to plague the inventors . But this is far from being the worst of the indirect influences upon government exerted by our vicious system of civil appQintments . The temper of Congress is not to sue the Executive for what it has the power to take ; the step is easy from suggesting to demanding appointments , and it has long since been made . Representatives nowadays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own property , and use the public trust shamelessly as a fund to pay their own political debts . Of course no representative thinks of giving money-not his own money at least-for the caucus work of intrigue , or the polls work of fraud by which his henchmen got him his place ; but the public money is there , and he demands the use of it . Now the public man who puts his creature into a place for which he knows him to be unfit , is in morals as much a robber as if he broke open the Treasury vaults . He would do a less dangerous though a bolder wrong by employing his shoulder-hitter directly in that burglary than by placing him where he will cause greater loss through fraud . And is this claim upon the Executive yielded to the legislator without an equivalent ? Assuredly not ! If a share of patronage is given , a share of legislative support is expected in return . It matters not what influence is applied to bring about the exchange . It may be only suggestion , reasoning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract exist , the sense of a mutual obligation grows up , and as the system matures it must ultimately take the form and bear the scandal of a constant bargaining . This is English patronage , poisonously luxuriant in the new soil . The independence of the executive and legislative departments of each other must become undermined , the limits of their respective powers confused , and an essential principle of our government vitiated and destroyed by the reflex action of its defective system of civil administration . Fitly or unfitly , then , as often in the latter as in the former way , the minor offices are thus filled , and the spoil divided . No one has sought their steady obscure work , with the small salary to be snatched from him in four years more at farthest , who could have employed his abilities otherwise with the prospect of a certain and permanent career , however modest . Very few to whom they fell as the hire for party service intend to earn their official pay , or scruple to find and make opportunities for plunder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of these creatures ; " I worked to get here . YOU . do n't expect me to work , now I am here ? * Many of these men are ignorant , imbecile , intemperate , profligate . In the revenue service , especially , they draw larger pay than the industrious , for party service as ward politicians , election bullies , and petty wire-pullers . If they condescend to work at all , it is with a blundering inefficiency that would cause their instant dismissal from a decent tradesman 's shop . But as the work must be done , it falls with a double and most unfair burden upon the capable and diligent . And these are deprived , by the absurd system of rotation in office , of the aid of experience . Official training and official traditions make up a great part of a place-man 's efficiency , and for the lack of these the public civil service drags in disgraceful contrast to the prompt and exact movement of affairs in the military and naval branches . A single experienced clerk will perform with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The dismissal of useless and incompetent place-men would effect a saving far more than sufficient to pay accomplished business men the best salaries , which they now quit the government service by hundreds to seek elsewhere . Yet the drones continue to be paid , and the famous rotation system is thus branded as not less extravagant than immoral . Still , their unfaithful neglect is less ruinous than their active rascality . Few who have had any experience , especially in the revenue offices , are not // astounded at the extent and boldness of their corruption , and so notorious has the scandal become that a member of Congress has not scrupled to declare that thieves infest all the government departments , and honesty is the exception rather than the rule . For any private business establishment , such a statement , if not a libel , would be a prophecy of ruin . Yet an examination into details proves its truth as regards the civil service of the United States to be not less conspicuous than it is disgraceful . One hundred millions of dollars , one-fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws , vanishes before it reaches the Treasury . One-fourth of the impost laid for the support of government upon the labor of the working-classes and the ability and capital of those who do not live by wages , goes to maintain idlers and cheats in the public offices . One-fourth the price paid by toil for its protection by law feeds the worthless lives of those who creep into place to corrupt or break law . It has come to this , that the government founded for the greatest good of the greatest number manages its pecuniary affairs for the benefit of the worst few at the cost of the many . In the customs department , it is estimated by the highest authority that from negligence and connivance , which defects in the law assist , the government does not receive more than onehalf the duties it is entitled to . At the port of New York alone there is a yearly loss to the revenue of over thirty millions . The tax on spirits fails by tens of millions to yield its due fruit . The journals teem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which the successful scoundrel scorns to swoop at less than a fortune . These operations vary in their methods , being conducted sometimes with the secrecy of collusion , and sometimes with the boldness of defiance . The scent of such corruption attracts from afar clouds of obscene birds who settle upon our coasts as fraudulent importers , thrive by the aid of venal accomplices , and return home with their spoil to defame republican institutions . The gibbet , that melancholy sign of civilization which greeted the voyager to a strange shore , should rise beside our light-houses to punish that combined breach of hospitality and honesty committed by these Hessians of trade . Other plunderers along our extended frontier , uniting skill with daring , elude the payment of duties by smuggling , to the ruin of honorable merchants as well as to the injury of the government . Still more outrageously , illicit distillers , trusting the supineness and disdaining the safe purchase of official friends , intrench themselves in the heart of cities , and wage a little war against the troops sent to dislodge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large ports , buy or watch the opportunity of landing parts of their cargoes in fraud , a ad pay from the plunder for the desperate services rendered in some cases by their villainous tools in maiming and murdering the faithful officials set to watch them . No wonder that , with decency discouraged by such associations , and honesty deterred by such dangers , the civil service sinks steadily into deeper discredit . No wonder , when Congress rejects an enlightened plan for its reform , that on the very day that plan was defeated a fraud by a Treasury clerk should have been detected to an amount that would have paid for the expense of establishing it . Thus , instead of creating schools for training young men in the various branches of the civil service , as other governments have done , we convert our public offices into seminaries where every art of fraud js taught , and pay our pupils for learning to cheat us more shrewdly . The United States indeed " builded worse than they knew ' in erecting on the Island of Manhattan that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blackwell 's , shelters inmates whom the hospital and the bridewell would welcome home , and promotes its candidates from the pot-house through public service to the penitentiary . Pity that so few exchange official pap for the more wholesome black bread and broth of Sing Sing . Yet this dilapidation of our finances , and the consequent strain upon our resources , grave as these mischiefs are , do not complete the view of the serious evils inflicted by the wretched condition of our civil service . These conspicuous samples of negligence permitted and wrong tolerated by the supreme power deprave general morality , and loosen the strictness of integrity in private affairs . It is a grievous evil that dishonest officials tempt and taint their associates ; it is a fearful danger that every four years new hordes of unprincipled men , despising work , are cast out from the public offices to get their living at the expense of the community ; but this influence is far less subtle and corrupting than is the idea thus implanted in the public mind that the state does not need or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to complain of individual breaches of trust , of legislative bribery , of venality in the courts , of universal faithlessness in work , when the state itself founds a perpetual lottery of license , and distributes its quadrennial prizes among the most cunning and rapacious ! Unhappily , lack of knowledge does not excuse , but rather weakness of principle disgraces the nation for so long a tolerance of this monstrous system . More than fifty years ago Josiah Quincy exposed and whipped the baseness even then intriguing about him under its shelter . Our wisest statesmen deplored and warned against the dangerous corruptions flowing from the innovation of rotation in office . And the utter depravity into which the service has festered of late , under the stimulus of our extended tax and revenue demands , has alarmed all who care for the country more than for parties or personal interests . Three years ago Mr. J euckes presented to the House of Representatives the project of a law for the reform of the civil service , which , after certain modifications made to // satisfy objections to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session . The need of such improvement as the bill proposes is not seriously denied , its most vigorous opponent confessing that the truth is even understated in the assertion that the people are robbed by their civil service agents of three times the amount the whole civil service costs . The purification and strengthening of our administrative system is sought , by this measure , through the adoption of the leading principles that give such efficiency to the practice of other nations . It proposes competitive examination , open to all , of candidates for places , excepting , unnecessarily as it seems to us , postmasters and consuls . Is a postmaster fit for his place who can not read writing or keep plain accounts , or a consul who can not speak the tongue of the country he goes to ? and are none of our present officials of these classes wanting in these elementary qualifications ? Why is the frequent and safe distribution of letters impossible in our great cities , except because permanence in place offers no inducement to the best men to enter the postal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the recent statistics and internal interests of foreign nations , such as they collect of ours , except from the want of special knowledge and experience in our commercial agents ? The bill further provides for promotion by seniority , giving room , however , for the earlier advance of those best qualified or specially deserving , through particular examinations . It also prescribes modes of trial , removal , or suspension for delinquency ; it subjects existing place-holders to a test of their fitness for office ; and it defers to the spirit of the times in opening admission to the public service for all women who prove their capacity for it . But it omits , probably from dread of plausible but unintelligent attacks , any provision whatever for the support of civil servants upon retirement , from age or incapacity occurring while in service . It arranges for the division of the country into numerous examination districts , for the convenience of candidates , and proposes to defray a part of the cost of the new system from small fees to be paid by applicants , about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the temperate ones now pays whenever he posts to the capital on his doubtful mission . The action of the Board of Commissioners which this law would create is confined to prescribing rules , conducting examinations , and giving certificates of fitness . They are to make no appointments whatever , but merely recommendations for appointments , from among which the appointing power will select and nominate to office , as the existing law directs . For candidates who pass the tests , but are not able to obtain a place , these official certificates would be valuable proofs of character and capacity , and would serve , as similar ones now do in , England , as the highest recommendations for employment elsewhere . No one can hope to reform a system without a struggle against those who profit by its abuses ; and the more profoundly these abuses have penetrated , the more violent the effort usually is to maintain them . Yet so plain is the need for an amendment in our civil administration , that most of the legislators who grieved to see its fountains of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the silent scandal of a vote rather than the open mistake of speech . The facts demonstrating that need are too flagrant and too exactly stated to be gainsayed ; the improved machinery of the plan for assuring the remedy is too simple and efficient for cavil ; and the objections urged against its principle hardly cover their weakness with a show of plausibility . The principal of these objections are , that the system will be costly ; that it will not be faithfully and vigorously managed ; and that it is borrowe4 from monarchical governments , and contradicts the theory of our own by creating a privileged order . Its annual expense is estimated , by those who cling to the present abuses , at the interest upon a million dollars . But as the saving which it fairly promises to effect in the mere matter of stealing is just a million a year , to say nothing of the reduced number of paid places which it contemplates , this particular unfavorable view does not seem to deserve much attention from any one who is able to cipher . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high official duty dictates negligence , and that the new system would be abused as a state engine for party objects . But it contradicts experience to assume that the commissioners named to carry oat this or any similar improvement , holding a post at least as dignified and important as that 4held by the head of a department , would be willfully careless , or would knowingly employ careless subordinates . The cases are rare in which even party zeal seriously charges opponents in high places with that peculiar mode of throwing away their reputations ; and still rarer are the instances of such charges sustained by proof . And granting that the amended plan could be usurped and controlled by party , would not its operation even then be a great improvement upon our present wretched methods ? Would it not be better to have occasional vacancies filled by fit men from a party in power , than to have vacancies made by wholesale expressly to be filled with unfit men from either party in turn ? But it is a striking merit of the new system , shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the place-man ceases to he a partisan , when the enmity of one party and the favor of the other can neither help nor harm him so long as he is faithful to duty . This whole argument rests on the assumption , unworthy of patriotism , that there is no such thing as public virtue left in the land ; and if that be well founded , we might almost as well dispense with free government altogether , for we would then be much nearer to despotism than our demoralizing practices of administration have yet brought us.                     