@@485824

SIR : Your note in the Nation of November 26 , commenting upon a resolution in relation to Mr. Stead and the Pall Mall Gazette disclosures , moved by myself at a late meeting of the New York Committee for the Prevention of State-Regulated Vice , had escaped my notice till this late date , when my attention was called to it by a friend . You ask , referring to Mrs. Gibbons , the President of the Committee , and myself , to be informed " where these astounding disclosures of criminal immorality in high places are to be found , and whether they have themselves ever seen them or have any good reason for believing in their existence , and if so , what . " For details as to the disclosures I respectfully refer you to the Pall Mall Gazette statements , concerning which you were quite fully advised by your own London correspondent . As to the credibility of those statements , and whether we have any good reason for believing them , I reply that we presume the testimony concerning their substantial truthfulness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London , Cardinal Manning , Samuel Morley , and Mr. Reid , M.P. , to whom they were specially referred , and by whom they were most carefully considered , to be worthy of our credence . These distinguished gentlemen reported that , " After carefully sifting the evidence of witnesses and materials before us , without guaranteeing the accuracy of every particular , we are satisfied that on the whole the statements of the Pall Mall Gazette are substantially true . " Their examination of the subject was comprehensive , dispassionate , impartial Has the Nation been afforded better facilities than theirs for sifting the evidence of all the witnesses and details in the premises ? If so , when and where ? In the absence of opportunities superior to those of the distinguished gentlemen whose testimony we accept , your imputation of untruthfulness on the part of Mrs. Gibbons and myself would seem , to say the least , ungracious . Mr. Powell avoids the point . The tribunal of archbishops and others who sat on the Stead stories did not say they found evidence of " criminal immorality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high places . " In finding evidence of " criminal immorality , " they only found what everybody knew . Moreover , we now know , and Mr. Powell ought to know , that their examination of the subject was not " comprehensive , dispassionate , impartial " ? was not , in fact , worth anything ; because they did not discover that Stead had himself concocted the only case of which he printed the details -- namely , the " Lily " or Armstrong case , and had lied in assuring the public that he had personal knowledge of the facts . We did not impute " untruthfulness " to Mrs. Gibbons or Mr. Powell , but only loose talk , of which a good many others have been guilty on the same subject. ? ED . NATION . WHISKEY AND THE COLOR LINE . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : While I am convinced that there is much less " bulldozing " in the South than many good people of the North believe , I hardly think your reference to " lively bidding for negro votes " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your conclusion " that the color-line in politics is vanishing throughout the South . " The circumstances surrounding a Southern  --  at least a Kentucky  --  election are favorable to " bulldozing . " The voters stand outside the building in which the poll-books are kept , and give the names of their candidates through an open window . In many places the " floaters " ( including many of the " pore w'ite trash " as well as negroes ) hold the balance of power , if not absolute control . It often happens that these floaters postpone voting until late in the day for two reasons : ( 1 ) whiskey is donated more freely to those whose votes can be influenced by it ; and ( 2 ) the price of votes rises later in the day . Sometimes it will appear , near the time for closing the polls , that there is not time for all to vote . One side gets possession of the polls while it " votes its men . " This is a slow process  --  in Kentucky at least  --  for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office and it has to be recorded ; and if the ticket is a long one , and the voters are very drunk , the outside generally becomes impatient . That a struggle should sometimes occur for possession of the polls would seem simple enough to Predict , and that the side containing the larger proportion of negroes should usually find itself not in possession of the polls , can but follow from the present state of Southern society . I have known cases of more premeditated bulldozing , but not many . Bulldozing is not generally necessary . So far as my experience goes , a majority of colored voters expect to , be paid for their votes . Almost all will sell to the Republican party for half the money that will secure their vote for the Democratic . If no money is paid , they stay at home , or visit the polls , get what free whiskey they can , and often go home without voting . Many white men do the same . In one county in this State , with very few colored voters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the white voters expect pay for their votes . The color line in politics will not vanish till the color line vanishes in some measure from religion , education , and society ; and I believe I can adduce satisfactory evidence that this has not been accomplished , even in Atlanta . Nor do I believe the fact that white and colored voters of both sides walked to the polls arm in arm means much . I have seen it in every closely contested election for several years . I believe " the census figured . of adult male negroes " in the Southern States with which I am acquainted represent the number , or a part of " the number , of Republican votes which would be polled " if all voted and the elections were not influenced by bribery or fear . 1 can at this time only call to mind two negroes who " habitually vote the Democratic ticket . " But money and whiskey are mightier than the shotgun . KENTUCKY . A NATIONAL UNIVERSITY . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been said by your recent correspondentsupon the subject of a national university . The establishment of such an institution has not only been ably advocated for a score of years or more , but had been proposed before the close of the last century . The institution now known as the Ohio University , at Athens , but which has never been anything more than a college , was the outgrowth of this idea . Dr. Cutler , who had much to do in forming a plan for it , proposed that it be called the American University . When Ohio became a State , its Legislature , to which body the management of the University lands had been intrusted , far from doing anything to promote the interests of the prospective institution , almost systematically continued to diminish its revenues . It is only a few years since the current flows in the opposite direction . The management of the agricultural land scrip has shown quite recently that our State universities have not yet got entirely out of the danger of like treatment . The unfortunate fact stands that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced studies for their own sake . It is true , a hundred or more young Americans go abroad every year to study ; but these would probably go anyhow , no matter how good the facilities at home , because of the additional advantages afforded for acquiring foreign languages . Besides , what are these among the many who attend our colleges and so-called universities ? The fact that " mercantilism " is absorbing the best talent of the nation has of late been frequently dwelt upon in public addresses and in published articles . Yet ? if there be any consolation therein  --  if we may accept the testimony of those most conversant with the facts , our English cousins are no better in this respect . Sir Lyon Playfair , in his recent address , asserts that our general Government is doing more for science than Parliament . We all remember the bitterly sarcastic remark of Huxley , while quoting the opinion of a friend , that " In England it is better for a man 's worldly prospects to be a drunkard than to be smitten with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Englishman is little given to pursuits that are so largely ideal  --  less than the Frenchman , much less than the German . The large German element among us has not benefited us in this regard , because those who came hither were almost exclusively of the middle and lower classes , who hoped to better their worldly condition by coining . The average Yankee and the average German-American are exactly on a par in point of mercenariness . I suppose the Ohio idea in education is about the American idea on this question : it is to let the public fix the standard by which a college or university shall gauge its work . ( Is n't Harvard doing something of this kind ? ) The President of one of our most populous colleges habitually proclaims the doctrine that a university to be successful ( which , being interpreted , means numerously attended ) must have a constituency , and in order that the constituency be large , its standard of scholarship must not be too high . We have , in Ohio , institutions calling themselves universities that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ openly proclaim their ability to take an unsophisticated youth and graduate him with an A. B. , or with almost any other degree he may desire , after two years ' instruction . The hold these institutions have on the public is melancholy testimony to our wretched notions about the higher education . That some of our best colleges are so meagrely attended is largely owing to the pernicious influences that emanate from these quack establishments . That ten students , or even two students , who are willing to devote themselves unselfishly to scientific pursuits , are quite as deserving of pecuniary aid as one hundred or one thousand engaged in bread-and-butter studies , is an idea which there is as little hope of getting into the heads of a majority of our legislators , either State or national , as there is of constructing a flying machine that shall carry passengers across the AtlanO . Beth feats will probably be accomplished about the same time . Between the numerical estimate of the success of our higher institutions of learning on the one hand , and the ecclesiastical notion on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  that is , the original investigator as we find him at the German universities  --  has but a sorry time of it . Nor is the day of deliverance near at hand , or even in sight . Those who labor to bring about a better state of public opinion on this question will have something more than their labor for their pains ; they will have the consolation of the missionary , who feels that though appreciated by few he is laboring in a cause that must ultimately triumph . But let no man now living lay the flattering unction to his soul that the triumph will come in his day . I bAieve that we must expect from individual generosity not only the endowment of original research , but also the establishment and maintenance of educational institutions of the highest grade . S. OHIO , December 12 , 1885 . SCIENCE AND BREAD AND BUTTER . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In the Nation for December 10 Mr. Werner A. Stille , writing with reference to a university at home , introduces the very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to be regarded as a fact admitting of no question , that the scientific spirit in Germany is the result of a high ambition on the part of the Germans without any bread-and-butter element . I am sorry to throw doubt upon this ideal state of affairs , but one can not remain in a German university and mix with German students for more than a very short time without being convinced that the motive for investigation is largely " Butter-bred , " together with the almost universal requirement of a dissertation before examination . For what is the condition of affairs there ? Practically the only way to the public service , professional and professorial life , is through the university . The teachers in the high-schools ( Gymnasien and Realschulen ) , polytechnic schools , and universities are chosen almost entirely on the evidence given by original work , and when a German applies himself to original work it is often with the avowed object of making his way in his profession . He must investigate if he would succeed . In chemistry especially can this be shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last few years is in large part due more to the bread-and-butter consideration than perhaps to any other . There was a time when a professor of chemistry chose between pure science with comparative poverty and applied science with wealth , and chose the former , but in our day the professor of organic chemistry can follow pure science , patent the results of his investigations , and gain both glory and lucre . That it is not lack of ambition which prevents good work being done at home is shown not only by the fact that in those universities here where a dissertation ( not a mere nominal one ) is required good work is done  --  work certainly equal to that done abroad  --  but also by the fact that many who study abroad and thoroughly imbibe the spirit of research , on coming home soon give up all work , either because they are placed in circumstances where original work will not , or apparently does not , tell , or where so much time is required that none is left for investigation , or where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so frequently influenced more by local or personal considerations than by record of work done or promise of work in the future , that no encouragement is given to any kind of ambition except perhaps that of being a good canvasser . That the offering of prizes by a National Scientific Association would modify and cure this condition of affairs is exceedingly doubtful , unless it was felt at the same time that the work thus done would be of benefit in advancing the candidate toward " bread and butter . " The prizes must be permanent ones . What is needed to develop a university is a money value to original work . It must help a man 's fortunes here as it does in Germany . That it does so there is shown by instances where German " Privat-doeenten " and extraordinary prpfessors have gained renown and position by " bahnbrechend " work , which was almost relinquished when the ordinary professorship was reached . Let original work tell , and it will spring forth here as elsewhere . It is not in any way denied that there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Boyle , Cavendish , Rumford , Franklin , Audu5on , Humboldt , Faraday , Draper , Clerk-Maxwell in the past , and Marsh , Cooke , Rutherford , Agassiz , Joule , Rayleigh in the present , show that bread and butter is not the only motive . But that it enters , and enters largely , into the inducements to investigation which possess Germany , is not to be questioned.  - -  Yours respectfully , B. CHARLESTON , S. C. , December 14 , 1885 . JEWS IN AMERICAN SOCIETY . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Your article in this week 's issue on the " Keiley Correspondence " is capital , just to the point , as your articles always are . Does not this prejudice against the Jews exist in this country as well ? Are Jews ever received in good society outside of their own ? Do Americans ever associate with Jews outside of business ? Do American ladies call on Jewish ladies and receive them at their houses If they do I am not aware of it ; on the contrary , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their noses if they should meet them on terms of social equality ; the Constitution and fundamental laws of this country notwithstanding . Mr. Bayard probably never heard of Judge Hilton 's refusal to receive Mr. Seligman and family at the Grand Union Hotel at Saratoga some years ago , or of Mr. Corbin 's order not to admit Jews at certain places on Coney Island . I do not mean to question the right or wrong of this prejudice ; much can be said for and against it . I only say that it exists here as well as in Europe , and I should like to remind those people who have so much to say about the Germans and other nations on account of their prejudice against the Jews , to sweep before their own doors . High-sounding phrases like those that Mr. Bayard employed look very well on paper and adorn our statute-books , but they can not deceive any one who is acquainted with the customs and internal affairs of this country . M. NEW YoRK , December 17 , 1885 . " PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondent " D. G. , " in the Nation of December 10 , refers to the Germans of Pennsylvania in terms which may perhaps require some qualification . It can hardly be expected that a high-spirited people , such as many of the " Pennsylvania Dutch " undoubtedly are , should accept without protest such assertions as the following : " They are thrifty , peaceable citizens , but they never rise higher . Large numbers of them still speak a dialect compounded of bad German and worse English . Many of them can scarcely un derstand any other language . They have religious beliefs and ceremonies so strange that those who have not seen them often doubt their existence . They are far inferior to the Quakers ; have less natural ability , less education , less refinement . High progress among them is an impossibility . " We have heard such criticisms too frequently to be greatly displeased by them ; but for all that they are , and always have been , manifestly unjust . As early as the middle of the last century letters were written to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profoundly ignorant as to be unable to speak the English language , " and as " fast becoming like unto wood-born savages . " At the very time when these letters were written , almost every German church in the province sustained a flourishing parochial school , and the celebrated printer , Christopher Saur ( or Sower ) , was conducting , at Germantown , a German publishing house which was by far the largest and most successful in the American colonies . Ever since my father boxed my ears in boyhood for saying " Pennsylvania Dutch , " I have not liked the term . It is certainly a misnomer . The name Dutch properly belongs to the Hollanders , and it is , therefore , misleading to apply it to the Germans of Pennsylvania . It is now so frequently employed that we have become used to it ; but when folks want to be polite they say " Pennsylvania Germans . " Concerning the dialect of Pennsylvania , much nonsense has been written . It is , however , as Professor Haldeman calls it , " a dialect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This English infusion is naturally much greater in some localities than in others . It is notessential , and when it is omitted the dialect closely resembles those which are spoken along the Rhine at the present day . I have frequenly used it in addressing country people in Germany , and invariably found that I was better understood than when I spoke pure German . The German clergy of Pennsylvania , as a rule , speak fairly good German in tin pulpit and in private conversation . Some of them are natives of Germany or Switzerland , and preach precisely as they would have done if they hail remained in the Fatherland . Of course , among the minor sects , which have no educated ministry , the language of the pulpit is more nearly colloquial . German newspapers are numerous , but vary greatly in style . Some of them employ excellent language , while others seek to amuse their patrons by introducing localisms and peculiar forms of expression . Since the schools have become English , the language of the people is rapidly changing , and it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In this respect improvement may be confidently expected ; and in the meantime we console ourselves with the reflection that the English spoken by rustic communities in other sections of the country is not always immaculate . Your correspondent 's references to " strange beliefs and ceremonies " I am at a loss to understand . Three-fourths of the Germans of Pennsylvania , it is safe to assert , are either Lutherans , Reformed ( generally called " German Reformed " ) , Moravians , or Methodists . There are also several Roman Catholic congregations . In the beliefs and ceremonies of these denominations there is certainly nothing which can be considered strange . They number among their ministers eminent theologians whose writings , whether composed in English or German , are not unknown to persons who take an interest in theological literature . They have literary institutions whose published course of study indicates that they hold a respectable position among American colleges , and many of their recent graduates are now pursuing advanced studies in European universities . The only denominations to which the remarks of your correspondent can in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which are especially numerous in Lancaster County . This term includes the Mennonites and " Dunkers , " or German Baptists , with several minor " asteroidal fragments . " They resemble the Quakers in wearing a peculiar dress and in testifying against the evils of war and a " stipendiary clergy . " In doctrine they are generally Baptist . The " Dunkers " on certain occasions practise feet washing as a religious act . This is certainly a " strange ceremony , " but it is with them a very solemn service , for which they claim Scriptural warrant in the example of Christ . In their own way they are an active and energetic body , and in the Western States are making progress in purely English communities . An offshoot from this sect was the " Order of the Solitary , " at Ephrata , which was so prominent in our early literary history ; but it has long since ceased to exist . Small religious denominations in rural communities are apt to become fossilized ; and the " peace sects " have in some respects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were generally opposed to higher education , but in this respect there have been great changes , and they now have several excellent schools . If in some respects unprogressive , the fact is probably mainly due to their great average wealth . The magnificent farms , in which they take great pride , require attention and labor , and they lack incentives to " high progress . " It is , however , certain that they have a sufficient knowledge of finance for their own immediate purposes . To them especially the language ascribed to a recent Governor of Illinois may be supposed to apply : " A Pennsylvania Dutchman in trade can give a Yankee several ' points ' and yet beat bins on his own ground . " Such as they are , it is , however , unfair to represent the " peace sects as typical of the whole body of Pennsylvania Germans . Most of the early German settlers were poor exiles , driven from the Palatinate by successive French invasions , or by the cruelty of their own rulers . When they arrived in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was easily cleared , and they were competed to attack the forests which occupied the interior of the country . The result proved that the soil which had sustained great trees was best suited to agricultural purposes ; but who can form an adequate idea of the toil and privation which the task of clearing it involved ? For years they dwelt in comparative solitude , constantly exposed to the attacks of hostile savages . Separated in great degree from the educational influences of the fatherland , and unable to speak the language of their rulers , it is perhaps not surprising that their intellectual progress during the colonial period was slo w , though there were among them , at all times , men of intelligence and influence . Concerning the important part which they subsequently took in the War of the Revolution , Ba ncroft has written : " Neither they nor their descendants have laid claim to all the praise that was their due . " Of the Governors of Pennsylvania since the Revolution eight have been " Pennsylvania Germans " and several others were German on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans in Pennsylvania it is not necessary to enlarge . Such names as Muhlenberg , Winter , Helfienstein , Hiester , Keim , and many others have , we believe , been mentioned beyond the limits of the State . In science , too , the names of Melsheimer , Gross , Leidy , and Haldeman are sufficiently familiar . The Quakers and the Germans have always been good friends , though they have had little personal communication . Except in Philadelphia and its vicinity , the Quakers have ceased to be an important element in our population . Their gentle manners must , however , win them friends wherever they are known , and we cheerfully accord to them all the refinement which has been claimed in their behalf . In natural ability , on the other hand , the Pen asylvania Germans are not inferior to any other people . Indeed , I have been assured by eminent educators that they manifest a peculiar aptitude for classical and philosophical studies . English is the language of our country , and all other languages must give way before it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be cultivated only as an accomplishment , and spoken by the intelligent alone . Such changes , however , require more than a single generation . In the meantime , it may be well to remember the advice of Dr. Benjamin Rush , in his Essay on the Germans , ' written a century ago : " Do not contend with their prejudices in favor of their language . It will be the channel through which the knowledge and discoveries of the wisest nations in Europe may be conveyed into our country . " J. H. DUBBS . THE INDIAN PROBLEM . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : Sin : All will agree with Commissioner Atkins in the opinion that " It should be industriously and gravely impressed upon them ( the Indians ) that they must abandon their tribal relations and take lands in severalty , " etc . The Commissioner , however , singularly underrates the power of Indian prejudice in entertaining the hope that all the Indians can be won over in five years to the support of such measures . The five ( so called ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others to new ideas , and yet the prejudice among them against such a movement is exceedingly bitter . It is doubtless true that many of the mixed bloods are at heart in favor of such a course ; but they dare not openly advocate it , as such action would immediately deprive them of all political influence , and even subject them to great risk of property and life . Any attempt to change the status quo in five years , or in five times five years , will certainly be bitterly opposed by the full-bloods with almost absolute unanimity . The great trouble lies in the fact that they are utterly devoid of any ambition for personal independence and advancement . If one happens to rise a little above the common level and begins to advocate something better , it is not infrequently at the cost of his life . We have put it in the power of the Indians to live without work , and the bread of idleness is anything else but a civilizing diet . The lesson of laziness which our policy has inculcated will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem disposed of in a few years is destined to disappointment . Mr. Atkins 's plan for selling the surplus lands and putting the money on interest for the different tribes has a serious objection : it will act as a perpetual premium on the laziness and lack of ambition which we have mentioned . Congress should respond at once to the President 's recommendation for a Commission to investigate the problem ; The occasional visits of Congressional committees are a perfect farce , so far as securing any valuable information as a basis for legislation is concerned . Only a day or two is spent at each agency , and the value of that is generally counteracted by the fact that the Indians are warned beforehand to " put their best foot forward . " It is safe to say that all the information gathered by the average " junketing committee " could be obtained from other sources at one-hundredth part of the cost . Let us have an Indian Commission with ample funds to make a thorough investigation of the problem , so that Congress may no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TERRITORY , December 14 , 1885 . LES MISERABLES ' IN ENGLISH . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : I should like through your columns to warn the readers of the Nation against a so-called translation of Victor Hugo 's Les Misdrables , ' in three volumes , published by Ward , Lock &; Co. , of London and New York . In order to show how incomplete and untrustworthy this translation is , it is only necessary to state that the publishers have abridged the five volumes of the original French edition to three volumes of about the same size in the English translation  --  in other words , have left out entirely some 700 or 800 pages , or a:out two-fifths of the work as published in French . It would be tedious to attempt to call attention to even a small part of the omissions , but there is one alone which to me would render the book absolutely worthless , viz. : the entire elimination of the sixteen or seventeen chapters containing Hugo 's magnificent description of the battle of Waterloo . Another piece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the publishing in uniform style of ? By the King 's Command , ' another novel of Hugo 's , which has no more to do with Les Misdrables ' than Dumas 's Count of Monte Cristo , ' and placing this work in the same box with Les Misdrables , ' and listing it on the title-pages of the three volumes of the latter work in such a manner as to give the purchaser the impression that By the King 's Command ' is either a part of ' Les Misdrables ' or a sequel to it . Permit me to inquire whether there is a trustworthy and complete translation of Les Misdrables ' to be found in this country ? Respectfully , W. G. CHICAGO , December 14 , 1885 . WOMEN ART STUDENTS IN MUNICH . To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Can I have through your columns answers to the following questions concerning women art students at Munich ? First , how and where two American women could live in that city on very small means ? If there are portrait and life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such classes , and the cost of instruction ? If it would be possible for an American woman in Munich to support herself by teaching the English language , and haw she could find such employment ? M. NEW YORK CITY , December 14 , 1885.                     