@@742411

txt A great many able monsters have been seen at sea by sea Captains in different states of gin , but the fresh-water monster which is at present infesting the waters of the Mississippi surpasses the ablest of them . For some time a variety of phenomena have occurred in the Mississippi of which no adequate explanation could be devised . For example , a row-boat twenty feet long and containing two large colored men was recently crossing the river when it suddenly rose ten feet in the air , spilling the oarsmen , and filling them with a sudden fear that the awful day of reckoning for surreptitious chickens was at hand . About the same time a cow which was accustomed to feed on the bank of the river was missed , and after a prolonged search half of her was found floating in the water , while the other half has never yet been found . Unfortunately , the half that was lost included the milk department of the cow , so that the owner was naturally quite inconsolable . Of course , the sudden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dismemberment of men and animals is a frequent feature of the natural scenery on the Father of Waters , but incidents of this kind have never hitherto occurred except in connection with a steam-boat boiler . Now , in the two cases just mentioned there was no steamboat within scalding distance , and hence the conclusion that some novel force had elevated two colored men and divided a cow was irresistible . The mystery which hung over these casualties was accidentally dispelled the other day by the discovery of an aquatic monster of novel construction and remarkable merit , Mr. JACOB ERST , a German gentleman residing fifty miles below St. Louis , was riding along the bank of the river when he saw a monster of hideous mien lying on the sand . For the first time in his life Mr. ERST felt a momentary fear that after all lager-beer might possess intoxicating qualities . While he had not the slightest fear of the monster , his desire to obtain some other man 's opinion ? as to beer led him to gallop his horse to a neighbor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lie mentioned having seen a few hundred yards of monster , whereupon the neighbor hastily armed himself with two sons and several rifles , and set out , threatening slaughter against all manner of voracious " insects . " The . monster kindly waited to receive his visitors , and there is no doubt that he astonished them . A more intricate animal has seldom , if ever , been seen outside of the geographical area of cheap whisky . " A hasty survey " was made of the monster ? doubtless by a system of triangulation  --  and he was found to be seventy feet long . His enormous body consisted principally of snake , with a variety of bird , beast , and reptile attachments . The head was shaped like that of " a dog with a long pelican 's bill , " audit may be parenthetically remarked that this style of dog , which seems to be familiar in the South-west , must be much less addicted to biting than is the usual dog , and hence ought to be generally substituted for the latter . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' which was not out of proportion to the entire length of the monster , though it was probably longer than the bill of the average Mississippi dog . The animal 's body was about the diameter of a flour barrel , and was covered with large and brilliant scales . The neck was ornamented with a horse 's mane of great length , and in conspicuous need of a comb . In addition to six strong legs the monster had also a pair of fins of such immense size as to be more properly called paddles . In point of tail he was especially monstrous , since on the very extremity of his tail was placed a large and beautifully carved fan . Whether this was intended as a propeller , or was merely added with a view to flies , does not appear , but all naturalists will admit that an animal with a fan on the end of its tail is something entirely now . The monster was not asleep , for it was purring to itself in a loud and self-satisfied tone when the neighbor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly be mentioned that the rifle-bullets fell harmlessly from its impenetrable scales , for it is idle to suppose that , in this present day of long range breech-loaders , a new and expensive animal would bo built without bulletproof sides . However , the monster 's attention was attracted by the firing , and it slowly dragged itself to the water . Once afloat it swam with great rapidity , spurting water to au enormous height and roaring like an entire colored camp-meeting . Finally it sank out of sight below the surface of the river , and the astonished neighbor , turning to his no less astonished sons , remarked , with every appearance of extreme earnestness , and with a prophetic insight into the future of the average Mississippi Democrat : " Well ! I 'll be ? . " But , perhaps , his remark had better bo omitted . As for Mr. JACOB ERST , he was for some time uncertain as to whether he was dreaming or was wide awake , and it was not until he had taken a German sausage from his saddle-bag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convince himself of the reality of his adventure and return to his original opinion that beer is not intoxicating . It will be readily admitted that this Mississippi monster " lays over ' ' ? as a Western statesman would phrase it  --  any mere seaserpent . What is a simple snake , however large it may be , in comparison with a combined snake , dog , pelican , and alligator , fitted with legs and fins , together with a fan attachment ? It will not do to say of this animal , as frivolous scientific persons have said of the sea-serpent , that it is a purely subjective reptile , duo to the action of alcohol upon the gray matter of the brain . The fact that it was seen by a German and three South-western Americans is a sufficient answer to any such theory , since its acceptance would involve the admission that the symptoms of beer and whisky are identical . There are but two theories that will fully account for so extensive and so diversified a monster . The one is that the animal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the rest of its species , and which has been completely renovated and lavishly redecorated for the Summer season on the Mississippi . The general plan of the reptile corresponds closely to that of the ancient icthyosaurus , and it has had abundant time within the last few millions of years to develop a few legs , a mane , and a caudal fan . The other theory is that the whole story is the invention of a wicked Western editor , and that there never was ally Mr. ERST or any neighbor or any monster or any Mississippi River or anything . The best thing that can be done in the circumstances is to apply to Mr. STANLEY MATTHEWS for a full explanation of the affair . Beyond a possibility of doubt he knows all about it , as well as all about everything else .                     