@@742352

txt The most important item of news which has appeared for some time , as disclosing the relations of the imperial powers in Eastern Europe , and the probable course of Austria in the Russo-Turkish war , was the speech of Minister Tiszn on Tuesday in the Hungarian Parliament . TISZA represents the now united Conservative and Liberal Party of Hungary . He speaks for the Magyars and the minority of his country , as well as for the former Opposition . As Minister he speaks also for the Austrian Imperial Government . He addressed a body divided in sympathies  --  some desiring an immediate occupation of Servia and Bosnia as a warning to Russia to proceed no further in invasion by the Upper Danube and by Servia ; others calling for intervention as an assistance to the oppressed Slavoniaus . The great majority of his audience hoped for a decisive declaration against Russian aggrandizement on the Danube . Herr VON TIszn has gratified neither party . Ho has made the common-sense declaration that the true interests of Austro-Hungary were in peace , and that . the pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mobilization of the Army would have done a year ago . Their objects had been first to secure peace , and then , that falling , to localize the war . They had sought to preserve friendly relations with Russia and Germany , and yet had left to themselves freedom of action in case Russia acquired such now territory , or produced such new formations of States , as might be dangerous to the Austrian Empire . The Hungarian Minister denied the rumors of alliance with Russia or Germany of a kind which looked toward new acquisitions of territory by Austria , or which had any reference to the results of the war . He also assured the House that no preparations for the immediate mobilization of the Army had been made , nor was the Emperor inclined to any ambitious projects for increasing the domain of the Austrian Empire . Still he would not guarantee that the Army might not , be called out to preserve the interests of the Monarchy , and the Government left themselves full freedom of action . This declaration , a subsequent telegram assures us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austrian parties . It certainly indicates a wise and pacific policy , and clears up some of the clouds which have hung over the solution of the Eastern question . Austria , so far as Russia was concerned , has always held the key to the military position . If she established an Army of occupation in Servia , as she did in Moldavo-Wallachia in 1854 , the Russians could not venture to cross the Balkans , or their western spurs , or to advance on a long lino of conummications toward Constantinople . Austria hostile , or even uncertain , as in the last war on the Danube , would cripple the whole Muscovite campaign . There can be no question that that astute diplomatist , Prince GORTSCIIAKOFF , has been employing every device of diplomacy for months , perhaps supported by Prince BISMARCK , to induce the Austrian Emperor either to hold himself neutral in the struggle , or to unite with the Czar in the new " transformations " of Europe , of which the Hungarian Minister has spoken . The Austrian Government had a difficult position to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Empire ? the Slavonic and Magyar  --  each urging a different policy . No doubt , too , dynastic sympathies and imperial ambition would impel the Hapsburg Emperor to unite with the Czar . But fortunately for Europe , the Austrian Government has decided to commit itself to neither party , and thus to avoid the danger of arousing a general European war , The decision is wise for the country and happy for the peace of Europe . No other power will now be dragged into the contest . The war is localized . Russia must settle her quarrel with Turkey by herself . She is apparently left full liberty to make that great flank movement by Servia and the Valley of the Morava , which may determine the fate of the campaign . If she can defeat the Ottoman armies , occupy Andrianople , and perhaps besiege Constantinople , and then force from the Porto the reforms and guarantees she demands , and perhaps indemnities of territory in Asia Minor , she is perfectly free to do so . Ono only thing Austria holds herself ready to object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Russia on the Danube or the Black Sea as might endanger her frontiers or her interests . Thus relieved , obviously the Czar can conduct his campaign with no fears from without , and the war is confined to a local , even if important , scope .                     