@@741827

txt Our remarks on the imperfect organization of the suburban towns and villages of this State have been received with much discontent by the residents of these locali ? ties . Two events during the past week have justified all that we said . Afire in Avon destroyed the principal business portion of the village and a large amount of property , while the only means of extinguishing it , if we are correctly informed , were waterpails passed by individuals . Another fire occurred on Monday at Hastings , upon the Hudson River , destroying a large sugar refinery and ' much property , ? valued at $500,000 , and throwing some two hundred men out of . employment . There was uo village fire-engine , no steam-engine of the factory that was of any use , and the only , implements for preventing the spread of the conflagration were chance water-pails , supplied by the citizens . Had a wind from the west prevailed , the fire would , iu all probability , have swept over the whole village . The first engine that arrived by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fire , and was too late to be of any essential service. , Here are two New-York villages within a week losing a vast amount of property , and in danger of destruction through the want of a fire-engine , and fire organization . The same danger threatens every village ou the Hudson . Daub 's Ferry and Irvington , two of the most lovely and valuable villages on , the river , with great numbers of costly villas , must depend on water-pails to put out a fire . More than half of the villages and towns near the City , and some in the interior , are in the same plight . The chief cause of this miserable state of affairs must be traced to the organization of our villages . Very few of them ? have any legal existence , except as parts of a. large and loose township . The citizens of a locality do not govern themselves , except in certain matters , such as the formation of schools and the building of roads and bridges . They have no Police of their own , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sometimes not even a " Poormaster , " and the alms-house and jail may be far away . Everything is loose in organization . The county . is the principal factor , and the county town will have all the elements of civilization . The villages , even if possessed of considerable property , and with a population of several thousands , are disorganized commuuities . It is true that the village can incorporate itself or can turn itself into a town , and then into a city . But the villages dread any change which may involve an ' increase of taxation or a formation of rings . They prefer this semiwild existence , depending for their great necessities on the township or the county . The consequences are the occurrence of such ' events as we chronicled last year  --  nn unchecked raid of burglars on our suburban villages , and society obliged to enroll itself as police to protect property , and such disastrous conflagrations as have just occurred . The ? caution of our New York villages as to enlarging their governing bodies is to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forming complete town governments , with , out either forming new rings or increasing taxation , is a proof of What can be done . A mode of avoiding the difficulty , however , is this : Let these villages  --  such , for instance , as Hastings , Dobb 's Ferry , and Irvington , all within a few miles of one ft aother  --  obtain an act of the Legislature empowering them to act together , and to combine taxation proportionally to property , for certain distinct objects , such as a local Police and a fire company . The Police could patrol the roads for a few miles , preventing the possibility of such night burglaries as occurred a year ago . The fire-engine could be manned by volunteers from each village , and be well supplied with hooks , and ladders , and buckets , the want of which is so dangerous in village fires . It should be stationed at some central point between the three settlements . Then , public hydrants should be placed at fixed points  --  only to be used for conflagrations  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hills . These ponds , now scarcely used at all , contain plenty of water for  --  such a purpose as this . If the fire occurred near the river , the water could be piunped from it by hand-pumps . Iu this way , with but little expense when the value of the property is considered , a police and fire organization could be formed , which might save large amounts of property . These lovely sites , the pride of the State , should not be . exposed to such dangers as threaten them now . We earnestly invite the attention of our Republican friends in these villages to the proposed improvements . Lot the party , as before , be at the head of practical reform .                     