@@742046

txt The people of the United States can not complain that they have not had a fair opportunity to ascertain by actual experience what the Democratic party of to-day is like . That liarty renews its persistent demand to be intrusted with the National Government . Sixteen years ago it was displaced , and the majority of its members avenged their fall by civil war . To-day it might claim thatit is a different party from what it then was , and a better one . Happily the claim need . not go untested . The party may be different ; recent experience shows that it is not much better . The Democrats opened . the first session of the Forty-Fourth Congress with a working majority in the House of Representatives . and with every inducement to employ their power so as to convince the country that their party was able to make a more conservative ; peaceful , and prosperous administration than the Republicans had made , or could make . How did they set about this task ? Their first exploit was to confirm all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the party with the men who took part In the rebellion . The House organized . with committees , twenty-one out of thirty-four of which were under the control of Southern men . It dismissed . nine-tenths of the wounded Union veterans who had been employed in the service of the previous House , and appointed . a still larger number of ex-Confederates . It gave the conspicuous position of Doorkeeper to the man who had filled a similar position to the Confederate Congress . By these changes the party showed where their feelings led them , and led them irresistibly . With every motive to conceal their tendency , it was so strong that they could not conceal it . This was made still more obvious when , after weeks of dawdling and quarreling , the work of legislation began . The question which earliest received attention was , of all others , that of amnesty . While important subjects of finance and general administration waited for consideration , the House , under the lead of Mr. RANDALL , the newly-installed leader of the Democrats , plunged into an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had obstinately refused to ask for a removal of disabilities . These disabilities consisted . simply in the refusal of the right to office . Every man could . vote , but some four hundred . could not hold office . To restore this privilege was the first concern of the Democracy . The Republicans objected , but only asked , as a precedent condition to full pardon , that the guilty parties should take an oath of future allegiance to the t constitution of the United States , and also asked that JEFFERSON DAVIS should be excepted. on account of his responsibility for the cruel atrocities of Andersonville and . Libby . Instead of yielding these simple conditions , the Democracy put forward a rebel Senator ? Mr. HILL , of Georgia  --  to defend the treatment of prisoners , and to accuse the North of worse treatment to the captured Confederates . This Mr. HILL was the author of a resolution in the rebel Senate authorizing the killing of Union soldiers wherever captured , as murderers , unless the Emancipation Proclamation was rescinded . Finding that the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Democrats , rather than consent , abandoned the measure . The next work which the party undertook was that of retrenchment . In this they were partially successful . They made many reductions in the appropriations which it was proper and necessary to make , and some which ought to have been made before . But they wore not content with this . They undertook not only to cut down appropriations for the next year , but to change the laws regulating salaries , to seriously cripple important branches of the service , and to coerce the Senate into yielding many changes in laws which were in nowise connected with appropriations . For instance , they demanded that the Senate should consent to reorganize the Army , to abolish the Indian Bureau , to turn the Indians mover to the War Department , and to repeal the wholesome law now in force for the protection of the purity of the suffrage . The Senate very rightly refused these demands , when made under a threat . It was willing to yield all mere reductions , but it would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appropriations . A long , tedious , and costly struggle ensued , in which finally the House was compelled to yield to the constitutional position of the Senate . This struggle was carried to the very verge of governmental disorganization , when the President sent in a Message pointing out that the administrative machinery must stop unless some provision were made . The House leaders sneered at the Message as impertinent , but they wisely heeded the warning , and , from time to time , extended the appropriations of last year , until agreement between the two branches of Congress was finally reached in all important measThen the struggle relapsed into a chronic attempt by the soft-money men to repudiate the Resumption act , against the efforts of the hard-money men to prevent them , by technical objections . Finally , repudiation was successful . On the 5th of August the long struggle between TILDEN and HENDRICKS was ended by the triumph of the latter . TiLnicN 's letter , urging the repudiation of the resumption pledge , was published in the morning , and before night the Democratic House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be classed the numerous investigations , of which only one ; that into the SCHENCK affair , has been either fair or effective . These investigations , with their complications , have cost over $1,000,000 , while they have not shown the misappropriation of a penny of the public money . We shall not here enumerate the tedious list of them . The country knows to what they have amounted . The Democrats in the House , while proving their own . discordant state , their feebleness , their hopeless entanglement with the South , and their general incapacity , have not had even the poor consolation of making out a telling case against their opponents . With a great flourish of trumpets , the House undertook tariff reform . At the call of Mr. MORRISON , the Committee of Ways and . Means addressed . what Mr. TILDEN would call their " fiscal minds " to this important matter . It is not worth while wasting space in describing the process by which they reached the result they did , which was failure pure and simple . The committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority in the House did not agree with its committee . So the bill " passed . to dusty death " on the Speaker 's table . With still greater pretensions , the House attacked the problem of resumption . Certainly it did . not fail for want of variety of instruction . Every nostrum known to the quacks of finance was put in the shape of a bill and sent to the Democratic caucus . That body sat for two months , and then referred the matter to a subcommittee . The subcommittee labored one mouth longer and brought forth the hybrid Payne bill , which the caucus would not agree to and the House would not adopt . second column missing                     