@@781700

txt Baron SCHLOEZER the new Prussian Minister , arrived at Havana , from Mexico , yesterday . on his way to Washington . The Rome , N. Y. , bank burglars , who were convicted on the ith inst. , at Watertown , attempted to evade sentence on Wednesday morning by blowing open the Watertown jail with powder . A heavy explosion followed , blowing 61f the hack door of the jail and blowing out one the windows . The Sheriff hastened to the spot and found the gang ready to come out of the hole the powder had made , which was not quite large enough , so nono got away . Each of the burglars were sentenced the same day to the Auburn State Prison for ten years each . The Hartford Evening Post of yesterday claims that the entire Republican State ticket , with the exception of the Covernor , has been elected in Connecticut , JEWELL having run behind his ticket on account of the Capitol question . St. Mary 's Mission , a town of 400 or 500 inhabitants , twenty-five miles west @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost entirely destroyed by fire . The railroad depot is about all that is saved . In the Ohio Legislature on Wednesday ' a resolution indorsing President GRANT 'S San Domingo policy was taken up and a substitute adopted by a party vote , declaring that in regard to the extension of our borders and the acquisition of territory , as well as every other measure of public concern , they indorsed as sound political wisdom the prim:310:es embodied in the declaration of President GRANT , that no policy should be enforced against the will of the people . One MAX DEGRAW , of New-York , attempted to commit suicide in Philadelphia , on Wednesday night , by pouring laudanum in a glass of ale he had called for at a tavern . He swallowed the contents , but was relieved by a Physician at the Station-house . Before morning he was found suspended in his cell , out down and resuscitated . He says he has spent $B0.000 six years . He will probably be sent to the insane asylum . The case of CHARLES EACKER , on trial at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . BURDICK , came to a sudden stop , yesterday , one of the jurors being taken with a Ht . Both Houses of the New-Jersey Legislature adjourned sine die yesterday . The Senatepassed the bill appropriating the riparian moneys to the school fund , over the Governor 's veto . The great Church case , growing out of the suspension of GEORGE H. STEWART , and involving the property of the First Reformed Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia . was closed yesterday , when Judge WILLIAM charged the jury in favor of Dr. WYLIE , Mr. STUART and his friends . The jury had not rendered a verdict up to a late hour . The propeller W. T. Graves arrived at Buffalo from Chicago yesterday afternoon . This is the first arrival through the Straits this season . The Welland Canal was opened yesterday . Lumbering has suffered from the unusually early Spring . It is expected that the production will fall short 50,000 pieces . Yesterday being the annual Fast in Massachusetts , it was observed in Boston in the usual Manner . Business was suspended , the churches were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather was delightful . The Ohio State Medical Association organized at Cincinnati on Wednesday . when Dr. W. W. Dewsort , of Cincinnati . was elected President for the ensuing year ; Dr. HALL was reelected Secretary , and Dr. Thompson " , Treasurer . Dayton was selected as the next place for holding a meeting . The Kentucky State Medical Convention yesterday elected Dr. WISE , of Covington , President for the ensuing year ; Dr. Dnunr . Corresponding Secretary ; and Dr. Tom ) . Treasurer . Louisville has been fixed upon as the place for holding the next meeting . We are indebted to Mr. BONSEL , purser of the Mexican steamer City of Merida fop favors in the prompt delivery of our letters and files .                     