@@742461

txt The death of Senator MORTON removes another of those civilians whom the war of the rebellion made conspicuous . Other men , like THOMAS or KEARNY , shine in - the military history of the struggle . It was MORTON 'S lot to serve his country in a different field  --  a field which was occupied by such mon as CURTIN , of Pennsylvania , ANDREW , of Massachusetts , YATES , of Illinois . and MORGAN , of Now-York . It was the duty of these " War Governors , " as they were called , to hold up the hands of the national Executive during a time of unprecedented trial . Occasionally some fiery spirit , like young SPRAGUE , of Rhode Island , left the helm of State Government to other hands , and dashed out into the general conflict , as if unable to remain at home and administer the affairs of domestic Government while the life of the nation was in peril . But the War Governors  --  of whom MORTON was one  --  won victories which made possible the glorious triumphs upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rally the flagging energies of the people , to guide anal direct the enthusiasm of their fellow-citizens , to provide ways and means for maintaining State troops in the field , to look after the welfare of those who fought and of those whose natural protectors had fallen in the fight , to animate the nation by their example and counsel , and to rebuke treason and discontent at home . How well MORTON did this , the history of the groat rebellion amply shows . So long as men are familiar with the salient features of the long struggle , the name of OLIVER P. MORTON must be recalled to mind . Providence was kind to MORTON in endowing him with peculiar faculties which a peculiar ciisis roused to action . Indiana , under the government of a weak , timorous , or unpatriotic man , could have easily drifted into a position which would have been hostile to the cause of the Union . It was to all intents and purposes a border State . The lower section , bordering on Kentucky , was infested with outlaws , settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was dotted all over with the lodges of a treasonable organization . While the population of the State , as subsequent events proved , was thoroughly devoted to the Union , a minor faction , which was noisy when the majority were cool and calm , appeared , as noisy minorities are wont , to bear the sway in Indiana . The Legislature was in the hands of a faction opposed to the war , and hostile to any measures which might commit the State to a promise to sustain the soldiers who were fighting to preserve the Union . These managers of the Legislature of the State attempted to thwart the Govern &; by refusing to vote supplies , and by leaving the State Government without the money needed to meet its usual and unusual expenses . There is no chapter in the political history of the war more stirring than that which . tells the story of MORTON 'S victory over these conspirators . How he speedily saw his way out of his enormous difficulties , how he cut the knot which the enemies of the Republic had so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the petty tactics of his opponents , are all familiar to the men of to-day . If the difficulties which surrounded him had been greater than they were , and if his plotting enemies had been more ingenious and bold , it seems as if he would have yet found a way to confound all their devices . He certainly would have defied them to do their worst . Ho saved the State from possible anarchy ; and so directed its affairs that while the war lasted Indiana responded with alacrity and generosity to every call from the National Government . We can not afford to lose sight of these signal services of Gov . MORTON . We can not afford to allow any slight to be cast upon the labors of those men upon whom LINCOLN relied with composure during the darkest days of the Republic . MORTON was one of those grand figures which wore always prominent when men looked away from the heart-sickening waste of battle to the unfaltering line which stretched far behind infantry ; cavalry , and artillery . The conspicuous civilians of those times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , daring , and courageous . They were not always sufficiently farsighted to perceive the remote effects of their acts . and some of their strokes of nolicy , which seemed inspired of genius at the time , brought atlast evil consequences which had to be reckoned in with the necessary evils of the war . MoRToN , ANDREW , and their compeers were created by the sharp exigencies of the time in which they lived . They were raised up , as LINCOLN was , for a special purpose , which having been accomplished , the measure of their usefulness was filled . Is is easy , now that the heat and tumult of the conflict are Over , to criticise the wisdom of acts which must be done , if done at all , in haste . But we may well wonder that so few errors were made . We may well be thankful that , in a time when the constitutional frame-work of the Republic was strained to its uttermost to invent ways and means to circumvent and crush'an insidious rebellion , the brave men who devised and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no fatal blunder . Even those who withhold from MORTON 'S political methods their unqualified approbation can not refuse him admiration for his talents , his honesty , and his patriotism . As a Republican , he was pre-eminently useful . The party owed him a great debt . A skillful organizer , a good debater , an eloquent and popular speaker , and a practical legislator , he did much , in the Senate andout of it , to strengthen his party and- to organize victory when defeat seemed possible . Courageous and outspoken , he was never a man of half-way measures and compromises . He was not one of those meek souls who are ready to apologize for the faith which they lightly hold . He was clear in his own convictions , and though the men and the measures which he sometimes upheld might not commend theinselVes to the candid judgment of his political associates , he supported them with a cheery frankness which won respect where implicit confidence was impossible . As a Senator , MORTON was full of inventions , ready in debate , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him that he was a great statesman , nor yet a man of broad and comprehensive views . He could not have built up a State , but he could have defended it with a courage and fertility of resource which would have baffled the most daring foe . He is dead ; the measure of usefulness is filled at last . It was pitiful to see the fabric of life slowly yielding to the attacks of a foe to which the bravest must finally surrender . For one who had so keenly watched and actively participated in the great political struggles of the time , we might have wished a longer life . But , though lie fell in the midst of his years , it may be truly said that he has not lived in vain .                     