@@741423

txt Apparently there is to be no end to the vagaries of the intelligent jury . We do not refer now to such milder eccentricities as rendering verdicts directly in the teeth of the evidence and the instructions of the bench ; or coming in after an absence of a day and a half in a divorce case to inquire of the exasperated court the statutory distinction between manslaughter in the third degree and arson in the fourth ; or , generally speaking , any of the characteristic stupidities which juries feel called upon to perpetrate . It is to the devices they are constantly inventing for the purpose of evading the direct line of their duty that we now refer , and these appear to be inexhaustible . The story of the California jury who decided a murder case by a game of drawpoker is well known , and is said to be as authentic as it seems incredible . Yet that exploit was equaled by an undoubted occurrence a week or ten days ago in another State , where a prisoner was on trial for homicide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to agree , the eleven obstinate members being in favor of a verdict of manslaughter , while the twelfth reasonable and fair-minded juror stuck out stoutly for justifiable homicide . There seemed no way of bringing the obstinate eleven to reason , when a lucky thought struck the foreman . He proposed that the solitary dissenter should draw lots with them for the verdict according to their respective notions . This was done , and the verdict so arranged was returned - to the court . The court , however , upon ascertaining the fact , shamefully obtuse to the brilliancy of this suggestion , has unfeelingly set the verdict aside and ordered a new trial . Perhaps the most pleasing story of this kind , however , comes to us again from California . The jury had been out for some time , when the Sheriff was dispatched by the court to see if they were likely to agree . He found them performing a sort of triumphal march round a big bottle of whisky , from which they had all been copiously imbibing , to the music of a fife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the back of the foreman and vigorously pounded by the next juror , while the rest of the happy band were singing . " We could n't agree upon a verdict nohow , " was this affable foreman 's explanation to the court , " and we did n't think ' t was any hurt for to have a social time , s'Iong ' s we was a congenq party . " Doubtless in our own jury rooms , could these mysteries be revealed , scenes quite as edifying have been . enacted . We do not imagine that the exploits of the excellent CENTER , who so covered himself with glory and champagne in the Stokes trial , were at all exceptional . Some day these indi cations may receive more serious attention than is now accorded them , and people will begin to inquire whether there is , after all , anything essential in that unanimity , the necessity and the difficulty of obtaining which from any twelve men tends , indirectly at least , to so many scandals , delays , and gross perversions of justice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the approval of many generations of wise and good men , and ' any changes in it must be made with caution . Yet a comparison of its results with those of the Scotch jury , where a majority decides , would not be withoutuse , and might result in materially modifying some popular notions of the " palladium. "                     