@@741985

txt The National Convention , which has in its hands the success if not the very existonce of the Republican Party , began its formal proceedings yesterday . Much of the real work of the Convention had been done before ex-Gov . MORGAN called the assemblage in the Cincinnati Exposition Building to order , but from that moment the delegates probably began to have a new sense of their responsibilities , and , let us hope , a clearer perception of their duties . The opening address of the Chairman of the Republican National Committee was terse , pungent and admirably suited to the occasion . The speaker showed himself as much alive to the demands which the present makes upon the Republican Party as to the achievements which have made its past illustrious . Hard money , an honest reform of the civil service and the one-term tenure of the Presidency were the principles which ex-Gov . MORGAN commended to the strenuous support of the party . Certainly , no one who listened to him failed to appreciate his references to the party 's services in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with equal certainty , that his audience were equally responsive to his estimate of their duty to the cause of reform . The party certainly needs a candidate " clearly committed on this question , not only by his expressed opinions , but also by his public life and conduct . " The question which tens of thousands of Republicans are somewhat dubiously asking themselves to-day is , will it get such a candidate ? The speech of the temporary Chairman , Mr. THEODORE M. POMEROY , was pitched in a similar key . It thrust home with great force and eloquence the lessons which the past record of the Republican Party presents to those who are now intrusted with its fate , and it insisted , with an emphasis which left nothing to be desired , on the obligations which await the party in the future . Mr. PemEaoy did not prophesy smooth things to the Convection . He pointed out with great clearness that defeat in November could only be the result of folly in Juno , and that the candidate must be as unexceptionable as the platform , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has iu the slightest degree appreciated the public sentiment of the present day can fail to indorse Mr. POMEROY 'S statement that " no platform is buoyant enough to float an unworthy candidate , " while no sincere Republican can fail to echo his expression of confi dence that with platform and candidates fully equal to the requirements of the time , " the great liberty-loving , law-abiding majority of voters of the United States " will place the stamp of their approval on the deliberations of the Convention . It were useless to disguise the fear that the Convention may fail to reach the level indicated by Mr. POMEROY and ex-Gov . MORGAN , and equally useless to disguise the very grave consequences which may attend its ladle of statesmanlike perception . But the time for newspaper remonstrance or protest has passed , and be the action at Cincinnati what it may , the party can not help being bound by it . If the Cincinnati nominee should prove unworthy of the party which he is assumed to represent , that can only be because its political machinery has ceased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vitality and the power of Republicanism . Such a nomination might be a proof that the party organization , as such , had become hopelessly perverted ; it could not be accepted as a demonstration that Republican principles had ceased to be worth fighting for , or that the party had no further contributions to make to the political progress of the United States . With such a nomination as that of Mr. BLAINE the Convention would probably pave the way for defeat in November , but the majority of the party would certainly not be prepared to accept that as a certainty in advance of the election . There are many and obvious reasons which make the worst nomination which the Republican Convention can make a better one than the best which is likely to be made by the Democrats . No one , for example , who appreciates bow absolutely the maintenance of free institutions in the South depends upon the existence of a Republican . Administration , would hesitate to take the risk even of such a President as Mr. BLAINE in preference to a President who should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control the present House of Representatives . If we are to be reduced to a mere choice of evils , let us by all means choose the least . We say this not for the purpose of making any less the outrage on the party and the breach of faith with the people which would be involved in the nomination of such a candidate as the one who still controls the most votes in the Convention . We merely wish to remind that numerous section of the Republican Party whom the present attitude of their delegates fills with unmitigated disgust that on party fealty depends still graver matters than even administrative purity and the elevation of the standards of public life . Fidelity to constitutional guarantees is as absolutely bound up with Republican success as fidelity to the plighted faith of the nation . A Democratic Administration of almost any conceivable type would be an unmixed misfortune for the Southern States and . for the Union of which they form a part , because , while leaving untouched the nominal integrity ? of the recent amendments to the Constitution , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice , under foot . The moderate men in the South have a chance of being listened to now , which in the event of a . Democratic victory in November they would no longer enjoy . The rashness and the violence which have been imperfectly restrained in Congress would be unloosed for such a career of mischief as would set back the progress of the country and erect fresh barriers toward the attainment of perfect unity . Democracy in power would mean the revival of smouldering antipathies , the repudiation of solemn promises , and the degradation of the public credit . While considerations like these might save the Republican Party from hopeless schism as the result of a discreditable nomination at Cincinnati , they only help to intensify the folly of those Republicans who are recklessly and blindly striving to make the prospect of a Democratic triumph really formidable .                     