@@743209

txt Police Captains do well to protest against the licensing as " hotels " of places which are sure to become the resorts of thieves and ruffians . The Excise Commissioners have practically a wide discretion in granting licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquors , but the law requires that those who receive them shall be men of responsibility and character , and provides against tho employment of their premises for criminal or unlawful purposes . What a farce is made of the requirement of " good character " in those who keep tippling shops is sufficiently well known , and it may not be an easy matter to secure an exalted pattern of virtue in the conduct of a business that thrives on the vices of the community , But it ought not to be difficult to prevent them from keeping refuges for the unobserved violation of law and from harboring those who are habitual offenders against the peace and safety of the City . The task of the Police would be sufficiently difficult in New-York if it were composed of the best material , controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to its work by the authorities upon which it depends . At present , it is often able to plead , in defense of its shortcomings , that it does not have the aid and encouragement of those whose business it is to see that the force performs its duties properly , rather than to wait until appealed to for support . If the Excise Commissioners grant licenses to resorts of professional criminals , knowing them to be such from the testimony of Police Captains , they are guilty of disgracing their office and betraying the interests intrusted to them . But in this matter there is not simply a duty of prevention . There are many places in operation in the City to-day , under licenses of the Excise Commissioners and the ostensible sanction of law , which are known to the Police to be the scene of illegal practices and the resort of criminals . Others , which are not licensed , are devoted quite as openly and flagrantly to the same infamous business . Any man moderately acquainted with city life will find it difficult ' to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws are violated continually . The head-quarters of various " gangs " of thieves and ruffians are nearly as well known as the leading hotels . Almost any man is able to show his provincial visitors at least one noted gambling-house . Disreputable dance-halls and " waiter-girl " saloons , though under the ban of the law , allure the passer-by in some of our leading thoroughfares with illuminated signs , and the worst dens of infamy are boldly advertised by their inmates from the windows , and even on the adjacent sidewalks . Are the Police a terror to evil-doers in this City , or are they most dreaded by quiet and orderly citizens ? It is certain that the Police have sufficient power to deal with offenses , for every now and then they make a display of it that is calculated to strike even the innocent with a sense of fear . They make it appear as if the entire community were at their mercy . They arrest men without other warrant than their own suspicion or caprice , and it seems to depend on their will whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , It is absolutely dangerous to be in a house where a murder has been committed , to be acquainted with a man that has been robbed , or to be a looker-on in the street when any disturbance occurs . The discreet citizen will take good care to be out of the way , if possible , when there is any semblance of a violation of law going on , lest he be " taken in " and made the victim of an ingenious theory , which he will be required to disprove before ho can regain his liberty , If a man falls in a fit or is knocked down by ruffians , it is not safe to play the good Samaritan , for fear of the policeman 's club and an uncomfortable night 's lodging in the nearest station-house . Those who have a wholesome terror of the Police will pass by on the other side or quietly slip around the corner . And yet , here are all these constant offenders against the law going on in an apparently flourishing career unhindered . There are shameful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , not to keep them in subjection to law , but to the will of the chief officers , and to extort tribute from them .. It is to bo hoped that a charge so disgraceful to the Police and to the authorities over them , is not true , and that it is only the easy explanation of people who are always ready to suspect evil for a state of things whose existence can not , be denied . But what is the true explanation ? The offenses are known , the Police have power to deal with them . Why , then , are they not suppressed or confined within limits ? There is an explanation scarcely more creditable to the authorities than that . of systematic black-mail . Do those in immediate command of the Police find it useless to carry on the Warfare . against violations of law , Meats ? they are not supported by those in power over them 7 Does the intervention of political or personal influence , or base inducement of any sort , shield Wrong-doors from the penalties which alone can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , hasbeen whispered , and it is certain that a higher responsibility rests upon those who have the Police force at their command , and are directly charged with the execution of laws , than upon the instruments which they control . There is reformation needed in the whole system , from top to bottom , in order that law-abiding citizens may feel assurance of protection , and only offenders be kept in terror .                     