@@741318

txt Long Island is rapidly acquiring a most unenviable reputation for deeds of violence and . outrage . Formerly one of the most peaceful and quiet of suburban neighborhoods , it is to-day the scene of as much and as frequent lawlessness as the most intensely Democratic ward in the City . Highway robbery and burglary have become so common as hardly to excite comment , and murder bids fair to be one of the familiar events of Its every-day life . More than a year has elapsed since a number of gentlemen of the " best society " of Huntington took it into their heads to maltreat one of their neighbors so cruelly that he died . Nobody has been punished for the outrage , and , apparently , nobody will be . A month or two ago a farmer , returning to market , was assaulted in the vicinity of East New-York by two tramps to whom he had given a lift in his wagon , and beaten . to.death . We have yet to hear that his assassins have been even arrested . And only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his own garden , under circumstances of unusual atrocity . Murder has become so common nowadays , and is committed apparently on so little provocation , that few pause to discriminate between its various degrees . Yet , upon reflection , such a crime as the killing of Roozas , four years ago , on his own door-steps , or this of HOWARD , on Sunday , will be found to be not only peculiarly atrocious from its causelessness , but more significant of insecurity and lawlessness than in any murders like that of NATHAN or FISK . A man , sitting quietly by his fireside , in the enjoyment of Sabbath peace and comfort , looks through his window and . sees a trespasser on his land . Ho goes out , by a natural impulse , to warn the intruder off . He has no reason to expect violence or even resistance . He knows he is living in a civilized community , where the rights of property are respected , and the law insures personal safety to the humblest citizen . He goes out , therefore , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are trampling down his garden , perhaps through inadvertence , and , at the first word , is shot down before the eyes of his wife and children . This is precisely the fate which Mr. HOWARD drew upon himself by overrating tho influence of our law , and perhaps a little underrating-the possibilities of human treachery and malevolence . No words can adequately express the cruelty of his fate , or the indignation that should be felt against the perpetrators of the outrage . It is not at all surprising that his friends and neighbors should have gathered on Monday evening in force at the jail , to anticipate the sentence of the law . Better counsels , we are glad to say , eventually prevailed , and the brutal and cowardly murderers , both of whom are known , and one of whom has confessed , were left to await the justice which they can not fail to receive . That is to say , if the people of Long Island wish their part of the State to be much longer habitable . If outrages like this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer unpunished , Queen 's and Suffolk Counties will have little attraction as places of residence for men who value their lives . The murderers of Mr. HOWARD , however , are poor , and probably friendless . Their crime is confessed , and there seems to be little doubt that they will receive their just deserts . When we are able to record as fit an issue to the frolic of tho " influential citizens " who murdered KELSEY , we shall be glad to renew our recommendations of Long Island as a place of suburban residence . '                     