@@741275

txt In the proceedings of the Republican General Committee , at the recent meeting , our friends have a reminder of the political duties devolving upon them , which we hope they will not neselect . Success in the State depends very largely upon Republican vigor and efficiency in the City . We can render most material aid to our entree not only by increasing the Republic= majority in the State , bat in making sure of Republican control in the Legislature . Instead of wasting their time in wonnering what the Democrats are going to do , the Republicans should go to work at once to prepare for the coming contest . If any feuds exist in their ranks , they should be healed , far the first essential to success is perfect harmony . In this respect the party is in far better condition than usual . When Joins COCHRANE went off with his small crowd of followers , the Republican Party was happily rid of its selfish and intriguing disorganizers . Since then a better spirit has prevailed and the party is more fully prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was disturbed by the fierce struggles of COCHRANE , IllestiersnE and their fellows to get or keep office . There are some facts which the Republicans of the City must keep well in. mind . They can be strong only in proportion Rs they prove worthy of popular support . It may be safely assumed that the party is as strong , if not stronger in the City than it was last year . There has been , it is true , much disappointment at the result of the Reform victory last Fall , but the people axe too just to hold the Republcan Party responsible for these shortcomings . It can not be denied that party advantages were freely surrenderei for stipposed public benefits , and if these have proved somewhat indifferent , it is due to the fact that the Republicans were deceived in men in whom the whole people placed confidence . It is tree that ALeasELL is Superintendent of Police , but nobody is so unjust as to charge that he is in that office by the act or with the content of the Republican Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can appeal to the people with as much confidence as ever before . All that will be asked of them is to make no second mistake ; and to this end it is first of all necessary in selecting candidates for the several positions to be filled , that care should be taken to choose men who are , in all respects , above reproach .. There will be no difficulty in finding such men , and none others should be placed before the people . Unimpeachable nominations are the first regale , ' ite to success ; with them anything is possible and without them nothing is certain but defeat . We hope , therefore , that in every case the very best man for the place will be offered for the suffrages of the people . The Republicans can , beyond all question , carry , at the next electien , if they are not willfully negligent , the Fifth Senatorial District , and the Seventh , Ninth , Eleventh , and Thirteenth Assembly Districts . They should also , by proper effort , secure the Eighth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were carried by the Republicans last year , and all but the Eighteenth in 1871 ; in that , year Mr. SAMUEL J. TILDEN was elected in the Eighteenth by Republican votes , so that it can be fairly considered as Republican . We are fully aware that in all the Assembly Districts , except the four first named , the odds in former years were against us . Iu the two last contests causes operated in our favor which may be supposed to have lost something of their force . But this assumption is founded upon an imperfect knowledge of popular feeling , and the districts were so well served by their Republican representatives In the last Legislature , that they can be carried again with unexceptionable candidates . The prospect is sufficiently good for success to incite the Republicans to work with the utmost vigor . Very much depends upon the political control of the next Legislature . A Democratic untjority would be a public misfortune , and every constituency should do all in its power to avert it . Let . the Republicans in the City do their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fature need be entertained . The Republicans will not perhaps hope to do much in reference to the County ticket , yet it is by no means impossible that they may elect both the Sheriff and County Clerk . As the political field now appears , they ehould act upon the assumption that they are to elect both , and such nominees should be chosen as will , be acceptable to all honest voters . The novelty of having entirely honest , faithful , and competent men iu these offices is so alluring that such Republican candidates would receive a heavy vote outside of their party . The judicial places which are to be filled should also receive careful attention . While it is true we have had pure and able judges elected by the Democrats , it is also true that all our corrupt magistrates have been placed in power by the same party . If these judicial stations must be made to depend on a political struggle , we hope the Republicans will not fail to select candidates who are invulnerable . We would prefer that our judges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimous consent of all parties , but there is little hope that the Democrats will agree to anything of the kind . The Republicans should lose no more time in fully preparing for the work before them . Their first duty is to select proper delegates to the Utica Convention , and it is one which should not be neglected . In every Assembly District the work of organization should be perfected without delay . A list of the legal voters should be made and corrected from time to lime , in order to prevent fraudulent voting . The people should be kept fully informed of the questions involved in the contest . The means of a substantial victory are in our hands if we choose to use them .                     