@@742039

txt This was a most unprofitable day in Congress . In the Senate the tune was consumed in making political speeches , and the House filibustered until 5:30 o'clock over a resolution to permit the investigating committees ' to report at any time . Mr. Douglas , of Virginia , who presented the resolution , moved its reference to the Committee on Rules , which conimitteehas the right to report at any time . This would have enabled the Committee on Rules to have reported back the resolution to-morrow when a majority could have passed it . Mr. Halo moved to amend Douglas ' motion and refer the resolution to the Committee on Appropriations . A point of order was tai.e et on Hale 's motion and the Speaker dethat all propositions to amend the rules In net go to the Committee on Rules . Gen. Banks and others held that it was in order to move for a orange of reference and competent for the House to refer a proposition to any committee . Mr Hale appealed from the ruling of the Speaker and a motion was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voting a call of the House was ordered . A quorum having responded to the call , the vote was again telcon on the motion to table the appeal and the House was again found without a quorum , the Republicans deelluing to vote . After spending three hours In this manner the doors were closed and the gagoant at Arms ordered , to bring in the absentees . The proceedings under a call of the House usually furnish considerable amusement for the members and fun for the galleries ; but the proceedings under the call to-day , with two or three exceptions , were monotonous and stupid . While the House was waiting for a return by the Sergeant at Arms , Mr. Sehleiober , the obese member from Texas , moved that all proceedings under the call be dispensed with , but as Sehleiohor had failed to respond when the call was made , the Speaker replied to his motion by saying , " The gentleman from Texas is absent . " The House laughed over Schleieher 's discomfiture , and shortly atter the Sergeant at Arms arrested him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required to explain his constructive absence . Mr. Cox and Mr. Walker , of NowYork , were the first two brought to the bar . Walker stammered out an inaudible explanation , when Mr. Cox moved to be excused . " On what grounds , " demanded Conger , of Michigan . " On the public grounds , " promptly replied Cox , which witty rejoinder was appreciated by the House . Conger 's reply that Walker 's excuse should be referred to the Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds was also applauded . Mr. Roberts , of Marylend , was brought in and found himself called upon to address the House for the first time . His remarks being inaudible . In obedience to a universal demand , he was required to take position at the Clerk 's desk and face his hilarious colleagues . When order was restored he commenced by saying , " Gentlemen , I am a victim of circumstances ? " " That will do , " was responded from all over the house . With th ! s he was immediately discharged , without fees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it was agreed that investigating committees shall have authority to , report at any time during the present session , the minority of each committee to be given forty-eight hours , after the report of the majority has been submitted to them , in which to prepare their views . The purpose of today 's skirmish was to prevent the majority on committees from rushing in their reports without full opportunity being afforded ' the minority to respond . A secondary purpose in continuing the skirmish was to prevent the introduction of the resolutions usually thrust upon the House on Mondays under a suspension of the rules . The day was likely to be worse than wasted , and several Democrats tacitly worked with the Republicans to secure harmless delay . 