@@741775

txt It is difficult for any disinterested person to listen to the doleful complaints of the beaten Democracy just now without amusement . The Democrats and their " Independent " allies lie on the ground in a confused heap . They reproach each other . There is no accounting for their defeat . Sometimes they say it was one thing , sometimes it was another . It may have been scarlet fever , diphtheria , inflation , Canal Ring , Kellyism , or a combination of diseases , which smote them . They are not sure which complaint is the best one to assign for their misfortune , but they agree in laying the blame - upon each other all round . Out of the confusion , hosever , we ? hear that . the Canal Ring is responsible for all the trouble . The Tribune , whimpering over the unexpected collapse of its dreams , declares that the rascals who used to vote for TILDEN were driven away by his canal reform , and so fled into the Republican camp . Exactly so . The Dutchess County farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sins of the Lords , Beldens , and other far-off celebrities , that they have in the intrigues of the Chinese mandarins , rose up in the morning and voted the Republican ticket in the most reprehensible and bratal manner . It is probably true , as the wiseacres say ; that the Dutchess County dairymen , secure in their pastoral seclusion , sympathized with the contractors along the Erie Canal , whom TILDEN , disguised as Hercules , with many smiles and no clothes worth mentioning , had slain  --  in pictures . The farmers have bitterly avenged their distant relatives in Onondaga and Monroe . They took away some four thousand votes from the Democratic Party . Before the election , we were told that the Democracy were marching to certain victory . Next day we were informed that they had lost the vote of the canal thieves . We had uo idea before how large was the thieving element of the Democratic Party . According to a rough calculation , based on the ' admissions of the Democratic papers , we should say that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wicked and perverse fraction of " the grand old party , " as we believe it is called , is scattered all over the State . Then there is the " corrupt combination " in this City . It is very true that Tammany quarreled with some of its members , and that some ? of the faithful left the fold . But that ' this defection or ejection was on account of any " reform from the inside , " we never knew . To be sure , there was a dispute about cutting down laborers ' wages ; and Jonx KELLY says that he was not responsible for that . Then , again , he said that this was done in the interest of economy ; and , ? ariy how , he says it shall not happen again . So , if the " reforming element of Tammany " is under the feet of the Republicans and those who voted with them , as the Thoughtful Patriot declares , what was that reforming element doing , and what was it attempting to refarm ? Somehow , the spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TILDEN , walks abroad in other States . It went over into Massachusetts from Dutchess and Kings Counties , and drove out GASTON , that strongly intrenched Democrat , who was to have carried the State , but did not . Then there is Now-Jersey , often Democratic , seldom Republican , and now wholly given over to the Onondaga County Canal Ring . Ohio and Pennsylvania are no better . It would be interesting to see how all these remark . able changes can be accounted for on the theory that " administrative reform " has been wounded in the house of its friends . After all , perhaps we may as well say at once that the people are gifted with a fair share of common sense . They saw what a wild chaos of legislation the Democratic Assembly fell into in this State last year . They looked on and . laughed at Speaker , as they did at the harlequin tricks of the New-Hampshire Democrats , and the rabble rout of the Connecticut Democracy . The people saw that what is known as " the ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw , too , that the party generally went mad as soon as it got into power . It is not surprising that such a blind , ignorant , and shifty organization should not ba trusted . The cry of " Reform ! " deceived nobody . There never was any reform which began with the Democratic Party . The cheap pretense is exposed now , and those who were weak enough to suppose it would last long are astonished and grieved . They can not account for the explosion . But their lamentations are , nevertheless , worthy of attention .                     