@@740765

txt A good many people have been accustomed to look on Mormonism as a realization of the Mohammedan Paradise on earth , wherein the houris. whose unfading charms are supposed to while away the otherwise tedious hours of a Mussulman 's eternity , are brought to earth . It is not uncommon to picture BRIGHAM YOUNG surrounded by a score of wives " of various styles of beauty , and leading a life the luxurious sinfulness of which has adorned many a sermon . To perhaps the majority of those who regard Mormonism as the survivor of the " twin relics of barbarism , " its worst features are the licentiousness , and the brutal sensuality which have been attributed to it . But the light which has been thrown on Mormons and Mormonism , as the necessary consequence of the rapid advance of Gentile civilization from the opposite side of the continent , seems to make the merely sensual element in the Mormon faith less prominent than it has heretofore appeared . The strange community that has grown up in the recesses of the mountains , separated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all but trackless , from the life of ordinary men and . women , has been the fruit , not of the gross appetites of human nature , but of a species of religious fanaticism . The devotees who have recruited its forces have been gathered from the midst of society where merely vicious instincts could be more readily gratified , and without the sacrifice and hardship encountered on the shores of the Great Salt Lake . They have generally shown , in their adhesion to Mormonism , the very opposite of the qualities that accompany unbridled license . They have abandoned homes , friends , the associations of neighborhood and country , have surrendered- their savings , taken up the cross of unaccustomed obedience to rulers , and have obeyed patiently commands which entailed upon most of them far more of trial and privation than of material pleaaure . The proselytism pursued by the Mormon apostles has always depended upon fanatical enthusiasm for its success , and from the worldly point of view , has been rather forbidding than enticing . It is important to keep this fact in mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atask which we suppose everybody at all interested in public questions sets himself more or less earnestly to perform . Remembering it , we shall be much more likely to avoid that excessive religious zeal which is certainly a natural and not inexcusable result of indignation at the moral offensiveness of Mormonism , but which , carried into public policy , only complicates the problem . It is impossible now to foresee what measures Congress may be compelledi to take to enforce that obedience to the United States laws which no amount of genuine fanaticism can be allowed to excuse . But it is certain that the longer a collision , either in the Courts or otherwise , is avoided , Mormoz4sm is becoming weaker . Its strength lies in the ability of its leaders to sustain among their followers a substantially complete isolation of feeling and experience . To do this , it was necessary to surround them with associations that awakened only the sense of the power , the dignity , and the uniqueness of their religion . With the Gentile world far enough away to make an attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to superiority from the severe test of actual comparison , it was relatively easy to keep up among the body of the Mormon community the narrowness , the vanity , and the intensity of fanaticism . But with the approach of the outer world , gradually surrounding the abodes of the Saints , and pushing its ideas , its practices , its associations upon their attention , the task of the leaders will ultimately be hopeless . Every family that establishes a home within range of the Mormon settlement is a powerful agent of dissolution for the Mormon leaders to contend with . Healthy human nature will , in the long run , assert itself , and healthy human nature is at utter variance with the Mormon ideas . Every day of contact with the natural forms of society helps to arouse those inevitable sympathies and tendencies which will make Mormonism impossible .                     