@@743124

txt The general distrust , not to say contempt , which the public has come to entertain for the investigations made by Coroners , and for the verdicts rendered . by Coroners ' juries , will not be lessened by the remarkable outcome of the Seymour case . The Coroner is , in the eyes of the law and as to his functions , a magistrate . He is intrusted with some of the most difficult and delicate work that can possibly fall to the lot of a legal officer . So far as his duties extend , they require for their successful performance the acumen and experience of a prosecuting officer , the shrewaness of a detective , and the knowledge and impartiality of a Judge . He fills in our legal system very much the same position that is occupied in France by the Jugo d'instruction , and has in some regards more discretion and a higher obligation than most of our judicial officers . Upon his intelligence and skill frequently depends the detection of criminals , while he has it in his power to inflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , upon the community . How far the average Coroner in this country fills the requirements of this position we need not say . He is , as a rule , notoriously incompetent . If he commits no blunders , it is principally in cases where the cause of death is perfectly well-known , and where his services are perfunctory , their net result being only the pocketing of his fee . If a death is surrounded by obscure circumstances , while a crime is probable , and there is real need of a careful , thorough and skillful investigation , the Coroner only too often intervenes , not to make , but to prevent such investigation . As in the Seymour affair , testimony of apparently considerable value is neglected , a mass of other testimony , most of it entirely worthless , is accumulated , and a verdict is returned which is in itself absurd and ludicrous , but which practically puts a stop to further investigation . Associating Coroners and their juries , as the public ordinarily does , with the multitude of cases of accidental death , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a verdict in accordance with the facts is rendered , " the extraordinary cases , such as the one that has just been disposed of , do not attract the attention they deserve . The essential importance of the Coroner 's functions , the advantage which their proper performance might secure to the community , and the serious evil which results from the shabby way in which they are usually discharged , are not appreciated . We have no desire to exaggerate the faults of individual Coroners or to hold them responsible for results which are largely due to the system by which they are chosen and their offices regulated . As there are stupid , ignorant , greedy , and ridiculous Coroners , so there are those  --  though they are very few  --  who make the most of their powers , and do all that the law allows in the effective investigation of crime . Between these two extremes is the ? great majority of Coroners , who get through their work in a fair fashion , and seldom draw attention upon themselves either by their excellence or their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governing the choice of these officers . In large cities , the office is a profitable , but not a veryhonorable , one . It is filled by popular election , and its tenure is comparatively brief . Here , therefore , we have all the conditions which would naturally attract political adventurers and repel men of real qualification . Neither a trained physician nor a competent lawyer would ordinarily go through the peculiar labor necessary to secure first a nomination and then an election to a position for which there is much competition . On the other hand , the office is tempting to professional office-seekers , and has too often been attained in New York by men who were a disgrace to the City , and whose energies were directed ? after the filling of their own pockets ? rather to the protection than the detection of crime . If the office of Coroner were filled by appointment , if its compensation were fixed at a liberal but not extravagant rate , if the tenure of the office were extended to such a term as would enable its incumbent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definition could be made of the respective powers of the Coroner and the Police , it might be that we should not so often be shocked and disgusted by the results of Coroners ' investigations : Doubtless , it is , even in the present condition of the law , within the power of the Coroner to do much more than is ordinarily done , and the dense stupidity of the verdict in the Seymour ease was not due wholly to the jury , but , in part , to the Coroner , whose general conduct of the so-called investigation was in the last degree incompetent . But it still remains true that the system is radically at fault , and that , as a means of assisting in the discovery of criminals and the punishment of crime , it is a little worse than useless .                     