@@741435

txt Harvard ' 74 were forced to ' celebrate their Class Day to-day under a leaden , frowning sky and in the midst of a drizzling rain-storm , a : genuine New-England north-meter , the ' like of which ' it has not been the - misfortune of this community to experience for many a day . This was exceedingly disappointing , not alone to the men of the class , but to numberless bright and blooming girls who had built great expectations as the day , the word having gone forth that greater preparations than usual bad been made for its observance . But notwithstanding the depreasing state of the weather the programme arranged was fully carried . out . The girls flocked to the college grounds . Their bewitching , dazzling Class-day costumes , arranged with so much care , were concealed and protected by not unattractive water-proofs , and the spreads were given with all the brilliancy possible indoors and under cover . The exercises were like all Class-day exercises . In the morning the class assembled on the walk in front of Holworthy , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was said by the Class Chaplain , Mr. George 0 . G. Coale . Afterward they breakfasted in solemn formality in mass , with Prof. William Everett , and then , at 11 o'clock , they marched to slow music by the Germania to the chapel , taking up the members of the Faculty and officers of the university , to participate in the literary exercises of the day . Here was gathered a full house , but not quite so crowded as on previous class days , when the weather has been more propitious . The class took seats on the platform , and the exercises were opened with music by the Germania Orchestra . followed by prayer by Rev. Dr. Peabody . The orator of the day , Richard H. Dana , third son of R. H. Dana , Jr. , stepped forward , and was greeted with applause . He gave the customary review of the class history , its statistics , and its characteristics , and then , looking into the future , drifted into the consideration of his special theme , the need of young college-bred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the honors of the class , he said that it had never been beaten in foot-ball , seven of its members were members of the Harvard Glee Club , eight of the university football eleven , four of the university six , six of the Harvard cricket eleven , and four of the university nine . The class poem which followed after the final performance of the orchestra was by E. F. Fenollosa , of Salem . It was regarded by the old critics in the audience , who bad sat through many Class-day performances , as up to the average . The class ode , written by George Riddle. cf the Bunker Hill district , in this city , was next sung , and the formal public exercises of the day were brought to a close . Then followed the entertainments'at the " spreads . " These , as I have already said , were more than usually elaborate and brilliant . Regardless of the storm , one of the largest parties assembled under a large tent spread between the chapel and library , and dined to the accompaniment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were Messrs . Goodwin , Sawyer , , Hodges , Elwood. and Elliott . Others in smaller tents entertained small companies . After the " preads " came the dance and promenade in Massachusetts and Lyceum Halls . Up stairs was devoted to the promenaders. a portion of the Germania orchestra contributing the music , and the lower hall to the lovers of the waltz . The room was gorgeously decorated with flags and streamers , evergreens , tropical plants , and flowers , giving the place a luxurious look and air . The pillars and walls were adorned with the trophies of the boat and base-ball clubs , while small shields bore the names . of the Senior Class . Lyceum Hall was also decorated . A little after 5 o'clock the final public performances began . The class reassembled before Holworthy , and forming in procession , marched to quick music by the Ger mania round the grounds , and lustily cheered , then they proceeded to plant the ivy . The oration was delivered by Mr. Edward G. Merriman , and was loudly applauded . Meanwhile the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inclosare set apart for the exercises around the tree , and the holders of tickets were assigned seats in the amphitheatre , and in the various buildings overlooking the ground . The entrance of the Seniors was greeted by a grand round of applause . After a walk around the trop , they gathered in a close group , and sang the class song , the composition of Nathan H. Dole . The usual scramble for flowers , the cheers for the various officers , and the struggle between the Freshmen and the Sopha , in which tall hats were mercilessly smashed and a few bruises inflicted , and the assembly then dispersed . Tbie evening the grounds were illuminated , the glee club sang , the dance was renewed , and the customary reception by the President was given . The Class of ' 74 stands high . It is larger than its predecessors , and ranks among the first in scholarship . It has included 209 young men , and the number that will carry away diplomas is over 160 . The exercises of Commencement Week will be unusually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday , it is expected that on that roc . casion there will be a notable gathering of Harvard men who carried off honors during the war , and that the exercises of Commencement Day proper will be freshened by an unusually brilliant gathering . 