@@743137

txt Public intelligence and the independence of partisan dictation manifested by intelligent people are supposed to be on the increase . But political tactics and a good deal of the newspaper discussion which they evoke proceed on the assumption that public intelligence is decreasing and that party managers are directed by a species of . plenary political inspiration . No greater drafts have been made on popular credulity than the pretenses which have been sought , on both sides , to justify or denounce the steps which have recently been taken to . reorganize the Police Board . ' There is , first , the pretense that it took Gov . ROBINSON about four months to make up his mind as to whether the Mayor 's charges against Police Commissioner SMITE were sufficient to warrant his removal . A confiding public is asked to believe that after being " relieved from immediate duties of supervising legislation , " the Governor made a careful study of the minutes of the Streetcleaning Bureau , and convinced himself that though not so directly responsible for the street-cleaning deficiencies as Mr. Nicaus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in such a way as to become entirely amenable to the charges preferred by the Mayor . Would it not be much franker and altogether more intelligible to confess that the Governor 's hesitation arose , not from any doubt as to the individual and collective responsibility of the Police Commissioners for the state of the streets and the demoralized condition of the force under their supervision , but simply because he was unwilling to run counter to the powerful influences which had been rallied to the support of Gen. SMITH ? Would it not also be more consistent with a due appreciation of the reasoning powers of the reading public to admit that the Governor 's indecision was terminated by the necessities of a candidate for renomination , who could not afford to see the election machinery of New-York pass under the control of his declared enemies ? Then , there is the other pretense that the Police Board removals are merely part of a plot in the interest of TILDEN . Some of those who profess to be greatly excited over this danger are , curiously enough , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gov . TILDEN , in accordance with which Messrs . DISBEOKER and MATSELL wore removed without trial or hearing , and Messrs . WHEELER and ERHARDT were appointed in their stead . The people and the Republican Party were undoubtedly cheated by that bargain , whatever gain may have accrued from it ' to certain party managers . If Mr. TILDEN was cheated , it did not appear in the election results of 1376 . Some of the Republican party managers may have excellent personal reasons for retaining for Mr. DE WITT C. WHEELER Some visible means of livelihood ; to try to sustain him on the ground that he is a bulwark against Tildenism in the Police Board is to presume too much on public stupidity . But , then , there is that indispensable prerequisite of a free ballot-box  --  a non-partisan Police Board , and the political Sophomores lead the chorus of indignant protest against the " bold and unscrupulous plot " which is to " control corruptly " the Police Department and influence the elections to the " mutual disadvantage of the Republican Party and the Tammany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual partnership between the Republican Party and the Tammany faction , there will not be much harm done . That contract , about which the party , be it noted , has never been consulted , is of the very essence of corrupt dealing and false pretense . The party , as such , can afford to look on the struggle over the Police Board with great composure . It might have had two capable and creditable representatives on the Board instead of the one to which it is likely to be shortly reduced ; had its interests not been sacrificed to considerations at once selfish and sordid . Whether it be represented by one Commissioner or by two . it will have its full quota of Election Inspectors and Poll Clerks and as much freedom of choice in their selection as it ever possessed , ' The protection of the " Tammany faction " at the polls has not usually been deemed a matter of pressing concern to Republicans . If the preservation of the non-partisanship of the Police Board be worth maintaining at any cost , and by any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may defend the tardy removal of Gen. Sulu " on the ground that a Police Board controlled by " the Republican Party and the Tammany faction " was pledged in advance to do all it could to ruin the prospects of what may very probably be the Democratic State ticket . No amount of journalistic rhodomontade will convince a discerning public that non-partisanship should be entirely one-sided . Finally , there are the public-spirited persons who swell the cry that the Police Board muddle is entirely of the Mayor 's own making , that he ought to have nominated a successor to Commissioner WHEELER , instead of attempting his removal , &c.; But suppose the Mayor to have entered on the duties of his office quite favorably disposed to the renomination of Messrs . WHEELER and ERHARDT ; suppose that All ' . WHEELER was excepted from the charges against his colleagues becaiise the Mayor shrank from the responsibility of leaving the Police Board without a quorum in case the Board of Aldermen refused , as it had done before , to confirm any Republicans . Suppose , also , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irate Mr. WHEELER led to the alliance between JOHN KELLY and the Republican wirepullers , and brought about a state of affairs in which no reputable Republican named by the Mayor stood any chance of confirmation , how would the responsibility be divided then ? While the Mayor 's course would be very far from defensible on any ground of public policy , the blame for indirection , intrigue , and duplicity would rest solely with his opponents . That , as we take it , describes pretty nearly what has happened , and there is to-day no obstacle to the nomination in Mr. WHEELER 'S place of a Republican whose character and standing would command respect , save the impossibility of finding any such person willing to allow his name to be made the occasion of some pot-house jokes in the Board of Aldermen and then to be laid on the table .                     