@@743036

txt To-day 's debate m the Army bill was varied by a number of rather unusual incidents and one or two very Sharp passages between Senators . Shortly after the morning hour , Mr. Blaine , for the put , iose , as he afterward stated , of giving certain entlemen an opportunity of speaking on the , sixth section  --  that is the political rider lure and simple  --  withdrew his amendment . Chen , turning to his humorous associate , lir . Eaton , of Connecticut , he created no little amusement at that gentleman 's expense by laying that he Mr. Eaton promised several lays ago to make a speech on the pending measure , but that Senators had as yet waited in vain for its delivery . Mr. 3Iaine said ho referred to the matter ) ecause he was anxious to be present when the speech was made . To this Mr. Eaton , who is continually giving notice that he is gong to make a speech on a certain subject , and , hen forgetting all about the matter , replied pith much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which statement only re ; ulted in turning the laugh more completely igainst him . The set speech of the day was made by Mr. Williams , of Kentucky , who tried very hard to idvauce an argument in favor of the repeal of the law giving the National Government power to protect the purity of the ballotbox , but who , because of his many bitter partisan expressions , and his unqualified praise of those who had taken part in the rebellion , only succeeded in greatly weakening the cause which he sought to advance . He had a groat deal to say about the glory of the Mexican war and the valor of the Southern people , and ? talked so fast and so much that even his own party friends , before he had half finished , were heartily sick of him . Indeed , the only point ho made which seemed to be entirely ' to their liking was contained in a statement to the effect that the ex-Confederates were among the most conservative men in Congress , and that the extremists were men who staid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the field . This shot Mr. Williams leveled directly at Senator Blaine , but that gentleman was not in the least disconcerted by it . Indeed , he seemed to enjoy it , and joined in thegenoral smile which followed it . Mr. Jones , of Florida , followed the Kentucky orator , and made another characteristic speech of the high and top-lofty Southern order . During his remarks he made an allusion to the history of Massachusetts , which brought Mr. Dawes to his feet , and for a time there was a very sharp encounter between the two gentlemen regarding the rights of States at against the rights of the National ' Government . Shortly after this , Mr. Jones fell foul of Senator Blaine by.broadly asserting that Webster had been driven out of power by Sumner . This statement Mr. Blaine characterized as an entirely erroneous one , and he concluded by kindly advising Mr. Jones to read the " history of his adopted country , " a bit of friendly counsel which Mr. Jones did not seem to take in the same kindly spirit in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ address , Mr. Blaine took the floor for the purpose of announcing that he would , at the prover time , reintroduce his amendment . In doing so , he was led into making what proved to be one of the most vigorous speeches yet delivered , and in very much annoying those distinguished Democrats , Messrs . Butler , Randolph , and Jonas . Referring to certain acts of Gen. McClellan , Mr. Blaine seemed particularly to rouse the ire of that usually complacent gentleman , Mr. Randolph , and for a time it seemed as it the order of the Senate was to be seriously disturbed . Mr. Randolph subsided , however , and the threatened trouble did not occur . Mr. Blaine subsequently spoke so much to the point , and called so many things by their right names , that he was frequently interrupted by Democrats , who tried in vain to put him out . At last , the presiding officer , Mr. Thurman , joined with his party friends , frequently called order , and at one time seemed about to take part in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Blaine , however , who told him plainly that by his own interruptions ho was doing more to mar the order of the Senate than any one upon tim floor . In conclusion , the Senator referred to the allusion yesterday made to Abraham Lincoln by David Davis , and said he regretted that that name had been brought into the pending discussion . Shortly afterward the Senate adjourned . Mr. Conkling is expected to speak to-morrow .                     