@@741537

txt There is a law which requires that all bridges on the Ohio River below the Covington and Cincinnati Suspension Fridge shall hare , in additiou to the high span prescribed above , ( 100 feet above low water , and giving a clear opening of 400 feet , ) a pivot draw . giving two clear openings of 160 feet each , naeasnred at tight angles to the mirrent at the average stage of water in the river , and located in a part of the bridze that can be safely and conveniently reached at that stage , and that said draw shall be opened promptly , upon reasonable signal , for the passage of boats whose construe-shall not be such as to adroit of their passage under the stationary spans of sari bridges . Tile House Committee on Commerce proposed to am. nd this law by repealing the foregoing and providing that such bridges may either have one continuous span of 400 feet opening , or a pivot draw with two openings of 160 feet each , as the bridge company may determine . Major Merrill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect of this bill would simply be to abolish this requirement of a pivot draw , as no bridge company would subject themselves to the annoyance of a draw-bridge unless they could save cost by re clueing the height of their bridge above the water . As no change in height is proposed , the manifest intent of this bill is simply to abolish the provision for a draw-bridge . If bridges without draws are built between Cincinnati and Cairo . the commerco of the Lower Ohio will be seriously inconvenienced . Many boats that cone to Cincinnati will be unable to do so , and all cities lying above Each bridges will lose an advantage which they now have , and which should not he taken from them . They are properly protected by the law as it stands , and it will add but little to the cost of bridges if they are required to continue this protection , by providing a draw for use by boats that otherwise can not pass the bridge . If in the future the sizes of steam-boats and the character of navigation on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnecessary , the bridge companies need only fasten them in place , and their bridges become continuous . The extra expense of a draw is too small to justify the imposition of another burden on river commerce , which is already a great sufferer from the number and character of exietine. bridges . I think that in a case like the present the views of those parties interested in river navigation should be heard . I would , therefore , recommend that an expression of opinion on this bill be requested from the Coal Exchange of Pittsburg and from the Chamber of Commerce of Cincinnati . "                     