@@741729

txt In Third . avenue , a little below Fourteenth street , a sight may be seen which is not uncommon in. the City of New-York , and which attracts no attention ; and therefore we notice it . The owner of a lot there has taken down the house that was upon it , and is putting up another . This is a , matter of no particular public concern ; but the manner in which it is done does appear to be one of very considerable public interest ; for it is done , to a certain extent , at the public expense , and to no inconsiderable public annoyance . For the public street is made a store-house and a work-shop by the builder .. The Third avenue hero is one of the busiest and . most thronged of the great thoroughfares of the City . Two railway tracks run through it . The passage of light vehicles and of large and . heavily-loaded vans and carts is incessant . Huge blocks of stone and heavy iron castings go through it by preference for transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pedestrians of all the up-town streets ; and yet of this great thoroughfare the builder of a little private house takes to himself a very considerable part of a whole block . His bricks , his mortar , and his timber ' stretch along , occupying a large part of the roadway before six houses . More than three-fourths of the block are , to all intents and purposes , taken possession of by this builder , although he does . kindly keep a passage-way open by which the public may use its own street with inconvenience , and in some danger from falling bodies , to say nothing of injury to clothes from flying sand . and dropping mortar . But this is not all . Astride the beams that lie in the roadway sit half a dozen carpenters doing the roughest work of their trade . With enormous chisels and heavy mallets they are hewing out the tenons and mortises of the beams . The chips fly in all directions , and this public street is temporarily the workshop , of this builder . Now of this there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any such accumulation of rubbish in the street , and , above all ; without turning the street into a shop for the roughest kind of work . Those beams should have been fitted to each other on the builder 's own premises , as they could easily have been . and brought to the house ready to be put directly up without remaining in the streeteany longer than it would have taken to hoist them into their places . This is done with stone-work , which is all " got out " at the stone-cutters ' yards by measurement , and sent where it is needed ready to be lifted directly into place . We are compelled , however , to believe that this is the case simply because stone-cutters find that they can do their work more accurately and.easily on their own promises than on those of the public ; otherwise we should have chippings of free-stone flying into our faces during the erection of every " brown-stone " frout , as well as every church , in the new part of the City . For this sight has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compelled to the conclusion that only persons whose interest or convenience are consulted even as to turning the street into stone-cutters ' yards are the stonecutters themselves . The indifference with which such trespasses upon public rights are generally regarded is one of the bad traits of our social condition . It is one of the symptoms of the absence of a public moral sense or public spirit , the latter of which is likely to disappear after the former . That indifference to public rights which allows any man to invade them with impunity who has the boldness to do so , indicates a torpidity of public conscience which does not promise well for the immediate future of any community . It is true that it is to the public interest that new houses should be built ; and if it were impossible to build them without such appropriation of public ground , the inconvenience would be necessarily submitted to . But this is by no means the case . A house could be built now as we are told that SOLOMON 'S temple was built : " And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stone , made ready before it was brought thither , so that there was neither hammer , nor ax , nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was in building . " But although such a feat as this ' could . be more easily performed now than it was then , we need not insist upon such an absolutely swift and noiseless erection of our houses . We have the right , however , to insist that our streets shall not be made depositories of bricks and mortar and timber , and that they shall not be turned into carpenters ' shops and stonecutters ' yards . And if it be said that permission is given to builders to occupy such portions of the street as is occupied in the case to which we have referred , our reply is : So much the worse . It shows that even those official persons whose duty it is to protect the public interests have such a misconception of the limits of public and private rights that they will not properly protect the former against the invasions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's interrogative aphorism : " Quiz custodiet ipsos custodies ? " ? who shall guard the guardians themselves t We have some things yet to learn as a people ; and one of them is the ability to regard the public as a composite individual , of which we are each of us one component part ; and that this individual has rights , like any other , which we are every one of us in duty bound to respect , and , if need be , to defend .                     