@@742176

txt We have already pointed out that by the provisions of the Constitution and laws of Oregon , Gov . GROVER was bound to include WATTS , the Republican Elector , in his certified list of Electors , and that he had no right to include CRONLN , who received only a minority of the votes . Still less had he a right to give CRONIN all the lists in triplicate , in order that the latter might use them to force the legally chosen Electors to act with him and recognize him as one of the College . Under the Constitution of the State , it is required that the " person or persons who shall receive the highest number of votes shall be declared duly elected ! ' It was , therefore , the Governor 's duty to declare WATTS " duly elected , " and to leave to the Electoral College and to Federal law the application of the Federal Constitution , by which be was made ineligible . Moreover , no one can pretend that Gov . GROVER was only anxious that the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WATrs would resign , and that the remaining members of the College had the power to fill the vacancy , and would use it . The Governor 's real motive was to get a vote for TILDEN which did not belong to him . In that attempt he disobeyed the laws of his own State , exceeded his own powers , and finally succeeded only in making his trick as laughable as it was wicked . But it is now evident that the Democrats have some little hope of being able to bolster up Gov . GnovEn 's action , not by the laws which define his powers and duties , but by the common law , that is , by the current of decisions in like cases in this country and in England . This is probably a notion of Mr. TILDEN , who is fond of thrusting his legal subtleties into places for which they are very poorly fitted , and in , the present instance , he will have no better luck than he has generally had . Gov . Grover has himself given out that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in harmony with the authorities in other States . But in this he has been misled by his New-York advisers . Iu the first place it must be said that the fact that tribunals , with ample jurisdiction , had applied the principle that , where the " majority man " ( to use the language of the law books ) is ineligible , the " minority man " is entitled to the place , would not sustain Gov . GROVER in applying that principle iu this case , because he had no jurisdiction over it . In the next place , it must be added that the principle referred to ? , as never been applied except in cases which have nothing in common with that of WAITS and Ono SIN , and even then only rarely in our country . In England it is the general tenor of decisions that where a majority candidate is ineligible , and the voters receive timely notice of the fact which Makes him ineligible , and also of the law , and whore the vote is given viva voce , so that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had the required notice , then , and only then , the vote for the ineligible candidate is regarded as willfully wasted , and the office is given to the one having the next highest number of votes . Of course , there is no pretense that any of these conditions were fulfilled in the case of WArrs . There was no notice ; there was no viva voce vote ; there was no means of telling whether a single man who voted for WATTS knew that he was a Postmaster or knew that , if ho were , ho could not be appointed an Elector ; and there is not the shadow of foundation for the supposition that any of WAvrs ' supporters willfully , and with knowledge , wasted their votes . The notorious mode of conducting elections iu this country makes such a presumption a bald one , which no honest man in his senses could hold for a moment . It will be seen , therefore , that the English authorities have no value in this case ; because it is not like those with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still less support to be found in judicial decisions . In a single case in Indiana , and in one in Illinois , the English doctrine was , to some extent . adopted . But on the other has been distinctly declared inapplicable to our elections in Pennsylvania , in California , in Wisconsin , in Maine , in Missouri , in New-Jersey , and in New  --  York . It has also been clearly and emphatically rejected by the Senate of the United States in the case of VANCE and ABBnTT , and by the House of Representatives in the case of SMITH vs . Bie . Ws . The general result of American decisions is very succinctly and comprehensively stated in DILLON on Municipal Corporations , ( p. 176 , sec. 135 , ) whore it is declared that unless the votes for an ineligible person are expressly declared to be void , the effect of such person receiving a majority of the votes cast , is , according to the weight of American authority and the reason of the matter , ( in view of our mode of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , leaving each elector to vote for whomsoever he pleases , ) that a new election must be had , and not to give the office to the qualified person having the next highest number of votes . This certainly leaves Gov . GROVER and his fellow-tricksters no ground to stand on . They have simply been guilty of a reckless and stupid violation of law and justice to advance Mr. TILDEN 'S election . Their action can have no effect other than to call attention to the law of the case , and to expose their own bad motives , Even Mr. TILDEN 'S most disingenuous supporter , J.Vation , admits that he could not afford to take an office got in this way , though what he would lose by it we can not say . Certainly not the respect of decent people ; he lost that long ago .                     