@@781542

txt So few newspaper readers have followed . the course of the Indian warfare in the North-west that the overwhelming defeat of CUSTER 'S command and the butchery of this gallant commander and his men , will produce both astonishmenkand alarm . We have latterly fallen into the habit of regarding the Indians yet remaining in a wild or semi-subdued state as practically of very little account . It is only now and then when some such outburst as that of the Modoes , which resulted in the slaying of Gen. CANBY , Commissioner Tnomns , and others , or that which we now record with so much sorrow , comes like a shoa , that we realize the character of the Indian and the difficulties of the situation . SITTING BULL 'S band of Sioux left their reservation with hostile intent . They refused negotiations for peace . They defied the power and . authority of the United States . They invited war . A force was sent against them . This force became divided , and Gen. CUSTER , with five companies , coming up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without waiting for the support of the remainder of the column . The result was that the entire body of men , numbering between three and four hundred , and including Gen. CUSTER and several other commissioned officers , fell into a death-trap ; they were overwhelmed by superior numbers , and were all slaughtered . The precise particulars of that horrible catastrophe will never be known . There are no survivors ; The course of the detachment , after it began the attack , is traced only by the bodies of the slain . How gallantly these poor fellows fought can only be surmised . The Indians carried off some of their dead and wounded ; others were concealed , or cached , with Indian cunning , in order that the white man should not know how much damage they had . suffered . The streams on which the late tragical events have happened are branches of the Yellowstone , which in this region  --  Southern Montana  --  has a general course from west to east . Going up stream one successively passes on the left , or southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Rosebud Creek , and the Big Horn . The last-named stream was supposed to be the extreme western limit of the operations of this expedition . Gen. TERRY is the senior and ranking officer in the acti.ve force , Gen. CUSTER having been second in his immediate command . The Army , however , was divided into three columns , one being under Gen. Cnowc , and operating far to the south of the Yellowstone , and one under GIBBON , who was to the north . in supporting distance of TERRY . On the 17th of June , CROOK 'S forces met the hostile Sioux , under SITTING BULL , on the headwaters of the Rosebud , about seventy miles from the junction of that stream with the Yellowstone . The Sioux wore probably not iu full force , but they outnumbered the whites and their allies , the Snakes and the Crows . Gen. CROOK was repulsed and fell back in a southerly direction , with a loss of ten killed mid thirteen wounded . About that time the commands of Gen. TERRY and Gen. GIBBON ' were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one at the mouth of the Powder , and the other at the mouth of the Tongue River . We can not tell when TERRY learned of the defeat of CROOK , if he did at all before his next movement , which was in the nature of a scout in search of SITTING BULL . That chieftain was supposed to have a large camp somewhere on Rosebud Creek . At last accounts , CUSTER , with nine companies , was to cross over to the Rosebud , passing west from Tongue River , feeling for the Sioux . TERRY , with seven companies , was to follow within easy supporting distance . GIBBON , we must suppose , was to follow the general route westward , but was to keep to the northward , iu order to be before the Sioux , in case they attempted to turn to the eastward . Not finding the Sioux on the Rosebud , CUSTER kept on lid struck their main eamn on the Little Horn , a branch of the Big Horn , and about fifty miles west of the point where CROOK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command was divided , Major RENO commanding part , and CUSTER the remainder . Without once reckoning the disparity of numbers , ( for the Indians are reported to have been four or five thousand strong , ) CusTEll. impetuously charged upon the foe . The result was appalling . No such catastrophe has happened in our Indian warfare since the Florida war . It is useless to attempt to discover all the causes which have led to this disaster . The general management of the campaign may have been faulty . It is well known that military operations in the North-west have been crippled by the mistaken policy of retrenchment adopted by the presentHouse of Representatives . Gen. CUSTER was a brave , dashing , but somewhat imprudent soldier , and his natural desire to save his superior officer ( with whom he had not been- in perfect accord ) the responsibility of an attack , may have hastened his fatal descent upon the enemy . Then , behind this , we can not help seeing the needless irritation caused by the expedition into the Black Hills country last Summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time ; and nothing but the interposition of friendly Indians prevented a massacre of the Commissioners sent out to treat with the Sioux . The Indians who have just wrought this bloody revenge are nominally on reservations . They have refused to stay there , and the expedition intended to chastise them and compel them to return has met with frightful diSaster . The victory of the savages will inflame the border , and restless tribes will be impatient to share in the glory suddenly achieved by SITTING BULL and his braves . Year after year , the wild Indians have been hemmed . in ; they fight with no less desperation for that ; and , now that we have been defeated iu a considerable engagement , defensive tactics must precede the operations necessary for the chastisement of so dangerous and determined a foe .                     