@@743192

txt Senator WALLACE resorts to an old device in the interest of his Southern allies . Before the war we were continually told that " cotton is kin g , " and should be master in politics as well as in commerce . The explosion of the fallacy under the hard pressure of experience does not deter the Pennsylvania Senator fro in attempting its revival . Southern markets , he contends , are essential to the prosperity of productive industries and trade at the North . lie represents them as the most convenient , reliable , and . profitable outlet for Northern products . In fact , as he states the case , while the South can do very well without the North , the North can not thrive if the South be alienated from it . Such is the pivotal point of an argument intended to show that the North can not afford to antagonize the South or to set itself against the demands of the Southern whites . It is an argument addressed . to the Pennsylvania pocket to i nduce acquiescence in Southern principles a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is inimical to the industrial and business interests because it retards the growth . in power and wealth of the Southern States . Whether one part of the country is richer in resources than another , or is more essential than another to the prosperity of the whole , is a question which no intelligent Republican desires to raise for partisan use . The mere statement of the question implies the presence of a sectional spirit , which though unfortunately not rare , is certainly not in harmony with the genius of the Republican Party or with the policy it upholds . Indeed , the warfare waged against its alleged centralizing tendencies is an unintentional tribute to its broad and . essentially national characteristics . Its resistance to the principles and plans of the Southern Democracy is based on their tendency to sectionalize the Government and to invest the States with an authority at variance with the permanent.integrity of the Union . The North does not in its discussion speak of its welfare as apart from the welfare If the South , or of its cherished principles as at variance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South pursues a different course . Every step it - takes is sectional . It assumes that the North and the West have irreconcilable purposes , and gravely discusses the relative advantages of an alliance with one against the other . It asserts its title to supremacy in the councils of the Democracy , and has succeeded in fastening distinctively sectional principles upon the policy of that organization . dr . WALLACE 'S version of the case is the feeble echo of a Southern cry , intended to than aside attention from a sectionalism little loss arrogant than that with which . the country was familiar in bygone days , and less dangerous only because its motives and tendencies are more correctly understood . Of course , the North is not insensible to the losses suffered by its industries and trade in consequence of the disturbed condition of some of the Southern States and the want of enterprise , energy , and capital in all of them . Its merchants appreciate the value of a healthy Southern market for their goods , as clearly as they appreciate the value of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South affects the North only in , degree . All the indications a re- turning prosperity are visible around us . We have the enterprise anal energy which the South lacks , and in superabundance the capital , from the want of which the South suffers . North and West share in common the prosperity ; the South alone complains of poverty and . depression . While , then , the state of business affairs in the South , and its evident inability to regain except very slowly the prosperity it has lost , are not unfelt at the North , we have the satisfaction of knowing that the injury experienced . is obscured . by the benefits accruing from the developrfient of the West . The effect of Southern depression is to a considerable extent counteracted by Western growth and prosperity . The circumstance is not cited as a reason for indifference to the evils tnat prevail throughout the greater portion of the Southern States . We refer to it as proof that the rule-or-ruin policy of the Southern Democracy is loss hurtful , judged from a business point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves . If the South were not blinded by sectional jealousy and hate , and by the partisan malignity of its leaders , it would find in the contrast afforded by the West a cogent argument in favor of a radical change of policy . In many respects , its ' requirements and opportunities are identical with those of Western States and . Territories . Both sections have enormous undeveloped . resources . Both have lands that need peopling , and elements of wealth that need . but . push and capital to render them productive . But , metaphorically speaking , while the West bounds toward prosperity , the South stands still and starves . The difference that existed between the sections when one had the invigorating influences of freedom and the other withered under the curse of slavery , is as pronounced as ever . Immigrants still shun the South . Enterprise finds no home there . Capital seeks other fields . The West gets what itwants of all . The result is the repetition of an old story with this variation ? that Western development , agricultural and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern stagnation knows no change save that wrought by inevitable decay . There will be no marked improvement at the South until its dominant class cease their upbraiding of the North and look among themselves for the causes of the prevailing poverty and depression . The EepublicanPaty does not divert the stream of immigration , discourage enterprise , or foster the fears of capital . Whatever influences tend . to produce these results are traceable to the madness and guilt of Southern sectionalism and the part it plays in public affairs . White labor would not go where slave labor was , and it will continue to avoid States where the colored laborer is denied . the rights of a man . Foreigners in search of a home will not linger where freedom of opinion does not exist , where law is a mockery and justice a myth , and where their children must grow up uneducated . Men of enterprise and means will keep away from States that move slowly and not seldom backward . And for all this the South alone is responsible . It is responsible for most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the improvement it craves will be yet longer delayed .                     