@@741622

txt The railway companies are preparing to take advantage of the approaching Summer traffic . Some of the changes they are making will promote the convenience of the public ; but others are founded upon very different considerations . An increased number of trains on many of the roads will be an advantage , but it will be unduly compensated for if restrictions are placed upon privileges now legally existing . It must be in the interest of the several companies to offer inducements which will have the effect of attracting people to reside along the line of their respective roads . This is made clear by testimony which every one may obtain Jim himself . The roads upon which there are the largest numbers of trains , are those upon which there is the largest amount of local traffic . But the traffic is the result of the trains , not their cause . Many persons in choosing a country residence first examine the time-tables , and they are guided in favor of that locality where is offered the greatest - amount of opportunity for access to and- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth considerably more than that along the lines where trains are few . It is rented , too , with more facility , and it obtains a better class of tenants . All this the companies well understand , and generally they act upon it . The fact that they do so renders it the more , surprising that their perception of their own interests does not extend further . If they were willing to recognize their legal relations with the public there would be something gained , but even that is not done . Notices recently issued by some of them are , we believe , in direct violation of the law ; and although they may have some effect simply because passengers are not always willing to defend their rights , yet in equity and in the face of rulings already obtained in the courts , some of the regulations could not , we think , be sustained . The privileges attached to the possession of a season or commutation ticket are nowhere more limited than here . In other countries , the holder of such a ticket may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he pleases . Often , too , the payment of a small additional fee enables him to break his journey as often as he chooses ; that is , ho may alight at any intermediate station , and proceed to his ultimate destination by another train than that on which he started . We have no such privileges . A commutation ticket authorizes the holder to make but one trip a day , and that must be a continuous trip . Yet the rates are quite as high , iu many cases higher than those which prevail in Europe . In the same way the owner of au excursion ticket is tied down by vexatious restrictions , although , as we have said , it is very doubtful whether , in some respects at least , the action of the companies could be sustained , if anybody would take the trouble to contest it iu the courts . Notices have recently been posted on some of the most popular roads that on and after the 1st of May excursion tickets will be available for a continuous passage only on day of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ validity . of such a regulation are nut wanting , and it is manifestly unjust , if not dishonest , to the public . A further example of injustice iu the matter of these return tickets has come to our knowledge within the last few days . A lady at Orange took au excursion ticket for Newark and back- . On arriving at Newark she found that before returning home she must go on to Summit , a station beyond her other destination . A train presently came up which was going to Summit , but did not stop at the intermediate station . She attempted to get into the cars , offering , of course , to pay the difference required for the distance between Orange and Summit . But the station-master at Newark prevented her , insisting that she ' must first go in a train where she could get off at Orange , and then start afresh in that or another train for Summit . She was forced to acquiesce in this arrangement , and was consequently compelled to lose two hours of valuable time . Upon what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company can authorize or justify this conduct on the part of their official we do not understand . A ticket is nothing more than proof that a person has purchased the right to travel over a certain defined distance of the company 's road . It matters nothing in point of law or equity whether he go by one train or another , whether this week or next . His right remains good while he retains the ticket , and the courts have upheld it . But vexatious restrictions are opposed also to the companies ' interests . We are told that the reduction allowed on a return ticket is a concession to the public which carries with it the power to dictate special conditions . But it is nothing of the kind . It is no concession . The company secures a double fare for a single trip . The passenger takes his chance of using the second privilege he has paid for on some future day . Whether he use it or not , the company has got his money . He may not want to use it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which cases he is a loser . The company can not lose ; on the contrary , it has the use of money in advance of the time when it actually becomes due , and the same is the case with commutation tickets . In fact , such proceedings as we have mentioned can not by any means be justified , and if any one of the companies would start . this year on the new plan of offering facilities to the public , instead of inventing obstacles , we feel assured that it would reap a considerable advantage during the season of Summer travel .                     