@@781690

txt The unhappy contest which broke out in the Democratic ranks after the Cincinnati Convention of 1872 , and . which raged bitterly until both parties to it were silenced by the surrender at Baltimore , is being renewed again with great earnestness . The Democracy is divided now , as it was then , between two sections . One holds to the orthodox truths of the party , and . thinks that they have yet force enough to win a national victory , and that in order to do so they must be frankly acknowledged and clearly stated . The other may not differ very much at heart from the straiter see , but it holds that it is better " by indirection to seek direction out . " It would probably use a Democratic victory for much the same purposes as its Bourbon rivals , but it would cloak those purposes until the victory is gained . During the Summer of 1872 these two factions quarreled energetically . Each one attributed to the other the melancholy condition into which the party had fallen . The Liberals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they bad spread the belief that the party was a disunion , antienfranchisement party , which only awaited an opportunity to undo the results of the war . The journals which made these charges against the Bourbons seldom took the trouble to conceal a covert sympathy with the Bourbons ' views and aims ; but , they argued , it was impolitic to flaunt such offensive ideas in the face of the united and determined North . The Bourbons , on the other hand , maintained that the strength of the party lay in precisely the beliefs and purposes which the Liberals desired to suppress , and that a frank avowal of them was all that was necessary to a general Democratic victory . In that quarrel , the Bourbons had the worst of it . They were compelled to accept the leadership of GREELITY with such grace as they could muster . But they are coming to the front again in force , called out by the course of some of the Democratic leaders in recommending a substantial repetition of the Greeley policy . The Bourbons now claim that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They point to the ignominious defeat of the party in 1872 as convincing proof that the policy of " co-operation " was a failure . The Memphis Appeal , a paper of influence and respectability in the South , protests against any renewal of the disastrous tactics of 1872 . It declares that the party was far weaker under GREELEY than under SEvArotnt and BrAin in 1868 . The latter carried States casting seventy-four electoral votes , the former had three votes only , and the States which he carried would have brought the number no higher than sixty . It further claims that this alarming reduction of the strength of the party , and the terrible disappointment of the hopes of the Liberals , caused the Democratic leaders to " wash their hands " of the compromise policy . It points to the nomination and election of Gov . ALLEN in Ohio  --  a thoroughbred , obstinate , blatant Bourbon  --  as an indication of the reaction , and of the policy that has led to the victories so far achieved , and which will lead to a general victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force in what the Appeal says  --  enough , certainly , to show that the Bourbon element in the Democracy is by no means without ground to stand upon . On the contrary , it will make a determined . defense of its principles in the approaching Presidential canvass . The journalists of the Democratic Party , and especially of the Manhattan Club , who hnagine that they can repeat with impunity the trick of 1872 , and head their party , as Mr. BIGELOW would say " South by North , " will find that they have a difficult task before them . The Bourbons are bound to seek recognition , and , with the pitiful results of 1872 to argue from , and some of the remarkable successes of their wing that the people have tolerated  --  witness ALLEN 'S election in Ohio and EATON 'S in Connecticut  --  they will be able to present a formidable front .                     