@@741311

txt The art of a park designer or landscape gardener seems to be , not merely that of sketching in rough a " picture on the ground , " whose colors are to be filled out by the slow-moving brush of time , and . whose true unity and beauty are to be felt alone by future generations , but it consists also in the talent of gratifying the innumerable tastes for amusement and pleasure of a large population . We were struck with this in a recent private report , submitted by the well-known landscape architects , Messrs . OLMSTED &; VAUX , to the Central Park Commission , as to the best use to be made of a rough bit of ground on the north-west of the park , called " Morningside Park . " As preliminary to their report , they mention , incidentally , the following wants in the City  --  wants which we usually forget , but which , the moment they are detailed , strike one as manifestly real needs : " The City is still deficient in many provisions which unquestionably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as already exist in the principal towns of Europe , and for which considerable spaces of open ground are necessary : New-York , for example , has no ground for the athletic exercises of young men , the open spaces of the Central Park not being suitable for this purpose , and being already devoted to the athletic education of the children of the City , for whose use they will eventually prove much too small ; no grand . promenade , the Central Park roads and walks being designed for rural and not for urban recreation . It has no proper marketplaces , no fair grounds nor places adapted to the display of fireworks or other oxhibitione . Within four miles of Morningside Park there is no ground suitable to exercises in arms , civic receptions , or any great public ceremonies . There is no ground in the City or its suburbs adapted to special education in general botanical science , arboriculture , horticulture , pharmacy , or zoology , nor have any of the thirty-five reservations , large and small , termed parks , in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these purposes . " Unfortunately it appears that the rough piece of ground we have mentioned is adapted for none of these purposes . It is described as a strip of hill-side equal in length to the distance from the Battery to the City Hall , or about three-quarters of a mile , and its width less than that of the planted part of Union square . The most of the surface is a precipitous hill-side , made by a rounded V.edge of granite , and is difficult , unsafe , and impracticable to travel over . There are only two small patches within it which are not steep hill-sides . The difference of elevation between the north and . east sides is nearly a hundred feet . There could be no view in the ground to the westward , while the eastward view would be in time cut off by the houses certain to be built . The question then was for Mr. OLMSTED , " How to treat it ? " His first thought was for the beautiful terrace road which runs just above it . From this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out over a wide range of beautiful country , and over the waters and . islands of the river and Sound , the eastern sea-gate of the metropolis . " He was resolved to preserve this view  --  for we have none superior in the northern suburbs of the City ? and to make the now park a sort of adjunct to it . A. more mechanical landscape gardener would have at once advised the planting the ground with ornamental trees , or making of it a miniature of the Central Park . But this architect wisely thought that the citizen who had just passed through the larger pleasure ground would not want immediately a smaller copy of it , but something fresh and new , and that nothing should be planted which would cut off the View from the terrace road . Near the south-east entrance , which will be the principal entrance , owing to the construction of embankments , a considerable basin will be formed , some two acres in extent , well protected from the winds , one of its sides being a natural and picturesque wall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special garden for " sub-tropical plants . " Above this garden a kind of balcony will be formed by the junction of the street and avenue , and a. double staircase will descend twenty-two feet to the paved court below . " From wall fountains under the balcony , water flows into a largo semi-circular basin . On the other side the court opens upon a body of water , which , by an arrangement of points and islands , is designed to be seen in vistas radiating from its centre , and terminating at interesting points of the high rocks opposite . Aquatic plants break the surface of these little lagoons , Wild they are overhung ' by luxuriant and ' intricate foliage of tropical character , of apparently natural growth from their banks . These will be backed and protected by thickets of large but inconspicuous hardy shrubs . Walks lead out laterally from the entrance court , which are carried on the opposite face of these thickets , but at certain points openings occur , from which other vistas are seen of a like character to those which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen to advantage , will be out of reach , and secure from injury by visit ors . " A break in the ledge occurs beyond this , where a sufficient space may bo . found for some glass-covered buildings adapted to a collection of tropical animals . The various walks through the ground are to be deeply shaded , and to have " a - wild , picturesque , and secluded character , " until they approach the only spot within it ( beyond One Hundred . and Twentieth street ) where a quiet , sunny lawn can be laid out . Westward from the lawn the walk ascends a rocky defile until it reaches the entrances from Tenth avenue . A " mall " twenty feet wide surrounds the park , and is separated from it by a parapet wall . This mall is to be shaded and provided with seats . The variety of scenery sketched by these painters on the ground is thus well described in the report : " It will be recognized that the variety of scenery in the several divisions of the Park which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from one to another is nowhere abrupt and sensational . The visitor passes through the exotic luxuriance of the tropical garden ; thence through dense masses of foliage be comes upon the terrace district , with its striking architectural and floral decorations ; then through the wild , picturesque , and sombre walk along the foot of the ledge ; then along the bright open lawn , simple in character , but highly cultivated ; then , mounting the craggy hillside , with its low growth of brilliant Alpine plants springing from the crevices of the rocks , and by a stairway up the vine-covered wall , he reaches the terrace road mall . By this he may return to the point of starting , enjoying in a further walk of half a mile the broad distant view which is the crowning attraction of the Park . " The report , we believe , has been adopted by the commission , and the work will make another of the charming pictures which these skillful artists have drawn for all future generations on the rough and rocky surface near the City . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of admonition to the commission . Several of them are gentlemen not much known to this community , and certainly not known as having any experience in so difficult an art as landscape gardening . Rumors are abroad that they are gradually pushing out these skillful artists from the constant management and improvement of the park , and are striving  --  somewhat like Messrs . FIELDS and . SWEENY ? t0 " run the park " according to their own ideas . The public will watch this process with deep attention , and will hold these gentlemen to a strict account for the treatment of as lovely a " picture on the ground " as was ever marred or blurred .                     