@@741427

txt Four two-story and basement frame houses on Morse avenue , between Atlantic and Liberty streets , were discovered to be on fire about 3 o'clock yesterday morning . The houses , which are situated in the village of New-Lotts , a suburb of Brooklyn , had onlyjnet been completed , and were unoccupied . The fire was evidently the work of incendiaries , as the flames appeared at the same time in several places . The Fire Department arrived after some delay , but were unable to prevent the entire destruction by the flames of the four buildings . The incendiaries had evidently made skillful preparations for an extensive conflagration , and so well had the combustible train been laid that the flames leapel rapidly from one to the other of the four buildlugs mentioned , and in less than an hour all were reduced to a heap of smouldering rains . An unoccupied frame house on the opposite side of the street bad also been set on fire , but the flames were promptly extinguished before much damage was done . The tardiness with which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which their operations were conducted when they reached the scene , prove that Now-Lots has no adequate protection from the devouring ele. ment . There is no doubt that this morning 's fire was the work of a band of ruffians , who , during the turmoil attending the fire , anticipated an opportunity of plundering the houses in the vicinity . No less than four similar outrages have been committed in the village during the past year . The four buildings consumed were owned by Mr. John C. Smith , of this City . The loss is estimated at 68,000 ; insurance not ascertained . Shortly before 10 o'clock last night , the officer on post in Lewis street , saw flames and smoke issuing from the windows of the second floor of the four-story brick building Nos. 57 , 59. and 61 Lewis street . He at once gave the alarm , and proceeding to the station-house corner of Attorney and Delancey streets , notified Capt . Malden , who , with a platoon of men at once proceeded to the scene of the fire . The flames @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Chief Engineer Bates , of the Fire Department , at once gave orders to call out the reserve force of the department . Every exertion was made by the firemen to subdue he flames but without avail . The building was completely gutted , and it was only after two hours ' hard labor that the firemen succeeded in quenching the flames . The first , second , and third floors of the building were occupied as a machine factory by Messrs . A. &; F. Brown , who sustain an estimated lott . of $75,000 which it is said is fully covered by insurance . Edward Wile , lithographer , occupying the fourth floor , lost $20,000 on stock and machinery ; insurance not known . The building was owned by John B. Merchum , of Philadelphia , who loses $12,000 . The fire for over a half hour burned with great fury , and the light from it attracted a large crowd of persons , who were kept in order by the Police . Owing to the late hour and the absence of the owners no list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to-day make an investigation regarding the cause of the fire . About 3:30 o'clock yesterday morning a &re; was discovered in one of a row of four unoccupied frame dwelling-houses located on Morse avenue , between Liberty and Atlantic avenues , East New York , Long Island , and only recently finished by the contractor . An alarm brought the firemen promptly to the spot , but the flames meantime had gained such headway , in consequence of the inflammable character of the materials of which the buildings were constructed , that it was found impossible to check their progress until the entire row was destroyer . The houses were owned by the Nati  --  mal Stove Works Company , who had an insurance upon them nearly covering the loss , which is given at about $12,000 . There is no doubt that the fire was set by an incendiary , as there had been no fire in the buildings for some time .                     