@@741272

txt Credit must be given to the officials charged with the investigation of the Watvaaset disaster for a report as thorough and fearless as it is unusual in such cases . If they nave been able to present no facts that are entirely new , and to announce no unexpected conclusions , it is because the evidence upon which the report is based . has been before the public , and . the facts are of such a character as to admit of no difference of opinion concerning them . The officials , having obtained all the testimony necessary to an impartial judgment , have no hesitation in fixing the responsibility for the disaster , nor in asking that the full penalties of the law be inflicted upon those to whom the sacrifice of life was due . This conclusion of the case is so great an improvement upon the investigation and judgment we generally get in railroad disasters from coroners ' juries , that the officials are fairly entitled to the praise of having performed a salutary public service . In the future , the public will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farcical investigation and . the usual verdict of " nobody - tf , blame , " when human beings are slaughtered . by the negligence or recklessness of the persons in charge of railway trains or steam-boats . The peculiar facts of the Wawasset affair call for all the severity ' which the report of the inspectors demands . It was the crime of the Potomac Ferry Company that the boat was overcrowded , and . that the Captain and mate were unlicensed persons . The overloading may , with entire justice , be regarded as an unpardonable offense . The testimony is positive that the original certificate of the steamer allowed her to carry only fifty passengers , and . yet more than eighty were lost . It is not strange that under a direction that thus flagrantly violated the law , there was no discipline on board the boat , and that the misconduct of the chief engineer was such that his license has been revoked . The iessel was practically without any fire department , and when the emergency came , the officers and crew , because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire or save the passengers . In concluding their report , the Inspectors remark that they are " led to believe that , hereafter , steam-boat owners will make themselves fully and thoroughly acquainted with the acts of Congress relating to steam vessels , and then yield a ready and full compliance thereto , equipping them with all life-saving appliances required by law , and . in command of men . who know and who possess the courage to perform their whole duty in any emergency that may arise . " We can find nothing in the history of steam-boat management to justify such a belief , and . as the Inspectors do not give us the facts upon which they base , this sanguine view , we incline to the opinion that the owners should be trusted even less than heretofore to secure the safety of their passengers . The Inspectors themselves are apparently of the same mind , as in the body of their report they recommend that it be made the duty of the Government officials " to visit steamers from time to time , and without previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to quarters , and in this way ascertain and correct defects in the organization and equipment . " This recommendation is in harmony with suggestions we have heretofore made in this matter , and we hope it will be acted upon . Every steamer licensed to carry passengers should be constantly visited by an Inspector , whose duty it should be to make sure that she is fully prepared to meet any disaster which may occur , and especially that of fire , which is the most common as it is the most terrible of all calamities upon our Eastern waters . But the safety of passengers can not be entirely secured until Congress revises the Steam-boat law . Its terms as to the means of safety should be more precise , and the penalties for its violations much more severe . The present law has had the effect of adding largely to the safety of steam-boat traveling , and . to make it still more strict would cestainly be a public benefit . In the matter of safetyit should practically take the management of steam-boats out of the hands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the violation of any provision of the law , it should inflict the most exemplary punishment . The penalties which can be inflicted upon the owners , Captain , mate , and engineer of the Wawalset are a mockery of justice , and useless as a warning to other owners and managers of steamers . Morally these people are guilty of manslaughter , and . ? the punishment should . at least approximate to the offense . The Trawaaset calamity has already produced . good results , in calling general attention to the criminal carelessness with - which many of our steamers are managed , and we hope it may yet do a great deal more by inducing Congress to make such changes in the Steam-boat law as experience has proved . to be necessary for the public safety .                     