@@781853

txt The second part of Gen. HUMPHREYS ' forthcoming annual report , or that which relates to the defenselessness and the needs of our coasts and harbors , is of urgent haportanee . During the past ten years the country in general has seemed to be in a lethargy regarding the progress made in gunnery among European powers . No doubt this state of unconsciousness or indifference was one of reaction after the prolonged strain of the civil war , but it all the more remarkably contrasts with the vigor that preceded it . Sixteen years ago the Monitor had revolutionized naval warfare ; and not less remarkable than her impregnability to then existing artillery was the fact that this now comer in naval architecture was able to carry , and did carry , gulls able to penetrate the s:des even of the armored Warrior and Gloire . If even the 11-inch American smooth-bores excited the naval world , when the 15-inch guns , carrying a projectile weighing 434 pounds , propelled by 100 pounds of powder , were put in monitor iron-clads and mounted in forts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was one further step to take , which was taken  --  the construction of the 20-inelfgun , with its projectile of 1,100 pounds , and its service-charge of 200 pounds of powder . There , however , well in advance , America stopped . Since then vast strides have been taken both in ship-building and gun-making on the other side of the ocean , which make our heaviest monitors over in service and our once monstrous artillery seem obsolete . Ships now exist in both the British and the Italian Navies which have sufficient coalcarrying capacity to cross the Atlantic , and a solid iron hide of from 20 to 24 inches thick , impenetrable to the heaviest ordnance of our ships or forts , and carrying guns of their own with which they could , even beyond the range of most of our forts , destroy the cities these forts were meant to protect . New-York , Philadelphia , Boston , Baltimore , Portland , Charleston , Savannah , Mobile , New-Orleans  --  every coastwise city ou the Atlantic , Pacific , and Gulf coasts ? could be easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that could be hoped for would be ' a resort to the ignominious device of blocking up the channels , in order to detain the enemy 's vessels under the fire of the forts . But there are some vessels , as we have said , that are impregnable to the heaviest fire of the forts , and there are others that would do their work beyond the range both of the forts and of any practicable obstructions , while the very confession that all commerce must be stopped , even in au inefficient defense , is humiliating in the extreme . Gen. HuxtPtinsys , as Chief of the Engineer Corps , and Gen. BENET , as Chief of the Ordnance Bureau , are certainly justified in the urgent appeals they make to Congress for the supply of more powerful guns both for forts and ships , and an extension of torpedo appliances to aid in coastwise defense . Should another Alabama dispute arise with England , or a quarrel spring up with Italy , we should hear loud outcries for war , and fierce threats of demolishing the maccaroni eaters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fact , within three months from tho outbreak of such a war , appalling damage could be inflicted on our coast by either power , and our richest cities put completely at its mercy . The Krupp 70-ton breech-loader throws a projectile of 1,664 pounds , with a charge of 386 pounds of powder ; the Woolwich 81-ton gun , a projectile of 1,700 pounds , with 370 pounds of powder ; the Armstrong 100-ton gun , EL projectile of 2,000 pounds , with 375 pounds of powder . In each of these cases , the velocity of the projectile is upward of 1,500 feet per second . The Woolwich gun is carried ou the heaviest British ships , and the Armstrong ou the Italian . Such figures are more eloquent than any comment . But within the past year these results , tremendous as they are , have been greatly increased . Armstrong guns have been recently delivered to Italy whose projectiles weigh 2,250 and 2,500 pounds , propelled by 470 pounds of powder , and the bolt is thrown a distance of nine miles . Other guns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Essen ; but enough is already shown for the study of Congress in these guns completed and tried . They are guns that can be brought across the ocean and used against our coasts in ships pregnable to our artillery . Hitherto , some stress has been justly placed on the fact that few existing ships can carry these monster guns . But since the ; last meeting of Congress another new discovery has been made which renders the batteries of smaller ships far more formidable than before . By Sir , WILLIAM ARMSTRONG 'S new process of chambering , the power of ordnance is morn than doubled , weight for weight ; and thus even the doubtful reliance placed hitherto on the smallness of the number of ships that could bring overwhelming ordnance against our coasts is swept away . It is quite evident , therefore , that one of the subjects that should engage the attention and secure the action of Congress this Winter is the refitting of our coastwise defenses . The subject has been neglected for years , and the country has in this respect dragged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should receive study are the erection of new forts at greater distances from the cities to be defended , an enlargement of our torpedo system , and the supply of ordnance of heavier calibre . Much is hoped from the new Ericsson torpedo and torpedo-boat . Much , also , can be done by taking practical action on those lessons which come to us from foreign shores regarding the production of ordnance here that can bear some comparison with the modern guns of Europe .                     