@@741614

txt One hears and . reads everywhere nowadays that Ohio is to be the political battleground of the comingrtwo years  --  the field . upon winch the skirmish lines of the two parties are to meet and . feel each other 's strength before the grand , decisive struggle of November , 1876 . The peculiar features of the case are that this State is politically very closely balanced . Its ' voters are to alarge extent intelligent , thinking men , who watch closely the drift of public affairs , and vote with a good deal of independence ; and , what is still more important , Ohio elects a Governor and Legislature next Fall , and will in 1876 elect Congressmen , just a mouth before the Presidential election , and will therefore exercise a powerful influence over the national vote in November . Formerly Pennsylvania shared with us - the distinction of holding its State election in October , but its new Constitution fixes the State election on the same day as the Presidential , leaving to Ohio the responsible position of Political barometer at times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance . What , then , are the probabilities as at present indicated in this State I aernosrecrive . Ohio , as will be remembered , had been a strong and loyal Republican State from the outbreak of the war until 1.873 . The State campaign of that year came at a time when the country was in its first disgust over the Credit Mobilior exposures , and in the midst of the depression and alarm consequent upon the panic of September . Republicans were lukewarm , but confident . Tlsey bad won elections so long and so I easily that they seemed to think their party would I win whether any one went to the pone , and . I I voted or not . To further complicate the case , Gov . Noyes , the Republican candidate for reelection , was generally believed to he running with the expectation of being elected . during the following Winter to the United States Senate . This is a sort of double dealing that Ohio voters never would . stand , and the result of it allwas that William Allen , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his retirement as a sort of forlorn hope for the Democracy , was elected by a majority cf less than a thousand  --  his vote being the smallest cast for any Democratic candidate for Governor in this State since the war . The worst of it was , that the Legislature , elected at the same time , had a small Democratic majority . Sufficient , however , to re-elect Senator Thurman , and get the State machinery very promptly into Democratic hands . Since then , ' we have . had only the Congressional elections of last Fall , which formed part of the general tidal wave against Republicanism , and the local elections in most of tho leading towns and cities of the State on Monday week , the results of which are fresh in the minds of your readers . Meanwhile the Democrats have been staking out the ground and preparing araunition for the campaign of next Fall with characteristic industry . Great things were expected of the Legislature , and it has responded gallantly . Amid all its idleness and follies it has had the sagacity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would bear most directly upon the chances of the future . Two classes of people were to be conciliated and satisfied , the liquor interest  --  which practically included the entire German and Irish population of the State  --  and the Catholics , The first has been during the past year sour and savage over the - woman 's temperance crusade , a well meant but wholly abortive performance , for which the Republican Party , although in no wise responsible , has been cursed in all European languages . The Republicans had in years past enacted the Adair Liquor law , and had manifested a general interest in temperance reform , and therefore came in for general execration by the saloon interest and the drinking classes . These latter demanded of the Legislature the repeal of all repressive liquor laws . But this was considered too revolutionary , and the Legislature Igot neatly out of the dilemma last Winter by so amending the Adair law that before a liquor seller can be prosecuted by the friends of a drunkard for damages ho must have formal notice not to sell liquor to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offending the general public , and a strong point was therefore scored by the Democrats . The Catholics . however , demanded some substantial concessions . It is in this State that the Catholics have seen fit to push their aggressive policy against the public schools most vigorously . In the Constitutional Convention , two years ago , they made a desperate push to secure the abolition of the constitutional chase forbidding any division of the school fund for parochial schools . In this they failed , and they have since gone deliberately to work to effect , through a union with the Democratic Party , what they failed to secure as an independent political element . Accordingly , early in the recent legislative session , Representative Geghan , of Cincinnati , presented a bill to prevent all but authorized clergymen from holding religious services in any of the asylums or reformatory institutions of the State , abolishing the Chaplains of those institutions , and obliging the Wardens and Superintendents to provide in the jails , asylums , and penitentiaries , facilities for sectarian worship by any priest or clergyman who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith . The bill also abolished enforced attendance at general Sunday religious exercises as part of the reformatory system . The Democratic legislators made wry faces over the pill , but Archbishop Purcell cracked the whip over their heads , and the bill was passed by a strict party vote . As a large part of the criminals are Catholics , its effect is to set up a Catholic altar and confessional in every prison and asylum , and to practically break up Protestant labor in that field . The Catholics are in high glee over their victory , and the Archbishop has promised the Democracy the solid vote of Ohio in the Autumn election . Thus reinforced , the Democrats , still further emboldened by their local successes at Cincinnati , Cleveland , and Columbus , a ' week ago , have naturally felt greatly encouraged , and will go into the campaign upon a bold and aggressive policy . Of course , the Geghan bill will in the end . prove a political mistake , but its bad effects will hardly be felt in time to affect the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Geghan bill , the Legislature last Winter made two serious blunders . The first of these was the Potter bill , a measure designed to revolutionize the City Government of Toledo , abolish its Common Council , and put the government of the city permanently into the hands of a small Demooutdo Board of Aldermen ; in other words , a Ring , which proposed . to run the city in the interest of . themselves and the Democratic Party . The bill passed by a close shave , when it was discovered that it abolished also the Aldermen of Cincinnati , a somewhat larger and more important Democratic Ring than that of Toledo . There was a day of mortal agony in the Legislature and at Cincinnati , and the Republican Senators , taking advantage of the panic , secured a reconsideration of the vote on the bill , and there it died still-born . The other political mistake was the exposure of several clear cases of bribery among Democratic members in a question of changing the county seat of Wood County . An investigation was ordered and made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were Democrats , and the House overruled the report , whitewashed the culprits , and dismissed . the case . Of course , all these things , bad they occurred among Republicans , would have destroyed the chances of the party in a coming election . But the Democratic stomach is strong . It is not sensitive to the errors of its representatives , and the splendid . discipline of the party is so absolute that even the Geghan bill and the Wood . County bribery will make no break in their lines . On the whole , it may be said , therefore , that the Legislature has secured for its party the Catholics and the liquor interest , and lost , practically , nothing but popular respect , a loss for which the Democracy can afford to care little or nothing . The general effect has been to provoke and stiffen up the Republicans somewhat , but whether this effect Neill last until October may well be doubted . The question of candidates is , of course , active among the Republicans . On the Democratic side the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William Alleu , who is thought by his special friends to bear a charmed life . There are two strong cliques against him  --  the Pendleton and the . Thurman parties respectively . But Uncle William " has the pole , " and after being nominated by acclamation will , as his friends think , lead both Thurman and Pendleton for a place on the national ticket . Speaker Converse , of the late lamented Legislature , seems to be the coming man for the Lieutenant Governorship , although little Sammy Huut , of Cincinnati , ex-State Senator and young Napoleon of his party , is said to be blossoming for that honor . William H. Morgan , of Muskingum , for Auditor , and Mr. Archer , of Cincinnati , for Attorney General , are among the other probabilities of the Democratic ticket . The Republican nominations are in a peculiarly inchoate and embryotic condition . ' There was au early effort on the part of the Cincinnati Times and . Gazette to bring out bluff Ben Wade for the Gubernatorial race . But the suggestion , although backed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has fallen quite flat . An informal caucus , held in Columbus ten days ago , showed . that Wade had no general strength throughout the State . and when papers like the Columbus journal , Cleveland Leader , Sandusky Register , and Akron Beacon took ground against his nomination the case was closed at once . Ile has written a letter to Barrett , of the Cincinnati Tunes , declining tho honor because he does not want it and . e ? nnot afford it . After Wade comes a squad of good names , of which Judge Andrews , of Cleveland ; Congressmen Monroe , Upson , and Sherwood : Gen. Keifer , of Springfield ; Aultman , of Massilon , the Mower anal Reaper King , and Howland , of Ashtabula , are most notable . Ex-Gov. llayes might have the nomination by acclamation , but he is up to his eyes in private business , and will not accept . It is-impossib ) . e.toslesignatiseven. probabilities , and I will make no guesses now . Candidates for the other offices are but little discussed as yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time , so they are going about their task carefully and with due deliberation . 