@@743256

txt The series of lectures on astronomy which Prof. PROCTOR has just concluded in this City is specially noteworthy for the fresh appeal made to the imagination in the contemplation of the starry heavens . We have long been familiar with the overwhelming impressions produced on the mind by the notions of immensity of space and vastness of time . The imagination has been stretched to its utmost tension by the effort to grasp these ideas . and no new theories or recent calculations can add much to the solemn , almost depressing and humiliating , effect of the failure of finite faculties to take them in . A few ciphers more or less added to the enormous measures of distance or duration matter not to the overburdened mind , whose comprehension can stretch no further . But a now significance is given to the " spangled heavens " by some of the probable conjectures of science , and these latter afford a cheering relief from the solemn sense of nothingness which is generally produced by a contemplation of the demonstrated facts . The deep poetic feeling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on high , " and mused upon the " Great Original " that brought it into being , with all its revolving worlds , was begotten of the impression of vastness and grandeur . Ile thought of himself and the race inhabiting this planet as the special care of a Being whose creative power had produced these marvels as the gorgeous setting of this little earth ? in the words of a later and not less gifted poet , " the solemn decorations all of the great tomb of man . " It was at once exalting and belittling to human complacency , impressing man with a sense of his dignity and importance , or of his humility and insignificance , according to the view that for the moment he might take of it . But there was in the contemplation no sense of fellowship or association with the great universe beyond the film of air in which the earth floated , but rather of loneliness and dismal isolation . It is this feeling of kinship , which Prof. Pnoemon introduced in his taking way , that brings a sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gorgeous waste , specially devised for the extravagant illumination and embellishment of this little world . But it is a vast and wondrous domain , peopled with worlds which have a sociable aspect to their existence . They are in all stages of growth and development from infancy , innocent of all forms of vitality or sense , to a decrepit age , " sans everything " but a desolate continuance of existence , which , like Tithonus , they are unable to get rid of . The earth , after long cycles of gestation , is in the midst of vigorous life , but other planets have been beforehand with it . They have passed through stages of progress of which we have no conception . Perchance their populations , which perished long ago , performed achievements of which the puny mortals of our sphere are incapable . But whatever they were or did , in those decayed worlds beyond the " solar walk and milky way , " they have " gone glimmering " into the vast reliquary of bygone mons , and the unpeopled orbs " swing blind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though distant and indistinguishable save as luminous spots in the great abyss , are at this moment keeping us company in the sojourn from the pre-natal to the postmortal state , through the belt of life and activity . What their populations are doing , or have been doing , or will be doing , through the generations allotted to them , what and diversify their existence , what problems and undertakings they struggle with , we can not know , but we have the privilege of exercising our fancy upon the momentous query , and this makes us feel that we have at least a remote relationship with them . In the wider kinship of the universe we may share a lot and a fate in some sort common to one vast brotherhood . Yet , again , there are worlds that are not out of their cradles , in fact , that are not fairly born . The years that must pass before they bloom into life and are subject to the vicissitudes of vitality and mortality are numbered by figures that weary the brain , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , permit us to believe that in the far future they are to have their living races , which shall do and suffer through some ages of strange mutation , and then go their way . So there are worlds in every stage of growth and progress , and we discover a pleasing analogy between the stars of heaven and the inhabitants of the earth , as well as a relationship between the earth itself and the other denizens of space . We no longer feel as though this mundane sphere *ere a lonely orphan , the sole member of its family and the single claimant of an infinite inheritance . Perhaps it may not be altogether cheering to think that our globe , now in the heyday of , a youth that numbers scarce a hundred million years of active life , is destined to decay sooner or later ; but it is so much later that we can not find it in our hearts to grieve over the dismal prospect . It may lapse into a waste of howling desolation what time the younger planets are just coming to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the familiar consolation , it is the common lot . All planets are mortal , and must pass away in time . But this world is likely , by the mouths of its men of science , to establish its claim to be one of an august company , that march on their devious ways through the universe to one great sum that shall fell into a common inheritance for all the sentient beings of all the worlds , " when GOD lath made the pile complete . "                     