@@781548

txt Our English correspondent , only reflects a common feeling in Great Britain when he writes of the dangers to the British Empire of India from the Russian advance in Central Asia . The vast administration of a few thousands of intelligent and bold Englishmen over hundreds of millions of Orientals rests mainly upon a moral or metaphysical basis . The weak , easy , long-snll'ering Huidoo , or member of whatever native tribe , subject to Great Britain , feels himself before a being of superior power when he comes under the rule of the Anglo-Indian . Ile sees that the science and arts of modern Europe are on the side of the invader , and that any isolated up-rising would be useless . Ho accepts , for a time , the inevitable and yields to the vigorous conquerors of the West , as his fathers of the North of India yielded to the Moinumnedan invaders . The masses of India feel also that their lot is no worse , and perhaps better than it would have been under Mussulinan Emperors or their ovin princes . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has planted , the wise laws framed , the able rulers placed over the people , have convinced largo numbers that their country is in a better condition than it ever would have been had native customs and chieftains alone ruled and prevailed . Still there is always the feeling among the proud-ruling caste that they are governed by a foreign race in sonic respects far beneath them . The native chiefs always have their own schemes of ambition to gratify . Then great masses of Ilindoos believe their religion despised and trampled on by the new customs and laws of the conquerors . The Mohammedans of the North have their old ineradicable hatred and contempt of the Christian infidels , And numerous discontented spirits are always seeking , in the overthrow of the British rule , for some now prizes of ambition . When we come to the ultimate fact , however , only sixty thousand British bayonets hold down several hundred millions of people . Such au empire always rests on an unstable foundation . It may be toppled over in a few days . The danger is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject races of India . Let the Mohammedan feeling , for instance , be thoroughly aroused in one portion , or the idea spread in another , that Russia , not England , was becoming the arbiter of Central Asia , or that Great Britain was in danger , and a new invasion to overthrow British dominion was to pour through the passes of the Hindoo Kush into Northern India , and the vast structure of British administration , resting on so small a basis , might tremble to its foundations . It is of the highest importance to England that not a tremor from the events in Central Asia should reach their Indian Empire . Hence the English have striven to meet every advance of the Russians up the valley of the Oxus , by equal gains beyond the mountains . They even occupied istau at one time for fear of possible danger on this their weakest side . They perpetually intrigue iu Persia to meet Russian influence there , where will be the future road to India . Each step of Russian conquest over the wild tribes of Turkestan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against . And yet how far distant any material danger is , the figures which our correspondent gives abundantly prove . Ou'r readers will recall that for sonic years Russia has boon making a steady but most expensive advance against the roving tribes of Turkestan , subduing one Khanato atter another , with immense trouble and cost . lu fact , it has often been au advance to which she has been compelled . There was no natural border , and each new province subdued was exposed to raids and plunderjugs from the neighboring robber tribes . It is an advance which , of necessity , can not slop till it meets a srong. frontier like that of the British Empire . So compulsory has it been , that one large province acquired has been offered or returned to China , provided she will only govern it . The advancing columns have now reached the Oxus . Our correspondent shows that from Tashkend , their frontier position toward Pamir , the route is through Khokand , the Torok pass to Kashgar , thence to Yarliaud and through some terrific passes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,000 miles over mountains 12,000 feet high , and in some points 20,000 feet high . Crossing tile Alps , in the time of HANNIBAL , was child 's play compared to this " easy transit " to India . Even on the most direct route , by Wahkan , the distance is 550 miles . When one remembers that Gen. KAUFMANN , before ho begins this last campaign against British India , is some 2,000 miles from his base of supplies , without railroads and with hostile tribes . all around him , it can . be seen how much the panic in England about Russian invasion of India is of the purely imaginary sort , or arises from the uncertain British tenure in the Indian Empire . Still , whatever it is , it is a factor in the dangerous problem which is solving now in Asia and on the Danube .                     