@@743223

txt A Sacramento dispatch says ' : " Gen. and Mrs. Grant arrived in Sacramento at 1 P. M. As the train moved into the depot it was met by a vast concourse of people , filling the depot and the street outside . The arrival of the party was announced by a salute by the Sacramento Light Artillery . George Irwin and Mayor Turner escorted Gen. Grant to a carriage . Mrs. Grant and escort next alighted and were conducted to carriages . The divisions fell into line promptly , and the march was taken up . At a stand in front of the main entrance to the Capitol , the General and his party alighted , and , passing through the ranks of 3,000 schoolchildren , ascended the stand . The procession then passed in review . The platform was crowded with prominent citizens of the State , gathered from all the towns and cities around Sacramento . When the procession had finally passed , the Hon. Henry Edgerton delivered an address of welcome . " Gen. Grant replied as follows : If I was ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to respond to the welcome which I have just received . My modesty would not allow me to say even what I should like to . With all my heart I thank you , and I thank the citizens of Sacramento and CNifornia for the welcome I have received at every place that I have , been in since my arrival on your coast . I have traveled some on this coast , and every place where I have been I have met with the same hearty reception . I can repeat to you what I have said in other places , that of all hospitality bestowed , all the honors conferred , there is nothing that has been so grateful to my heart as the reception I have received at the hands of the people here . I would not say what has been done abroad . It has been all that could be done for me . It has been for the people I see before me ; for the people of this great country , that is recognized abroad as one of the greatest countries of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could see other countries , as 1 have seen them , we would all make better citizens , or at least the average of the citizens would be better . It is impossible for me to say more ; but I thank you again . ' " At the conclusion of his remarks , the General and party were conducted to the Golden Eagle Hotel , where they dined in company with a number of invited guests . The demonstration this evening surpassed in enthusiasm , in the numbers present , and in the successful Tarrying out of the programme , the display during the day . Long before the hour for the reception arrived , the Capitol grounds wore packed with people , not less than 20,000 being present , The Capitol was brilliantly illuminated , and the grounds were lighted up with Chinese lanterns and a calcium light . At 8 o'clock Gen. Grant left the GOlden Eagle Hotel . The route to the Capitol was lighted with colored lights and fire works . On arriving at the main entrance , the way was so packed with people that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attempt , passed around to the side entrance , and so gained access to the building . There was a brilliant display of fireworks as Gen. Grant reached the Capitol , and after he viewed the display for a time from one of the windows he took post in the Assembly Chamber in front of the Speaker 's desk , attended by Gov . Irwin and other gentlemen . Mrs. Grant at the time , supported by several ladies , was seated in the Senate Chamber . The great doors of the Capitol were then thrown open , and the crowd , passing up stairs , filed by the General , paying their respects , and going out proceeded in like manner to the Senate Chamber , where they paid their respects to Mrs. Grant . Over 9,000 people passed through the Assembly Chamber , while more than half of those visiting the Capitol left without even getting inside . SACRAMENTO . Oct. ** was another busy day for Gen. Grant . At 10 o'clock the Executive Committee escorted him and a number of invited guests to the grammar school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soldiers and sailors with their families . From their the party was driven to all points of interest about the city . After lunch the party proceeded to Pioneer Hall , where the General was presented with a certificate of membership in the Sacramento Society of Pioneers by N. Greene Curtis , a member of the association . Gen. Grant then took the certificate , and , holding , it in his hand , spoke as follows : " Pioneers : I am happy to become a member of your society . I have been elected an honorary member of the Pioneer Association of San Fran cisco , but am more greatly pleased to become an active member of the Sacramento Association of California Pioneers . I had thought that I was not eligible to active membership in the Pioneer Associations , but having fought in the war which made CaliforDia a State , prior to the advent of the gold seekers , I suppose you take that . as entitling me to a place on your roll . I am proud of California and Californians . I appreciate to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very grateful for the hoaor accorded me in electing and a member of your society . I have heard of California everywhere in my travels abroad , and met many citizens of your State , but wherever I have been I have never yet heard a Californian speak in aught but praiseworthy terms of his home . Again , gentlemen , I thank you for the honor conferred upon me . " At the conclusion of his remarks Mrs. F. A. Prentice , daughter of a member , stepped forward and pinned on the lapel of his coat a badge of the society . The pioneers and their families then were presented by name to Gen. Grant . From Pioneer Hall the party was conducted to Agricultural Park to witness a military review and sham battle . 