@@741986

txt The sudden check administered to the movements of the imperial powers by the refusal of England to join in the Berlin memorandum is producing some remarkable effects . The disjointed union of the three Governments seems at once shaken into fragments by this vigorous measure of English diplomacy . The expressions of Count ANDRASSY since his return to Vienna and Pesth show that he is by no means enthusiastic for the policy adopted at Berlin . He sees clearly that an establishing of Russian influence over European Turkey might weaken the loyalty of the Austrian Sclavonians , and threaten the south-eastern border of the Empire . The objections offered by the English Government that the proposals of the memorandum might involve the occupation of the insurgent provinces and of all European Turkey by the imperial powers for an indefinite time , no doubt strike the Hungarian Premier with force , and he may feel that such a course would involve his country in complications he had never intended . The simple position of Austria is that it can not afford war , and yet it can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting correspondence from Belgrade has explained , the real danger to Austria and Europe is that Servia should become involved , and thus an Austrian in ? terference become necessary . Servia in any case , silently or publicly , will bo supported by Russia . She is making  --  for her resources  --  prodigious preparations ; buying arms , contracting loans , drilling men , and passing " stay laws . " Austria has already addressed . a remonstrance to her Government in regard to the threatened non-payment of foreign debts . Any slight collision may plunge Servia into the fray with Turkey , or may bring Austrian forces upon her . Already a considerable concentration of Austro-Hungarian troops has taken place on her border . An invasion of Servian territory by Hungarian forces would be resented by Russia . The refusal of England to join in the allied proposal has developed this old antagonism between Vienna and St. Petersburg . It has also proved that BISMARCK was not very urgent to carry out the memorandum , and in Russia itself it has strengthened the peaceful policy , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the party of " Young Russia . " France and Italy , as might be expected , have been detached by it from the " triple alliance , " though they have made no public manifestations of their position . The English refusal has , in fact , been one of the most successful bits of verbal diplomacy which the British Ministry has for a long time been able to attempt . Without any great risk , it has enabled England to resume her old position on the Eastern question , and to show that this can not be settled without her having a share . It has suddenly checked the schemes of Russian ambition . The deposition and death of the Sultan have aided the English policy , and for the . present the triple alliance against Turkey seems to have come to an end . But this does not in the least aid . in the solution of the Turkish problem . The English public would never consent to assist Turkey in reinstating its tyranny over its Christian subjects . Turkey itself , under the new rule of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than ever . The armistice will only strengthen the rebels , while the Ottoman Porte is losing money and men every day . The insurgents see that the sympathies of the civilized world are with them . They are more embittered against their oppressors than ever . The insurrection has spread . to Bulgaria , and Christians and Turks there are in deadly conflict . The sympathizers on the border , Servians and Montenegrins , must be drawn into the struggle ; and with this new population added , the war must extend through all European Turkey , and may easily draw into it the great powers . Probably the result which would best satisfy the world would be the defeat of the Turkish armies by the insurgent forces , and the independence of all European Turkey , with the formation of an indopendent Sclavonic State under Servia as leader . But this can only happen after a long and bloody struggle . The alternative would be the armed occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the combined Austrian and Russian forces , and . the wresting from Turkey a peace which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  