@@743241

txt The citizens ' reception of Senator Bayard , who arrived home from Europe on Friday last , took place to night , and was a very brilliant affair . The procession , numbering about 2,000 people , including the military companies of the city , marched through the principal streets . Many houses along the route were brilliantly illuminated and there were frequent displays of fire-works . Upon arriving at the Operahouse , which was crowded to excess , an organization was formed with Dr. L. P. Bush as President , and a number of Vice-Presidents including prominent citizens , nearly equally divided politically . After an address of welcome by Dr. Bush , Senator Bayard spoke , and referred with considerable feeling to the generous reception given him , and said that the approbation and respect displayed filledhis cup of blessing and of honor . The Senator then spoke of the contrasts presented by the Governments of the Old World and of this country , saying experience and reflection , with increased opportunities for comparison with other countries and systems of government , brought him only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and moral grandeur of the principles upon which our own was founded . " But my sense of admiration for our system of government , " he continued , " was accompanied by an apprehensive realization of the conditions under which only it can be practically and permanently maintained . And the conviction grows stronger and clearer daily . that such a government can only be maintained by the exercise and employment of the higher and better qualities of human nature . It is a government of laws emanating from popular will , but that will must bo for honest and worthy ends , accomplished by honorable means . It is controlled by public opinion , but that opinion must be the intelligent result of knowledge carefully acquired , and deliberation , and not the unstable froth of tumult and gusty passion . And to make public principles secure they must be engrafted on private honor ; the wishes of an intelligent and upright constituency must be reflected by intelligent and upright representatives . ? A faithful representa , tive should rather displease his constituents than consent to that which injures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account to them , but not to conceal his true opinions for fear of their displeasure , for his enlightened conscience can not be disregarded without injury to them and his entire loss of usefulness . To maintain this Government of ours , such are some of the conditions , and it is upon the self-protecting elements of society that we must rely . " The line of my public service has been in assisting to carry on the National Government of the grand union of States , among whom so contentedly and securely our little Commonwealth anchored fast . Whenever I have spoken or voted in the Senate for new and stronger ties of union between the sections or the States , have I not echoed the voice of Delaware ? When schemes of financial unwisdom , ? or something worse , threatened to weaken the credit or tarnish the plighted faith of the country , and my vote and voice were heard in unyielding opposition  --  did I not then echo the voice of Delaware ? When the insidious poison of false money and a vicious currency was proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for honest men , ' did I not echo the voice of Delaware ? And when I plead for an indissoluble Union of indestructible and coequal States , do I not speak in the voice of Delaware ? And when I shall prove faithless to such things ; when the welfare and the happiness of the whole country and of every State shall be shrunk into a narrow and fatal devotion to the interests of a section . or of a policy of animosities which must destroy the spirit of American union and nationality  --  then I shall no longer be worthy of your confidence , nor a true representative of the State of Delaware . I have an ambition to confess to you  --  it is to possess the unsuspecting confidence of the people of Delaware , and to retain it . I wish to make our Government strong , and the best way is to make it wise , honest , and just ; that it shall be loved in the North and in the South , in the East and in the West , with that perfect love @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at the risk of prolonging unduly these remarks , to join with you in joyful gratulation upon the recovery of confidence in all the groups and circles of dependent industries in our country . To join with you in grateful acknowledgment of the bounty and favor of Providence in so blessing our ' basket and store , ' when He has seen fit to drown in floods the crops in the British Islands and in large portions of Europe . Truly , we are a favored people , and in the full tide of that prosperity that seems fairly to have set in , let us , while availing ourselves of it , keep a shop eye upon the dangers of over-trading and wild speculation from the results of which we nave so lately suffered . With prudent counsels , wellconsidered economies , and steadily prosecuted reforms , with suspicions and ill-will between our own people discouraged and put an end to , we shall have before us an era of prosperity which should gladden the heart of every man who loves this country . " 