@@781779

txt We are approaching the hundredth anniversary of a Revolutionary exploit which certainly deserves a place among the manifold subjects of centennial commemoration , although thus far no preparations seem anywhere to have been made to honor it . On the 23d of September , 1779 , occurred one of the most desperate battles between single ships recorded in modern warfare  --  a naval duel hardly surpassed , indeed , for bull-dog tenacity in the authentic annals of any age . The memorable fight off Flamborough Head , in which JOHN PAUL JONES , with the Bon Somme Richard , an old , illequipped , and , before the combat was ended , a sinking ship , conquered the Serapis , new , more heavily armed , and more fully manned , was the most brilliant naval engagement of the Revolutionary War . Statues have been set up to heroes of that day whose careers were less uniformly triumphant , and monuments have perpetuated the memory of deeds less valorous . Indeed , the very lustre of this combat has thrown into partial eclipse the full record of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause . Many persons , tolerably well versed in the history of the struggle , are wont to look upon JONES rather as the hero of a single great achievement , than as the commander in more than a score of successful naval expeditions and engagements . Born in a maritime village of Scotland , in 1747 , his name being originally JOHN PAUL , and the surname JONES afterward added , the outbreak of the revolution found him in Virginia , whither he had come in boyhood . Having almost constantly engaged , from the age of 12 , in seafaring life , he promptly gave his services to the colonies , his commission as lieutenant dating Dee . 22 , 1775 ? nearly four years before his combat with the Serapis . Assigned as First Lieutenant to Capt . SALTONSTALL 'S 30-gun ship , the Alfred , flag-ship of Commodore HoriuNs 's Delaware River Squadron , he soon after received the command of the sloop Providence , 12 guns , with which he made no fewer than sixteen prizes , in a short cruise off the North Atlantic coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 8 , 1776 , and soon after , in command of the Alfred , ravaged the Cape Breton coal-carrying and fishery trade , taking four prizes into Boston . The following Summer he received command of the Ranger , a new 18-gun ship , ( his preceding vessels had been altered from merchant vessels , ) built at Portsmouth , N. H. In this ship he descended upon the coasts of Scotland , his most memorable exploit being a bold swoop upon Whitehaven , and during the cruise he captured the sloop-of-war Drake , with a crew of 200 men , largely exceeding the number of his own , taking his prize and prisoners into Brest , where he was received with great honor . The Ranger having been sent to America by the American Commissioners in France , FRANKLIN , DEANE , and Laa , JONES , in February , 1779 , received the command of the Duras , an old merchant vessel converted into a war ship , and rechristened by him Bon Homme Richard , in compliment to Dr. FRANKLIN 'S Poor Richard , already famous in France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alterations to increase her armament , he sailed from L'Orient the following August , in command of a fleet . Although not a few of the officers and men in his fleet , made up , as they were , of various nationalities , mostly European , showed signs of mutiny , his energy so far controlled and inspired them that in six weeks ' time twenty-six prizes had been made off the east coast of England , whose maritime towns and villages were thoroughly alarmed . The boldness of this venture upon British coasts in two successive years is apparent . Its crowning triumph was at Elamborough Head , on the memorable day already mentioned , when JONES , in the Bon Boninte Richard , 42 guns , accompanied by two French allies , the Pallas , Capt . COTTINEAII , and the Alliance , Capt . LA.NDA.IS , descried the Serapis , carrying 50 guns , and the Countess of Scarborough , 20 , convoying a large Baltic fleet , and gave chase . Action was joined on a bright moonlight night , near Scarborough , whose people witnessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor do more than recall JONES 'S reply , when , two of his old 18-pounders being burst , causing great loss of life , and having been thereupon hailed by the Serapis to know if he surrendered , he answered . " I have n't yet began to fight . " When the Serapis , after a combat at close quarters of nearly three hours , struck soon after 10 o'clock at night , the Bon Homme Richard was on fire in two places , had seven feet of water in her hold , had nearly all her guns dismounted , and was little better than a wreck ; First Lieutenant , afterward Commodore RICHARD DALE , took charge of the surrendered Scraps , to which the remnant of the crew of the Bon Homme Richard was transferred next day , and soon after the conquering ship sank to the bottom . The honors showered on JOHN PAUL JONES , when he arrived in France with his two prizes , ( for the gallant COTTINEAU had also captured the Countess of . Scarborough , whereas the Alliance , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities even claiming that she had fired intentionally into the Bon Homme Richard , ) the sword and decoration given him by the King , the vote of thanks , the command of a new seventy-four , and the gold medal conferred on him by Congress , and the letter of praise from WASHINGTON , show in what honor this sailor was held in that day . It would be strange if the hundredth anniversary of his chief , but by no moans his only , service , should fail to find his name held in grateful remembrance  --  remembrance none the less deserved from the fact that the subsequent naval service he sought in Russia ended in disappointment , and he did in Paris poor and apparently forgotten .                     