@@740760

txt MINOR TOPICS . Some sharp contrasts of daily life in Colorado are brought out In another communication from our correspondent , " Grace Greenwood . " which we publish today . Although very mum has been written about this section of the country , nothing has appeared which gives so vivid an idea of the scenery and its surroundings as these letters of " G. G. " People who read them will almost think they have seen the places described . In this respect our correspondent is one of the very few people whose accounts of travel are worth taking the trouble to read . We have received from various persons inchided in our list of Tammany Repub:icans alleged to he in office , contradictions more or less broad , and shall give the persons concerned the benefit of their denials in a day or two . We are preparing a corrected list . Meantime , we repeat that we shall be glad to receive denials from any one to whom we have done injustice ; but we suggest to them that they make their denial unambiguous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or have held within two years pastfany public position , or have received any money from the City . Lounty orPState , or any of the officers of either , or from ' - or by the procurement of any of the present City officials . A colored clergyman in Maryland , who seems to have been gradually losing control over his flock , has struck upon a very ingenious method of punishing backsliders and regaining his influence . A few days since an old woman died in Sumter County , in that State , who bad at one time been a member of his congregation , but had fallen so far from grace as to have ceased to attend the regular service of the church . The pastor attended her funeral , and as a fearful warning to her surviving friends . ordered the remains to be interred with the head downward . He then preached a sermon over the closed grave , and terrified his hearers by declaring that the spirit of the deceased bad already gone to the infernal regions . and that theirs would follow , on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives . The device really has the merit of originality , and promises to work as well as did that of the Chinese priest in Nevada , who saw his charge meting longing eyes on a hog-Den , and prevented them from despoiling it by representing that one of the animals was possessed of a devil . The Chinaman is a source of sore trouble to your true Californian . Both political parties in the State recognize the fact , and the leaders have paid the poor compliment to their respective followers of introducing into their platforms resolutions opposing Chinese immigration . Not that the highly respectable Californians are afraid of the morals or religion of the heathen , but of his competition in labor . In point of fact , however , it is conceded that the Chinese are disappearing from the Pacific slope . The highest number ever there is stated by the Sacramento Union at 52,000. and the present number is placed at only 30,000 . It would seem , therefore , that the sound and fury of the political orators were uncalled for , while the hopes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to release them from servan t-galism are destined to be dashed . A suggestion of some force is made by the Chicago Tribune that the plan of choosing appointees to naval or military cadetships , by competitive examinations , now practiced by several of the Congressmen , should be made obligatory by law . Such a provision would Certainly do away with a great deal of petty , disgraceful corruption , which is not without danger to the military and naval service . The Tribune vouches for the statement that in four , teen years . from 1856 to 1870 , 326 nomination ( made by Congressmen were rejected , only fortyone of them for physical disqualification . This number does not include those dropped after admission for inability to maintain the standard of the schools . Certainly if the principle of competitive examinations can anywhere be applied without encountering the objections raised by Congressmen to its application to the civil service , it is to admissions to the Naval and Military Academies . The country maintains these , establishments solely to provide itself with good officers in times of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is entitled to the use of every possible means to secure such officers . Among these means may be reckoned competitive examinations . while the present system of personal favoritism , not untinged with political and even personal corruption , certainly can not be so regarded . A very sensible movement is on foot among the German Americans of Cincinnati . They were invited to form a German American So clew in that'city in co-operation with the one in New-York ; but they have resolved that there is no need for one in Cincinnati , first because they have no reason to complain of oppression or neglect on the part of American born citizens , or of the preponderance of any other nationality ; and second , because the separate public interests proper to be made the objects of a society are very well provided for in that city . They have therefore determined to form an association where all German and American societies can meet on mutual ground , and which , by a library , public addresses and other appropriate means . will seek to promote good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the institutions and characteristics of each country among the people of the other . This is precisely the spirit we noticed the other day as animating the system of German education in the St. Louis schools , audit is a perfectly healthy one . Mr. Emu . Rom% editor of the Cincinnati yolksfreund , is a leader in the movement referred to .                     