@@742416

txt Why do the free-traders perpetually insist upon an affirmation of their cherished dogma as the basis of a movement for the reform of the tariff and the negotiation of liberal commercial treaties with foreign powers ? Sagacious men generally are content to forego titles and abstractions if they can secure the substance of the things they seek . The promoters of the Anti-Corn Law League did not in the first instance make much ado about free trade , so called , or even about the principles on which it rests . They singled out ; for attack a hideous monopoly  --  the monopoly which made a people 's bread tributary to the enrichment of owners of the soil . They gave prominence to a class interest as distinguished from the public interest ; and against the pretensions by which a class asserted its right to regulate the supply , and consequently the price of a nation 's bread , they directed the batteries of public opinion . The assault was irresistible . The landlords who set up the claim , and the farmers who gave it their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could not withstand . The League excited itself , not to preach free trade as the economic gospel , but to beat down an arrogant interest- , - an interest at variance with the general welfare  --  by uniting against it the popular passions as well as the business intelligence and the moral convictions of the community . The first decisive victory over British monopolists was won without much parade of abstract principles . Our American free-traders pursue a different course . In season and out of season , they talk of free trade as a policy ' which should be adopted on grounds set forth by ADAM SMITH and the weightiest of modern economists . The propositions submitted at conferences and meetings of all sorts are stereotyped and unattractive . They are generalities , and nothing more . True enough most of them are , undoubtedly , but they are read only to be forgotten . Those already converted to the free-trade faith nod approval ; others pass over them as of no concern . The great body of business people regard them with indifference . The circumstance is anomalous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States no monopoly quite so odious as that with which the British AntiCorn Law League warred successfully ; but if half that our free traders allege is correct , we have at our doors outrageous monopolies , built up under the . guise of protection to industry , but really operating ruinously to both labor and trade . We have class interests as selfish , as dictatorial , as unscrupulous as those once guarded jealously by the British landlords , and , like them , dependent for their existence upon a tariff . The mistake into which our free traders full is that of dealing with the iniquities and absurdities of the tariff in the aggregate , instead of bringing into striking relief the more flagrant cases of disaster and wrong . They may talk in their present strain for an indefinite period , and after all they will not produce the effect which would be produced by a few well-directed blows at specific evils connected with our fiscal system . The iron trade , the lumber trade , the woolen trade , and others hardly less important , supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or what is equivalent to it , the consequences are suicidal as well as oppressive to consumers . Monopolies are built up  --  not industries . The country suffers that small classes may be aggrandized . The system paraded as distinctively American turns out to be fatal to the growth and prosperity of American enterprise and commerce . The complaint we prefer against those who in this country have assumed the guidance and management of the movement for reforming the tariff and navigation laws , and for enlarging our commercial relations with other nations , is , that they needlessly foster hostility on one side and indifference on another . They insist always upon making their appearance as free traders  --  so alienating that important class who , while opposed to the present tariff , are not enamored of free trade as a dogma . Thus , a gathering of persons to consider the abuses of the tariff and to inaugurate an agitation for its amendment , is announced as a conference of free traders . An association for the discussion of economic questions , and which , wisely conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influencing beneficially public opinion , must needs be dubbed a free trade club . If these things are the products of accident , all we can say is that the cause of revenue reform and of liberal commercial legislation has uniformly suffered at the hands of its professed friends . Their conduct conveys the idea that they are opinionated and dictatorial , and that they care less for the practical results of the movement than for the opportunities it affords for their self-glorification . These considerations may be usefully pondered by the men who are not rendered enthusiastic by the ceaseless reiteration of free trade truisms , but who are nevertheless alive to the damage inflicted by the present system , and to the close connection that exists between tariff reform and the re-establishment of prosperity . Mr. EVARTS , as quoted by Mr. TRENHOLM , of South Carolina , says truly that the masses are apathetic and ill-informed on this subject . We will hope that the Secretary of State did not stop at this point , and that ho recognizes the obligation of statesmanship to educate and lead public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His own department may properly inaugurate a new era in our foreign commerce , so far as it can be affected by treaties ; and ho has but to follow out courageously the vague hints he dropped at the dinner of the Now-York Chamber of Commerce to identify the Administration with the application of common sense to the navigation laws . However this may be , Mr. TRENHOLM leas probably discovered , during his visit to the North , that . Mr. EvAters has not materially misapprehended public opinion so far as the political aspects of the free trade - movement are concerned . And there is , unquestionably , a strong undercurrent of opinion against the existing tariff and the monopolies which it has fostered . How to utilize this opinion is the inquiry propounded by Mr. Tmrsnomf , and which the free trailers , pure and simple , have hitherto failed to answer . Incidentally it is answered by our visitor from South Carolina . The triumph of protection  --  which in this connection we take to be another name for monopoly -- is due , not to a popular agitation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected on other issues . Ile declares that " the strength of protection now lies in the power of the wealthy corporations and persons who enjoy the fruits of the monopolies " thus created ; ho might have added that the unwise tactics of the free traders aid the monopolists almost as effectually as their own money . We trust that neither the power of the monopolists nor the errors of free trailers will retard much longer the changes that are sorely needed to give fair play to the skill and enterprise of our people , and to restore the prosperity which the stupidity of law-makers has helped to destroy .                     