@@781688

txt Everything is counterfeited , nowadays . If the counterfeit can serve the same purpose as the genuine , whether that purpose be good or bad , the base iwitalion is immediately produced . Of course , bonds , deeds , money , and alt sorts of representatives of real value , have been always counterfeited ; but spurious imitations of various lawful enterprises , and even current news , are of modern invention . For example , it is found necessary to warn charitable people against impostors who now go about soliciting alms for sufferers by the Western grasshopper scourge . The fact that these insect pests had devastated a considerable portion of Kansas and Nebraska was at once seized upon by designing persons , who traveled the country begging for money for the starving people . There was an unseemly and unfortunate misunderstanding among some of the volunteer associations engaged in collecting funds , one of the home organizations having actually advertised certain men as unauthorized to solicit subscriptions for this purpose . Whatever may have been the merits of that dispute  --  for the advertisement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Kansas grasshoppers have been used as a means of imposition . The Chicago Tribune , in the most positive manner , sets forth that the country is swarming with beggars from that State , who magnify the accounts of privation , and who collect amounts of money in proportion to the size of their stories . Tho Tribune points out that only one county has availed itself of the special legislative authorization to issue bonds for the relief of the people who have been impoverished by the grasshopper plague ; and that Kansas is abundantly able to take care of its own sufferers without outside aid . This is a sorry damper to generous people who have contributed of their small means to help those whom they thought were in great distress . And , worse than this , it will make everybody suspicious of fature appeals for assistance , to the great injury of those who may be really needy . Even so leoitimate and patriotic an enterprise as the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphiahas been counterfeited by somebody . The Centennial Board of Finance have been obliged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for local agents and subscription collectors which have appeared in Southern and Western papers . The motive of these advertisements does not appear , unless it is in the statement that the agents for the socalled " Centennial Subscription Bureau " will be paid fifteen dollars per week , and that a prospectus will be sent on receipt of fifteen cents . When we get into political affairs , forgeries are more common than in any other department of activity , unless it may be finance . It is easy to pass around the hat for a charitable purpose , pocket the collection , and decamp ; this is a common form of cheat . But to forge letters of recommendation to men who have offices to give , or to counterfeit the signatures and indorsements of influential politicians , is more difficult and dangerous , one must suppose . Yet this sort of fraud is by no means uncommon . Forged pavers and cunningly-devised telegrams have actually deceived high public officials , to the undoing of some innocent persons and the advancement of the guilty parties . When it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the . military in Southern States was made available as Democratic capital , somebody thought the capital did not accumulate fast enough . A sheep politician procured the circulation through the papers of a. telegram relating that one BRAZEE , a Uhited States official in West Virginia , had called on the President fur the intervention of the Army and Navy of the United States , as the West Virginia Legislature had assembled , and the negroee were refused their seats in that body . The story was good for twenty-four hours . The " independent Dress " went into violent hysterics , and we suppose we shall for a long time bear faint re-echoes of their tirades from the far-off wilds of Democratic Oregon . It . happens , however , that the West Virginia Legislature had not met ; that there are no negroes elected to it , and that " Marshal Breese " is a week invention of the enemy . If this sort of thing keeps on , we shall not be able to say from one day to another what is genuine and what is base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as infrequent ; and the Treasury officials inform us that nearly all the issues of Government paper have been hnitated , some of them will great success . LINCOLN used to say that the volume of people pouring into Washhaettin in search of " something for nothing " hal him to fear that seven-eighths of the population of the country were trying to live of the other eighth . This would be a. dineouragiug view of society ; but it does seem as if a very large fraction of our people was atteruntiug to get a dishonest living at the expense . of the honest portion . What with adulteration , forgery , and downright counterfeiting , the world is full of fraud . Even the slender phenomena . which , for want of a better description , are called spiritualism , have their juggling imitations ; and if this is true of . " spiritual things , " what must we expect in material affairs ? It is not true , as some say , that our social and moral fabric is hone ; . - mliell ali through by dishonesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . before they begin to mend , it really seems high ' Uwe that we should see an improvement .                     