@@742963

txt There are two views of the origin and importance of manners , each of which answers to a characteristic habit of mind or tendency of life . Some people take it for granted that our manners are to be made , and put on and off like fine clothes ; and others are of the opinion that manners grow out of the character and conduct , and that they are valuable mainly as expressions of the man . Perhaps the first view has prevailed among American families , and most of us were brought up to think that children must be fitted out with a certain set of rules and usages of what is called good breeding , just as they are fitted out with jacket and trousers or frocks , and that in sot form and duo season they are to make their manners , as the phrase is , just as they are to make a summersault on land or to make a dive into the water . Better experience and more culture are curing us of this mistake , and wedo not often see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his parents to make his manners to an exacting company of old-school gentlemen and ladies , with a bow as forced and painful as the stoop of a young ox to the yoke . Our boys and girls breathe generally a certain atmosphere of good manners now in the school-room , and they have a certain grace and courtesy of their own which is telling upon society and teaching how it is that manners grow from within instead of being made to order and put on and off at will . A deeper reading of history , moreover , is showing that the manners of nations are as much rooted in life and time as are their languages , and that the prince and the peasant learn their expression from the vital sources in which the tongue finds its copious speech . If the manners of well-bred persons in various nations and in various classes of society could be philosophically interpreted , we should have most significant illustrations of the whole current of private and public life for ages ; and every accomplished gentleman , and even every well-trained rustic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in them , and been footed up and handed down from the old time to our own day . Patriarchs , kings , philosophers , poets , artists , soldiers , aristocrats , and democrats have gone into our blood and breeding ; and as our republican manners ripen and sweeten , we find them far more comprehensive , gentle , and lovely than captious visitors have seen or narrow countrymen have been willing to allow . Perhaps in a general estimate we may say that there are three styles of manner . The first may bo called the patriarchal style , and it comes to us from the East and speaks in the old Bible and in the historical Church , calling all people to look up to the Supreme Father in heaven and to all who represent the fatherly authority on earth in law and religion . Then , in the second place , we have the royal style , which is emphatically European , having culminated in Rome , and speaking always with personal power , claiming , indeed , the grace of GOD , yet backed up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjects , as if reason were the seat of its authority . The third style of manners may be called the popular or the democratic , which regards all men as equals and accepts their combined voices as the only sufficient authority , or perhaps as the only adequate interpretation of the supreme justice . Now it may seem wholly absurd for us to speak of any other style of manners than the last of these three , the popular or democratic ; and we may be easily laughed at for even hinting that the patriarchal and royal styles have anything at all to do with us good republicans . Yet we Americans are children of time , and we can not get rid of our parentage . Old Father ABRAHAM and his patriarchal progeny are in our blood and culture ; and so are King ALFRED and his royal line . The patriarchal element is very strong in our American life , surely ; and the old Puritans were as full of it as our new Roman Catholics . JONATHAN EDWARD3 had in his dogmas and this discipline as stiff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crosier ; and perhaps even the Puritan stoic , the Pontiff of New-England Transcendentalism , RALPH WALDO EMERSON , in his mild but unflinching eye , carried as much the spirit of fatherly empire as either of them . It seems odd , but it is none the less true , that the extreme champions of democratic principles among us most favor a certain patriarchal authority . While our radical free religionists most abound in manworship , and build their trust upon a few leading minds , our most rabid democrats are special friends of the Papacy , and they have done their best or their worst to raise the Peter 's Pence needful to bolster up the Pope 's shaky temporal throne . But apart from any such extremes , there is , a yearning among our American people for a larger element of just patriarchal authority , for better family discipline , and more reverent and effective pastoral administration . An impressive worship is liked in our churches by thoughtful men , and especially by devout and susceptible women . All the dominant churches are showing this tendency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old idea of there preaching , and , of course , wherever there is reverent worship the church is a school of manners , and every marriage as well as every burial lifts the family and the assembly above private joy or grief to the supreme authority , and its pastoral representatives . So , too , we are having our share of the kingly element . Our GEORGE WASHINGTON and his set of statesmen ruled by the grace of GOD and the authority of law , just as decidedly as , and far better than , the GEORGES of his day in England ; and all true civil service has this ruling element , and ought to have it under just and abiding law . As things are now with us , however , business is the most kingly power among our people , and money claims the supreme prerogative , not always with due deference to justice and to law . But , without quarreling now with the too frequent insolence of money-kings , and their invasion of civil and human rights , we may recognize with satisfaction a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best-managed business of our people . Every great business house is a little kingdom , and wholesome word goes out from centre to circumference . Orders are given by the head with authority , and are obeyed with respect , and sometimes thousands of men and women are schooled in manners as well as supplied with-money for their service by the firm and friendly rule . Within the last thirty years our American manners have gained much in dignity and order by this business economy , and the railway , the telegraph , the press , and even the factory have often helped our schools and our churches in training the rude and refractory into deference and civility . Perhaps the best feature of our present manners is the promise of the ripening of our republican spirit into more positive and humane excellence . In tho first stage of protest against the domination:ofpriestcraft and kingcraft , the rebellious American tended to a kind of insolent indepbndenco in general , as though to say in face of every superior or equal , " I am as good as you . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he tends to say what is only the other side of the same idea , ? You are as good as I. " In this spirit of true citizenship and sterling humanity our American people are marvelously mending their manners , and are likely to become the most civil and courteouss .. people on earth .                     