@@742888

txt In theory debates in Congress are intended to influence votes on pending measures . There is even a higher ideal than this  --  that of a discussion in which men with unbiased minds discuss a question for the double purpose of giving and obtaining light upon it , and with the contingency always oien that a conclusion which appeared most reasonable to a speaker , at the beginning , may by the force of his own candid examination of it become untenable , and lie so acknowledged . We suppose that this Utopian conception of public discussion is pretty well banished from American minds . But there still remains the vague idea that , if the champions on either side have taken their ground for good and all , there are still possibilities of influencing a certain number of independent members , so that debates count for ' something in the business of Congress . Even this mild notion of the function of Congressional debates is , however , quite wide of the mark . It is almost never that a speech or any number of speeches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the actual business of Congress is arranged with the slightest possible reference to debates , especially in the lower house , , and the speaking , which is theoretically - intended to aid or retard a measure , is very frequently set down for a special day when no one is expected to be Present , when no definite measure is pending , when no votes of importance are taken , . ; and . when the speeches are , so to speak , red into . empty space . Almost as frequently speeches are printed in the Record , , ley permission of the , House , which have never been spoken at all , and which only too oftem never find more than one reader among the members . Of course , there must be an underlying and generally assumedIeason for this state of things , some understood purpose which speeches are supposed to subserve , - though they do not change , votes , and do not even get heard or wead b , y members of Congress . This purpose is that of influencing public opinion . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or made public in the newspapers , will in some way reach agreater or smaller number of minds , and will aid in creating a public sentiment which will affect the results of elections , and thus tend to shape the action of the Government . In regard to a few important questions which attract the attention of the press and which arouse the passions or affect the immediate interests , real or fancied , of the people , this view of the effect of Congressional debates is undoubtedly correct . Such a speech as that of Mr. BLAINE on the out'rages in the South , or that of Mr. GARFIELD on the finances , or the speeches of men who , like Mr. THURMAN or Mr. BAYARD , are known as candidates for Presidential nominations , produce a certain effect . But even in these , cases , it is to be remarked that the speeches reach the public generally In a very imperfect form through the abstracts of the Associated Press , and that the reports of them in the Record as integral parts of the Congressional proceedings have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of speeches with which the Record is lumbered , they are practically unread . Occasionally a local newspaper in the district or State of the speaker gives one of them in full . For the most part they never emerge from the obscurity in which they took their rise , and have no Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner more effect upon public opinion than upon opinion in Congress . There are several reasons why our Congressional debates are thus reduced to nothing , or next to nothing , in the operation of the Government . One of them is that the scope of the power of Congress is itself more limited than in any other great country possessing representative government . In England , for instance , which is the most perfect example of popular government with a responsible Ministry , all essential questions are discussed with a direct aim  --  that of sustaining or overthrowing an Administration . In the United States , no such consequences call follow . The Executive has no direct share in legislation , It can not openly and does not often secretly influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obey , and , apart from the veto power , its opinions are of little consequence . But Congress with nearly unlimited right to legislate , within the Constitution , is without distinctly recognized leaders . Business is left to the initiative of individuals or of numerous unconnected committees . A great deal is proposed and little carried through , and the voluminous speeches , which are spoken unheard or published to remain unread , are a part of the enormous waste involved in this way of doing business . Doubtless , it has some advantages over the British method , but this is one of the disadvantages . Again , Congress works apart from the centres of journalism more than any other similar body . The reports of its proceedings have to be transmitted at considerable expense by telegraph to the newspapers of the country , which , after ail , are necessarily the sole medium through which they can be generally spread . When they reach the newspapers they have somewhat the flavor of distant news . An extensive fire , a freshet , the stealing of a rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more attention and excites more immediate interest all over the country than any except the most momentous debates in Congress . Of course , Congress can not arrange its meetings so that its proceedings will be local news for all parts of the country , but , at present , they are not even central news ? they are something more or less apart and remote . This accounts for more of the indifference to them than would be supposed by those who have not studied the habits of that curious being the " general reader . " But what accounts for more than anything else in the present condition of things is that politics are felt in our country to be more a matter of spoils than of principle . It is a hard saying , but it is true . We have made , by our system of patronage , a situation in which the keenest political interest , like the greatest activity , is limited to those who have a pecuniary interest in the result . So little is left to the free initiative of the body of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of those who control the machinery of polities , that the average citizen regards languidly the operations of a Government which he candle so little to influence . For this reason public opinion can only 1 ) 0 aroused with reference to very conspicuous matters . The ordinary proceedings of the Government , though important as a whole , and often intrinsically interesting , are proportionately neglected .                     