@@742420

txt Now that marksmanship is the mania of the hour we are glad to see indications that its value is understood in that quarter where skill in shooting is of the most practical use , namely , the Army . TroopSin the field can not be expected to indulge in target-firing , but troops in garrison may pay attention to it , and we observe that General Order No. 7 , Department of Texas , dated Sept. 0 , prescribes targetpraetice forthwith throughout that department . Elaborate directions are given for scoring and signaling , eibstantially on the Creedmoor system ; monthly reports of the firing are to be sent to head-quarters , and Gen. ORD says he shall publish in the official newspapers the best and worst scores , with the names of the regiments or companies making them . During continued bad weather post commanders are to cause simulated practice to be held in company quarters , and company commanders are advised to reward the best shot in each day 's practice by excusing the marksman from some duty . " The soldier , " emphatically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may , in battle , hurt somebody with his rifle ; and the sooner he learns to do so , flit better the soldier . " It strikes us that this vigorous measure will soon produce good results . It is quite certain that the emulation excited in those garrisons where rifle practice has already been properly carried on has greatly raised the average of marksmanship . Our readers may have noted that the engineers at Willett 's Point sent to Creedmoor this year , as usual , a squad of marksmen to take part in the short-range team match for teams of five , and that.they acquitted themselves with much credit . They stood , to be sure , on the total score , only thirteenth among twenty competing teams ; but at the longer range , the 300-yard distance , the United States Engineer team beat all the other nineteen , making one more point at this range than the Massachusetts Rifle Association , that won the first prize . This is a fact well worth noting . This year the Engineer team from Willett 's Point was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excellent infantry aria for all pitrposes , whether for target practice or field use , in its Springfield rifle . But under the subsisting regulations of 1874 , only ten ball cartridges per man per mouth are authorized for target practice . Perhaps , some day it maybe recognized by those who provide the annual army budget , that , considering the pay-roll for the enlisted men is an affair of millions , and that the cost of manufacturing their arms is one of some hundreds of thousands , it would be economy to authorize the extra practice cartridges that might make troops and arms doubly efficient .                     