@@741421

txt In the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church South yesterday the Committee on Fraternal Bela- . Lions with the Northern Church reported , " Mat it ! is deemed proper for the attainment of the object 3onght and to guard against all misapprehension to declare that the organizations are not involved in fraternity in our view of the subject . The reasons for the separate existence of the two branches of Methodists are such as to make a corporate unionundesirable and impracticable . The causes which led to the division in 1844 have not disappeared . " The report then goes on to give the history of the causes of the separation . Reference is made to the inconvenience of organizing a proper basis of representation to the General Conference , and to the difference in power claimed by the two branches as inherent in the General Conference . On the subject cf slavery the report says : " The position of Southern Methodism is Scriptural . Our opinions have undergone no change . Missions to the slaves constituted a large part of our work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million of negroes communicated with our Church . The societies organized in the Southern States during the last ten years by our Northern brethren , and the members of which swell their statistics , are made up largely of those who iu slavery had been converted by our instrumentality . Colored preachers , exhorters. and class-leaders , by whom they bare principally carried on their Southern work , and some of whom were counted worthy of seats in their annual conferences , were Christianized and trained under our ministry in other days . Following the indication of Providence , we have , without abandoning this work , adapted our methods to the changed condition of the African race . Many of them had been drawn away from us by appliances we were not nrepared to counteract ; but a remnant remained , and at their request we have set off our colored members into independent ecclesiastical bodies . We have turned over to them the titles and possessions of the church property formerly held by us . Our Northern brethren have pursued a different plan , and they seem committed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferences , mixed congregations , and mixed schools . We do not ask them to adopt our plan ? we could not adopt theirs . " The report then gives details of the effort made by the Southern branch in 1846 to reconcile the differences , and the refusal of the Northern branch to receive the Commissioners ; also the renewal of the efforts made in 1870 . The report then reads : " Thus stood the case when the distinguished delegates of the Methodist Episcopal Church of the conference of 1S72 brought in their fraternal greetings . We hail them with pleasure and welcome the opportunity at length offered us of entering into negotiations to secure tranquillity and fellowship to our alienated Commission . era upon a permanent basis and alike honorable to all . The plan of separation is too important to be lightly esteemed by us . If its provisions touching territorial limits have been violated , we are ready to confer with our Northern brethren on that point . Measures preparatory to a formal fraternity would be defective that would leave out of view the questions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions relate to the course pursued by some of their accredited agents while prosecuting their work in the South . and to property which has been taken and held by them to this day against our protest and remonstrance . Although feeling ourselves sorely aggrieved in these things , we stand ready to meet our brothers in a spirit of Christian candor , and to compose all differences upon principles ofiustice and equity . " , The report expresses regret that the Northern Commissioners were'not empowered to agree upon a plan of settlement , and says : " We are prepared to take advanced steps in this direction , and , waiving any consideration which might justify greater reserve , we will not only appoint a delegation to return the greeting so gracefully conveyed to us , but will also provide for a commission to meet a similar commission for the purpose of settling the disturbing question . " An animated debate followed the report . in which it was evident a large majority indorsed the sentiments expressed in the report , but were in favor of not complicating the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the two bodies . The report was finally recommitted . At the session of the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church Saab , this morning . the report , of the Committee on ' Fraternal Relations with the Northern Church was . with a few unimportant changes from the text as telegraphed to-day , adopted by a very large vote . But little business was done in the conference today , which adjourned at an early hour , out of respect to the memory of Dr. Pitts .                     