@@781773

txt It will be remembered by our readers that in the articles of peace thus far published to the world only a vague mention has been made of the future condition of the Provinces of Bosnia and Herzegovina . Yet their misgovernment and the frightful abuses of Ottoman administration there were the principal causes of the present war . It has been known for some time that Prince BISMARCK has favored one condition of peace which especially concerns these provinces , namely , that they should be annexed to Austria . Yesterday 's telegrams confirm this report , and add that this proposition will be urged strongly at the congress by the German delegates . The project is a very natural one , and decidedly in the interests of peace and the European equilibrium . Those two provinces almost separate portions of the Austrian Empire . If semi-independent under the control of Russia , or occupied by Russian forces , they would be a source of much peril and disturbance to the Austro-Hungarian Empire . Their people might coalesce with the Austrian Slays just over the bolder , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In fact , the Cabinet of Vienna would probably prefer open war to a constant secret struggle , if Russian " protection " were extended over these communities . But once placed under Austrian rule , they could be restrained just as the Slays of Hungary are now . In fact , their activity would be directed entirely toward political success in the Parliament at Pesth . There they would have votes through their delegates , And form a yet heavier counterpoise to the Magyars . They would become , like the Croats and Serbs , a political element , to be used by one party or the other , and would be in no way dangerous to the Empire . So far from being prob-. ably in sympathy with the Muscovites , the Southern Slays have no especial bond to the Northern , and would soon become entirely separated from them , and as goodAustrians as the Germans themselves . We do not expect any great strengthening of Russian power in the Balkan Peninsula as the issue of this war . When once these States are remodeled and become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence greatly diminished . The great gain to Russia will be in Asia , and in her position as related to Turkey . With Austria extending over the mountains of Bosnia and Herzegovina , there would be no danger of a sudden Russian land attack on Constantinople . The Government at Vienna would control all the links of communication between the Balkan Peninsula and the Russian base . She would occupy a flank position both in Transylvania and in the mountains near the Adriatic . The occupation would be a surety of peace . To the Bosnians themselves , it would simply mean the seeming all the conditions of modern progress . In place of Ottoman beys , who carried off women for conversion and the harem , there would be German Richters , who would govern with all the red tape and all the justice with which the German provinces near Vienna are governed . Instead of unlimited taxation , and the sweeping away of crops and cattle , there would be the usual systematic taxation of a European State . In place of courts of justice where no Christians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ juries and judges , and such a procedure as we see in Saxony or Bavaria . Property would be secure ; life would be protected ; schools would be built and good roads laid . Railroads would connect the country with deleted 5 lines To Germany the chine would be satHactory , according to the wall-known policy of Prussia , that Austria should . be strergthened on the east , as a balance to Russia , and possibly to prepare her for the future loss of her German provinces . To England the proposition must 1 ) 3 acceptable , : Is a new safeguard against Russia . In Au Aro7 Hungary itself there would be different v'iews over the acquisition . It is not improbable that the astute Muscovite Minister has - ) een holding before Count ANDssv this rich ' prize as the reimbursement for not i-Atorfering with his master 's It is a l'ortion of what BISMARCK , with his inimii able power of epithet , calls the T.ink-geld-pc ! itik , or " drink-money policy , " where so much is done or left undone , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of territory . This may account for the Hung , srian Minister 's otherwise unexplainable policy . The German and Slavic parties in Austria would be delighted at such a gain to the Empire . The Magyars would be bitterly opposed , - as such an addition would practically leave them in a minority in the Parliament of Vienna , and.would increase their difficulties in the Hungarian Parliament . Still , if the congress should resolve on this cession of territory , the Hungarians would have to submit , and Europe would be relieved to find , at least so far , a ' settleinent of the " Eastern question . "                     