@@741523

txt The Republican Municipal Council of Paris has latterly received many congratulations on the good work it has accomplished since the fall of the Empire , and the Parisian journals devote much of their space to a review of these labors . The Si  --  cle says that the Council " has reduced to naught the principal objection of those who once refused that institution to the city , saying that universal suffrage was powerless to make decent choices . " The Council elected by the votes of that people who were haughtily accused by the imperial Government of not knowing what was best for them , has done vastly more for the regeneration and the improvement , morally and materially , of Paris , since 1871 , than the servants of the Empire were ever able to effect in the same time . It came to its task when the great city was in distress , and in the midst of a desolating war , whose results caused it to pay a. contribution of two hundred millions of francs . It found a disordered municipal budget , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long since rendered incapable of being brought into immediate order without the use of extraordinary resources . There was little , if any , money in the treasury , and " the sources of income were all very much diminished . " The Council elected under the Republic was composed mainly of lawyers , doctors , professors , and business or commercial men , who seemed too much absorbed in their own work to suddenly undertake the management of such vast affairs as those of the chief city of France . But they entered earnestly into an era of retrenchment and reform , from which they were turned aside by no pretexts and no political exigencies . They labored day and night , actuated by a desire to prove to the world that a Republican Government could control and arrange the machinery of a city which had long been governed by centralized and arbitrary power . They found that a. loan was necessary , and they voted for it . They blotted out such obligations of the past as were irksome and pressing , and continued their work of reducing salaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes only with great care . So they managed to strike a balance in 1872 , in 1873 , and in 1874 ; and certainly surprised those enemies of their rule who had long prophesied that the Councilors would retire in disgrace from their high offices . As they had found ninny vast public improvements begun in the metropolis , they deemed it expedient to continue some of them ; but they occupied themselves simply with those which were necessary , and allowed the others to remain incomplete . They discovered that the Empire had been building in Paris a new opera-house which was to cost sixty millions of francs , but had been expending only a small sum on the establishment and maintenance of public schools for free education , and they determined to reform this error . They found that iu Paris sixty thousand children were annually obliged to go without school privileges , . because the wiseacres of the Empire had not seen fit to erect decent schoolhouses for people in moderate circumstances . It will never be forgotten that the Councilors , indignant at the gross neglect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on one occasion , eighteen millions of francs for the support of schools in the city . They did this to vindicate their honor and that of the masses who had elected them , and who were anxious to show the world that they had not , of their own free wills , encouraged ignorance . The sum of six millions of francs has thus far been expend3d on schools and school edifices , since te.e . Republican Municipal Council began its worthy work in Paris . Many of the old schools have been greatly improved and enlarged ; and Paris has twenty , thousand more.pupiis. in its primary departments than it had three years- ago . During that time , also , normal schools for both male and female teachers and for apprentices have been founded . The budget of public instruction , which in 1869 was only 6,194,000 francs , is now 9,756,000 . " And this , " says the Mack , " is by no means the best of all . " The citizens are rapidly arriving at the establishment of a thorough system of gratuitous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council General of the Seine voted in favor of a few weeks since . ? This evidence of decided progress in the right direction in Paris is unfortuately counterbalanced by the lamentable condition of the schools in the country parishes of France , where no advancement worth naming is perceptible , and where the priesthood is gaining absolute control of all the schools . But it will go far to show those timid people of the nation , who fancied that Republicanism meant anarchy , misrule or chaos , that it is capable , instead , of giving order and culture to the masses .                     