@@741077

txt We do not see why Uncle Sam should not be allowed the privilege , enjoyed by all his subjects , of pleading the Statute of Limitations in bar of the thousand and one old claims that are constantly being trumped up against him . To be sure , the worthy gentleman can not be sued in a Court of law to enforce payment of the debts due , or said to be due , from him ; but something , we submit , may be safely trusted to his sense of honor and fair dealing . He has hitherto borne the reputation of being just , and even generous , to his children , so far as his means would permit ; and . if there are any old outstanding claims that have not yet been liquidated , it is fair to presume that they have not been backed up by a solid basis of equity . At any rate , it does not seem to be quite the proper thing , now that Uncle Sam is slightly hampered with debt , incurred in preserving the very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obligations , which , if they were ever owing at all , were owing to other and different parties from those who now press them - with such zeal and persistency . Here are these old French spoliation claims , dating back prior to the beginning of the present century , and now , as appears from a meeting of the hereditary claimants , held in this City on Saturday , about to be revived and . pressed before the present Congress . If there is justice and equity in these claims . they ought to have been , and probably would have been , settled half a century ago . The persons who were injured by these spoliations are long since dead , and most of their children have followed . them . It would doubtless be a pleasant thing for the three or four hundred grandchildren or great-grandchildren to receive ten thousand dollars each out of Uncle Sam 's treasury , ; but it any one of them were called on to demonstrate how , or in what manner , they bad been injured by the French spoliations on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be puzzled to make out a case . It is barely possible that there may be individuals , now poor , who would have been rich but for these spoliations of their ancestors ; but to undertake to make out an equitable claim against the United States Government on such hypothetical possibilities : would be carrying the doctrine of " consequential damages " to a point bordering on the ridiculous . Besides , if the precedent were set of paying these claims , there would be , no end of it . There is among the earlier creditors of Uncle Sam a much more deserving class than these claimants to indemnity for French spoliations . The descendants of the soldiers who fought the battles of the Revolution , and were paid off in worthless Con- tinental shinplasters , might put in a fai more equitable claim . If the Federal Gov ernment is to assume the task of , pay ing off its old debts , it shouli commence with them . These . French spoilt* tion claims have been before Congress , al intervals , for nearly three-quarters of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re ? jetted by the representatives of all politica parties that have held sway in the Govern went . If no Congress could be prevailed et to pay them when the country was out o debt , and the Treasury unburdened , it cat hardly be expected that they will meet with more favor now when the nation is stagger ing under a load . of two thousand millions o indebtedness . And yet there is no knowing what new light may be thrown upon till case by the modern appliances that air brought to bear on legislation . There ma be a potency in the arguments of the lobb. that was unknown to our fathers fifty year ago .                     