@@743280

txt It is officially announced to-night that the Louisville , Nashville , and Great Southern Railway has procured , through secret agents , the franchise and road-bed of the partially constructed Georgia Western Road . Vico-President Newcomb , of the Louisville ana Nashville , in an interview with the TIMES correspondent to-night , says this valuable charter was granted a number of years ago , and possesses , among other exceptional and uncommon grants , banking privileges . So quietly and secretly has the whole transaction been managed , that only a few of the Directors of tho Louisville and Nashville were cognizant of what was occurring . The deed of conveyance was recorded to-day . Col. De Furiak , General Manager of the Louisville and Nashville , arrived at Atlanta Sunday night . Ex-Goy . Brown , King Cole , and other persons who were contending for the control of the franchise , were on the ground some days ago , but too late , as the Louisville and Nashville secret agents had already secured the prize sought for . " The importance and value , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the advantages which she acquires by this brilliant stroke of strategy , can only be faintly realized . We have acquired for a mere song a road for which the City of Atlanta has already expended zi3500,000 , and which has valuable depot and terminal facilities at the City of Atlanta . The road is graded some 37 miles , and will tap a fine mineral region , supplying the City of Atlanta with just what they need  --  cheap and inexhaustible fuel . A corps of engineers will be sent out immediately to survey both the projected routes . As the charter provides for the building of the Georgia Western Road from Atlanta to Birmingham , Ala. , or Decatur. the Louisville and Nashville has thus the choice of the two routes , and can not determine which route it will select until the surveys are completed . By this movement the Louisville and Nashville secures an independent line to Atherton , and obtains the advantage of the long haul to Decatur and Birmingham , instead of delivering her passengers and traffic to the Nashville and Chattanooga at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by tho Louisville and Nashville of the Montgomery and Mobile and the control of the Mobile and New-Orleans Pensacola roads , and Louisville and New-Albany and Chicago line , and now the Georgia Western gives to the Louisville road a grand and continuous line , extending five/ the fresh-water lakes of the great North-west to the Gulf of Mexico , with an independent line to Atlanta . "                     