@@742242

txt The purely technical argument of the Democratic counsel in the Oregon case on Wednesday was ably , boldly , and clearly answered yesterday . The Democrats , at the opening of the case , felt the peculiar infelicity of their pusitiou in being obliged to abandon the contention which they had made in the previous cases , that what they desired was the truth and the " very right , " no matter what mere forms of law stood iu the way , and to demand that tho Commission should give them the full advantage of the forms , no matter how little title they had in the substance . They endeavored to cover their embarrassment by specious protestations of their love of justice and right , but , as a matter of fact , they were obliged , as soon as it came to argument , to full back on the barest and narrowest technicalities . They could not deny that the Republican ticket received a decisive and considerable majority of the popular vote ; that the will of the people , as expressed at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote of the State to HAYES ; and they made no pretense that the election was unfairly conducted , or that the result was tainted , in the slightest degree , with fraud , corruption , or violence . They contented themselves with the following argument : Ono of the Republican Electors was ineligible : the Electors could not act without the Governor 's certificate ; the Governor decided that on account of the Republican 's ineli. ; : ibility his rival , CRONIN , was elected , and gave him the certificate ; CRONIN required that the  --  others should act with him , and they would not ; he then became the Electoral College , and filled the places of the other two Electors , and the three , getting another certificate from the Governor , voted , and their vote is the vote of the Slate . This was in brief the Democratic argument . There is nowhere in it any pretense of a basis in the popular will . It all turns on the Governor 's right , because ho had the might , to determine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is technical . It has no more foundation in law than in fact . It is wrong in its assumption concerning the power and function of the Governor and the effect of his certificate , and wrong in its assumption concerning the power possessed by Ciwsis and the effect of his demand on the Oregon Electors and of his pretended appointments . In the first place , the certificate of the Governor is not necessary to the legal action of the Eleetors . It is simply a declaration of the fact of their appointment , to be ; lased on the determination of the officer or officers having the authority to canvass the election . It can be overthrown by being shown to be a false declaration and not based on the canvass . In this case Gov . GROVKR 'S certificate was thus overthrown by the papers submitted with the vote of the legal Electors , since those papers included the certification of the actual canvass by the Secretary of State , who was the canvassing authority . This canvass was wholly contrary to the Governor 's certificates , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former . In the next place , the Governor had no authority to decide who was or was not eligible , or what effect was produced by ineligibility . The Democrats claimed that his certificate was iu the natur4 of a commission , but wherever a Governor is required to issue a commission his duty is distinctly specified . There is no law of Oregon which imposes on the Governor the duty of commissioning Electors for President and Vice President . There is no law of the United States making such a requirement . The action of the Governor , therefore , in assuming to decide the question of ineligi- bility and of its effect , was purely voluntary and unauthorized , and his decision was of no more weight than that of a private citizen . CRONIN 'S acts derived no validity from those of the Governor , and if be had presented himself at the Electoral College with a certificate from Judge HoADLE T , that his competitor 's ineligibility resulted in his election , he would have had just as much right to turn out the legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointees as he had under the authority of Mr. GROVER . Finally , even if CRONIN had been a legally-appointed Elector , the mere physical fact that ho had possession of the Governor 's certificate did not give him any right to dictate that the other Electors should conform to his directions . If the Governor 's certificate with his name in it was worth anything , the fact that the names of the others were there also was worth just as much , If their refusal to act with him made their places vacant , his refusal to act with them vacated his own . By the Governor 's original certificate they were acknowledged to be legally-appointed Electors , and they were the majority of the college . When they proceeded to fill a vacancy , and CaoNnt assumed to do the same , their authority must be accepted as greater than his  --  the majority must overrule the minority . Even on the Democrats ' own showing , therefore , the technical as well as the substantial authority is all on the side of the Hayes Electors . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brushes away . It required a good deal of impudence to submit them ; but that , of course , was no hindrance in the present case . A party that could afford to push forward as their representative a man as openly and completely disgraced as Senator KELLY , could afford to stand on pure pettifogging , even before the great tribunal that is sitting in this case . But it is evident that the interest of the Democrats in the matter is slackening . They have dismissed their expensive and pretentious counsel , and . fallen back on third-rate men . They do not appear to expect much from their lawyers ' arguments , and they are not likely , to be disappointed .                     