@@741327

txt For some time there has lived on the farm of E. M. Williams , on the Delhi and Industry pike , about a mile from Warsaw . and only a short distance from Old Shiloh Church , a German couple by the name of Harmes . Mr. Jos . Harmes was a gardener , and had carried on the business successfully for ' about eight years , amassing , as is supposed , a considerable amount of money . He was about fifty years of age . The following is the story which the wife tells : About 6 o'clock last evening a man calling himself Frederick Cleaver called at the house , and said that he had just come from a visit to the family of Mr. Williams , Mr. Harmes ' landlord . He said that he was a baggage-master on the Cincinnati , Hamilton &; Dayton Railroad , and lived at No. 266 George street , in this city . He asked Mr. Harmes to go outside , as ho wanted to have a little private business talk . The two men walked toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house , and had been absent about ten minutes when Mrs. Harmes heard a pistol shot . and on rushing out found the stranger standing over the prostrate body of her husband menacing bin ' with a pistol . He turned the pistol toward her , and she ran for the neighbors . During this time , she heard a second shot . The neighuors armed themselves and searched for the assassin , but he was nowhere to be found . The search by a large band of men was continued till this morning , but with no results . Here is the mystery : There is a Frederick Cleaver , a son of Mrs. Williams by a former husband . He is a baggage-master on the Cincinnati , Hamilton and Dayton Railroad , and lives at No. 266 George street , in this city . but he can , it is believed , give a satisfactory account of his movements from 2 o'clock in the afternoon of yesterday till the present time . The house might easily have been robbed , but nothing was taken . The old man was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be assigned for the deed . The wounded man was taken to his house , and on examination two bullet-holes were found in his head . He has lain unconscious all day , but can not survive the night . The assassin has not yet been arrested . It is reported by telegraph to-night that Harmes is dead . Cleaver was taken out there this evening , and the dying old man identified him as the man who shot him . Cleaver is out on e2,000 bonds , but will be rearrested . Mrs. Harmes could not positively identify him .                     