@@741678

txt Happily it is very seldom that we have to record an event so disgraceful to young men as that which took place on Sunday on the Harlem River . Tho facts are these . J. H. HANNEKAMP was a member of the New-York Athletic Club . Attracted on Sunday afternoon to the boat-houses on the Harlem River , he was there led to make his first essay at swimming in ? deep water , with the aid temporaiily of the floats in front of one of the houses . The conditions could hardly have appeared more favorable . He was in company with several friends , all of whom were excellent swimmers , and noted for skill in athletics . He himself was in robust health , and with abundant nerve and self-confidence . After supporting himself for a short time with the float , he determined to try to do without it , but he had scarcely released his hold when he suddenly disappeared under the water . At this moment two of his companions were swimming within a few ' feet of him . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ render assistance , but an instant after he became panic-stricken and swam hurriedly ashore , leaving the poor fellow to his fate . The other , a German named STRASBURGER , did not so much as attempt to offer any aid , but coolly came out of the water . On the platform , and within a few feet of the drowning man , Were - two or three leading members of the Athletic Club , all expert swimmers , and one of them the champion of the club . They , too , refrained from , giving any help . Twice , under the eyes of these men , and so close that his hands could be touched with a short cane , did HANNERAMP rise to the surface . A - very small effort would have sufficed to ' save him , but that effort was refused . There sat the champion swimmer of the club , and others of his comrades hardly less expert in the water than himself , quietly waiting while within an arm 's length ' a friend was dying , and yet they did not put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was too late did the janitor from , a neighboring boat-house. who had man , and the only support of his widowed mother and her children . For them the utmost sympathy will be felt . But it is impossible to look back upon the dastardly conduct of the friends who with passive indifference left him to die , and not feel the deepest indignation . Such acts of cowardice and inhumanity are happily rare . Such clubs as that to which all these young men belonged , if they promote the physical development of the system , are supposed also to encourage true manliness , and the virtues that go with it . But the conduct of the persons who looked on at this tragedy goes far to do away with that supposition . It requires generally but a very little of either moral or brute courage to face danger in order to save a fellow-being from destruction . But that little was wanting in the present case , even though the risk to be encountered Was of the smallest possible dimensions . Only on Saturday last we recorded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , into the sea to save . a child from drowning , and he was successful . Yet here , among the most prominent members of the New-York Athletic Club , there was not found one who dared to go two yards in the Harlem River to rescue another member from death . In the absence of a satisfactory explanation , the affair must ' be regarded as in the highest degree discreditable to all of those whose inaction was the secondary cause of Mr. HANNEcamp 's death .                     