@@742468

txt From every point of ? view , the inexpediency of delay in the determination of the silver question is apparent . If it were possible , by postponing action in the Senate , to counteract the mischief wrought by the precipitancy of the House in passing the Bland bill , the lino of duty would be clear . But such a result is not among the possibilities . Recast Monday 's division with reference to the changes contingent Upon the future presence of Representatives then absent , and the essential fact that the House by a decisive majority sustains tile measure will remain . As a majority of the Senate Finance Committee are also favorable to it , we may assume that it will very soon lie brought before the Senate for consideration . Being there , what treatment does wisdom prescribe I Obviously , not the multiplication of obstacles for the mere purpose of delay , but rather the prompt disposal of the vital issues in the controversy . The bill as accepted by the House provides for the unlimited issue of a debased coinage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all debts , public and private , excepting only where payment in gold is specifically indicated . It is , therefore , essentially a measure of inflation , simply substituting for the greenback a coin now worth less than the greenback , and rendering the preparations for resumption an idle formality . To this extent it indirectly accomplishes the avowed object of the Ewing bill , and is as fatal as that measure would be to the policy proclaimed by the present head of the Treasury . It is , moreover , as heavy a blow at the national credit as any contemplated by the Pendleton and Ewing school of repudiators , with this distinction in their favor ? that they do not propose to use the greenback as a leverage for upsetting the contracts whereby the Government has agreed to pay certain classes of its creditors " in coin . " The advocates of the remonetization of silver on the basis sanctioned by the House are in this respect more dishonest . The greater portion of the gold-bearing bonds sot forth simply that they are payable " in coin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relating to them . How it has been interpreted every man knows . The Government sold , and investors hero and in Europe have bought the bonds with the distinct understanding that only gold coin was intended . The silver people step forward with the declaration that inasmuch as the words , " in coin , " leave i the Government at liberty to pay interest and principal in silver , it shall so pay , for no other reason than that silver is worth less than gold . Disguise it as they may , this ie the intention and this the effect of the action of the House majority with refer ? enco to the Bland bill . The iniquity of the purpose is none the less because a largo number of Republicans helped the Democrats to push it through the House . Repudiation is still repudiation whether the persons favoring it like to be stigmatized as repudiators or not . One of the immediate results of the present position of the silver question in Congress must be to shake the confidence which foreign investors have reposed in the integrity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Until now there has been an unwillingness to attach significance to tho silver movement . Influential London journals received by late mails allude to the subject only to express their belief that the importance of the movement has been exaggerated , that its force , whatever it may have been , is on the decline , and that no danger need now be apprehended from it . The vote by which the House has sustained so shameless and sweeping a measure as that presented by Mr. BLAND will remind these foreign critics of their mistake . It will convince them that in the House , at least , repudiators and inflationists have the ascendency . It will teach them that the ' hope of preserving the public credit unimpaired rests , first , upon the conservatism of the Senate , and , finally , upon the principle and firmness of the President . The value of this reliance should not be suffered to remain long in doubt . The moral efficacy of a declaration by the Senate that ill its present shape the bill shall not become law will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Finance Committee can not be depended upon , we fear , to reject the silver scheme in its entirety , fraught as it is from beginning to end with folly and dishonesty ; but unless the majority of the members sacrifice to local clamor the principles and professions they have been identified with , they will not sanction anything which opens , or seems to open , a fresh controversy respecting the public debt . And the Senate can not too soon , or too emphatically , record its judgment upon this point . It will thus undo some of the mischief effected by the House , and vindicate the credit of the country from the stigma , cast upon it by an overwhelming majority of those who figure as its Reprosent atives . The urgency is not so great in connection with the domestic aspects of the Silver bill , but even there the sooner we know what fate is in store for us the better . If at the moment there appear to be apathy where active hostility should be displayed , the circumstance is attributable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silver-remonetization , and , partly , to a vague idea that the measure can not become law unless it be divested of all that renders it dangerous . Had a similar bill in the greenback interest been hurried through the House , business men would at once have comprehended the evil to which they were exposed . They would have understood that it meant pure and simple inflation , with all that it implies . Between fin unlimited greenback currency , however , and an unlimited silver coinage , the difference is inappreciable . The same unsettlement of values , the same unhealthy excitement , is inseparable from the two cases . Nor is it prudent to rely very positively upon the Senatorial elimination of all that makes the measure mischievous . The source of the popularity which the remonetization plan has acquired in the West and South is to be found in the very features which are most obnoxious . It is not agreeable to know that , apart from its disturbing effects in relation to commerce , the legalization of silver for the payment of debts is popular because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creditor ; but unfortunately the fact does not admit of dispute .                     