@@742925

txt The elections to the United States Senate to fill the places of Senators whose terms expire On the 3d of March next are now practically completed . New-Hampshire does not choose a Senator till June next , and Arkansas , Kansas , and Louisiana have not yet completed their elections . With these exceptions , all the Senators have been chosen . Mr. VOORHEES has else been elected for ' the remainder of the term of the late Senator MORTON , and Gen. SHIELDS will add to his military laurels the title of Senator from Missouri for 30 days . On looking over the list the general observer will not be struck with any great improvement in the character of the Senate . Of the Democrats , only two , Mr. GORDON , of Georgia , and Mr. VOORHEES , of Indiana , have seen service in the Senate , and neither of these is a man of distinguished ability . Both represent some of the worst tendencies of their party  --  the narrow partisan devotion , the intense attachment to the conception of State rights which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit toward their opponents which made the task of overthrowing the pro-slavery Democracy so costly to the Country . Neither , moreover , has any ' correct conception of the ' dominant issues of the hour , while the influence of Mr. VOORHEES , not by any inconsiderable nconsiderable in his party , will always be given to the most extreme and dangerous ideas in regard to finance . To these may be added Mr. HAMPTON , of South Carolina , and Mr. PENDLETON , of Ohio , as the only Democrats who have gained special prominence in national politics . They represent , though in a more astute fashion , much the same principles as Messrs . GORDON And VOORHEES . What Mr. HAMPTON 'S course in regard to finance may be , we can not say . It will doubtless , like that of the Georgia Senator , be subor.dinated to the success of the policy of his section , for which he has a like passionate attachment . He is not likely , how ever , to occupy as much of the attention , of the public in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which was more contracted , but where he made himself very conspiou. , 011S . Mr. PENDLETON is far more adroit and able than the Indiana Senator , but his ideas are as hopelessly false , and his devotion to them is equally without ' reserve or qualification . We may be sure that nothing in the choice of new Democratic Senators tends to reassure the country regarding the financial future . The party does not contribute to the body , in which for a time it will have a majority , a single member of conservative and sound views on this subject . On the contrary , the tendency to quackery and demagogism which has overwhelmed every Democratic Senator of influence , except Mr. BAYARD , and which has made so complete a wreck of the reputation of the once independent and powerful senior Senator from Ohio , will only be strengthened by the rnembp 's just elected . Of the nine Republicans , seven have already served in the Senate , ? Messrs . HILL , of Colorado , and PLATT , of Connecticut , being the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said with safety , therefore , that , in the elements of acquired skill and influence , the Republicans have gained , or retained , an advantage over their opponents . None of the Republican . Senators are distinguished by special independence of view , unless we except Mr. CARPENTER , of Wisconsin , who is rather eccentric than independent , and whose orbit , though it may ultimately prove . difficult of calculation , will probably be reasonably regular for the ' time being . In the struggle over the silver legislation , which is likely to be the first of paramount importance to the business interests of the country which Congress will have to face , Messrs . JONES and LOGAN will be on the wrong side , while Messrs . ALLISON and CARPENTER must be set down as at best doubtful . Mr. J. S. MORRILL , of Vermont , is the only one whose fidelity and sagacity can be connte d on with entire certainty . On the whole , the renewals ? in the Senate have not strengthened the Republicans as a party with reference to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation is one , therefore , that calls for all the more energy and vigilance in the party itself . It is one in which the initiative will not in any marked degree be taken by those whose position should naturally make them leaders . Everything will depend on the soundness and force of opinion within the party itself . Happily , there is reason to hope that this will not be wanting . The education of the Republican Party in the direction of safe finance has not been very rapid , but it has made very satisfactory progress . The party has at every stage in the long conflict with hallucination and error been sufficiently in advance of its opponents to save the country from many threatening ills . It has successfully contended with inflation ; it has overthrown the scheme of repudiating the bonds by their " payment " iu irredeemable paper , audit has secured the beginning of redemption in gold . It has yet to deal with the intended establishment of a practically exclusive silver currency ; ' , and with the substitution of legal tenders for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may not be vigorously led by the mon whom it , has placed in power ; but its duty is thereby only made the plainer . If it is true to itself , its " . leaders " will at least be compelled to accompany , and not to oppose , it in its movements .                     