@@781723

txt The English are not materially different from any free and enlightened people , although , if we were to judge from their own assumptions , we should be forced to believe that they engross most of the virtues of high civilization . Touching their social life , their domestic relations , whatever constitutes the privacy and sanctity of home , they have ever been particularly boastful . Anything that disagrees with their social customs and social views must , to their mind , be wrong ; for theirs , as they modestly conceive , is the only true and proper standard . In their eyes , the society of Germany subordinates women ; the society of Russia is not unmixed with barbarism ; that of Italy is profligate , of Spain monastic , of Prance licentious , of the United States unrestrained . For the best society that is or can be , for ideal excellence and purity in woman , for exalted honor and chivalry in man , fix your gaze on England . England has humored herself so completely iu this kind of cant that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved from self-defense to be critical in turn . They have been looking steadily at the self-declared immaculate country , and have had no trouble in detecting spots on her Pharisaic face . Whatever she may have been , she has , within a few years , relaxed her vigilance and mitigated the severity of her forms . She has grown so free and easy in her social and ethical code that profligate Italy , licentious France , and unrestrained America have come to regard her with surprise . Her gates , which , we have been told , were so circumspectly unbarred that not a single impropriety could slip in , are thrown open so wide that the whole of the fractured Ten Commandments pass through readily . English society has manifestly grown to be the most tolerant and magnificently undiscriminating in all Christendom . Russian adventurers hunted out of the Empire by the Police , spurious Polish noblemen , Italian swindlers , unprincipled Spanish bankrupts , French croupiers , American demireps , unconventional and clouded women of divers grades , seem to have little trouble in getting on sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first London circles . Never has there been shown such lofty indifference to antecedents and reputation as recently in the British metropolis . Persons of both sexes socially banished from Petersburg and Moscow , doubtful hangers-on at the Court of Madrid , broken-down politicians from Geneva , Romans self-expatriated for their own convenience and safety , Frenchmen whose native atmosphere is too rarefied for them to breathe freely , Boston and New-York women whose past will not bear examination and who have gone abroad because tabooed at home , appear to tend nowadays to London as to the Mecca of their rehabilitation . England has , of course , never been socially what she has assumed , but it appears very plain that she has undergone a change for the worse . We Americans may be unrestrained , though just now we show as very narrow and finical by contrast with our kindred beyond sea . One thing in which the English have delighted for generations has been to compare their domesticity , the innocence and bloom of their upper-class women , with those of the French , and ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they might admit , have a certain ease , elegance , and polish which they themselves may lack , but the elegance and polish often gloss frailty and corruption that can not be named . French homes look fair to the eye , and are pervaded with artifieial perfume , yet what are they to the English home , in which simplicity and purity are religiously enshrined ? It is French to seem ; it is English to be . , What experts in simulation are our cousins ! They alter the trite aphorism of ROCHEFoucAuLD  --  they think that hypocrisy is the homage France pays to England , and that she pays but grudgingly . When French actresses go to London professionally , and take their love-children with them , so that there may be no mistake on that point , they are amazed to be invited to the best houses , less as artists than as women , and to be handed down to dinner by distinguished noblemen in advance of ladies of the first rank . They are petted and fondled to excess , not , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the highest position and fashion , who contend for their smiles , even for a passing nod . " Is this strait-laced , puritanical England ? " the actresses ask themselves . " Liberal , libertine France is nothing to it . In Paris , we could never cross the threshold of any carefully-guarded home . In London , the purest and most illustrious homes worry us with importunate invitations . We Parisians have made a mistake ; we have misunderstood the people who were our ancient foes , and are now our fawning friends . History has blundered . This is not the reign of VICTORIA ; it is the time of the regency of PHILIPPE , D'ORLEANS revived under another name . "                     