@@781884

txt Some time ago a number of United . States citizens . most of them frugal persons of limited means , invested their money in an English railroad , the management of which was supposed to be founded on the usual standard of commercial probity . In all , they held about sixty thousand shares , representing six million dollars . After a time , these shareholders were not a little surprised and disappointed to find all dividends suspended ? and yet the railroad was in excellent working order , and produced a very large income . They then resolved to send over a representative to . England for the purpose of getting some sort of power in the direction of the company , and to this representative they intrusted their sixty thousand shares . The agent , soon after his arrival in London , sent the shares to be transferred , and they were instantly seized  --  stolen , in fact  --  by the fraudulent directors of the road . This was in itself a great outrage , but the shareholders relied . fully - apon. the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the judges were found to be in league with the thieves . An injunction was issued forbidding the shareholders even to seek for restitution of their property , and from that day to this the 60,000 shares have never been restored to their lawful owners . The directors who ordered them to be seized employ a very eminent firm of London solicitors , and Bench and Bar alike seem determined to cheat theAmerican shareholders out of their property . Now if this event had really occurred , what would the American people have said about it ? Would they have been disposed to commend the conduct of British railroad directors , or British lawyers and judges ? Would they have been in a hurry to invest their money in any more English securities ? Would they not have pronounced the entire transaction a disgrace to the English name ? Well , the circumstances related really did occur  --  only the railroad invested in was an American road , and the investors were English people . That transposition in the persons concerned in the narrative does not affect the character of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unfortunately rendered legal by a Judge 's sanction . What can be the opinion of the American people of such a trick ? Now it must be remembered that the people who stole these bonds are represented in the Courts by a legal firm of which Mr. DAVID DUDLEY FIELD is the head . If Mr. FIELD ever advised his clients to make restitution , no proof of it has ever been offered . He has continued to act for them , whereas it might have been supposed that he would have said : " This seizure of sixty thousand shares of stock must be atoned for before I can go on with any of your cases . The act itself is without excuse , and my honor is compromised by acting for clients who committed a very gross fraud while my firm were their legal advisers , and who expect us to identify ourselves - with most of the causes they bring into Court . " We do not accuse Mr. FIELD 'S firm of recommending the seizure  --  what ground they took we have no means of knowing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to  --  but they are known pre-eminently as Fisx and GOULD 'S lawyers , and it is hard to believe that one or other of them has not been consulted in the prolonged litigation arising out of the transaction described . They are still the legal representatives of FISK and . GOULD , and restitution has not been made  --  two facts which can not be explained away . Mr. FIELD merely contents himself with endeavoring to discredit everybody who impugns his conduct . Gen. Blattow is a " person . " The TIMES , he says  --  and it is about the fiftieth hypothesis lie has put forward in relation to the TIKES  --  is controlled by Mr. Joita BONNER , one of the litigants against the Erie Road . If this were true , it would not be an answer to the charges brought against Piss and GOULD , or against Mr. FIELD for acting as their legal adviser . But it is not true . Mr. BONNER never influenced or tried to influence this journal  --  he has had as little to do with its course on any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Review , to which Mr. FIELD has sent his letter , will doubtless take proper notice of this fact . And our English contemporary probably knows quite enough of themanagement of the Erie Road to be aware that we have attacked it in the interests of commercial honor , which ought to be dear to men of all nations , but which Mr. RELD 's clients have recklessly trampled under foot .                     