@@743099

txt The decision of Judge BAXTER , of the United States Circuit Court , in Tennessee , in the Hastings ease , illustrates one phase of the hardships of a railroad conductor 's life . HASTINGS was employed upon the St. Louis and South-western Road , and was knocked off the train in its passing a low bridge , and killed . In behalf of his family , a suit was brought against the company for damages ; but this suit has been dismissed by Judge BAXTER as not well founded in law . A similar casualty is reported upon one of this City 's elevated roads , within a few days past . A fireman had need to climb outside the cab which contains the engine , for some service , while the train was running , and was caught by a slack telegraph wire , and twitched off the car . Of course , he fell the thirty feet or so from the roadway to the street pavement . It seems that the law is much less favorable to conductors , engineers , and brakemen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to passengers . Passengers are entitled to be carried safely , and are not supposed to have anything to do with , or even to know about , the management of the train . But employes are considered as taking the risks and dangers of the service into account when they enter the company 's employ , and to know more than the Directors themselves about defects and errors in the management . Hence , the widow or children of a trainhand can not have anything like the chance of recovering dam , ages if the husband or father is killed by a railroad accident that a passenger 's family would have . If the injury , is to a passenger , the company must show that the highest degree of care was exercised to protect him . If it is to a servant of the company , this strict rule is not applied . Not far east of Hornellsville the Erie Railroad crosses the Conhocton River . As the train was one day running over the bridge , the structure fell in by excess of weight , and a baggageman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit , and the jury found in her favor for $5,000 . The lower courts sustained this . They considered that the company was in duty bound , toward hands as well as passengers , to maintain good bridges ; the baggageman had no part in the construction or inspection of the bridge , could not know that it was weak , or do anything to strengthen it if he did know , and he ought to have the right to trust the company on such points . But the company proved that the bridge was a sound and safe one when it was built , that there had been regular and careful inspections of it without finding any decay , and that it had not been used too long ? not quite ten years . Upon these facts they appealed to the Court of Appeals , which decided in their favor . That court said that a railroad corporation is a sort of insurer of its bridges toward passengers , but toward conductors , engineers , and trainmen , it is only bound to take pains and care for building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The justice of such a rule lies chiefly in this , that the agents and servants of the company are the persons who have the first knowlede of defects , and the only ones through whom repairs and improvements can be secured . Directors and stockholders can not keep the road in order except as they are faithfully notified and served by the employes , and it is right that the latter should bear the risk unless there has been a neglect by the President , Directors , or Superintendents , of making judicious general arrangements . Where a bridge grows old and weak , and finally falls under a train in consequence of the Directors neglecting the general duty of making inspection and paying for repairs , the company will be liable , even to a servant . This was shown in an Illinois case , which occurred on the Toledo , Peoria and Warsaw Road . The bridge was a common wooden trestle bridge . It was well enough built , but neither covered nor painted , and the Directors let it be used for fifteen years without ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell in , the witnesses testified that the timbers were all rotten ; striking in an axe anywhere would have shown an inspector that the structure was not fit to be used . The court adjudged that the company must pay , because of the neglect of the inspection . In several of the States the Legislatures have thought that trainhands ought to have better security than the decisions of thecourts have given them , and have passed statutes in their favor . There are such laws in Georgia , Iowa , and Pennsylvania .                     