@@743151

txt A remarkable scientific discovery , which is full of importance to every one who is in any way interested in girls , is alleged to have been lately made by that eminent Italian scientific person Dr. Piero Fabris , of Venice . Although in most civilized countries girls have been brought to a very high degree of perfection , there has hitherto been no certain and infallible means of attaining this result . Tho same course of treatment which ' in one case develops the best typo of girl may , in another case , result in a complete and conspicuous failure . No scientific formula for the production of any given kind of girl has been known since the beginning - of time , and no one dreamed that any such formula could be discovered . Now , however , comes the learned Dr. Fabris and claims that ho has discovered an infallible means of controlling the development of female character so as to enable every father of a family to turn out any pattern of girl for which there may be a demand . Dr. Fabris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physiologist ; was preparing an exhaustive work on " Tho Function of Perfume in Flowers , " when a brilliant idea flashed across ? his brain . Ho was at the moment engaged upon a chapter treating of the effect which different perfumes produce upon human beings , as illustrated by the well-known facts that the smell of sauerkraut causes the Frenchman to thirst for German blood , and that the smell of the Venetian canals at low tide awakes in the visiting tourist a wild desire to fly anywhere , anywhere out of the world . The thought occurred to the learned Doctor : Are not all our impulses due to the influence of perfumes , and is it not possible to make the human nose the great instrument of education ? This thought led to tho long series of careful experiments which finally enabled him to formulate rules for the production of female character at will . It is a curious fact that Dr. Fabris found early in the course of his investigation that the grosser nature of man could not be affected by perfumes to any very great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to even the most delicate perfumes . At present , therefore , the Fabris system of nasal education is limited to the gentler sex , though the discoverer has not abandoned the hope of mastering the secret of the masculine nose . Dr. Fabris 's experiments were made with the aid of , seventy-eight small girls of between 10 and 15 years of ago . Small girls suitable for scientific experiment are cheap in Venice , but the Doctor would have spent a fortune , if necessary , in his investigations . Those girls he divided into six classes . Each class was kept day and night in au atmosphere steeped in some particular perfume . The effects of those specific perfumes wore carefully studied , and the result is really startling . The class of girls in musk consisted of thirteen members , chosen at random . At the end of six months every girl , without exception , had become plump , languid , and conspicuously good-tempered unless under extreme provocation . Though Dr. Fabris found that musk produced a desire for wearing fine clothes and jewelry , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for personal neatness , though perhaps this was due to indisposition to take any unnecessary trouble , which is the characteristic effect of musk . This experiment convinced the investigator that an amiable , languid , and showy girl , with a tendency to undue postponement in the matter of changing collars and cuffs , may be produced by the aid of musk in from five to six months , out of the most Scraggy , spiteful , and viciously active material . The effect of the perfume of the rose was precisely opposite to that of musk . Tho girls of the rose class grew thin , abnormally neat , excessively prudish , and decidedly uumniable . A curious unwillingness to tell the truth was developed in twelve of the thirteen girls subjected to this experiment , a result which was the more remarkable since , in other respects , they were unusually strict in obeying the teachings of the Church . For this style of girl there is , of course , little or no demand , except in those parts of Now-England where every girl is expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great importance for us to know the real effect of rose , and from this date onward we may expect that conscientious fathers and husbands will see that this objectionable perfume does not enter their houses . Geranium was found to produce a fair sample of girl . Those subjected to its influence developed the plumpness of the musk girls , a decidedly independent spirit , and a tendency to free-thinking in matters of religion . This kind of girl would probably meet with a large demand-in our Western and North-western States , where personal beauty and strength of character are much prized , and whore orthodoxy in religion is not regarded as essential . Dr. Fabris is inclined to think that by the alternate action of geranium and violet a modified girl might be produced who would be a decided improvement upon either a pure geranium or a pure violet girl . This , however , remains to be proved by further experiments . Very satisfactory results wore obtained by the use of violet . The girls upon whom this perfume was employed became gentle , amiable , refined , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , developed some indications of melancholy , and were , as a rule , lacking in physical and moral force . So far as the Doctor 's investigations have boon pushed , violet appears to give the best results . ? It is to bo hoped that his expectations as to the alternate use of violet and geranium will be justified ; for in that case we shall be able to produce girls who will be almost faultless . The only other perfume with which . Dr. Fabris experimented was patchouli , and the results wore most discouraging . At the and of two months the girls of the patchouli class had developed nearly every undesirable quality , and it was perhaps a good thing that a mob , justly maddened by the scent of patchouli which radiated from the Doctor 's laboratory , broke into the premises and destroyed everything they could lay their hands on , including the girls of the patchouli class , and several valuable articies of furniture and scientific instruments . Now that this interesting theory of the effect of perfumes upon feminine character has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth can readily be obtained by examining the respective characters of those girls who are addicted to the use of any of the perfumes just mentioned . It is understood that the Smithsonian Institute is about to collect statistics on the subject , and wo shall all look with much interest for the report which Prof. HARKNESS , who has been detailed for that purpose , will before long present .                     