@@741093

txt Harvard University suffered a great change when it passed from the control of those who , in accordance with the intentions of its founders , had made it a pillar of Calvinism , and became a nursery of Unitarian divines . A still greater change is now contemplated . It is proposed that the morning prayer , with which the New-England undergraduate has from time immemorial begun the duties of the day . shall be discontinued , and that compulsory attendauc.e upon recitations shall ? be abolished . Should these changes be carried into effect . the experiment will be watched with the utmost interest by all friends of education . As to the morning prayer , it is greatly to be suspected that it is little more than an empty , and , in the Winter months , a particularly chilly form . The excellent founders of New-England colleges appear to have had the belief that the earlier the student could be dragged from his bed the better , so far as his spiritual interests were concerned . Now , when the hour for prayer is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case in most colleges , it follows not only that the student is required to combine devotion with an empty stomach , but to further complicate his condition by undergoing fifteen minutes of the extreme cold of a wintry chapel devoid . of fire and overstocked with draughts . The proposed abolition of morning prayers , under all the circumstances , can scarcely be regarded as an attack upon religious instruction in any form . The abolition of the present system of compulsory attendance upon recitations , is. however , an experiment of which the result can not be predicted . While it is true that the candidate for entrance to the Freshman class of Harvard has to pass an examination much more severe than is required from the candidate for matriculation at Oxford , it does not follow that the system of study which the latter follows is equally well fitted to the former . It must be remembered that the Oxonian is , as a rule , several years older than the Harvard undergraduate , and the difference in ago may demand difference in college discipline . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attend recitations , and no one has thoughtof introducing at either a these schools the university system of voluntary attendance at lectures . Eton , however , corresponds much more closely to our American college than the latter does to an English university . The Harvard graduate when he enters the Law , or the Divinity school , is doubtless old enough and wise enough to need no compulsion in his subsequent studies . To rely , however , merely upon the wisdom and love of learning of the Harvard Freshman to carry him through a five years ' course of voluntary study , is , to say the least , a hazardous experiment . The experiment , however , is worth trying , and it is to be Doped that the contemplated change-will be made . If it should . prove successful , it will undoubtedly be adopted by other American colleges ; while , if it should be conclusively shown to be a failure , there will be no difficulty in returning to the old system . If it does not follow that the system adopted at Oxford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvard , neither is it certain that the plan pursued at Eton must ' be the true plan to be followed in an American college . There is a sufficiently wide difference between the English and the American young man to render it unsafe to reason from one to the other . Thelecture system atHarvard may prove to be precisely what is beat adapted to the American undergraduate . Whether it is or not can be ascertained only by experiment , and . it is eminently fitting that this experiment should be tried by the oldest and most famous of American colleges .                     