@@743158

txt Frenchmen enjoy the reputation of being the greatest talkers extant , and Americans deserve the reputation , whether they have it or not , of being the greatest speechmakers at present on the planet . It might be thought that the greatest talkers would naturally be the greatest speech-makers , and the greatest speech-makers would be the greatest talkers . But there is a deal of difference between private , ordinary , irregular , informal expression and any public , unusual , orderly , or precise utterance on any one subject or set of subjects . Americans are not a talkative race . They probably talk less than any European people , except , perhaps , the English ; they may be said , ' indeed , to be rather taciturn than otherwise in the general relations of life . But they lose their taciturnity when they come together on any mercantile , social , or festive occasion which partakes of publicity . Then their tongues are particularly nimble , their nimbleness usually being greatest in the absence of reason for their exercise . When there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to be always waiting for some pretext to leap up and begin a speech . The circumstances under which they meet are of no consequence , nor is the topic at issue . They can and will talk under any conditions or on any theme . They invariably have on tap a large and miscellaneous assortment of phrases and metaphors which may be broached at a moment 's notice . Politics , theology , trade , civilization , restheties , good-fellowship , it is all the same to them , provided they can assume a vertical position , and declaim . How glibly they rattle off sentences ; how readily they form figures ; how easily they climb to rhetorical altitudes ! Speech-making is at once a national talent and a national vice . Europeans wonder at it , and are often amused and entertained by it . They are unable to explain why a man who has sat reticent and . apparently dull by their . side for an hour or . more , should , on being named for a speech , flash out into something very like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are a nation of speech-makers , and that speech-making is not confined , as in other countries , to any class or classes . All that seems necessary to insure a speech from an American is to call on him to speak . He may be uneducated , inexperienced , and , under ordinary circumstances , diffident , obtuse , and wanting in fluency . But invite him to speak anywhere at any time , and his nationality may be questioned if he do not give evidence of very fertile utterance . In other countries , speech-makers are men who have been trained to the business , who have made it a special and ' continuous study ; they are , in a word , speechmakers by profession , while here men are speech-makers by practice . To be born in the Republic presupposes , the capacity to " orate , " and the capacity given , all places furnish opportunities . This volubility comes in part from the richness and variety of our mother tongue , which enables any one who has mastered it to talk hour after hour without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this in our legislative halls , in the pulpit , and . at public dinners . Politicians are particularly fortunate in being born to speak the English language , which not only qualifies them to conceal their thoughts , but qualifies them to conceal  --  from the mass  --  the fact that they have no thoughts . How many orations , sermons , arguments , so styled , are merely words , words , words . Still , there is a certain kind . of talent in the national capacity to employ words so as to simulate the possession of ideas . It is an unfortunate talent as respects audiences and reporters , who should be regarded leniently if , in the smart of afflicted patience , they sometimes designate it as an infernal talent .. That it is not merely English which pro- vides our oral facility is attested by the general want of fluency in the English themselves . They are speech-makers likewise , but not perpetually and ubiquitously so , as we are . They are prone to esteem a set speech very seriously , and to deliver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is none of that unhappy ease , that touch-and-go , which there is with us . Nobody acquainted with the English mind and temperament would spring a speech upon au Englishman , but any one would call out an American anywhere without hesitancy or a moment 's premonition , and the American would be very apt to go off like an alarm-clock that had been set tothe minute . The English speak ; but they speak with manifest difficulty . Americans speak , it is to be regretted , with a direful and distressing readiness , which shows no Sign of abatement . Americans must be constitutionally very fond of speech-making , although it is hard to understand why they should be , when they are so deluged with it . It may be desirable , if rationally limited , in a democracy such as ours ; but its immeasurable prevalence consumes time and . breath to small purpose . Whoever appears in public here is called . upon for a speech , as if every mortal owed numberless speeches to any portion of the community , and as if payment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our terrible habit of speech-making ? Is there any hope of our ever going anywhere without being obliged to hear and make speeches ? Will it not soon be necessary to issue invitations accompanied by the words , " No speeches , " in order to insure aught like respectable attendance ?                     