@@742662

txt The old wasteful system of appropriating the public money in gross sums , instead of in detail , to which we have heretofore adverted , still retains its sway in Congress . Indeed , there seems to be a disposition to extend rather than to curtail it . In the Genertil Appropriation bill , now before the House of Representatives , the appropriation for the salaries of laborers and watchmen , which has always heretofore been specific as to numbers and salaries , is now for the first time made in a round sum for each office or department . Instead of merely conferring authority upon the appointing power to appoint a certain number of employes to serve the whole year at specified salaries , Congress proposes to place in the hands of each head of department a gross sum for this purpose , which he can expend at his discretion . The result may be easily foretold . It will be the same which has always followed similar legislation in the past . There will be appointments largely in excess of the needs of the service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the close of the fiscal year , a. crowd of distressed people clamoring for reinstatement , and pathetic appeals to Congress next year for a deficiency appropriation , doubly commended by a portrayal of the needs of the discharged employes and of the crippled condition of the public service . This is no imaginary picture . It is precisely the result of the lump appropriation for temporary clerks in the Treasury Department for the current fiscal year . The appropriation for the purpose for the whole year was $50,000 , but the " pressure " for place and the good nature of the appointing officers were so great that enough people were forthwith put upon the rolls to exhaust the appropriation before the year had half expired . There was no pretense , that we know of , that their services were needed . In fact , it is said that an investigation by a Congressional committee showed that most of them were employed in an auditor 's office , overhauling the files and repairing with vellum and paste the tattered rolls there deposited , in anticipation of the possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bounty " bill . We hardly know which to admire most , the wise forethought of the Auditor in anticipating the action of Congress , his willingness to convert his office into an eleemosynary institution , or the ingenuity displayed in devising a pretext for expending the public money . The usual result ensued . A crowd of needy people were thrown out of employment in midWinter and Congress was besieged with appeals to pass a Deficiency bill to provide funds to set them at ? work again . The Secretary of the , Treasury transmitted to Congress a bill for the purpose , ' but with characteristic caution refrained from saying that the appropriation was needed . He merely said that the persons whose employment it was proposed to authorize " could be usefully employed "  --  a very different matter . Doubtless , a thousand persons could be " usefully employed " after a fashion , in overhauling and patching all of the musty and decaying archives of the Government , but it is doubtful whether the people would regard an appropriation for the purpose as a wise expenditure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which this appropriation is one of the chief features , over which Congrese has been squabbling during a good portion of the present session , and which has been flying back and forth like a shuttlecock between the Hotise and the Senate , to the detriment of business of real importance , to say nothing of the waste of time and money . Tho discussion of this measure well illustrates the motives by which the making of such appropriations is controlled . Its ? prssage was urged by its advaates , among whom were some gentlemen of whom better things might have been expected , on the distinct ground that it was a charitable measure . The omission of the Secretary of the Treasury to say that the vppropriation was needed was waved aside as a matter of no consequence , and one generous-hearted ex-Confederate from Texas declared that " this Government , . if it can usefully employ the poor people , of this country , will commit a crime before Heaven if it refuses to do it . " It is plain that such a tnethod of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our vicious system of appointment it seems impossible for a head ot ? department , when a lump appropriation is placed at-his disposal , to resist the temptation to appoint more people than it will carry through the year . Even Secretary SCHURZ , whom we credit with the best intentions , has exhausted a similar appropriation for his department , and has been compelled to discharge a large number of employes , to stop important branches of the public business , and to appeal to Congress for relief . It is probably true that this action . has been made necessary in some degree by the parsimony of Congress , but , on the other hand , it is observable that the only ' " crippling " of the public service by Congress is in this class of appropriations . Whereever the number of employes is fixed , the public business is done without stoppage or complaint , in spite of the reduction of force . The system of gross appropriations is injurious both to the service and the employes . The work can not be efficiently done where there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year and no help at all during the remainder . We hope that the Senate will so amend the pending Legislative bill as to fix in all cases the number of employes authorized , and that the whole system of temporary and gross appropriations may soon be abolished . It only needs a little hard work and sound judgment on the part of the proper Appropriation Committees to effect a real reform , which will conduce to both the economy and the efficiency of the public service .                     