@@742631

txt A kaleidoscope has not many more changes of form than the Eastern question . Once in an infinite number of times the complex designs will almost repeat themselves . The Eastern question maintains the truthful character of this comparison . To-day we have returned to the form of many months ago , when any reading of public opinion caused me to dwell on the , possibility of a European conspiracy against England . The latest turn of the Eastern kaleidoscope calls to mind the design which flashed upon political eyes in the early dava of the war last year . It Ls . the bear of " The Triple Alliance " that once more afflicts the fearful imagination of Eng land . And not without reason . The Telegraph , however Turcophilo it may have been , ha ; from the first predicted the course of events it this great business . It has continually pointed out that the alliance of the three Emperors , though it might have been shaken , would be re . constructed ; that Austria is at the mercy Of Germany and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the congress . Whatever change to ? morrow may bring forth , there has all through been an apparent understanding between Rus. sia and Germany , and to-day the fears of this paper , which represents the vast majority of Englishmen in this matter , seem on the eve of realization . The three Emperors have in days gone by frightened England , but never into submission to their will . When Bismarck spoke the other day to the civilized world , and Count Andrassy asked for a vote of credit , the triple alliance was looked upon as once more a thing of the past . Russia has labored hard since then at the work of reuniting the powers . She has flattered Bismarck , and appealed to Kaiser William 's . brotherly sentiments . England 's firmness has . excited the hopes of France . That brings the Czar and the Kaiser closer together . Austria threatening to throw in her lot with England brought Bismarck and Count Andrassy into communication again , and Ignatieff has been sent to Vienna to coax or to threaten , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these columns defended Count Andrassy from charges of vacillation and fickleness . What seems on his part to be want of frankness arises from too complete a knowledge of his country 's danger . It is believed to-day that Francis Joseph has re-entered the " Kaiserbund . " And yet it is difficult to see how Austria is to be compensated for the changes which Russia is to make in Europe . English interests seem to have been considered far more than Austrian , The prolonged occupation of Bulgaria , the vastness of the now State , the increase of territory granted to Servia and Montenegro , the independence of Roumania , the annexation of the mouth of the Danube , all these conditions affect Austrian interests , and if Austria permits these changes to be accomplished , " then , " it is argued by lookers-on in London , " there must be an alliance between the three Emperors , so that Germany and Austria are to have compensation in seine new direction . " The congress may resolve itself into a conference of the three powers which drew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledge themselves tomaintain accomplished facts . This is the latest view of the London clubs . England insists that the treaty formally within the eye and knowledge of the congress shall be placed there by Russia , and the Czar declines to acknowledge the right of the powers to sit in judgment upon his work . To an outsider this phase of the conference question looks like a mere quibble , but England sees the point as a matter of grave importance , and , while Russia says it is a mere technicality , the Czar nevertheless refuses the English demand . Some method of compromise may be found , and the friends of Russia in London say that a way will bo discovered . It may he so ; 1 doubt it . At present there is uo glimmer of it ; and it is. pretty well understood that if England declines to send a representative to the congress , France and Italy will " do likewise . " There are many thoughtful men sitting nightly under the illuminated ceiling of the House of Commons who believe that war between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might bring the two countries into collision , and we have become so accustomed to the strain that the crisis of peace or war is now accepted as a matter of course . Some morning we may wake up to find that Russia has requested Queen Victoria to withdraw her fleet from the Sea of Marmora. that Victoria has refused ; and before we know where we are , the thunders of the next great war will awaken the echoes of Constantinople . The Agence Busse charges the English Government with jeopardizing the maintenance of peace , and the Journal de St. Petersbourg attacks them . with virulence . In Vienna , tho chances of a congress are considered to be greatly diminished within the last 48 hours . Russia has submitted a now opportunity to Austria , which is described to-day as " the Austro-Russian parallel scheme of annexation . " The idea is to give Austria in return for Slav preponderance in Bulgaria an extension of Austrian domination in the western portion of the Balkan Peninsula . Count Andrassy is inclined to accept this . It is a far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promises to show a startling development ( so alarmists in London think ) of the triple game of plunder which is said to bind the three Emperors together . We shall see . It is clear the present condition of things must have important changes ere long . Russia 's object is evidently to satisfy Austria and Germany , and then to defy the rest of the world ht or out of the congress . The Nord calls upon the Continental States to accomplish the reorganization of the Balkan Provinces irrespective. of England , which can be done without scruple , seeing that " the solution they are called upon to consecrate does not touch English interests . " On the other hand , the Constitutionnel argues that Russia can not honorably reject England 's demand relative to the communication to the congress of the treaty of 1878 . " Whether congress meets or not the treaty of San Stefano will require the sanction of Europe . " The DEbats can not regard the treaty as a settlement of the Eastern question even for a time . The present arrangements are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at issue for a new discussion in the immediate future . " The Debats unites in sympathy for England , and concludes a remarkable article with these remarkable words : " The old school of Russian diplomacy , ambitious certainly , but respectful of rights , precise and conservative , exists no longer . It has given way to a school of fiery and audacious revolutionists . The first has ended , the second begins ; history will judge between them . " Le Temps says : " The treaty of San Stefano has had the object , and will have the result , of a Russian sequestration of Turkey . In order to , prevent this result the congress have the right of revising the treaty from beginning to end . This is what Russia could not admit , but what England was bound to demand the moment she wished to associate herself with the collective work of Europe in the East , and not lend herself to " the manifest ambitions of the Slav Empire . " Thus the ball rolls on . Meanwhile the Roumanian Chambers are holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bessarabia , and Grand Duke Nicholas has visited the Sultan in military state , and the Sultan has " returned the compliment . " They talked together for more than an hour , and the Russian sailors cheered the Turkish monarch . " What new conspiracy is in stow for us I " they ask at the Carlton , in spite of the reassuring telegrams of AngloTurks at Pera that . England has only to lift up her finger in downright earnest to have the immediate co-operation of the 50,000 troops now facing the Russians under the shadow of British interests in the neighbrhood of the Dardanelles.                     