@@740742

txt The following appears in the report of the Department of Agriculture for July : Hon. FREDERICK WATTS . of Carlisle , Penn. , has been appointed successor to Gen. Cantor ; as Commissioner of Agriculture , to date from the 1st of August . ! edge WATTS is a native of Carlisle , and was educated at Dickinson College , where he graduated at the age of nineteen . Immediately after his graduation , he went to Erie County . Pennsylvania , and there lived three years with an uncle , working daily on his farm . Returning to Carlisle , he studied With ANDREW CAROTHERS , and was admitted to the Bar . He practiced his Profession until 1848. when he was commissioned by Gov . Wm . F. joinisroN as Presiding Judge of the Ninth Judicial District of Pennsylvania , composed of the Counties of Cumberland , Perry and Juniata . This office be held for three years , when it having been made elective , and the district being under the control of the political party with which lie was not in sympathy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He did not , however , actively engage in his profession , a large portion of his time being devoted to the personal superintendence of a farm near Carlisle . For many years he had been a farmer as well as alawver. and bad become known as one who believed in the application of science to the tilling of the soil . In 1858 he abandoned entirely the practice of law , and since then has been exclusively a farmer . During the last few years he has resided on his farm , giving to all the details or its management his personal attention . He is also the owner of another farm , which he manages through a teoant . Judge WATTS ' prominence as a farmer led to his election in 1856 as the first President of the Pennsylvania Agricultural Society , which Wilco he held until 1862 , when he declined a re-election . He was elected the first President of the Board of Trustees of the Agricultural College of Pennsylvania . a position which he still holds . He has never been prominent as a politician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy , and has never been a candidate for either Congressional or Legislative honors . Ho was not an applicant for the distinguished position to which he has just been appointed , and its duties and responsibilities have been accepted with reluctance . Judge WATTS is a practical and scientific farmer . He has devoted his life to the practice of progressive methods of diversified agriculture , and has always manifested a deep interest and genuine euthusiasm in the advancement of the farmer 's calling . In his new office he may be expected to give to all the agricultural interests of the country the same intelligent and industrious attention he has bestowed upon the varied operations of his farm and the agriculture of Pennsylvania .                     