@@740807

txt Nobody was much disappointed when the first Grand Jury that took up HALL 'S case failed to indict him . Nothing more or less was expected from its character . Yet if its character had been beyond suspicion , and its intentions ever so earnest and sincere , ii would have been practically powerless without the co-operation of the DistrictAttorney . Did that officer lendit all the aid in his power ? Let those who have read his questions to the witnesses , as published by a committee of the jury , judge for themselves , Nothing could be plainer from those questions than that it was his purpose to screen , not to expose , his friend HALL . For instance , he undertook to question witnesses as to the parties whose action was required to prepare a warrant and draw money from the Treasury . Of these the Mayor is one , and his signature is final . It is not , in the routine of business in the County offices , the last in point of time , but it is conclusive . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now , instead of developing this fact , . and pointing out to the jury the bearing it had on the question of the 3fayor'E criminality , the District-Attorney devoted his utmost ingenuity to emphasize the necessity of other signatures , the confidence usually imposed in the Auditor , and the " sole " duty of the Controller and Auditor to investigate the subject-matter of the warrants . He even went so far as to ash one of the principal witnesses if " the Mayor signed the warrants " for the stolen money " in his ministerial capacity , " and then immediately tacknd on another irrelevant question , so that the answer to the latter should seem to be an affirmative answer to the former . This was a direct effort to impress the jury with the validity of Mayor HALL 'S own most flimsy excuse for his connection with the thieving . Nor did the Attorney stop hero . It was shown that the invariable role under honest Mayors bad been that sworn vouchers should accompany the warrants presented for the Mayor 's signature ; that the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a misdemeanor for any officer of the City Government to evade any provision of the law . Yet when a juror asked the District-Attorney if " the signing of a warrant without an affidavit to the voucher was a statutory misdemeanor , " the facile GARVIN answered , " No , Sir . " The reason for his answer may be surmised when it is known that Mayor HALL was proved to have signed as many as a hundred warrants without complying with the statute at all . The District-Attorney had reason to rely on the first Grand Jury to aid him in whitewashing the Mayor . He has , we think , less reason to rely on this . Certain members of it are resolved to get at the truth if they can , and to bring it home to the guilty officers . Will the District-Attorney treat it no more honestly than he did its predecessor ? Will he try to drive it to another failure , in order to bolster the impudence of the Mayor in keeping his position in spite of public indignation and contempt ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will . It is equally plain that he will if he is allowed to . There is one man who can prevent him , and that is Gov . HOFFMAN . There is ample ground to be found in the records of the last Grand Jury for the Governor 's intervention in the matter . He would be entirely justified in calling GARVIN to account , and assuring him that the repetition of his disgraceful tactics will furnish the occasion for his removal . The Governor alone has final and adequate power to see justice done to the people , and to compel the vindication of the law . Will he exercise it ?                     