@@742408

txt New-Orleans , perhaps morn than any other city in the country , has been blessed with eccentric Millionaires who have left large bequests for the benefit of the municipality , and ex-Mayor Flanders , in a recent report of his administration of the wellknown Stephen Henderson legacy , recalls a number of the peculiarities of some of those well-moaning but impracticable gentlemen which very forcibly illustrate the truth of the old German adage that " Dead men can not manage estates . " Old NICIIOLAS GIROD , the first Mayor of the Crescent City , was one of the earliest of these would-be benefactors . He left $100,000 ? an enormous sum in those days  --  which was to be devoted to the erection and maintenance of an asylum for the education of the children of indigent French residents . The Mayor of the city was appointed to administer the fund , and , shortly after the death of old Gluon , attempted to carry out the instructions contained in his will . Ho met with great opposition from the legal heirs of the dead man , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spent in litigation . The case was finally decided in favor of the city , but , unfortunately , the decision of the courts did not put an end to the difficulty . It was specified with much distinctness in GIROD 'S will that the institution to be erected with his money should be exclusively for the benefit of the children of poor French citizens . This class was found to be a ? very small one , and the authorities , having an eye to their political future , persistently refused to take upon themselves the responsibility of admitting children of only one nationality to the benefits of the asylum . At last , when the buildings were completed , the city was at a loss to know what to do with them . Those for whose special use they were at first intended could not be found , and not long ago the proper municipal authorities wisely concluded to throw the asylum open to poor boys and girls of all classes and all nationalities . And so the will of old NICHOLAS GIROD has been thwarted and his clearly-expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who embarrassed the city authorities of New-Orleans . Ho did so by leaving them a large sum of Money for the establishment of free schools for Protestant children . His will was so worded that to carry it out the municipality would bo obliged not only to apply certain severe religious tests to applicants for admission to the schools , but would also be compelled to regulate their religious studies in a manner entirely at variance with the institutions and traditions of this country . Tho city authorities very sensibly decided not to assume the responsibility . They secured possession of the fund , after much litigation , however , and it is now invested in city bonds , with the understanding that at some future time the interest received from them shall be devoted to charitable purposes . Still another citizen of New-Orleans , who sincerely desired to benefit that city , but who , because of the complicated and impracticable nature of his will failed to do so , was Mr. Jolla MCDONOGH . This gentleman died possessed of an immense property , the bulk of which he willed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and New-Orleans for the erection and maintenance of ten or a dozen charitable and educational institutes . The will making these bequests covered upward of forty pages of foolscap closely written , and contained innumerable ridiculous conditions , none of which could , by any possibility , be carried out . Absurd as were these provisions , however , it was years before the two cities that were to benefit by the will could have them legally declared null and void . They did so , however , after the expenditure of hundreds of thousand of dollars . Then they fell out about the division of the property , and at last , when all litigation had ended , and each municipality had received its share , it was found that nearly a million dollars had been spent in counsel fees , and that the estate had depreciated in value from seven to two million dollars . NewOrleans used a part of her share before the war to help her credit , and when the city was attacked during the rebellion exhausted the remainder , not in the building of schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forts and earth-works , which . were intended to , but which ? did not , resist the attacks of the Federal troops . When Gen. BUTLER entered the city and found that the trust fund had beea expended as described , he immediately arrested such ' of the city authorities as he could lay hands on , and placed them in jail . They were released when ho left the city , and after the war four or five school-houses were erected with the remnant of the fund . It will be seen from this brief reference to some of the most remarkable legacies which have been left to the City of NewOrleans that several million dollars have been practically lost to that city , and the wills of a number of would-be public benefactors frustrated , simply because they appointed political agents to do what they ought to have done themselves . The truth is that rich men should be careful to administer their own charities ; their generosity should not commence upon their deathbeds . The incidents to which wo have referred prove very conclusively that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to administer the legacies of dead men in accordance with their wishes as expressed in their last wills . The lesson which those incidents teach should not be disregarded .                     