@@743114

txt The novel proceeding by writ of certiorari against the Tax Commissioners , mentioned in THE TIMES of Friday , is likely to attract a good deal of attention . It has been generally understood that in the assessment of real estate the Tax Commissioners were , practically and legally , the court of last resort , so long , at least , as the valuation did not exceed the actual value of the property . As to the relative values of different pieces of property , the question of equalization was deemed to have been committed entirely to those officers , and that from their decision there was no appeal . The law of 1859 , . creating the board  --  chapter 302 , section 11 ? expressly declares that it is " the intention of this act to provide for the better equalization of the taxation in the City of New-York , " &c.; This general opinion is strengthened by the fact that several ineffectual attempts have been made to procure the passage of an act by the Legislature which would require the courts to enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a measure have been twofold . First , because the imposition of such duties upon a court would practically break it down , for the duties would be so onerous , complicated , and exacting that no court could perform them in addition to its ordinary duties ; and , second , because the Board of Tax Commissioners were , in effect , a court invested with full power in the premises , and provided with the machin cry and assistants necessary for the performance of such duties , and therefore that such service would be executed more conveniently , and presumably more equitably , by that - board than by any court of law . The office of the writ of certiorari  --  or " satcherarer , " as rural attorneys delight to call it ? has been often invoked in regard to both real and personal property , but always for the purpose of determining the legality and not the equity of an assessment . Thus , recently , under that writ , the question of the lawfulness of the assessment of the structures of the elevated railroads as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the premium upon United States bonds , as personal property , have been considered and decided by the courts . But in these eases the question was , as to the one , whether , in law , the structure was real estate ; and as to the other , whether , in law , the immunity from taxation which covered the United States bond extended to the premium upon such bond . In neither was the question of equalization involved . From the statements published it appears that the complainants who have now invoked the aid of the writ filed the objections to the assessments upon their real estate in writing , and subsequently demanded a hearing , which they allege was denied them . ' The law of 1859 provides  --  section 8 ? that the assessments shall be open for inspection from the second Monday in January until the 30th day of April . Thus , during nearly four months opportunity is afforded for filing of objections or complaints . These the law  --  section 11 ? says " must be in writing , stating the grounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the bulk of these objections or complaints are lodged during the last ten or twenty days immediately preceding the 30th of April , and then the work of the Commissioners , as an appellate body , begins . The law allows them only two months for this service , during which many other official duties have to be discharged , so that within this limited time it would be impracticable to give a " hearing " to each of the many thousand ? in 1877 there were more than 8,000 ? complainants . Yet every complainant feels that his case can be more fully and fairly stated orally than in writing , and ho often entertains doubts whether his written objections are really read at all by the board , and so is naturallyrestless and dissatisfied under an adverse decision . From this state of the law it does not seem likely that the courts can give any re- lief , even in cases of hardship . The valuations placed upon real estate are fixed in the " judgment " ? sections 7 and 10 of the act of 1859 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have willfully and corruptly done a wrong , they are amenable to the law , but if they have erred in judgment only , by placing too high a valuation upon one property and too low a valuation upon another , the law seems to have provided no remedy for the inequality , or even injustice  --  and inequality is injustice  --  beyond the written appeal to the Commissioners . Public opinion , however , is a tribunal which would brand with dishonor any officer or board refusing to do equity in an obvious case . If the Tax Board is the ulti ? mate tribunal , so much the more is that board bound to investigate carefully , and decide impartially , every objection made by tax-payers to the valuations fixed by their subordinates . The responsibility attaching to the exercise of arbitrary power is commensurate with the extent of that power . It must not be wielded heedlessly , and ought not to be exercised discourteously.                     