@@742818

txt The good government of New-York for at least six years to come depends upon the character and political affiliations of the man who will this Fall be elected Mayor . Though elected for a term of but two years , there will devolve upon our next Mayor the appointment of three-fourths of the heads of departments , for terms varying from four to six years . These will include the Controller , Corporation Counsel , and Commissioner of Public Works , and the next Mayor will thus have it in his power to effect a thorough reorganization of the City Government . For this task there will be needed not only unimpeachable character , but a certain amount of familiarity with public business ; to administrative capacity there must be superadded that independence of partisan control or dictation , without which the most estimable of Mayors may easily sink to the level of the most disreputable . It is perfectly certain that Tammany Hall will not nominate a candidate for Mayor who has not given in advance pledges of obedience to JOHN KELLY and the little knot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A Tammany Mayor must , necessarily , be a mere figure-head for the Tammany dictator . Any attempt to assert his individuality must , in the future as iu the past , be met by tactics that will bring local administration to a deadlock . The election of a Tammany Mayor in November means , not only the continuance of JOHN KELLY in the Controller 's office for a second term of four years , but it means also the perpetuation of his power in every department of the City Government , and the retention of the plundering gang who bleed the Treasury under the protection of his authority . We do not think that a majority of the voters of this City are prepared to hand its Government over to JOHN KELLY for the next six years . If that issue is fairly presented to them in the shape of a Tammany candidate on one side and an Anti-Tammany candidate on the other , there can be but little doubt about the result . Mr. KELLY , at least , labors under no delusion on that score . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and those who are against him , he knows perfectly well that he must be worsted . He is , accordingly , addressing himself to the usual device for preventing a fair fight . The Mayoralty is the keystone of his power , and to keen that in its place he is prepared to sacrifice almost anything else that may be at stake in November . He happens to have at his disposal sundry things which , on personal or political grounds , are coveted by some of the Republican managers in this City and State . He is engaged in finding opt , if ho has not already found out , at what price their alliance can be bought , and there is imminent danger that the Republican Party will be cheated and the interests of the City betrayed , as they have been twice before , by the transparent trick of a " straight " Republican candidate for Mayor . It need hardly be said that even if the honest sentiment of the party revolted , as it certainly would , against a repetition of the corrupt bargain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would mean the triumph of Tammany Hall . It would give KELLY , in advance , the prestige of success , and that Would decide thousands of wavering voters in his favor ; it would yield a Republican vote even more insignificant than that polled by Mr. WALES , but it would throw enough votes away to leave KELLY master of the field . In the event of a very extensive draft by the National Party on the Tammany vote , the combined Democratic and Independent opposition might exceed the strength of the " regular " organization , but that is a contingency too doubtful to be made the basis of serious calculation . The simple fact , therefore may as well be recognized that by the trickery of a , handfal of Republican managers the Government of New-York may be handed over for another half dozen years to Tammany Hall . It la useless to waste epithets over the disreputable character of anysuch proceeding , or to predict for the men engaged in it the public contempt which they deserve . It is equally vain to point out the supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building up the power of an organization whose capacity to swamp any possible Republican majority north of the Harlem River is largely dependent on its possession of the sinews of war afforded by the absolute disposal of the vast patronage and power of both the Executive and the Judicial Departments of the City Government . The little band of selfish intriguers who , in the past , have contrived to run the Republican " machine " for their own interest and for the benefit of Tammany Hall , have been as indifferent to the interests of the . party as to the opinion of their fellow-citizens . The late Mayor HAVEMEYER hit off their characteristics in a neat and forcible sentence , and six years of somewhat checkered experience has not lessened their ability either to cheat the public or each other . It happens that a more than usual disgust with their tactics has been excited this year in advance of the City Convention , which they hope to control . That feeling is shared by certain party leaders who have been accustomed to let them , in local affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the ranks of those who have been wont to control district associations in their interest . But if the members of the party who are consulted only on election day hope to avert the party infamy and the public wrong of electing Tammany candidates by Republican ballots , they can not too soon give unmistakable public expression to their sentiments . Even the managers a primaries pay some attention to the demands of the intelligent opinion of their party , and a vary plain intimation of a general " bolt " from any Republican bargain with JOHN KELLY would probably not be entirely without effect .                     