@@743011

txt Neither party should be entirely satisfied with the late debate or with its result . On the Republican side there has been , perhaps necessarily , a degree of confusion which may be easily made to look like disingenuousness . On the Democratic side there has been palpable dishonesty , and a restraint which may not be maintained at a later stage of the contest . Thus the Republicans appear as solidly opposed to a measure which in another form a majority of them would not be unwilling to support . They have resisted the repeal of the clauses relating to the employment of troops at the polls , not ' because they would sanction a partisan use of military power , but because the repeal comes up in a shape that renders it part of a scheme for breaking down the constitutional authority of the Executive . The position is logical and sound , but it exposes its occupants to the risk of being misunderstood . The cool , clear heads of the party , during the progress of the debate , rendered sufficiently distinct the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted to give it effect ; others , who should have done better , allowed their hostility to the method to discolor their criticism of the measure itself . Had the Democrats accepted Mr. CONGER 'S challenge , and severed the measure from the Appropriation bill , some of the more impetuous Republicans would have been not a little embarrassed . . They would have appeared as supporters of a bill whose object they incautiously denounced as revolutionary . Fortunately for the Republican Party , these errors are trivial in comparison with the blunders that will render the Do mocratie victory more disastrous than defeat . The partisan blindness and malignity which created the occasion for a special session have been apparent at every step . Of oratorical ability the Democrats have no lack , as this debate has shown , but the ablest of their speakers have proved themselves most dangerous ' to their own party . Many of their propositions commit them to a policy that would concentrate all governing power in the House of Representatives , and bring the Government to a dead-lock if the Senate or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral courage which impels a man possessing Mr. Tumult 's powArs to foreshadow violent action as a means of enforcing the Democratic plan , but his party has good reason to deplore the rashness that commits it to a policy which can not be sustained . Still more damaging , in a popular sense , must be the rejection of Mr. CONGER 'S offer . Vulnerable points in an argument may be overlooked . An attempt to construct a constitutional plea for propositions that would make a reconstruction of the Government necessary , may not awaken alarm . But a refusal to so amend the form of the business as to present the bill forbidding the presence of troops at the polls in a manner that would insure its enactment , while relieving the Appropriation bill of a rider that imperils its passage , can not be misunderstood . It fastens upon the Democratic Party the charge of hypocrisy , and converts into gammon the flashy rhetoric which has been employed to depict the dangers incident to the control of soldiers . What Republicans have from the outset alleged is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops at the polls being a menace to the ballot is intended to conceal the real purpose of the party . Grave appeals to English practice , fierce assaults on Federal usurpation , indignant rebukes of imaginary designs -- are so much oratorical fustian , used by its authors to divert attention from the major object of the struggle . That , as every one must now see , is to destroy the influence exercised by Federal supervision at the polls . The clauses of the law relating to the Army are insignificant in their probable effect ; the presence of Federal Supervisors and Deputy Marshals under the Election law is , on the contrary , a powerful chock upon tactics to which the Democratic Party , North and South , has been indebted for many of its successes . The measure just adopted by the House is a pretext for jeopardizing the Army Appropriation bill ; the other is the real object of attack . Saturday 's vote helps the Democrats , then , only so far as it supplies a certain amount of leverage , to be made available when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall then see whether the Democratic Party can be held together under the guidance of the extremists . For the moment the presumption seems to be in their favor . An undercurrent of dissatisfaction exists , however , which may demolish their calculations when the stoppage of the Government , as a consequence of the denial of its supplies , shall be presented as a specific issue . Certainly the sophistry which Mr. TUCKER and others have employed in stating the issue is too transparent to deceive any man of common intelligence . This is the case as they present it : If Congress pass the political measures as parts of the two appropriation bills , and the President refuses to sign the bills because the measures are attached , ? who shall yield ? Is not the right of Congress to dictate to the President as valid as the right of . the President to dictate to Congress ? If the refusal of Congress to yield can be called coercion is not the same term applicable to the action of the President ? Absurd as it is , such is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremists ' programme . Mr. TUCKER forgets that there is a wide difference between a veto , which is an expression of the President 's judgment in a form prescribed by the Constitution , and a refusal to recognize the veto by a majority less than the constitutionally proscribed two-thirds . The President , if he fulfill the expectations of his party , will simply exercise his lawful authority ; he will discharge his duty as he understands it . The Congress will assert an unlawful pretension , and will make it the excuse for doing by an indirect agency what it can not do in conformity with the Constitution . The proposition is so obviously untenable that something more tangible than threats will be required to prove that the Democratic Party as a whole is willing to abide by its consequences . Meanwhile this is a fair specimen of the wordy devices employed to strengthen the backbone of the party and to justify its course before the country .                     