@@743135

txt It has been said that the ratio of insanity , in some one of its types , which are mildly but expressively characterized in country towns by the word " deranged , " is large among farmers ' wives and daughters in the older portions of the United States . If true , this must be ascribed to the grinding of hard and unremitting work , the lack of beauty in domestic life , and the absence of mental employment . However this may be , there is no doubt of the early fading of American women , in city and country alike . In no country in the world are women so reverentially and tenderly regarded during their bloom as here  --  perhaps because that bloom is not more flower-like than its fading . Statistics may not show that their life is peculiarly short . The highly-strung nervous organization enables them to " keep up , " but does not prevent their aging quickly , and it is generally true that hardly has the young husband secured his bride before he finds her brightness and youthfulness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature that bud passes into flower and then to seed ; the matron reproduces In her children what time robs her of , but the vanishing is too speedy . The cause is not maternity so much as it is the trials of housekeeping , which are especially severe in the city , because the conveniences known as modern improvements do not offset the stairways and the peculiar trouble with servants . The man who , to an inquiry how he came to marry an Irish girl , replied that marrying an American one would have compelled him to hire an Irish girl to take care of her , showed what is coarsely known as " horse sense , " if he looked only to the question of getting necessary work done ; for , by some unexplained law of compensation , it does not seem to be practicable to get brains and muscles in the same body . The dexterity , nimbleness , readiness in emergencies , and tact , which are charming in the woman of to-day , are obtained at the price of physical strength ; what , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much of the endurance that once made it effective . Miranda knows perfectly how- to do , with the utmost of neatness and good sense , and at the minimum of labor , every detail in domestic life ; but her strength is insufficient , so she must call in Bridget to crucify her daily . She is the brain ; Bridget is the muscle ; but the muscle will not obey . Bridget is ca n't , wo n't , and do n't , personified . She has been dimming the eyes , flecking the hair , thinning the hands , clouding the brightness , and shortening the days of her American sister during the last quarter century . It is no more necessary to dwell upon these details than it was in the time of ALVA to talk at length about the rack to somebody who had lately experienced the methods of quickening religious convictions then in vogue . American women no longer consent to house service , but fight it to the last ; the old New-England " help , " on terms of equality , has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nous a non principle , persistently remains an ignorance office ; neither evolution nor training makes visible improvement in Bridget , and Ali Sin is yet a questionable substitute . The race of servants ? if it is really written in the order of creation that there shall be such a thing ? is still a barren ideality ; events have not yet produced it . There is no relief except in lessening the dependence on servants , by so reducing domestic work that it may all be done by very small families , and that upon all it may bear less severely . No Frankenstein can produce a mechanical servant , but invention can do much for the housekeeper . ? Spinning and its attendant operations , down to clothes-making , have been taken out of dwellings , but if we except a variety of little things , most of which increase the comforts of domestic life rather than relieve its work , the sewing-machine and the wringer are about all the material contributions invention has made to domestic work . Washing and scrubbing , sweeping , washing dishes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to be made lighter . Practical elevators , automatic dish-washers , stoves which confine their heat to the objects desired and require no fire to be made in them , are some of the things awaited at the hands of inventors . Illuminating gas , as a labor-saver , is not of much consequence ; but , as has been repeatedly urged in these columns , any scheme which shall successfully supply heat as well as light in the gaseous form , and thus banish the nuisance of coal from city houses , whether it is done by steam or by gas , will lop off at a stroke a very have part of house-work . But aside from this , there seems to be oppor- tunity for applying in practice the co-operative principle , which is simply to do in one place , with especial facilities , some of the heaviest portions of work ? as is done by the gas companies  --  distributing the results and concentrating the means . The first step could be to make more of the laundry . Instead of doing the severest part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on a small scale in thousands of scattered houses , unite the work and thus enlarge the facilities . The cities are full of socalled laundries , which consist of a cellar or equivalent place , where somebody uses on a small scale the familiar old implements ; but , except in the great hotels , there are very few establishments to be found which carry out the idea , which is , to utilize machinery and dispense with muscles , as in everything else that is done economically . There has been a laundry in Troy for many years which receives and returns articles by express  --  chiefly collars and cuffs  --  over quite an area of country in three States . at least . In towns sufficiently compact , it might be practicable to extend the plan further to cooking . The late M. BLOT devised a scheme of that sort in both Now-York and Brooklyn , but it failed , for some reason we do not now recall . In using the word co-operative , however , we do not mean that the scheme should necessarily be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it shall secure concentration . Better administrative ability would be necessary , and more practical difficulties might arise in carrying out the mutual plan than in letting private ownership do everything . On the other hand , the purely co-operative scheme , if it once conquers success , has manifest advantages . It is impossible to deny , however , that any way which should dispose of the washing and ironing , and lighten the cooking , would go far to change domestiellife for American women . Cooperation has left housekeeping alone hitherto . Is there not a reasonably promising field there for giving a new turn to it ?                     