@@742609

txt Perhaps there is some danger of injustice as a result of the general disfavor into which the land-grant system has fallen . The two propositions , before the House of Representatives are not on their face inequitable , but either might be made the means of sacrificing legitimate interests in obedience to a clamor that takes cognizance of only one Side of the questions involved . Mr. OLIVER , of Iowa , has a resolution intended to enforce a decision of the Supreme Court changing the practice of the Department of the Interior with reference to railroad companies which have received lands outside the main limits of their grants as compensation for lands lost to them within the limits . The effect of the proposition would be to curtail the grants of companies whose roads are wholly or partly in operation , and whose estimates of lands earned have been based upon the assumption that Congress , in prescribing as their right alternate sections within a given area , designed to grant a certain aggregate quantity . The other resolution , introduced by Mr. JOYCE , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have expired before the lands had been actually earned . If the declaration of forfeiture were carried out in the sweeping manner which the terms of the resolution warrant , large areas of land would be restored to the public domain without any regard for wrong done to interests that are certainly entitled to some consideration . Discrimination in a matter like this is just as well as expedient . The feeling against land grants quite as often amounts to prejudice as to intelligent conviction , and it should.not be allowed to blind legislators to bond fide rights that have'grown. up under the system , or to the causes which in many instances have prevented a literal compliance with the conditions of the charters . It may be fairly admitted that some of the companies were mere speculative projects from , the beginning . Their promoters never thought ? seriously of prosecuting the enterprises in whose behalf lands were donated . Charters were sought with the hope of finding customers for them or of using them to extort subscriptions and loans from the localities concerned . These were the flagrant frauds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can properly complain if the lands set aside by the Government for purposes that have been practically abandoned , are once more made available for settlement . In other cases an extension of time was obtained only to prove the hopelessness of carrying out the schemes . Here , again , forfeiture entails no . hardship . The companies are virtually dead , and the lands they never really owned may well revert to the people . There are companies of another class which can not with propriety be made the victims of Mr. JOYCE 'S rough and ready remedy . Their good faith is unquestionable . They represent many millions of invested capital , advanced by persons at home and abroad in reliance chiefly upon the , security offered by the land grants ; and with the money thus obtained more than a thousand miles of road have been built and equipped , and are to-day in useful operation in the North-west . We do not designate the roads because it is desirable to conduct the discussion upon a general basis without regard to special claims , but the accuracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a recent map or to data- supplied in POOR 'S Manual . All these enterprises were plunged into embarrassment by the panic of 1873 . The work of construction came to a standstill , and the portions of roans that had been built , with  --  the land . attached to them , passed into the hands of the bondholders . who had supplied the money . Whatever objectionable features may have been in the original management were by this process eliminated , and the reorganized companies have a strong title to forbearance . During the long period of depression some of the charters have expired ; the question of expiration is in one case in dispute ; while two or three others rapidly approach their prescribed end , Instead of taking advantage of difficulties that were beyond the control of the companies , it seems to us that the companies we have described should be promptly accorded such further time as may be reasonably desired for the completion of their roads . And the renewal of the charters should carry with it all their original land-grant privileges . Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ innocent parties , and will , moreover , injure envious public interests to an extent which the forfeiture of land will not cover . As for the question of settlement , very little inquiry will show that the bond fide enterprises which Mr. JOYCE unjustly confounds with shams and frauds have , in common with older and more prosperous landgrant roads , done much more to promote than to retard the welfare of settlers . The principal enlargement of the area of grain cultivation will be found to be on the lines of roads whose lands it is proposed to seize , and whose energy and liberality encourage settlement and make it possible . Wild as the running of railroads into the wilderness may seem to be , and disastrous as it has been to the pockets of a vast multitude , little room exists for doubt as to the effect upon the currents of migration , and upon the wheat-growing capacity of the country . Demagogues ignore these considerations , but they will not be overlooked by sensible people . Mr. OLIVER 'S proposal refers , not to the merits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies crippled by the hard times , but to the rule acted upon at the Land Office in estimating the land-earnings of the roads . The legal aspect of the question has been disposed of judicially , and if the House hold that this judgment is in conformity with equity , the only proper course will be so to enlarge the scope of the pending resolution as to require a revision of the quantities of land certified or conveyed to all companies . The decision does not strike us as equitable or in conformity with the general intention that prevailed when the land grants were in vogue . But , right or wrong , the rule acted upon by the Department of the Interior should be uniform , and should extend to companies whose accounts are closed as well as to companies whose misfortunes compel thorn to seek further favors.                     