@@742255

txt The hopes which were generally felt , that Mr. RANDALL would use all the powers of his office to check the mad conspiracy of the immediate friends of Mr. TILDEN in the House , yesterday , were not well founded . With some show of hesitancy , but with great persistency , he played directly into the hands of the recolutionists . The latter , guided by Cox , of this Scale , and aided by TILDEN 'S lawyer , FIELD , left no stone unturned to delay the count . Their first step was to demand a the II use , which the Speaker , though lie had himself minted the members and announced a quorum present , entertained . This was a victory for the filibusters , since , though the motion was rejected , the yeas and nays were called on it , and since it demonstrated RANDALL 's readiness to entertain purely dilatory motions , such as the spirit of the law and Ins rulings the day before distinctly condemned . Their next advantage was in obtaining front RANDALL a ruling which allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call of the House had been refused . The Speaker not only ruled this , lint lie took occasion to hint to the.conspirators that they could at any time move to reconsider anything which the House should do , a suggestion which they were not slow to accept , and which cost at least ten hours of valuable time . Having discovered that the Speaker was so far on their side , the revolutionists began a furious and prolonged effort to get a case fur the Electoral Commission from Vermont . It will be remembered that on the previous day IlEwirr had offered to the joint convention a bogus " certificate " from that State . This package the President of the Senate refused to receive , as he was obliged to do , since his duties in regard to receiving actual certificates were at an end under the law , and since this pretended certificate was presented to him by a person who was without authority to transmit such a document as it was alleged to be , and was entitled to no more consideration than a bundle of PELTON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in . But the filibusters , aiming at delay only , proposed that the House should demand the opening of ' this packet of HEwrit 's , and should refuse to go on with the count unless it was opened , and , it ' found to lie a certificate , referred to the Electoral Commission . This raid was led by TILDEN 'S immediate representative , FIELD , the great criminal lawyer . With the ingenuity for which he is noted , he argued that there was no time fixed by law within which certificates should bo sent in , and that the President of the Senate , iu refusing to receive what purported tobe a certificate , had offended the- dignity and violated the rights of the House . Pending this debate and previous to it , the most disgraceful disorder prevailed among the Democrats who were fighting against time . They showed a deliberate purpose to break up the session of the House in confusion . They left their seats and crowded the aisles ; they shouted from all directions to the Speaker ; they indulged iu howls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and one of them , BEEBE , au obscure fellow from one of the river counties in this State , jumped upon the desks , and ran yelling over the heads of members toward the Speaker . RANDALL allowed this wretched display of violence to continue for some time , and only consented to do his duty in quelling it when shamed by the indignant protests and demands of decent Democrats on the floor . When the revolutionary proposition regarding the bogus certificate ' was finally brouglit to a vote , 116 Democrats were , to their discredit , found ready to vote for it . It was , however , defeated by 148 nays , of which a number were the votes of Southern members . Mr. Timm himself recoiled from carrying out the plot in which he had taken the first stop , and voted against the proposition . Then the revolutionists began a new series of dilatory motions , in which they were indulged for a wholly inexcusable period by the Speaker . The principal feature of the process was first a motion to amend ; this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a motion to lay on the table ; this being rejected , a new motion to reconsider , and so on . It was obvious that the effect of this was delay , and it was pointed out to the Speaker that its intent also was delay ; but he persisted in allowing it as long as , with any show of decency , he could do so . Finally , however , the main question was reached and put , and all possible filibustering , even under the Speaker 's favoring ruling , was exhausted . Then RANDALL did what he should have done in the first place . He refused to recognize O'BRIEN , of Maryland , one of the chiefs of the conspirators , and declared that , under the law , the House must proceed to meet the Senate . When the two houses met in joint convention an attempt was made to get an objection to the vote of Virginia , but no Senator was found willing to lend his name to the scheme . Vermont , Yirginia , and West Virginia were rapidly counted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press the conspirators , nothing daunted , are still at their base work . A motion to take a recess has been defeated by 99 yeas to 148 nays , and the House is engaged with motions and counter-motions relating ostensibly to the objection to Wisconsin . As there is a determination to make an all-night session , if necessary , it is as nearly certain as can be that the efforts of tiro filibusters are approaching sure defeat . Meanwhile we venture to offer to our readers in all parts of the land our hearty congratulaitions on the final triumph for which we have all waited so long , and which now appears so near at hand . May our party and its leaders use their opportunity faithfully and with wisdom .                     