@@742421

txt It has been more than once hinted that England has on various occasions exhibited a rather overbearing disposition toward other powers . The time has , however , arrived when we should forget whatever faults England may have committed and remember only her merits . Let us speak only good of the dying . Retribution , though long delayed , I has at last overtaken the proud British Empire . She has rashly stepped on the sensitive toes ef Perti , and her doom is sealed . Peruhas formally demanded satisfaction for the attack on the Huascar by British frigates , and , of course , proposes to enforce her demand at the mouth of all her available horse-pistols . It will lie remembered that the Huascar was an iron-clad frigate belonging to the numerous ' Governments that constantly succeed one another in Peru . Some time ago an ingenious Peruvian , who desired to vary the regular routine of revolution , seized the Huasear , established a new Government on her quarter-deck , and started on a coasting voyage with the view of collecting taxes  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clothing  --  from the Peruvian sea-ports . Now , there happened to be two British frigates in the Peruvian 's waters , and their commanders , regarding it as grossly irregular for an entire republic to sail around in an iron-clad , agreed that the Huascar was a pirate and ought to be captured and returned to her lawful owners . They , therefore , set sail in search of the Iluascar , and having found her , opened fire upon her with the avidity of noble seamen spoiling for a fight . The wicked Government on board the iron - clad refused to surrender to the Englishmen , but after fighting until the vessel was severely injured , fled into a neighboring port and surrendered to the other Peruvian Government . At first the Peruvians on shore were greatly pleased at the recovery of their ironclad , and were filled with admiration for the unselfish patriotism of the floating Government when it had restored her to them . When , however , they inspected her , their joy was turned to indignation . The ruthless English cannon-halls had knocked so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smashed so much of her woodwork , that she was in imperative need of repairs . To repair a Peruvian iron-clad is a work of enormous difficulty and expense . The local tin-smith of Lima confessed that while he could solder up the smaller holes , he could not make her positively bullet-proof , and the Government finding that the necessary repairs to her would cost fully seven hundred dollars , gloomily acknowledged that the required amount could not be raised without heavily increasing the burden of taxation . Thus , it was apparent that the nice new iron-clad , on board of which so many delightful balls had been given , was entirely spoiled by the rude and lawless conduct of the two British Captains , and a fierce demand for vengeance and the expenses of repairing the Huascar was made by an outraged and angry nation . To this . demand the Peruvian Government was compelled to listen , or else to witness the immediate outbreak of from six to twelve revolutions in the leading wine-shops of Peru . Of course , it chose the former alternative , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and making a special appropriation for the purchase of a sheet of paper , an envelope , and a stick of sealingwax , it drew up a formal demand upon the British Government for satisfaction . If England should accedk3 to this demand , and either give Peru a new iron-clad or send out a man to repair the Huascar at the cost of the British Treasury , all would be well ; but the British Government is too proud to do anything of the kind . The consequence will be war between Peru and England . Para has been provoked past endurance , and England will soon learn what is the consequence of awakening the just auger of a powerful and valiant nation . When the Peruvian fleet sails up the Thames , and , casting anchor before the Tower of London , cannonades that ancient and gorgeous edifice until the Queen and her courtiers fly shrieking from the back door , the English people will know what retribution means . Whether Peru decides to hold England as a conquered province , . or to disdainfully leave her to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board the Peruvian Admiral 's ship and to publicly empty his pockets on the quarterdeck , will be a matter of little consequence . In either ease England will be crushed and humiliated , and her power will be gone forever . All this merely because two hotheaded English Captains interfered with the sports of Peruvian Governments , and spoiled a Peruvian iron-clad under pretense of restoring her to her original owners . The war will not seriously affect the prosperity of Peru while it is in progress . The productions of that country consist chiefly in volcanoes , earthquakes , and revolution . The export trade in these staples is so trifling that it will not be appreciably injured . by war . On the other hand , Peru can import what few things she needs  --  such as flour , cards , second-hand clothing , and bottles , from the United States . In fact , the whole cost of the war will be confined to fitting out a fleet and sending it to England , and , of course , Peru made up her mind to bear this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is destined to go down in the smoke and flame of battle . By this time next year Peruvian Generals in large straw hats and white cotton trousers will smoke their cigars in the House of Commons ; a Peruvian padre will celebrate mass iu Westminster Abbey , and the fair wives of Peruvian Admirals and Captains will rummage through the Queen 's trunks and closets , and try on her best dresses and bonnets . This is a hard fate for a country that has been so great and proud as England , but it will teach Englishmen that pride must have a fall , and that a nation can not spoil other people 's now iron-clads without paying the penalty .                     