@@741800

txt The report of the Postmaster General shows that during the last fiscal year the revenues of the department fell short of the expenditures by a little over six millions of dollars . It is probable that the deficiency for the current year will amount to as much , and the Postmaster General shows that under existing laws the estimated deficiency for the next year is over eight millions of dollars . There are a great many good reasons , drawn from the vast extent of our territory and the sparsely-settled condition of large portions of it , to explain the of getting both ends to meet in our Post Office budget . The revenues of the Postal Department during the past year have , of course , participated in the general depression of business affairs . The increase over the fiscal year 1873-4 has been less than three hundred thousand dollars , on a total income of twenty-seven millions and a half . This is the smallest increase known for many years , and it will probably remain without a parallel for many years to come . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expect that the Post Office should show some signs of being brought round to a paying point . Still , while its income is practically stationary , there is no reason why its expenditures should not be made stationary too . The estheates for next year seem to prove that under the operation of existing laws the expenditures are increasing much faster than there is any prospect of the revenues following them . The Postmaster General makes some suggestions about the proper adjustment of the commissions paid to Postmasters of the fourth class on the sale of stamps , and about the services required of Postmasters in small cities , calcujated to check the increasing ratio of the expenses of the department . While these deserve the attention of Congress , there are certain other recommendations made by Mr. JEWELL which the people will he very glad to see Congress overlook . These relate to the importance of postal subsidies in developing the American marine , and to the national interests involved in having our ocean mails carried under our own flag . At first sight , Mr. JEwELL 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starts with the general proposition that " the payment of a moderate mail compensation in excess of the postages now allowed , under the provisions of the general law , would enable our citizens to establish and maintain steam-ship lines across the Atlantic , and to South American ports . " He advocates a " reasonable allowance " tor a lino to the west coast of South America , and " a moderate Dian compeusation " for a continuance of the Japan and China service after the termination of the existing subsidy contract on Doc . 31 , 1876 . What between Atlantic and Pacific subsidies , Mr. JEWELL seems to go in for the old flag and several appropriations . Practically , however , his demands are exceedingly modest . Ho believes that the sum of halt a million of dollars per annum now granted as a subsidy to the China and Japan line for a single monthly service " would be quite sufficient , judiciously applied between the respective routes , to maintain an efficient mail service by steamers sailing under our flag on all the important ocean routes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words , a bonus of a Iniulred:thousaud dollars a year for each line is Mr. JEWELL 'S estimate of the inducement needed to get Americanbuilt ships , manned by American officers and seamen , to carry our mails to England , Franco , Germany , South America , and China . If Mr. ** suggestions are taken up in this spirit , there is little danger of their doing any harm . A subsidy like this would be swallowed up in " necessary expenses " at Washington , even if the gentlemen who make it a business to " influence " legislation thought it worth while to organize a lobby for so paltry a prize . Here , however , lies the danger of the innocent-looking recommendation of the Postmaster General . His theory that it is the business of the Post Office to subsidize out of its already insufficient revenues , half a dozen lines of ocean steam-ships , will be taken up , while his very modest estimate of the amount of money needed will be shown to be ridiculously inadequate for the purpose . He has furnished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which could only be carried to a successful issue with great detriment to the finances of his department , and with infinite prejudice to political morality and national interests . Wo shall in good time have American steam-phips on every sea , but the accomplishment of that very desirable end will be hindered rather than hastened by the impoverishment of the national Treasury for the benefit of companies who would on a fair business footing be unable to compete with foreign rivals . Another unguarded admission made by the Postmaster General is likely to be productive of mischief . lie says that " our mail transportation system has now reached such proportions " that the free conveyance of some two hundred or three hundred tons of printed matter effected under the partial revival of the franking privilege sanctioned by the last Congress , has been done without any delay to the regular service or any appreciable addition to the cost and , labor of his department . In other words , the Post Offive does so much work for nothing already that it is not of any consequence how much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic House of Representatives , eager to supply facilities for a successful party campaign next year , does not seize upon that admission with alacrity , it will be a good deal more scrupulous than most people expect . " Public documents " are likely to be abundant and voluminous during the ' coming session , and , since time Postmaster General is so accommodating he can doubtless be supplied with at least five hundred tons of Democratic campaign docu limits for gratuitous circulation .                     