@@743010

txt The National Board of Health held its second session at the State Department to-day . There was some discussion on general topics , and several committees were appointed for the consideration of special subjects , but no business of public interest was transacted . A meeting of the Wallace committee will be held tomorrow morning , when Sidney P. Austin , Treasurer of the Republican Congressional Commit . tee , will probably be examined . Sergeant-at-Arms ? Thompson , Chairman of the Democratic Campaign Committee , Gen. Duncan S. Walker , its Secretary , and James E. Hervey , formerly its Secretary , have been summoned at the request of the Republicans , and may also be examined tomorrow . The following additional money-order Post Offices have been designated as United States depositories for the sale of United States 4 per cent . refunding certificates Newport , R. I. ; Oswego , N. Y. ; Rochester , N. Y. ; Cazenovia , N. Y. ; Bainbridge , N. Y. ; Morristown , N. J. ; Springdale , Penn. ; Wilmington , N. C. ; Terre Haute , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Murfreesboro ' , Tenn. ; Canton , Miss. ; Mauston , Wis. ; La Crosse , Wis. ; Sparta , Mich. ; Mitchellville , Iowa ; St. Joseph , Mo . The counsel for Mrs. Oliver have already applied for a new trial . Should the motion be refused the case will be heard by the Judges in the General Term , and the Chief-Justice , nutter the recent act ot . Congress . will not sit on the appeal from his own ruling . The Bar generally are anxious that the case should be fully argued , especially on the ruling of the court in admitting Mr. Riddle 's evidence as to the communications he had with the plaintiff , and they are desirous that there should be a full and authoritative decision in order that they may make it a guide . The Secretary of the Treasury has appointed a commission consisting of H. B. James , Chief of the Customs Division ; E. W. Clark , Chief of the Revenue Marine Division , and A. K. Tingle , Supervising Special Agent , to consider and report upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They are directed to draft some scheme of civil government for the Territory , to report whether the country should be protected by troops or by means ot gun-boats , and to devise a plan for arming and organizing tae Customs officers and citizens , The Collector of Customs at Sitka has recently written an urgent letter to the department portraying the dangerous and distressing condition of affairs , praying for protection , and making a special request that a company of soldiers be ordered to Sitka immediately . 