@@741252

txt There has been no cause of fatal railroad . accidents more persistent than that wising from the careless and reckless way in which the time of freight and passenger-trains is adjusted . The slow-going freight-train has possession of the track only on sufferance . It has to dodge a " lightning express " here , and await the passing of a , mail-train there ; it gains the right of way on a certain portion of the track only after a specified time of waiting , and . all the calculations on which its time-table is drawn up assume that every siding can be reached without a hitch , and every switch adjusted with equal certainty and . promptitude . The finer these calculations are made tho faster can an enormous traffic be carried on a permanent way of very inadequate extent , and the more tempting will become the opportunity of concealing enormous dividends under an artificially-expanded stock , and of cheating the public out of a duo return for extensive franchises and liberal guarantees . But it is possible to shave too close on timetables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is apt to break through the symmetrical arrangements of ingenious managers , and the heads that puzzle over the regulations for its devious progress are apt to become impatient or confused over their task , and to adopt some perilous initiative on their own account . A glance over the record . of the so-called . " accidents " of last year affords numerous illustrations of these statements . In February there was a collision , with disastrous results , on the Rockford , Rock Island and St. Louis Railroad , all because the conductor of a , freight-train mistook his time for going on by about four minutes . In July there was another fatal collision on the Pittsford and . Auburn branch of the Central Railroad , because a coal-train which ought to have waited . at a switch preferred to go on , and . so came in the way of the Baltimore express . In . October there occurred the terrible " accident " on the Eastern Railroad , at Seabrook , owing to a switch being misplaced , " by some person unknown , " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereby sent crashing into a freight-train standing on a siding . In the same month a passenger-train ran into an empty coal-train on a branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad . near Bordentown . Then , about the close of the year , there occurred the collision near Bergen Tunnel between the Erie express and a freight-train which was in process of " switching . " These few illustrations are selected from the long record . of last year , mainly because they represent what may be called the different types of the accidents which result from the running of freight and passenger traffic on the same track . Their degrees of fatality have comparatively little to do with the lesson to be drawn from them . That they did not all result in a fearful sacrifice of human life was simply due to chance pieces of luck for which the various companies deserve no sort of credit . This remark applies very emphatically to yesterday 's casualty on the Hudson River Railroad near Tarrytown . It is no doubt a common enough occurrence for a southward-going freight-train to be in process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northward-going express is rushing along the outside track beyond . To the mind of the ordinary railroad official such a combination of circumstances would . appear to be attended with no possible danger . Still , the unforeseen did happen yesterday , as it has a perverse habit of doing now and . again just to spite the ingenious compilers of railroad time-tables . The engine of the freight-train jumped the track while pass- , ing over the switch , and a coupling having , with equal perversity , given way a stray car was pitched over where , of course , nobody ever suspected it would . be , right in the way of the approaching Saratoga express . Suppose that instead of making an erratic movement into the river the engine of the freighttrain had also been pitched in the way of the express ? Instead of a few slight wounds we should have the record of at least a score of people killed , and fifty or sixty more maimed and bruised after a fashion that they would never be likely to forget . In that case the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " a " holocaust , " or a " railroad butchery , " and would have been a nine days ' topic of talk and indignation . It is matter for sincere rejoicing that it was not so , but the lesson of the disaster is just as clear as if it had been many times more terrible , and the railroad . company ought to be held to just as strict an account .                     