@@743254

txt The pulpit in this country has never been distinguished for oratory . There have been clerical orators in the young Republic , and there still are , but they are so very few as to be striking exceptions , and they have often got undue reputation by comparison , or rather by contrast , with the bulk of the profession . It might be thought that it would bo easy to be eloquent when dealing with truths regarded as divine , and with principles on which it is held eternal salvation rests . But eloquence , even with this groat advantage , an advantage not possessed by any other calling , seems to he very difficult , judging by the exempla commonly set before us . The matter of many of the clergy is very good , full of thought , research , and illustration ; but it is apt to be spoiled by a bad manner ; or if not spoiled , seriously marred . In public speaking , manner is quite as much as matter , and the pulpit , despite opinion to the contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants to be uniformly effective , to get the public ear and retain it , must have some of the graces of elocution . Ho can not , whatever his mental gifts or resources , afford to dispense with these , although he is inclined to think that he can , and he generally obeys his inclination . Ministers of the Gospel are , as a rule , not only not eloquent , they are the reverse of eloquent . Lack of fine , well-modulated voices , of faithful reading , of ever-proper emphasis , of sustained pitch , might be excused ; it might be unreasonable to expect all these ; but it is not unreasonable to look for intelligent and unartificial rendering of words and sentences . Any man who can write well and clearly ought to bo able to utter what he has written acceptably and forcibly . Almost any clergyman could do this , if he would ; but clergymen , in general , appear to have a theory that they must do things differently from other men , particularly when the delivery of sermons is concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which they are disposed to persist , as if to be clerical and unnatural wore the same thing . The clerical manner is notorious , and recognized at once . It is as had as bad can be . It is unlike any other manner , and would seem to be designed to obscure meaning and lay stress on insignificance . When it is known that a certain preacher is a man of ideas , of originality , of scholarship , of genuine power , it is a heavy tax on patience to hear him so utter an able and interesting essay as to make it appear vapid , if not absurd . Still , this is done every Sunday in prominent churches , whose congregations are composed of people of education and taste , and who deserve better elocutionary treatment . In a past generation clergymen were considered superior to ordinary mortals , as men set apart from thgir fellows as the spiritually elect ; consequently their sermons were not to be confounded with , or judged . like , other discourses . It was not counted proper or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be delivered ; it must be made impressive for its own sake by total absence of all oratorical embellishments , of all graces of speech  --  and it was with a vengeance . The matter must commend itself ; any attempt to set it off or render it attractive by recourse to elocution would have been rated as vanity and ostentation wholly incompatible with the functions of the sacred office . All this is changed now . Preachers are considered as the rest of the human family , more moral , more conscientious , more zealous for good , as their assumptions and calling demand , but not exempt from mortal errors and mortal weaknesses . Theology is a profession ; its professors must try to make their discourses interesting every way if they went reputations , good salaries , and influential positions . It is no longer ranked as a religious duty to listen to a dull sermon abominably rendered . Preachers to-day do make au effort , doubtless , to be attractive in the pulpit , but the majority of them fail because they can not emancipate themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and which , for some mysterious reason , they can not throw off . It seems to be ingrained , and while it is much less unpleasant than formerly , it is unpleasant enough , and prevents many people from going to church who think that they should be interested there as well as instructed . Many of the meat noted and intellectual ministers in this City and in other cities have so unfortunate a delivery that half their capacity and culture is wasted . They could and would improve , assuredly , if they would condescend to study good models , and to remember that the pulpit is a profession not less than a vocation . A wide-spread fear prevails among the cloth lest , if they cultivate true oratory , they might become theatrical . There is very little danger , unhappily ; and if they should grow theatrical in a genuine sense , their delivery would be vastly improved , for the theatre is the best school of elocution that we have . If they would imitate some of our finest actors , instead of following musty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , and their churches would be benefited by the change . The clerical manner is out of place ; it is obsolete in the last quarter of the nineteenth century ; and they who stubbornly cling to it hurt their office and their influence . The aim of the time is to make religion cheerful ; the aim of the pulpit should be to make sermons specimens oi oral eloquence . An average set , mon well delivered is far more interesting and carries more weight than a fine sermon vitiate &; by the clerical manner .                     