@@741501

txt It is not always easy to foresee the consequences of even the , most carefully prepared acts of legislation . In aiming at the attainment of some particular purpose the way may seem clear enough , arid with the exercise of a sufficiently acute judgment it can generally be reached . But incidental results of the best , and , as they seem , the most defined , laws , sometimes spring up in very unexpected forms . An illustration of this has come to us from the attempt made in England to carry out the compulsory clauses of the Education act . Although a rigid attention has thus far been paid by the authorities to enforce those clauses , the work has been attended by considerable difficulty . Many people have been summoned during the past few months to appear before the Police Magistrates for not sending their children to the public schools , and although a spirit of leniency has in every case been exhibited toward the defendants , care has been always taken to have the requirements of the law strictly carried out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so novel a measure as one making education compulsory could be enacted without meeting with some resistance , willful or otherwise , among uneducated people whose rights upon the subject had never hitherto been interfered with . But an application was made the other day in one of the courts which we do not think had been contemplated beforehand . At the same time it involves a question of some importance , and one which ought not to be disregarded . A woman brought her two boys , aged respectively nine and eleven , before one of the sitting Magistrates , and charged them with being " of such a disposition that their parents could not contn1 them . " On the next day another woman appeared , with a similar charge against her son , aged eight . It appeared that in both cases the mother had been summoned two or three times for not sending these children to school , and each time a small fine had been inflicted . But the boys would net go to school . The parents could not make them go , and . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their children 's wilfullness , so they took the rath3r ingenious device of trying to throw some of the responsibility on to the Magistrates who had fined them . But the law had taken no cognizance of any such offense as that of which these juveniles were accused . It was a crime altogether new to the criminal courts , and the Magistrate seems to have been a little puzzled how to act . To dismiss the complaint would have been to render the compulsory clauses of the Education act nugatory , and ' also , if the School Board still insisted on acting upon them , to inflict a palpable injustice noon the parents of such boys . A hippy thought , however , appears to have occurred to the magistrate , and he ordered the children to be sent to the workhouse for a week , and to be brought before him again at the expiration of that time . It was a fortunate way out of a difficulty , for it was the discovery of a means of dealing with a case that had to be dealt with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made no provision . But it is not likely that it can often be repeated , since the parish authorities must soon begin to object to have the union houses converted into reformatories . The question then arises , How are such children to be treated 7 It is very likely that this will assume more importance than it ? has at present . It may arise wherever public education is made compulsory . We shall probably hear of other cases similar to those we have mentioned ; and . in due time it is not unlikely we may have to deal with them here . Self-willed boys of the ages above described are not necessarily to be put down as bad boys in a criminal sense . They may become recruits for the criminal classes if left neglected . But the same features of character which make them rebel against parental discipline are those which , properly guided , make them extremely useful men in certain branches of occupation . It has been proved that the best seamen turned out from the training-ships in England are often made from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is , perhaps , the best occupation that could be found for them , and it leads us back to the opinion we have before expressed , that more attention than has hitherto been given should jue paid to the increase of training ships , to an amendment of the system adopted upon them , and to the extrication of the wildest of our street boys from the dangers that surround them .                     