@@741842

txt It is impossible not to feel a lively sympathy for the bereaved bride whose husband is snatched from her at the . foot of the altar or in front of the private desk of the officiating Justice of the Peace , as the case may be . Especially is such a bride to be pitieu when Bhp loses through her own carelessness a husband whom she has caught after protracted and skillful effort . Such is the misfortune which has just befallen a Massachusetts bride , and her story is one which conveys a wholesome lesson to expert but over-confident widows . The bride in question , while yet a blooming and energetic widow , met with au elderly gentleman of eighty years of age , and an indefinite quantity of bonds and stock certificates . In spite of the opposition of his family , she convinced him that it was his duty to marry the trusting and ingenuous woman who had lavished upon him her priceless and experienced affections . It is not a matter of very great difficulty for a skillful widow , or . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The real difficulty is iu landing him . When once he is fastened by his promise , he must be played with great care , or he will escape before he is finally gaffed by an efficient marriage ceremony . Until then lie is always prone to seek refuge iu inaccessible places , from which neither coaxing nor petting can dislodge him , or to suddenly break his promise and dart away into some secret and secure hiding-place . In the present instance the Massachusetts widow played her prize so firmly and tenderly that he was finally successfully landed . Unfortunately , she then relaxed her vigilance , never dreaming that ho would so far revive as to leap back into his original celibacy , and accomplish his escape . Let other widows note her carelessness and its consequences , and save themselves from disappointment and humiliation . No sooner was the marriage ceremony ended than the happy bride directed her husband to run back to his house and bring his bonds and mortgages , so that they might begin to enjoy a happy honeymoon . The husband went , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seized by his relatives and safely locked up . He had made a will in their favor , and they had no intention of allowing it to bo unmade by a new and unwelcome wife . His prolonged absence disturbed the bride ; who sent a carriage to hasten his return ; but the carriage came back empty , and the driver 's mind was too much confused by strong language , broken crockery , and pails ? of water to explain the reason why his presentation of a written order to " deliver to bearer one ( 1 ) elderly bridegroom " had given rise to so much vigorous discussion . The bride at once comprehended the true state of affairs . She armed herself with a pistol and a stout Irishman and stormed her husband 's prison . The battle was short but fierce . From his remote dungeon , the imprisoned husband could be heard cheering on the assailants , but there were too many bolts on the front door , too many determined maiden sisters , . and too much available crockery in the house to render @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was beaten back , after performing prodigies of valor with a long pole against the parlor. windows , and she has since appealed to the law for assistance . A suit for the forcible theft of a valuable husband , whose photograph is annexed to the complaint , and marked " Schedule A , " is now pending , and it remains to be seen whether a Massachusetts court recognizes the right of property in husbands , or whether it looks upon them as ferm naturae , and hence incapable of being made the subject of an action for trover and conversion . The lesson conveyed by this affecting narrative hardly needs to be emphasized . It is a warning to widows never to let a freshly-caught husband pass out of their hands ; but to carry him off the moment the marriage ceremony is completed , and to keep him locked up ' until his spirit is brawn and . the rage of his relatives has subsided . Had the Massachusetts bride pursued this course , she would not now be suffering from the humiliation of having her husband locked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herself can not stand below his prison windows and ask for one word of affection from his beloved lips , and one five-dollar bill from his adored pocket , without incurring scathing insults and scalding water at the hands of her husband 's cruel jailers . Eternal vigilance is the price of an elderly and rich husband , and widows who fancy that for them eternity ends and vigilance becomes unnecessary as soon as they have married their latest prize , should revise that opinion , and redouble their precautions until the honeymoon has passed at least through its fist quarter .                     