@@743098

txt Mr. THOMAS HUGHES , whose name is held in affectionate veneration among the older schoolboys of this country , has contributed an interesting paper , running through two numbers of the North American Review , on " The Public Schools of England . " The institutions of which he treats are precisely those which we do not call public schools . They are such old endowed establishments as Eton , Harrow , Rugby , and . Winchester , with their royal foundations and the prestige of aristocratic patron age , or the later growths of a similar character , like Marlborough , Haileybury , Clifton , and the London Colleges , resting on private endowments , and having incorporated governing boards . They are much like what we call private boarding-schools or academies , and not wholly dissimilar in some respects to the great brood of colleges and universities , so called , which have been springing up all over the country in the last , few years . They are the homes , for the time being , of their pupils , affording.subsistenee and social training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is precisely what our public schools are not , though the system of popular instruction here is becoming more and more supplemented by institutions of this general character . Not only is the need of them recognized , and , as Mr. HUGHES says , the time ' fully come that it must be met , " but much has already been done to meet it , and much more , doubtless , will be done . But one point in the suggestions of our friendly mentor in England is not at all likely to evoke a cordial response from Americans . " It is with deep regret , " he says , " that any person who appreciates free institutions must see the old American public school system breaking down on so many points . Nothing could be more healthy , or ought to be abandoned more reluctantly , than the old theory upon which these schools were based , that the sons of all citizens , sitting side by side on the same benches , perfectly irrespective of rank and wealth , should have the best teaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But , whether we like it or not , we can not shut our eyes to the fact that it is breaking down , and that something by way of supplement is needed for at least a large proportion of the children of the gentry in the new , even more than in the older , States of the Union . " And he adds : " America as well as England must have a gentry , an aristocracy ? call it by what name you please . This is a step which must be taken in the march of society ; for , as the wisest of living Americans has said , and a man whose sound democratic principles are beyond all question , ' a race yields a nobility in some form , however we name the lords , as surely as it yields women . ' " There are in these remarks at least three important misconceptions . In the first place , Mr. Huauzs does not seem to comprehend precisely what our public school system is , nor what it undertakes to accomplish . It is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State is bound to provide all the instruction of every grade that our people may require . It goes on the assumption that the State is bound to provide for all the children under its jurisdiction that degree of education that is necessary to fit them for the duties and responsibilities of citizens . This it is to do for the security of its own well-being . Each State , or smaller community , decides for itself how far it is expedient to carry instruction at the public expense , and there are high schools , and even colleges , that form a part of the public system . But in none of these has ' it been found neassary to recognize any ranks or social distinctions , nor is there any evidence that the system , in its legitimate sphere , is breaking down , or likely to break down . Mr. HUGHES misconceives the case again , if he supposes that any considerable class of Americans is ready to admit that a gentry or an aristocracy is a necessity to be in'any way recognized in our educational system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the endowed institutions which supplement their work . Every American who " appreciates free institutions " is persuaded that a part of their very essence ? the chief principle of their vitality ? is to be found in the lack of any social ranks upon which privileges and distinctions can be based . No matter how grand may be the institutions of learning in the future of this country , no true American wants them to be closed against any youth , however humble his origin , whose talents enable him to profit by their facilities , and who can compass the means of enjoying them . We want the sons of all citizens , " perfectly irrespective of rank and wealth , " to be admitted to equal opportunities , to have the same chance in the race of life , so far as their means and their energies will permit , and it is only in this way that the " nobility " of our country is to be evolved . And here we may note the third glaring misconception of Mr. HUGHES in the construction he puts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a race yields a nobility in some form , for no sensible man pretends to ignore the differences in talent and capability that exist among mankind , but it is the pride of America that no accident of birth , no inheritance of title or property , no factitious circumstance in which character and merit have no part , shall determine the ranks of her nobility . They are open to whomsoever may reach them , and the only patent they need is to be found in the character and achievements of the holder . Our schools and our system of education , public and private , are intended to help our youth forward , and enable the gifted and the ambitious to reach the highest ends of which they are capable , not to keep some back and push others on , to dispense privileges that are not open to competition , and to sift the rising generation into patricians and plebeians . It will be a disappointment to the admirers of the author of " School Days at Rugby , " and " Tom Brown at Oxford , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America of aristocratic distinctions thatperpetuate the disadvantages of birth and put obstacles in the way of those to whom life is beset with most difficulty at the start . There will , no doubt , be schools of various grades , in which the cost of instruction and of living may differ ; but we trust the time is far distant when there are to be aristocratic schools , offering their advantages only to a recognized " gentry . "                     