@@741544

txt The full Committee on Southern Affairs had a meeting to-day , and heard read a part of the contemplated report of the subcommittee . Nearly two hours weie occupied in consultation on the subject . The report of the subcommittee ' will not be completed before to-morrow evening , and perhaps not till Wednesday . It is understood that Vie full committee desired greater prominence to be given to some of the personal observations of the committee , and requested some modifications in other particulars , not interfering , of course , with the statement of facts . The organization of the Louisiana Legislature , which was witnessed by all the members of the committee , will , by request of the full committee , form a prominent feature of the report . It scents that all the mewbus of the subcommittee agree in the statement that the actions of the Returning Board were fraudulent , and that the Democrats should really have had a majority of the House of Representatives . if ( he count of the board had been honestly made . The correctness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole committee will conclude to rest the ease on the report of the subcommittee is yet undetermined . There was a strong feeling two or three days age in favor of the full committee proceeding to New-Orleans , but the members are anxious to avoid going if possible , and may , perhaps , decide to leave the case where the subcommittee has left it . If . on the whole , the report should seem to be incomplete or not to cover the whole case , the committee will go to Louisiana and finish up the - work of the investigation which has been begun . The committee is o1isposed to act deliberately . and not be driven into prematurely determining the questma at issue .. AN EXTENSIVE PLOT . There is one fact concerning the purposes of the Conservatives in seizing the organization of the Legislature which has not appeared , and which may not be stated in the committee 's report . The seizure of the Lower House was but a small part of the scheme for obtaining Conservative control of the State . It was the intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to recognize the Conservative Senate of two years ago , and nith the House and Senate in their possession they intended to impeach Kellogg and all the other Republican officials , and to obtain complete control . This purpose was openly avowed by some of the leading Democrats , and can not be concealed or evaded . as a part of the Democratic Senators who have been acting with the Kellogg Senate did not meet with that body , and have not been in the Senate since . The entire operation of the Conservatives was a high-handed outrage , in violation of all law and order . Whether this will justify any violation of law in the subsequent actions of the soldiers is another question . TEE DEMOCRATS AND ME moors . As illustrating the dependence of all parties in New-Orleans upon the United States military forces , pie call upon Gen. Do Trobriand by Wiltz is interesting . The Police were present in the hall , and yet the Conservatives , who complain so bitterly of military interference , appealed directly to the soldiers , without inquiry whether the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wes made on the other side . The Republicans ought first to have tried to sustain themselves by aid of the Police . If they had failed to secure protection in this way , a better foundation would have been laid for the call upon the military .                     