@@741984

txt Of new plans for making Sunday-school attractive there is no end . An active Superintendent knows no such word . as rest . The attraction which fills his Sunday-school to-day will be imitated by the Superintendent of a rival school next Sunday , and . unless he is willing to witness the desertion of his scholars to the opposing camp , be must devise some new means of retaining their allegiance . Thus the life of the successful Sunday-school Superintendent is a continual reaching out after that which will satisfy the captious and pampered pupil , and to his gaze Alps upon Alps of magic lanterns forever rise , and a limitless succession of picnics and fairs stretches out into futurity . During the recent Winter season , Sundayschool fairs and sleigh rides were comparatively infrequent . That improved species of magic-lantern , the stereopticon , eclipsed all other attractions ; and when supplemented by a distinguished . missionary , it attained . a popularity which even monthly recitations in the Westminster Catechism could not check . There is scarcely a Sunday-school in the land which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last ten months , and it is probable that a very large majority of them : have also enjoyed the luxury of a real missionary : Feeble attempts have here and there been made by mistaken Superintendents to impose upon their scholars a respected fellowtownsman who has made a visit to the Holy Land , or a popular clergyman who has personally bearded the Pope by by looking at the outside of the Vatican . The experiment has uniformly failed , and even the members of the infant class have insisted upon the production of a real missionary , and scorned all cheaper substitutes . It is impossible to estimate the amount of Biblical knowledge " which Sunday-school scholars have derived from the favorite stereopticon picture representing a British traveler pelting an unruly donkey with discarded . aspirates , or the fervor of religious feeling which has been awakened by the picture of sea-sick pilgrims on a voyage to Mecca . There is no doubt that the stereopticon has proved an enormous success , and that it has drawn hundreds of children into the Sunday-school , a very large proportion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribution of Christmas presents or until the.regular May excursion . There are , however , in certain remote localities , Sunday-schools which can not afford even a small stereopticon or a genuine missionary with a choice collection of portable idols . Necessarily , the Superintendents of such schools have been forced to extremities in order to keep their scholars together . The result has been the invention of several extremely ingenious attractions , which have reflected great credit upon the skill and . enterprise of the inventors . Among these moral attractions , that which was exhibited a few weeks since to a Paducah Sunday-school deserves especial notice . The school bad assembled , the opening hymn had been sung , and the boy pupils were bracing themselves to answer questions upon the lesson of the day and to receive without wincing the pinches of their mischievous fellows . Suddenly a young lady , certified to be " of excellent standing in the community , " entered the room , carrying a large hickory stick . Pausing just within the threshold , she propounded to the Superintendent in a loud voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Superintendent , with a skillfully-assumed air of surprise , made no answer , and the scholars , conceiving that the question was part of the lesson , began to feel uneasy as to the proper answer . Their anxiety was soon relieved , for the young lady suddenly exclaimed , " 0 , there he is ! " and rapidly approached a teacher who had been thoughtfully assigned a seat where lie was easily within view of every scholar . Having reached him , the young lady fell upon him with the hickory stick , and began to destroy him with wonderful vigor and animation . No words can paint the enthusiasm which the scene excited . The smaller children stood on the seats in order to obtain a fair view of the entertainment , and kind-hearted teachers caught up little girls on their shoulders and rushed with them to the front . The Superintendent , with a face beaming with delight , held the young lady by a corner of her sleeve , and pretended . to make desperate efforts to draw her from her prey . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman pause in ) der labors , and when she had gracefully retired , amid the applause of the excited house , the alleged scoundrel , in a partially destroyed state , was led forth in quest of arnica and brown paper . Now , here was an attraction which involved a very small outlay of money , but which gave the most complete satisfaction to every youthful Kentuckian in the room . It was an entertainment which appealed to the tenderest emotions of the Kentucky small boy in a way that the best picture ever presented by the stereopticon could not have done . No elaborate preparations were required in order to give the scholars this delightful treat . All that was needed was an agreement between the intelligent Superintendent , a warm-hearted and earnest young lady , and a self-sacrificing scoundrel . These three excellent persons made the Sunday-school the liveliest place in the whole town of Paducah , and generations of Sunday-school scholars yet unborn will ultimately make a point of rising up and calling the ingenious inventors of this unparalleled Kentucky Sunday-school entertainment , jointly and severally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done by persons who have no money at their command , but who are animated by a love for children and a determination to make them happy . That Paducah Sunday-school will secure the attendance of every child within a radius of ten miles , if it continues to repeat so powerful an attraction . A word of caution should , however , be given to the Superintendent . He should remember that the part of the scoundrel is not a pleasant one , and . ho should insist upon all his male teachers assuming it in turn . Otherwise , the earnest young lady with the hickory stick , may ultimately destroy her victim , and so siring the Sunday-school into painful conflict with the local Police Court .                     