@@741951

txt After-dinner speeches ought not to be all of one sort on au occasion- which affords a fair opportunity for the free and intelligent discussion of urgent public questions . Of course , the acrimony of current controversies would be out of place at the festive , board . Guests who are called upon to talk would be discourteous if they made fierce assaults upon the morals , manners , politics , or theology of their hosts . There are , however , some topics about which , in a mixed company , men . tacitly bind themselves to be silent . And even in matters that are available for speeches , there is an implied understanding that due respect shall be paid to the prepossessions and convictions of others . After all these concessions , however , the fact remains that an anniversary dinner of a Chamber of Commerce , from whose list of speakers commercial men are excluded , is an anomaly that should not last forever . It is au occasion that comes but once a year , and therefore should be so used that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country may turn to it for the matured opinions of the representative men of the various classes . It should challenge the attention of public men of whatever party as a channel through which flow the information and ideas that are needed to correct the notions of the unpractical politician , and to contribute to the promotion of a sound national policy . Tried by this standard , it must be confessed that Thursday night 's feast at DErmomco 's was much less suggestive , and , therefore , much less important , than it ought to have been . It was a great opportunity wasted . Let us suppose Rev. Dr. Joni HALL to take " commerce " as the subject of this morning 's discourse front his pulpit . He would undoubtedly be as hearty in his tribute to the open-handeduess of the NowYork merchant as ho was at the dinner . He would dwell with just satisfaction upon the beneficent charities of the City , sustained mainly by the liberality of its business citizens , and upon their readiness to respond ungrudgingly to the appeals which ho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addressing to them . He would assure Ithem that business clouds usually have silver lining , and ho would trace in the universality of the present depression evidence that exonerates them from special responsibility and should preserve them from despair . Bnti would Dr. HALL stop here ? Would ho rit  --  furnish an antidote to the Pharisaism which unstinted praise , and nothing else , is not unlikely to engender ? Assuredly ? he would indicate the defects as well as the excellences  --  the shortcomings of mercantile morality.not less than the virtues that adorn certain portions of mercantile life . His . sense of the obligations duo to truth and duty would compel him to be as stern iu his censorship as he was smooth in his flattery . How happens it , then , that a divine of admitted faithfulness and power preached an undiluted optimism to a gath- ering sensible enough to appreciate fair yet . fearless criticism ? Turn , again , to the response of Mr. S. B. CHITTENDEN to the toast , " Oar Representatives in Congress . " What perverse fate constrained him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a stereotyped compliment ? Everybody knows that the legislative body at Washington has degenerated sadly , and that at this moment it represents very few of the excellences of American life . It might have been ungracious for one of its members to tell the whole truth about it . He might , on his return , have found the atmosphere of the House unusually unpleasant had he held up the majority of its members to the scorn they deserve . It was not incumbent upon him to investigate the investigators , or to array the facts which convict the dominant party of indifference , if not ' imbecility . ? A studied reticence might have served him best . Mr. CHITTENDEN , however , preferred the part of optimist . Accept him as an authority , and we must conclude that even at Washington everything is lovely . The popular belief that the founders of the Republic were wiser , more patriotic , more devoted to duty than the lawgivers who now occupy the Capitol , is a delusion . The supposition that the House has blundered in nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the requirements of ' the country , and has subordinated national to partisan considerations , is untnnable . The notion that the administration of the Government was once purer and better than it is now , is a superstition of which intelligent people should be ashamed . The Government was never more ably , administered than now . Congress was never made of better stuff , never could boast of greater statesmen , than in this present year of grace ; and as for the public business , never since the foundation of the Republic was it in a more satisfactory condition . We should pause long and painfully before assuming responsibility for these statements . We derive them from Mr. CHITTENDEN , who , in a fit of excessive good nature , elaborated the opinions and assurances of which we thus present the essence . It is tolerably certain that if Mr. CHITTENDEN were invited by his constituents to address them on the affairs of the nation , he would deliver himself of a very different set of sentiments . His statement of the case , under such circumstances , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES and the rest of  --  the naughty newspapers on whom , in his moments of after-dinner bliss , he tries to fasten all the mischief . Was it a mistaken conception of courtesy that for the moment converted him into a full-blown optimist ? Mr. STEWART L. WOODFORD detected the danger , and escaped it cleverly . A little persiflage and a good deal of lore enabled him to travel round a bold proposition , and to bide the mysteries of political economy under the Golden Rule . But what a text it was for a merchant with a head upon his shoulders I " A. country whose commerce is crippled , whose manufactures are retarded , whose industries are depressed , and whose curreuoy is debased . " Could there be a much rougher awakening from the delightful dreams into which preceding speakers had conducted the gentlemen of the Chamber and their guests ? If we except a fw warning words from ex-Gov. everything was , down to this time , perfection . That nothing might be wanting to complete this pretty picture , no less a personage than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States is not a common rascal . Even the coy Tir.DE:4 had confessed that his anxieties are eclipsed by joy . Then came the ruthless reminder of the toast-list : Crippled commerce , embarrassed manufactures , depressed industry , debased money There was cruelty in the deliberation . which reserved an epigrammatic recital of the country 's sorrows until a succession of learned and able orators had demonstrated , how happy the country is , and how thankful it ought to be for an honest President , and a pious , prosperous , and . patriotic population . From this point of view , perhaps , it was well that the em " phafic declaration of national difficulty and suffering was intrusted to so graceful and . I withal so merciful a speaker as Mr. WOODFORD . Had there been less consideration in this respect , the indictment preferred might have boon converted into a means of spoiling a large ? amount of optimism , and rendering more conspicuous the mistake of the managers in repressing exactly that kind of discussion which a Chamber of Commerce might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               