@@781919

txt Gov . TILDEN believes in maintaining a circulation of inconvertible paper money equal to the wants of trade . This is his bid for the votes of the Western inflationists . He also believes that it is not a work of difficulty to amass from the current of precious metals flowing out of this country and to acquire from the stocks which exist abroad a sufficient quantity of gold to maintain a convertible currency always equal to the aforesaid wants of trade . He , furthermore , professes to be'able to get his coin and resume specie payments without " disturbing the equilibrium of foreign money markets , " and without " creating at any time au artificial scarcity of currency , " and " by such measures as would keep the aggregate amount of the currency self-adjusting during all the process . " These Utopian phrases he wishes to have accepted in the East as hard-money doctrine . We reject them as inconsistent , not only with the-restoration of au inflated and depreciated paper money to par with the metallic standard , but even with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already convertible . Lord OVERSTONE , the clearest and soundest of all writers who have discussed the currency question , and a man theoretically and practically acquainted with its intricate complications , lays down the following proposition , which he applies to convertible bank notes as well as to paper money pure and simple ; A metallic currency , by virtue of its own mtrin sic value , will regulate itself ; but a Dauer currency , having no intrinsic value , requires to be subjected to sonic ktiticial regulation respecting its amount . " Of such artificial regulations , designed . to keep the circulation of paper money within bounds and to protect the community trout the evils of bank notes not convertible into coin on demand , the most important is the adjustment of the rate of interest . When the Bank of England , or the Bank of France , or the Bank of Germany perceives that its specie is being drawn away from it to such an extent as to threaten the permanence of specie payments , it immediately raises its rate of discount in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion of those writers from whom Mr. TILDEN draws his platitudes , " disturbs the equilibrium of the money market , " " creates au artificial scarcity of currency , " and decidedly does not recognise ally obligation " to furnish all which the wants of business require , " and does not " passively allow the volume of circulating credits to ebb and flow , according to the ever-changing wants of business . " In short , the benign and self-adjusting system by which Mr. TILDEN proposes to restore and maintain specie payments is totally unknown in England , . France , and Germany . The financiers in those parts believe that something mom than uniform compliance with the wants of trade is neeessarY for the preservation of the standard of value , to say nothing . of its restoration when lost . Unlike a bank , the Government is unable to regulate its specie reserve by ' wising or lowering the rate of interest . The Government does not lend its notes , amid is therefore unable either to adjust the circulation of them by the wants of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way as not to " disturb the equilibrium of foreign money markets " by retaining gold in this country which would otherwise be exported . to Europe . The Governor 's pretenses that by wise finance , " a study of all the conditions , and the elements to fulfill those conditions , and by the execution of flack plans adopted with practical skill and judgment , " by public economies , " a wise , safe , and healing policy , " and other " gradual and prudent measures , " . he can restore the paper currency to par , comply with all the wants of trade and accomplish this truly great reform without exciting any alarms or any protests from Indiana or Wall street , are , in our opinion , unadulterated quackery . Every inch of progress that the country has made in the direction of specie payments has been disputed , not only by professed inflationists , but by large classes of the community who really think they are hard-money men . For instance , the withdrawal of the forty-four millions of legal-tender notes by Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was here in NewYork . The accumulation of gold by the Treasury was also protested against by Mr. GREELEY and a large number of his followers . The sale of bonds to procute silver to coin and substitute for the fractional currency has been unsparingly assailed , not only by Judge KELLEY and inflationists of his stripe , but by such men as Mr. HEwrrr , the Chairman of the Democratic National Committee . Is it not certain that the sale of bonds for the accumulation of . gold would encounter the like hostility ? Is it in the least doubtful that the application of the surplus revenue to the same purpose would be displeasing to Wall street if it interfered with speculations ? Would there not be a cry from all quarters for a remission of taxes and the cessation of the " hoarding " of coin , as it would be called ? And what will be the attitude of the Democratic majority in Congress ; will they give Mr. TILDEN carte blanche to set in operation his automatic scheme of " wise finance , ' whatever it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for more specific information as to what is intended to be done , and we should like to know how soon specie payments are to be looked for . And also we should have read with interest some expression of opinion as to the usury laws , and the reinstatement of the old Mexican dollar . In the face of all these difficulties , we are not credulous enough to believe that Mr. TILDEN can carry out his programme , or that he himself believes that he can . He proposes what he knows is impossible .                     