@@741490

txt He is by no means the first one who has this year declined , with much pain and many thanks , the gift of office which his admiring countrymen have desired to thrust upon him . His hesitation on the threshold of national politics is not , it seems , due to natural timidity , nor to be attributed to an overwhelming sense of his own unworthiness . On the contrary , the candidate to whom we specially refer is not lacking in knowledge of men and things . He has been , for a score of years , a student of human nature in the courts of Massachusetts ; has a reputation as a witty and keen lawyer , whose tongue does not falter when pleading to save a rascal 's life , and whose hand is steady when he pens the strongest invective . There is nothing rural or verdant about him ; no false modesty pushes him into the background , and leaves him there trembling and ashamed of his own weakness , while the brazen-faced pass on to fortune . But he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer of a Congressional candidature made him by his friends and neighbors , and , in a burst of frankness , tells them so . The fleshpots of Washington are not , he freely avows , without their alarm ; but , while he admits their allurements , he shudders as he thinks of the dangers which one must incur in order to possess them . " When , " says this retiring candidate , " I recall the many instances of lives blighted and mutilated by discontent and restlessness engendered by the fascinations of the capital , I shrink from the hazard . " And so he returns into the routine of the - profession which he has long successfully followed , and leaves his friends , who were certain that he would be elected if nominated , quite forlorn . There is something almost startling in the earnestness with which this unambitious man says , in the opening paragraph of his letter declining the nomination , " I believe that , unless I interpose , I shall be nominated for , and elected to , the office of Representative to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrinking back as if he had suddenly arrived at the verge of a precipice , from plunging over which nothing but the most determined attitude could save him . He seems like Col. Mulberry Sellers , in the " Gilded Age , " to search within the depths of . his character for the cause of offense he has given , that he may discern why the public wishes to send him to Congress . But he also gives in detail his various objections to becoming a candidate . He finds the sense of obligation under which it is evident that his constituents intend to hold him , if they elect him , " irksome " and disagreeable . He alludes with some asperity to the " superintendence - and overseership and regulation of self-constituted advisers , " as . " humiliating . " He has had a peep at the Congressional elephant , and does not wish to see any more . The " servitude of candidature , " as he calls it , would suffocate him . He had thought that he was to be nominated for and elected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where he might air his theories of national development . But , alas ! he finds an hundred constituents , each bringing the millstone of some prejudice or hobby to hang about his neck and to keep him down ; and , under the circumstances , he is definitely resolved not to attempt to soar . Better for him the charms of an active , although obscure , existence in the circle of his own neighborhood than the garish lights of that capital which , as the declining candidate expresses it , has a " power of incapacitating those who come within its charmed precincts for the quiet pleasures and ordinary enjoyments of life . " Perhaps if the Admiring Countrymen would have a little more confidence in the people whom they elect to represent them , and a more just conception of the real duties of the Congressman , they would not now and then find it so difficult to secure a good nominee . The spectacle of a Congressional district sending its nomination begging for acceptance , and getting it incontinently refused at the hands of many of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a neighboring State , may possibly convey a useful lesson . Why is there such a marked hesitancy in accepting office on the part of large numbers of men admirably fitted for places in the national councils ? Do they dread the publicity and the reckless misrepresentation to which partisans and a herd of unreasoning observers would compel them , if they were elected , to submit ? Evidently not , since they can hardly escape publicity and scandal even in the small orbits of their native towns and villages . Do they not rather dread the dreary flood of pretentious , arbitrary , and one-sided advice which would pour in upon them in thousands of letters from " constituents " who helped to elect them , as soon as they were well settled in Congressional chairs ? Do they not often reflect , when urged to accept a nomination , that if they are really desirous of doing the nation a service , which shall be national in the highest sense , they can in many cases do it more freely as private individuals than as representatives of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terror of anything like office-holding by the spectacle of the merciless and . vindictive fury with which constituents gore the unhappy Congressman who makes a false step ? The untimely fate of the wretched legislators who from time to time dare to rise above the prejudices of those who elected them has power to fill even courageous breasts with dismay .                     