@@740840

txt Mr. JUDD 'S bill to provide for the formation of free public libraries has passed the Assembly , and is now before the Senate for , consideration . The tenor of the bill is almost precisely the same as that of the law which has been in force since 1851 in the State of Massachusetts , the only variation consisting in the rate of taxation ' authorized for the maintenance of such libraries as may be formed . We give the text of the bill as presented by Mr. June : " 1 . Each town and city and village in this plate max establish and maintain a free public library therein , with or without branches , for the use of the inhabitants thereof , and provide suitable rooms therefor , under such logulations for Its governmentm mayyieom time to time be prescribed Mr the Board of Town Auditors of the town , or the City Council , or the Board of Trustees of the village . 2 . Any town . or city , or village may appropriate money for suitable buildings or rooms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceeding one dollar for such of its ratable polls in the year next preceding that in which such appropriation is made ; and may also appropriate annually for the maintenance and increase giereof a sum not exceeding fifty cents for each of its ratable polls in the year next preceding that in which such appropriation is made , and may receive , hold , and manage any devise , bequest or donation , for the establishment , increase or maintenance of a free public library within the same . " It will be noticed that- this bill , if it shall become a law , will confer full power upon our Municipal legislators to establish and maintain a public library without the necessity of a popular vote or any delay upon financial grounds . And yet we apprehend that private munificence will be required to supplement the appropriations made by our public authorities , in order to secure for New-York anything like.the library we need . Hence , while the new law ? if such it shall become  --  will be most beneficial in its provisions for the wants of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon as likely to accomplish quite so much for New-York as our local pride demands , or our commanding position warrants . The bill of Mr. JUDD is one . which should be enacted into a law . because it will do much to foster literary tastes , and . furnish mental aliment in many localities in our State which sadly need . such encouragement . But we do not despair of seeing one , or two , or more of our wealthy citizens undertake the foundation and . future support of such a library as New-York needs , as an independent and private enterprise .                     