@@740910

txt The Cincinnati Convention yesterday took a few more doleful steps toward the final " fizzle " which has been surelor several weeks to be its result . The character of the proceedings was precisely what might have been expected from a gathering of sullen and disappointed men , under the guidance of leaders of little character and less skill , with no moral or political enthusiasm to sustain them . In numbers the Convention was very slim . It certainly gave slight signs of being the beginning of a new party . To those who remember the great meeting at Buffalo in 1848 , when thirty thousand men gathered at the inauguration of the movement which made the Republican Party , the paltry sixteen hundred conventionists and four hundred spectators who assembled yesterday can but seem contemptible . The paucity of numbers , and the wide vacant spaces which swallowed . up the little crowd , seem to have thoroughly dispirited the common herd , while the leaders plainly dared not move an inch till some more perfect " machine " had been " put up . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of professed reformers , who had . run away from party dictation and . the iron role of the caucus , tamely submitting to be dismissed for a whole day without even a set speech to ruminate on , because their leaders had not yet patched up their programme . There was no enthusiasm , not a sign of that exciting sympathy which is sure to run through a crowd of men bent in earnest on any common end . Even Sentraz  --  whose " heart never quails . " ? shrunk from encountering the cold and gloomy audience , and kept his speech in his bosom for a more congenial occasion . Since no one had anything of consequence to propose , the little crowd , after an hour . dispersed , with very much the appearance and feeling of an awkward squad that has " presented arms " before the order came . Meanwhile , the bartering regarding the platform goes on , with little hope of any resnit in which the people are likely to take the slightest interest . It is possible that the free-traders , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mere traders in professions to have their own say . In that case the movement would be intelligible , but insignificant . As far as real revenue reform ii concerned , it would cripple it by exciting the partisan feeling of Republicans against it . As far as the Presidency is concerned , it could . not change the electoral vote of more than one or two States , and those unimportant ones . As far as the Democracy is concerned , it would offer no inducement to that party to give up its national Convention , or forego its own nominations . On the other hand , if the free-traders yield to the mere politicians , and consent to an ambiguous revenueresolution  --  the movement would be neither respectable nor significant . It would rapidly take its place among the innumerable failures of a departing political regime , to which the rule of genuine reform and real popular control of ! politics is plainly succeeding . The effect of the weakness of the Convention , and . of the utter impracticability of uniting it on a single principle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever . FFNTON yesterday slipped out of sight , having stayed away from Washington just long enough to dodge the Republican caucus and the vote on free tea and . coffee . GREELEY hedged in an obvious way in yesterday 's Tribune , and . forebore the slightest gush over the power and virtue of Cincinnati . The leaders on the spot , as we have indicated , are afraid to stir , and have let pass the one moment when they could have produced . an impression on the country . Some of the Democratic papers nave already begun to talk small about Cincinnati , . and big about their own party . The Convention may be dismissed as an event already as much in the past as its illustrious predecessor at Cleveland in 1864.                     