@@741380

txt Unless when the discussion of a new charter or some similarly revolutionary change iu local government is pending , . it is almost impossible to get a very active public sentiment brought to bear upon the Legislature . There are certain classes of the community who are always active . Among these are the street railroad grabbers and their agents , the rapid-transit men who want City money , and the speculative property-owners forming up town " associations , " who want their particular section of the island to be " improved . " , at a lavish expense , to be borne by the City at large . Reinforced by the ever-active. class of professional politicians in and out of office , such influences stand , during a legislative session , for what is known as public opinion . Meanwhile the people , who must ultimately pay for the generous hospitality dispensed by these gentry at Albany and for any measure or success which attends their " strikes " upon the public purse , are minding what they call their own business , and leaving their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those of ' the common weal . For instance , is there one tax-payer in a hundred , or one citizen in a thousand , who has any decided opinion about the merits of the Riverside Avenue bill I And yet this act involves the expenditure of at least three millions of dollars as its immediate result , and of a perfectly indefinite sum in the not distant future . Without going into the his- : . tory of this meaSnro , which has been ' clearly indicated in our Albany dispatches , the bill , as amended in the Senate Committee on Cities , has the following remarkable prevision : . " The work of regulating , grading , paving , sewering , curbing , and ' guttering the avenues , roads , and sidewalks herein established or referred to , shall be determined and performed by the Department of Public Works , and in the manner by it deemed ' expedient . " Thus , there are swept away in one sentence the existing jurisdiction by the Department of Parks over fa- streets , roads , and . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . outer boundaries of any public park , the salutary safeguards of the con-. tract systempand all possibility of . securing from gangs of laborers and overseers ap7.4 pointed for political ends an honest day 's work for a fair day 's wages . The department to which it is proposed to transfer these enormous powers is already overburdened with work and . responsibility . The fact that the head of that department is a Republican , and . may be expected to use his enormous patronage for party purposes , ought not to weigh for one instant with any honest member of the majority in the Legislature . These little facilities for governing New York through hired laborers ' have a tendency , as we know to ow cost , to . get on the wrong side . Even from a partisan standpoint , there are decided objections to making ' a cudgel to break our own heads withal . If the Republican Party can not retain its share in governing the City without cheating the tax-payers , it had better give up the attempt altogether . We have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tar , as an immense improvement , both in economy and efficiency , over that of his predecessor . His ' continued presence at Albany in connection with measures not obviously demanded by the public interest , and his apparent approval of the system of smuggling jobs into bills in committee , are too suggestive of the methods of TWEED to be good either for his own political prospects or for the prospects of those who sustain him . There is but one way to settle this Riverside avenue dispute t vest the control of the work where it properly belongs , in. the Department of Parks , and let . the work be put up to public competition , as provided in the charter . There is another highly-important bill before the Legislature which would probably make more rapid progress if the people 's representatives could be made to believe that the people were closely watching its fortunes . We . refer to the bill giving the Board of Apportionment power to readjust the tax levy for the year , and . relieve the tax-payers from the very heavy burden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , must be the rate for 1874 . Whatever be the feeling now , there will be a very decided outbreak of indignation by next November if the relief asked for is defeated through legislative indifference or political scheming . We shall take some pains to keep the people informed as to who are responsible for delaying the progress of this measure . Then , there is the bill intended to relieve the general body of tax-payers from the necessity of paying for improvements which neighboring property-owners have evaded , owing to some merely technical defect in the levying of the assessment . Fraud should always continue to be a valid ground for vacating assessments , but " irregularity , " say in advertising , or some such minor detail , ought not to invalidate a perfectly legal obligation . The Assembly bill simply provides for this , and . ought to be promptly passed . The City and County Consolidation bill has been passed by the Senate , and ought very soon to be heard of from the Assembly Committee on Cities . If anybody is interested in defeating this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the existing law , an extra salary , of which it was the clear intention of the new charter to deprive them . The Supervisors recently empowered one of their committees to appoint counsel to represent their " interests " at Albany . In this way the people may find , one of these days , that their money is being spent for the purpose of defeating legislation required . for the public benefit . If the Supervisors ' counsel , whoever he may be , attempts to retard the progress of the Consolidation bill , it will be worth while inquiring into the kind of arguments he uses for that purpose , and into who are responsible for the instructions under which he acts .                     