@@742787

txt The report made to Secretary SCHURZ by the Commissioners appointed under the act of Congress to superintend the establishment of the Bruld and Ogallalla , Sioux in their new homes , is full and frank . Their business was one of great importance , involving , as it did , the destiny of the most numerous and formidable of the Indian tribes  --  a nation whose hostile members maintain a Canadian refugee camp , under SITTING BULL , and whose friendly people at the Red Cloud and Spotted Tail Agencies alone number from 12,000 to 15,000 souls . SITTIN0 BULL is careful to remind the latter , by his messengers , that they are all ' Sioux , and must stand by each other ; but since the last hostilities in which RED CLOUD 'S and SPOTTED TAIL 'S bands were engaged , they have uniformly been loyal to the Government . The salaries of the Rod Cloud and Spotted Tail Agents are $2,200 each  --  the highest paid by the Government ; the appropriation made by Congress to the various Sioux tribes for the current fiscal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire appropriation for the Indian service , which is $4,741,075 . The admitted power of the Sioux Indians served them in good stead at the late conferences over their removal . The upshot of the conferences was that the Indians carried their point , and the Government was compelled to yield . The Government was very urgent that the Sioux should be located on the Missouri . This proposition , supported by tempting inducements of extra cattle , RED CLOUD rejected with dignified decision : and SPOTTED TAIL almost with the rudeness of resentment that it should be made . They refused to go to the Missouri . SPOTTED TAIL , however , chose a region only about ' 70 miles from the Missouri , on the South Fork of the White River , whereas ' RED CLOUD insisted on White Clay Creek , at a point upward of 150 miles from the great river . In the discussions between the chiefs and the Commissioners , the Indians had the enormous advantage of the direct promises made to them at Washington , last Summer , that , if they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should select other home 4 wherever they liked in the Spring . Both to the Interior and the War Department it has since appeared highly desirable that the original plan of permanently locating these two great agencies on the Missouri should be carried out . In the first place , and principally , the annual supplies could then be carried by boat directly to the agencies , with slight cost or hauling ; and , secondly , the Indians could more easily be reached by military forces , in case of disturbance , whereas in the interior they would have advantages of communication with SITTING BULL . Tho Indians , however , stuck hard and fast to the simple promise made them in Washington . Nevertheless , they consented to give some answer to the points made by Gen. STANLEY and the other Commissioners . As to the hauling , RED CLOUD said that the cost of it came out of the annuities , so that , if they chose to go ' Where they pleased , and to get fewer supplies in consequence , it was their own affair . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like that of the white man who goes to live at a long distance from the convenient city because he likes the country better , even if transportation of city goods and his own traveling cost him more . Besides , RED CLOUD said that he and his people had made up their minds to have their supplies come by railroad ; and in saying that he possibly touched the key to an exterior pressure on his decision . The Union Pacific Railroad has possibly urged the Sioux Indians to take the course they have taken with a view to securing their annual transportation for the railroad . The matter of Sioux location , in this view , would develop into a business rivalry between river and rail lines . It at least shows the confidence of the railroad authorities in the Sioux that they will risk the presence of these numerous Indians on their lino in order to secure their freights . And possibly they may have led RED CLOUD to hope that he and his bands could do their own hauling from the road to the agency . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way  --  by direct observation  --  that the Indians had picked out much better sites for themselves than had been picked out for them . The banks of the Missouri were obviously not nearly as healthy as the back country they had chosen . The former were not at all : favorable for farming , whereas , in fertility , and especially in timber and grass , both of the two reservations chosen by RED CLOUD and SPOTTED TAIL wore all that could be desired . The Commissioners were , therefore , under a palpable disadvantage in trying to persuade the Indians from their ohoico . Accordingly , while the general result of the conferences was the abandonment of the Government 's plans , it would be a groat mistake to censure the yielding of the Commissioners as unwise . There is little doubt , indeed , that had the Commissioners persisted the result would have been war . SPOTTED TAIL declared defiantly that he was going.where ho chose ; that he had the word of the white man 's Government , and his people had fulfilled their part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with SITTING BULL , and he with other allies , so that nearly ten thousand warriors , many of them splendidly armed , could have ravaged the frontiers . The hundreds or thousands of lives and millions of treasure expended in such a way would have been the penalty Indian war on our part . , would have beer not only the bloodiest bul ; the basest in our dealings with the red Lien . DLit , in addition , the Commissioners express them . selves as forced to conclude , from inspection , that on the Missouri the Cridians , settling in any great numbers , " must be paupers dependent on the Covernment for ever , " whereas on the better lands now se. lected they may , . with some assistance first , become self-supporoing . Desides , - Oat lack of timber on the : NIissouri would re . quire wood for building them houses to bt transported , " and the cost would be greater than the cost of transportation of sup plies , " so that the locality actually chosen " would in the end be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now apparently satisfied , and on the other plan they would always have been discontented . We must conclude , therefore , that the Commissioners , in changing their first purpose , acted for the best . They append some suggestions on the desirability o ' breaking up tribal and chiefttinship influences , as far as possible , so that individual Indians desiring to live among whit ( men or like white men maybe , nieouragec to do so . For this purpose they would extend the operation of a regular judiciary among them , and also provisions for acquiring homesteads . These , however , are con siderations for the futur3 , applying to our Indian policy in general .                     