@@740680

txt The following is a translation of an address from the Professors of the University of Rome to the Capitulary Provost , Dr. IGNATIUS DoLLINGER , Professor of Ecclesiastical History , and Dean of the Faculty of Theology at the University of Munich : The strife which , in order not to fail in the most sacred duties of of your character as ecclesiastic , of science as theologian and historian , of morality as citizen , you have been unable to refuse , and which has been imposed upon youby men who , unfaith fill to their own convictions and declarations , solemnly proclaimed in the last Council , have preferred to be your persecutors rather than to unite themselves to you in order that they might save the immunity of their episcopal rights , and give their testimony to Christian truth  --  this strife , from the high princi- ples that are in question , and from the consequences that may issue from it in a near future . has attracted toward you the attention and the goodwill of all those who. standing within or without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regeneration and conciliation is now necessary in Europe . The Catholic Church , which , from the universality of her conception , from her painful but not always unmerited historical experiences , and from the urgent necessities of the present , should have felt more than ever the need of unity , has through the recent definitions of the Vatican Council , and through the worldly ambition of retaining that which , imposed on her as a historical necessity from the conditions of the life of the middle ages , is now of evident and serious prejudice to her divine mission  --  divided herself from the laity , from the best and the most learned of her Bishops , from the nations and States of Europe , from science and from civilization . It is impossible that this division can be the legitimate consequence of religious and Christian principles . It is also impossible that European society , which , in its adhesions and even in its resistances of eighteen centuries , has nevertheless always approached nearer toward morality and Christian ideality , can have become all at once incapable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can have renounced all the principles of its historical and moral development . In the first place . one would be obliged to say that religion is impossible and contrary to humanity ; and , in the second , that Providence does not exist . We , on the contrary , believe that there is nothing more human than religion , and that Providence , however considered and however defined , is a law , the historical reality of which it is impossible to doubt . The reason of the present perturbation of souls is not to be soLght for in the fundamental conception of civil society , nor in that of the religious institution , but in certain tendencies which became prevalent in the Romish Church after the Council of Trent . The German separation of the sixteenth century , which , in the opinion of the Church of Rome , was an evil and an unpardonable rebellion , had nevertheless one consequence  --  namely , her reform  --  among many others , that even the aforesaid Church , which continued , not in the ancient and original sense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herself Catholic , must confess to have been for her a great benefit . This reform , which , if anticipated , as some of the Cardinals and Italian Bishops then wished , would have prevented a separation , was the consequence of the German reform . The Catholic and Evangelical Churches are , since the sixteenth century , reformed Churches . In the conception and tact of reform lay , therefore , the future of religious unity in Europe . But the indispensable condition of this possible result was , necessarily , sincerity of purpose and unlimited devotion , without other aim than the religious idea . Now , instead , after three centuries of historic progress . the two churches are more than over divided one from the other , and the separation is irreconcilable . We do not wish to enter into the history of the Evangelical Church , but only briefly to inctica to some facts for which , according to us. the Romish Church is responsible to ward the Gospel and toward the Christian conscience . The reform of the Romish Church was , from its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preceding centuries , issuing from the universality of the Christian idea , and from the constant and living communion of the Church with society , were speechless before the fear of the boldness and unshakable firmness of the German reform . Instead of placing once more the Gospel in the hearts of the people , reviving teaching and tradition with the concurrence of the laity , the book was closed with seven seals , and for the laical co-operation was substituted that of religious corporations , and particularly that of the Jesuits . The Catholic Church has been for three centuries the Company of Jesus . Against this servitude , against this sacrifice of intellect , as the Jesuits , with malignant humility , now call it , all the Catholic thinkers protested , and still protest , from PASCAL to RosMINI and GIOBERTI , and to you who now raise the cry of injured and betrayed Catholicity before the doors of the Vatican Council . We Italians have suffered much from this enslaving of intellect . With very few exceptions all the Episcopacy calling itself Italian . because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Vatican Council . But the events that have conducted us to Rome , although they have not vet served any other purpose save that of leaving civil societies defenseless before the artifices and corruption of the Roman Curet , counseled and governed by the Jesuits , ought . nevertheless , to be for us a great occasion of moral reform . All the signs of a dying life will soon be erased by those of a new life , blooming from the tin allyachieved unity of our conntry . We remember that , in the midst of the immobility of the Jesuit schools , an Italian discovered the movement of the earth , and that when the Catholic Church was profaned in the whole of its hierarchy , the ideal of our art was the transfigured Christ . And these remembrances are auspices that can not fail . We are convinced that our right to Rome will not be incontestible and definite until that day in which we have transformed and renewed our moral conscience . For these reasons we hall your utterances with great hope , and offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is also ours , and that of the whole of Christian civilization . And this we say to you publicly , In order that in your free and just judgment you may in the future separate all responsibility of the Italian people from that of the Italian Episcopacy . The Episcopacy inhabiting our land is without country , and has nothing 1u common with the Italian people . The Syllabus , the infallibility , Papal autocracy , all these negations of human and divine reason , form a system without the slightest conusetion with the Roman character and thought . The servitude of intellect , abhorred by the Germanic race , is equally abhorred by the Roman , that is , Italian race . Italian morality Is no longer what it was in the sixteenth century . and now we know that the hour has come when the cause of ref orni should be fought and won by the two united nations  --  the Italians and the Germans . 