@@781665

txt The Board of Education is to be congratulated on having made the first step in a groat reform judiciously and successfully . The annual report , presented to the board on Wednesdp , y by the Superintendent of Truancy , shows how much already has been accomplished in executing the law for compulsory education . The Superintendent , Mr. STANTON , a careful and efficient officer , reports that the cases of 10,189 " truants and non-attendants " have been looked into ; of these 1,690 had no residence that could be found , and some 4,300 were detained at home by poverty or sickness , leaving 4,194 habitual truants residing at home . Of this number , 2,597 were returned to school ; 1 ; 121 who never went to school were placed in school , ( mainly in industrial schools , ) and only about sixty were obliged to be committed to public institutions . Thus nearly four thousand children , growing up in ignorance and exposed to all the temptations of a vagabond lifo , were placed in school and brought under regular discipline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general commitment of truant children to asylums , thus making the law unpopular , is shown to be groundless . But , as we have always urged in these columns , the influence of the law is far beyond its direct effects on truants . The report shows that since the law was put in execution the daily average attendance of the public schools has risen 6,515 , and that of the industrial schools 1,099 , making a total number of 7,614 children who have been taken from the ranks of the ignorant , and compelled to take the first steps in acquiring knowledge . The expense of thus gathering , in these 7,600 children to places of education has been only $14,356 , while the influence of the execution of the law has reached far and wide . The New-York Board of Education has shown itself much wiser in its management of this important matter than the London School Board . The latter association has refused to make use of the existing " Ragged Schools , " or has so managed as to break these up . The consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the London Times , that thousands of " gutter-children " and " street crabs " who used to get even a partial training in these useful institutions , are now turned adrift to rove the streets and live by thievery or bogging . They are too dirty and ragged , and necessarily too unpunctual , to attend the " certified schools " of the London Board . They need some food and aid in clothing , and they require persons who are familiar with the wants of the class to manage and teach them , as well as appliances for cleaulness . Moreover the respectable English mechanics do not like to have such children by the side of their own . The consequence is that the new popular education of London is failing to touch the lowest stratum . In Now-York the agents of the board have made use of the industrial , schools which were under their supervision , and have at once placed the worst of the truants and runaways in these useful schools . Here they are partly fed , clothed , and kept in a state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room for new pupils , and these schools supply the gap . But it must be remembered that the Compulsory law is only beginning to be executed . There are fully ton thousand children engaged in street trades , or resident in no settled place , who should come under its operations , but at present are excepted from its workings . The law is believed not to reach children " engaged is lawful occupation " iu school hours . All this great multitude of boot blacks , news-boys , little peddlers , and the like , are at present left to their own sweet will , so far as attending school is concerned . If the various boys ' lodging-houses did not apply their own " compulsory law , " thousands of these children would grow up ignorant . There should be this Winter a modification of the Compulsory law to cover this class of youth .                     