@@741223

txt It must now be admitted that a disease resembling malignant cholera has been for some time steadilg spreading northward and eastward from New Orleans . Its ravages in that city were serious , but in both Nashville and Memphis have been alarming , the disease showing the fatality if not all the symptoms of the dreaded Asiatic type . The malady  --  for it can not yet with truth be called an epidemic  --  has more recently reached Cincinnati and Washington , and it is reasonable to infer that it will appear in cities still further east which present favorable conditions for its propagation . The existence of this disease , and the danger that it may become an epidemic , are not denied by the best-informed physicians , nor by the health authorities generally . In some of the places where it has appeared , but especially in Nashville and Memphis , it has created a panic , resulting , as always happens in such cases , in large additions to its mortality . The fact , then , must be recognized that the country is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ignorance prevailing in regard to its causes and prevention , is more dreaded than any other . The first and most important duty at this time is to show how easily the disease can be controlled , and this duty is happily performed by the circular of the Executive Committee of the American Public Health Association , which we publish this morning . This document comes from a source entitled to credit , as we find it signed by well-known physicians residing in all parts of the country , and its chief merit is that it puts in popular shape , so that they may be available for general use , facts which have long been familiar to medical science . Nothing is better known than the local conditions that chiefly promote the outbreaks and . propagation of cholera , and these are told in plain language by the committee , so that they may be understood by all . The causes of the disease having been given , the means of its prevention are clearly pointed out . Cholera is distinctively a disease of filth , and . its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who have given it most study to be infective in its character , yet numberless instances are upon record where its progress has been completely checked by ordinary precautions . It is true that the contagium of cholera , planted in a favoring soil , will produce an epidemic growth , but it is also true that the seeds of no disease can be more thoroughly and quickly extirpated .. Sanitary science has made rapid advancement during the last few years , and has conferred many benefits upon mankind , but in nothing has its progress been more marked nor its blessings more valuable than in relation to the cause and prevention of cholera . It has shown that the most dreaded of diseases need excite no more alarm than measles , and the circular to which we have referred will be of inestimable public service at the present moment , as it is an epitome of sanitary science upon this subject . There is no excuse for New York or any other city or town east of the Alleghenies being smitten with cholera as an epidemic , for there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid the danger .. Of late years the people have become better educated in hygienic duties , and there has been a , much more efficient organization of health boards than ever before . This is more especially true of New York , where the people have been forced by the authorities to pay some regard to sanitary requirements , and where our Board of Health , now fully emancipated from political control , is giving gratifying proofs of its efficiency . The death rate during the present year . including the statistics for last week , shows that the City is in remarkably good condition , but it is also true that much remains to be done in order to make it entirely secure . Although our streets as a whole are tolerably clean , our surface drainage is defective , our sewers foul , our tenements to a great extent still unclean and unventilated , and many nuisances remain to be abated . These admitted . evils present ample opportunity tor the energetic exercise of all the powers possessed by the Board of Health , and it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devolved upon it by the gravity of the occasion . Forewarned it is forearmed , and . the board will be without ' excuse if it does not prevent both panic and . pestilence .                     