@@781633

txt The World of Friday was a mellifluous mixture of SUMNE.R . and sugar . Great minds jump together , and . the editor of the World has discovered that he and Mr .. Sumrucn have jumped together on the subject of conventions . But Mr. SUMNER - lumped first : the World thought of shutting convention doors only after the political horse was sto ! on . After this confession there is no end to the " booing " and sweet speaking with which the World welcomes its new ally . " But this word , " ( thus gushes that , simple-hearted. and ingenuous journal , ) " this word does him less than justice . It is we who are his allies , although we aid not know it when we began our reform . " He is pronounced " the most accomplished . statesman of the Republican Party ; " and the editor " feels very much strengthened in having so powerful and zealous a coadjutor . " For the great Republican statesman has actually noticed the World ; and the editor can not bow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throw his hat up high enough to express his joy . " Our articles have attracted his attention , " ( happy editor ! ) " and we tender him our respectful acknowledgements for having sent us a document which establishes his claim to priority . " And yet so ignorant was the World a few days.ago.of the doings of this eminent statesman , at whose feet it now crouches as servant and pupil , that it did not know that he had actually brought in a bill with a formidable array of " whereases " for the trifling end . of amending the Constitution in regard to the election of the President of the ' United States . Notwithstanding which , all at once the World , unworthy , yet rejoicing worm that it is , makes itself the humble ally of this eminent statesman  --  a statesman so eminent that it did not know of the most important and . the most recent of his proposed measures . We all know in what terms the World has for years been in the habit of speaking of Mr. SUMNER ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jourisox before he became President and after ; how at the former time he was drenched with epithets that would have fouled a pot-house sot or a stable-yard ruffian , and at the latter , how he became an honored leader , and a Democratic sage ; as we all remember that , we know just what this slobbering of Mr. SUMNER means . The World 's party ' having determined to use Mr. SUMNER 'S faction of the Republican Party to preserve its life and wriggle itself into power again , the World , like other crawling creatures , is licking and besliming its prey in order to swallow it easily . Our similes are unsavory ; but can our words be sweet when we speak of such dirty business ?                     