@@741462

txt The Tennessee Democratic and Conservative Convention for the nomination of a candidate for Governor assembled to-day . Hon. G. 0 . Henry , of Montgomery County , was elected permanent President . The following platform was adopted : ' The representatives of the Democratic and Conservative Party of Tennessee in convention assembled most cordially invite all good and true men who desire to increase the prosperity of the people of the State and preserve her honor untarnished , to unite with us in carrying out the following principles , to wit : First  --  That all honest labor should be protected , and receive its just reward . Second  --  That the burdens of the Government should be borne by the whole property of the country ; * that all assessments and taxes should be equal , uniform , and just , and no improper discrimination should be make against any species of property . Third  --  That we favor a strict construction of the Constitution of the United States , and insist that no power should be exercised by the General Government that is not clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so delegated . Fourth  --  That we oppose all monopolies , rings , and combinations formed for the oppression of the people ; that we are for the abolition of all useless and unnecessary offices , for a proper reduction of all excessive ealari es , for the most rigid economy in the administration of the State Government , for all necessary reforms in the law , so as to make its execution speedy , just , and certain ; that we will hold the collectors of revenue to a strict accountability in the collection and appropriation of said revenue ; that we deplore the existence of all indebtedness , Federal , State , county , and municipal , and demand that no more tax shall be levied upon the people than shall be found to be essentially necessary for the support of the State Government , administered on the principles of the most rigid economy , and for the payment of its just debts and obligations , and the preservation of its credit and honor untarnished , and are therefore opposed to an increase of taxation . Fifth  --  That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , and the payment of the bonds of the Government by the issuance of its non-interest bearing notes , according to contract expressed and implied at the time of the creation of such ? Niuetions , and a repeal of the present oppressive Federal tariff , and the enactment of a law solely with a view to the collection of necessary revenue ; that we denounce all legislation that seeks to interfere with the individual rights of the citizen to his own associates , and particularly what is known as the supplemental Civil Rights bill pending before the Federal Congress , as a palpable violation of the Constitution , intended to vex , barrage , oppress . and degrade the people of the Southern States , and be productive of untold social and political evils to both races , and which we should resist by all legal and constitutional means in our power . The following gentlemen were then named for candidates for Governor : Morgan , Key , Herr , Netherland , Porter , Burns , Wright , Fite , Marks , Busby , and Thomas . The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then withdrawn . On the third ballot Thomas received 195 Votes ; Burns , 172 ; Porter , 315 ; Marko , 144 ; and ' the others scattering . On the first ballot there were 953 votes cast ; necessary to a choice , 639 . On the third ballot there were 649 votes cast ; necessary to a choice , 432 . The convention then adjourned until evening .                     