@@781682

txt One of the pleasantest places in New-York for Summer resort is THEonorix THositAsTentral Park Garden . It is so , not alone because the music to be heard there is the best that the City affords , and as good as any city can give . On one of our sweltering August nights , celestial harmonies would hardly lure the public to the prim discomfort and suffocating elegance of an ordinary concertroom or opera-house . The great charms of THOMAS ' Garden are its ease , its coolness. and freedom from conventionality . With the enjoyment of good music , one may there combine whatever solace the season of the dog star leaves to unhappy mortals  --  a linen jacket , a breath of fresh air , an ice , or a cigar . In spite of these departures from the dress parade of good . society , perhaps because of them , ladies have for some years been in the habit of visiting this place of amusement , and have even appeared to like it . And by them , or on their behalf , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the music hall proper . On this point acrimonious debate has been held in the newspapers . The smokers have been tartly informed that no gentleman ever smokes before a lady , and the retort discourteous has been made that ladies have no business in the garden at all . But this is a very unsatipetory way of settling the controversy . if the ladies were to stay away , as they have a clear right to do , for all the better class of its masculine patrons the garden would speedily lose its greatest attraction . Here is one of the oases where a compromise seems to be in order , where a little mutual concession will leave everybody satisfied . It is probably true that the ideal gentleman would not smoke in presence of a lady without permission . But the ideal gentleman is rare , and . seems to be of a domestic turn . It is , at any rate , unsafe to rely on finding him behind every pair of ambrosial whiskers adorning our places of public resort . Besides , smokers too may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smiling awaits terrarum has been fitted up for their express use , they may grumble a little to find it taken possession of by the fair enemies of the weed , as is said to be the case on the smoking-cars on the Third-avenue road . At the same time there appears to be ample TOM at THOMAS ' to accommodate those who smoke as well as those who object to it . The garden proper , and the lobby , much the pleasantest parts of the place , might be allotted to the use of the smokers , while in the music hall it might be made a matter of request  --  there ought to be in such a place no compulsion  --  to abstain from the " cloudy comfort . " So all prejudices would be soothed . and our most delightful Summer resort would continue to retain all its attractions .                     