@@742823

txt Out of the chaotic condition which at this moment seems to be a principal characteristic of Southern politics some good results will almost certainly arise . Even the Greenback movement will not be an unmixed evil if it help to emancipate the Southern people from the arbitrary sway of their old oligarchy , and familiarize them with liberty of speech and action in relation to party matters . The disorganization which has overtaken the Democracy is not confined to one State and is not the consequence of any single cause . It has attained its largest proportions , perhaps , in Georgia , but there are also various signs of it in Virginia , North Carolina , and other States . Iu North Carolina the rivalry of Messrs . MERRIMON and VANCE is felt throughout the party , and imparts life to the factions into which it has been split . Everything is subordinated to their struggle for the Senatorship , and both connive at violations of the State Constitution in expectation of sonic personal advantage . The quarrels in Virginia are traceable mainly to the long-continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which grew out of this controversy in the last session of the Legislature develops itself in a form that must shock the traditional veneration of Virginians for their prominent citizens . More than one idol has been rudely knocked off its pedestal , and language is applied by party organs to party candidates which a few years ago would have been followed by a free use of pistols . There is au evident deterioration of manners which is but partially atoned for by greater license in the treatment of partisan nominations and the pretensions of candidates . The time is past even in Virginia when the decision of a caucus or a convention is acquiesced in with scarcely a murmur . Where it might have been least expected . we see Democratic demoralization carried to a point second only to that which prevails in Georgia . In the latter State party discipline is almost powerless . The independents are frightening the regulars , and some of the leaders who are loudest in their advocacy of partisan allegiance are themselves supporting candidates whose claims conflict with the working of the machine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we may well be reconciled to the selfish motives in which much of this opposition to the regular party action originated . A man who sets up his own pretensions and goes into a contest because a nominating convention did not recognize them need not in ordinary circumstances hope for much sympathy . The peculiarity of the case in Georgia and other parts of the South lies in the fact that the Independent candidates have a force behind them which lifts them far above the usual level of " bolters . " Their candidacy would have been all but impossible had there not been a strong under-current of feeling against the old leaders of the party and the manner in which they have managed its affairs . The natural tendency to an abuse of power , long-cherished and apparently secure , to a large extent explains the situation . Though the sources of their influence before the war have been destroyed , they have exercised authority as absolutely as ever . Meanwhile a generation has entered into polities which does not submit gracefully to their rule . There is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result partly of natural causes , partly of the judicial blindness of the Bourbons and their inability to understand the meaning of the revolution that , has occurred . It will be the fault of the Republican Party if the phrase , " the solid South , " regain its former significance . The South is not " solid " now in the sense that conveys a menace to other sections . The Greenback movement accelerates the process of disintegration and will reap most of the immediate advantages proceeding from it . The Southern Democratic managers are striving more persistently than their brethren in the . West to retain distinctive party organization . It is not easy to generalize their Auanoial minions or to measure their concessions to thelieresies which contribute so largely to the strength of independent efforts . The nonpartiSan nature of the movement , moreover , embarrasses them . As long as they were required to meet only Republican assaults , they felt comparatively little anxiety . They appealed to deep-rooted passions and prejudices connected with the war and reconstruction , and invoked help that was rarely withheld @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of . It presents totally different issues , and derives a large proportion of its vigor from Democratic accessions . They are therefore obliged to give it fair play . Its speakers may encourage the Democratic revolt without incurring bodily danger . They may stimulate independence , and the Democratic managers dare not interfere with the work . Our special correspondent in Virginia shows how this state of things really helps forward the cause of free speech and free party action where both have ordinarily been impossible . We may regret the advance of Greenback opinion , and the probable addition to the vote representing it in Congress , but it is some consolation to know that the agitation is breaking down the Bourbon barriers in the South and familiarizing the people with the work of political organization outside of the lines hitherto rigidly maintained . There is too much reason to fear that whatever be the ultimate effect of these changed conditions of Southern politics , the Republican Party will not derive any substantial benefit in the present campaign . The outlook in Virginia is not disappointing simply because little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fair field has been wasted in West Virginia , and that the opportunity presented in North Carolina will be ? perhaps completely  --  lost . Whether anything he gained in Georgia depends upon the management and the aid that may be accorded from other quarters . The later contingency is not a hopeful one . With proper organization , good results might be anticipated . While , however , the present prospect is not bright , enough appears to forbid despondency in regard to the future . The damage done to party lines falls most heavily upon the Democracy , and from the disorganization which prevails the Southern Republicans will sooner or later derive material benefits . The growing tendency to independence is in their favor .                     