@@741141

txt The fourth annual report of the Board Of Railroad Commissioners of Massachusetts has just been published , and is an interestand ing and important document . No one can read it with even cursory attention perceiving the very great service done to the Commonwealth hy this body of able and energetic men . Their investigations have already thrown light on some of the most obscure and difficult portions of the railroad problem , while their zeal . tact . and intelligence have worked substantial improvements in the railroad management of their own State . Tho public is hotter served , capital invested in railways pays bettor , there is more harmony among the railroad corporations , and the safety of life and property from accident is greatly secured , by the labors of those Comm-ssioners . This is the more noteworthy from the fact that the powers of the Commissioners are very moderate , and they are very chary of using what they have , or of seeking any extension of them . Not only this , but the commissioners have been able to prove the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to prevent much well-intended , but crude action , by the State Government . Among the duties of the Commissioners , one of the most difficult and delicate , as well as one of the most important , has been the investigation of accidents , and the recommendation to the railroad companies of adequate means to prevent their recurrence . In this department the Commissioners have met with very considerable success . They have proceeded on the theory that accidents can not be absolutely prevented : that so long as the prevention of them depends on human foresight and vigilance , a certain number of failures in these qualities is inevitable ; but that accidents which can not be prevented may be rendered comparatively harmless . The safeguards against railway disaster consist , according to the Commissioners , in part in the vigilance of employes , partly in the adoption of means to stop a train within a short distance , and partly in the construction of cars in a way to resist the shock of any accident that may occur . At the time of the Revere disaster , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used the train-brake , e. , a patent brake which the engineer can apply instantaneously to every car . At the close of 1872. thanks largely to the efforts of the Commissioners , the trainbrake had been applied to ninety-three locomotives , and . to 415 out of , 1,015 passenger cars . The report does not , we are sorry to say , also state the extent to which the Miller platform has been adopted , but it gives some most remarkable instances of the marvelous security obtained by the use of that platform , together with solid construction of rolling stock . In one case , a train of five cars was run upon an obstruction with such force that the trucks and running gear were torn from under the cars , and the cars themselves were thrown down an embankment some 200 feet beyond the place where they left the track , yet , owing to the strength of the cars and . the Miller platform , the cars were not broken , the passengers were only slightly bruised , and even the glass in the windows was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rear of a freighttrain with such force as to destroy the last freight-car , and . shatter some eight or ten of the cars in front of it , ' yet the passengercars were substantially uninjured , and . no passenger was hurt . If the Commissioners had done nothing but collate and compare such facts as above given , their service to the community would have been great , for they would have demonstrated that railway accidents may be stripped of their greatest terrors . They have , however , done much more . They have obtained the passage of a general Railway law , which has done a great deal to give tranquillity and . genuine vigor to the railroad interests of the State ; they have intervened to protect both corporations and the Public from ill-advised legislation ; they have secured a fair and . thorough experiment in cheap trains to and from Boston ; they have provided a candid and careful examination of the effect of attempts to regulate railroad charges by law ; and they have reported succinctly the main features in the management of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference to the part taken by the Government therein . There is much food for reflection in the report for all legislators , for the difficulties in the matter of railway control are much the same all over the country .                     