@@741096

txt A large portion of the last session of the Senate , before the recess , was occupied by Senator RICE , of Arkansae , in a fenitless effort to secure the : appointment of a Senatorial Committee to inquire into the late . election in his State . His resolution alleges " unparalleled frauds , " and his remarks in support of it contain specific charges as to the disfranchisement of thirty thousand voters , and of frauds in certain districts , by which persons were returned as members of the Legislature of the State who were not legally elected . He did not , however , in the course of his speech , distinctly deny the charge which has been freely made . that it is the purpose of his party to go beyond the law , and inaugurate Mr. BROOKS Governor by . means of a body of men calling themselves a Legislature who can not possibly have a legal existence . The facts stated by Mr. Rica were controverted by his colleague , Senator CLAYTON , and after the Senate had wasted much valuable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laid aside . The fact that ' the Senate does not meet again until the 6th- of January , renders it improbable that the resolution will be adopted , as the time before the canvassing of the votes for President by Congress will then be too brief for the investigation it contemplates . The practical defeat which the resolution has mot in the Senate is not a cause for regret . The anxiety of Senator Rica to wash dirty linen before the eyes of the whole nation is natural . but hardly praiseworthy . His resolution is directed only to the disputed vote for Presidential electors , but his remarks were wholly occupied with the result as to State offieers : and it is evident that it is really the possession of the State Government , not the electoral vote , which is in controversy . The vote of Arkansas is not necessary to decide the Presidential election , and the disputes which have arisen Concerning the result of the election should be left to be decided by the State itself . It fortunately happens that the legal machinery of Arkansas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement of the pending difficulties can be prevented only by the party of Senator Ewa resorting to revolution  --  as , it is asserted , they are intending to do . There can be no possib'e excuse for the threats which they are making , and if they attempt to carry them out . they will afford another and wholly unnecessary proof that the Democrats of the South have not yet been taught that respect for law which is the only security for free government . The Arkansas case can be stated in a few words . The law requires that the Judges of Election shall make their returns to the County Clerks as to members of the Legislature , and these officials have nothing to do but certify these returns to the Secretary of State . This latter officer , from the returns thus certified , makes out a list of the members elected to the two Houses , and upon this basis the Legislature must be organized or be an unlawful body . It is not pretended that the Republicans have not thus far complied with all these requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will attempt to evade the law in any steps which are yet to be taken . The clerks of counties are required to certify the result of the election as to State officers to the President pro tempore of the Senate . who , during the first week of the session , must open these returns in the presence of the two Houses . The returns are then canvassed , and the persons declared elected are in law the officers of the State . It is assumed that the Legislature , which will be thus lawfully constituted next month , will contain a Republican majority , and . that the returns , which will be then opened and canvassed , will show the election of Mr. BAXTER , the Republican nominee for Governor . Acting on this assumption . frauds have been alleged , and it is charged that the Brooks party propose to inaugurate their candidate as Governor , without regard to the decision of the lawful authority of the State . If they take this course they become revolutionists , without having an excuse for their conduct , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim to have suffered . They have the right of contest , and if they can show that frauds have been committed , as . they assert , it will be impossible for the Legislature to refuse to correct the returns , and declare Mr. BROOKS Governor . The fact that they refuse to take these legal means of redress , raises a strong presumption that the frauds which they allege have no foundation in fact . Even the most reckless of politicians do not resort to arbitrary . illegal , and dangerous methods to accomplish their purposes when they can attain them under the forms of law . This is a fact which the agitation in Arkansas will constantly make more apparent , and the Democrats of the State can not hope to conceal from the public that their cry of fraud is not only baseless , bat is intended as a cover to a proceeding wholly inexcusable.                     