@@781921

txt These are the days when Sunday-school scholars are called upon to consecrate their youthful stomachs to a variety of pious objects . The oldest boy or girl in the Bible class and the youngest baby in the infant class can alike oat strawberries for the benefit of the heathen or for the purpose of painting the mooting-house . The stereopticon is now out of season , and the returned missionary has taken advantage of the quiet Summer weather to sail with his last new wife for the scene of his missionary labors . The only remaining method of making the Sunday-school attractive , is by organizing strawberry festivals , where the children may gorge themselves with berries and ice-cream , and thus early learn the great moral lesson that the colic of this world is of but small importance in comparison with the souls of benighted heathen or the decoration of the ' clapboards of the meeting-house . That strawberry festivals have their uses no one denies . They certainly stimulate the trade of strawberry culturists , confectioners , apothecaries , and physicians , besides giving occasional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the buying of now clothes for the children , and the immediate ruin of the same which is inevitably wrought by illjudged attempts to carry home surreptitious strawberries in juvenile pockets . These , however , are considerations which appeal only to the worldly-minded , and have no influence with the festival managers . No may suppose that the latter desire to make a sufficient profit upon the sale of strawberries to pay for a reasonable number of heathen or for a substantial quantity of paint ; but it is generally understood their chief desire is to induce the tender and growing stomachs of the young to labor for the highest and holiest purposes . It rarely happens that the Sunday-school strawberry festival yields any largo pecuniary returns . There is a spirit of selfishness among too many mothers which renders them unable to view with satisfaction the prospect of cholera Wanton . among their own children , and hence leads them to furnish each child with not more than the price of two plates of strawberries and one of icecream . Even if the managers sell both berries and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this mistaken parental parsimony forbids the hope of largo returns . There are , indeed , in every Sunday-school , fat boys with liberal parents , and , the warm welcome which such boys receive shows the high estimation in which a strong and capacious stomach is held by intelligent festival managers . Still , the fat boys , though tempted to heroic feats of eating , can not devour unlimited berries , and when they are finally led away howling with internal anguish , their fate has a depressing influence upon less ardent eaters . Thus , a strawberry festival often fails to yield its anticipated profit , and , in many instances , superiutdlidents and teachers who have spent hours in urging children to remember the poor heathen and to take a.few more strawberries , gather sadly together at the end of the festival and remark one to another that they do n't believe that a dozen children ate enough to really hurt them , and that the festival has not yielded more than thirty or forty dollars . Now , at the present ruling rates in the heathen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the smallest and cheapest heathen in India , much less the full-grown , choice , and costly Chinese heathen . If we compare the annual cost of Protestant missions and the annual amount of heathen reclaimed by them , wo find that for Protestant purposes heathen are extremely dear . Of course , this is no argument against missions , since the sincere Christian can not deny that the salvation of a single heathen is worth more than all the money that has ever yet been contributed to the cause ; but it is here mentioned as a proof that the ordinary Sunday-school festival can accomplish but very little in point of heathen . It is true that Roman Catholics obtain their heathen at very low rates , since they are contented with merely baptizing them . If their ways were our ways , a strawberry festival might return an average yield of three heathen for every dozen basketfuls ; but as it is , to educate , clothe , and convert a heathen at a cost of from thirty to forty dollars is out of the question . By making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday-school festivals a good substantial heathen might be secured , but this would entail endless discussion as to which Sunday-school the heathen principally belonged to , or whether each contributing school had an equal interest in him as joint tenants or tenants in common . It can now be readily understood why strawberry festivals , which , a few years since , were held almost exclusively with a view to heathen , are now gradually becoming solely devoted to painting meetinghouses . Even now they usually fail to provide funds enough to buy more than halt the necessary paint , and have to be supplemented with fairs , tableaux , and " Mrs. Jarley wax-works . " For whichever purpose the average strawberry festival is held , it is usually a financial failure , and were it not for the warm support which is given to every festival of the kind by hopeful apothecaries and doctors , Sunday-school children would probably be soon released from the duty of annually surfeiting themselves with strawberries . There was a time  --  many years ago  --  when every New-England Sunday-school kept its private East-Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without the slightest aid from juvenile stomachs . The Sundayschool scholars subscribed actual money for their respective heathen , and the members of the congregation gave real dollars for the purchase of paint . At that remote period pious people were willing to give money for religious purposes in a blunt , direct manner that is shocking to modern taste , and , moreover , taught their children to do likewise . At present , before a man can bring himself to pay for ecclesiastical paint he must delude himself into the belief that ho is only paying for admission to a silly show , or is buying worthless articles at a fair ; and instead of teaching his children to give their pennies directly to the cause of religion , ho instigates them to buy strawberries and colic , when they might otherwise be sleeping quietly in their beds . The modern fashion must be the better since it is the later one , but we still meet occasional old people who gruffly ask why men and women and children can not give money to religious objects without an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     