@@742218

txt The most plausible argument urged in support of the bill for delegating to a commission the election of a President is , that some measure of the sort is reqnired by the business interests of the country . The as ? gumption is that the uncertainties of the present political outlook are the main , if not the only , obstacle to the recuperation of industry and trade ; and , therefore , that any drawback incident to the proposed plan will be atoned for by immediate and substantial gain to all the elements of material prosperity . As a plea for the enactment of a bill , which , on its merits , is open to grave objections , this reference to business interests is entitled to very little consideration . As an expression of the wants of business , and of the conditions essential to its improvement , the statement is a delusion . That anything which contributes to uncertaiuty in the administration of public affairs operates adversely to business , no man denies . The question worth considering at this moment is , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its removal are , to any large extent , traceable to the doubts which overhang the Presidential contest . If they are , the feeling which is alleged to exist in mercantile circles in favor of a settlement by any peaceful means , and at any cost , is intelligible and right . If not , the feeling is not entitled to the weight that is claimed for it in the discussions at Washington . The best criterion for determining the question is the condition of the public credit . Of all tests this ! Lost clearly reveals the faith or the fears of capitalists and investors at home and abroad . Taking the public credit , then , as the indicator of public confidence , the conclusion it suggests is fatal to the idea that the political situation either intensifies or prolongs business stagnation and embarrassment . The credit of the United States never stood so high as now in the London market . The demand for Government Bonds was never before so great , there or here . The process of funding at four and a half per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that speculative influences are at work , and which affords the best possible proof of the faith universally felt in the smooth working of our Government . This , too , in spite of circumstances that would ordinarily foster excessive distrust . The revolutionary threats of the Democrats , for example , have been sufficiently violent , and have been reiterated with sufficient frequency , to excite apprehensions prejudicial() the immediate future of the country . But the national credit has , nevertheless , remained unimpaired .. It has got better under conditions which might be regarded as hostile to all improvement . From which feat we infer that neither among our own people nor iu Europe are the possibilities of a constitutional settlement of the Presidential question viewed in the light to which the alarmists appeal as a reason for bringing into play irregular and dangerous agencies . Take the gold market as another test . A very slight fear as to the stability and smooth working of the Government would exhibit itself in a demand for coin . Thrifty merchants would make provision for maturing foreign obligations ; timid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect of strife would greatly depreciate , into a coin that would outlast revolution . There has not been the first sign of either . The fluctuations in gold values have been trifling , and , generally speaking , in the direction of a decline . We are nearer specie payments than at any time since paper was made a legal tender , and we are so , not because of any legislative pressure , but as a consequence of the operation of natural causes , in conjunction with the confidence felt by capitalists and business men in the maintenance of order and the sufficiency of the law as it stands . The downward tendency of the gold premium is not favorable to the alarmists . It is atim itted that the severe trial which has lasted since 1873 , was in the beginning an inevitable result of rash financiering , unduly expanded credit , and the expenditure of enormous amounts upon unfinished and unproductive enterprises . Painful as the experience has been , the prevailing opinion is that it afforded no excuse for despondency . On the contrary , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to purge business of its unwholesome qualities , and to bring back values to the true standard . From this point of view politics have had very little to do with the business troubles of the last three years . How , then , can the application of the lottery principle to the election of a President produce . any marked change in business affairs 1 Will it impart solvency to insolvent firms ? Will it summarily stop the failure of houses already too weak to stand , or the frauds which the bankrupt law enables knavish debtors to perpetrate with impunity ? Will it remedy the mischief done to industrial interests by a tariff clumsily constructed for the benefit of monopolists , or give to consumers the fiscal relief which a tariff framed solely with a view to revenue would surely yield 1 Will it lighten the load of municipal taxation or drive economy and integrity into the heads of municipal rulers 1 Will it open . the eyes of landlords to the necessities of tenants or adapt rents to the altered circumstances of the period f it , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origin is far removed from politics , and whose duration depends upon contingencies in no manner connected with the Presidency ? When these inquiries are answered , there will be little difficulty in judging of the reasonablenes.e of the attempt to make political capital out of business disasters .                     