@@742675

txt The country will not be misled by Mr. WOOD 'S talk about " the factious minority obstructing business . " All the hindrances to business that operate in the nous ? , or that have operated since the session began , are traceable either to Democratic incapacity or to that shameless partisanship which makes business subordinate to unworthy ends . The loss of yesterday was due to these causes combined . The little knot of mischief-makers , with the pretentious Mr. POTTER at their head , allowed their zeal to lead them into a ridiculous blunder . They imagined that with the Speaker as their accomplice , they could not only force their party to vote hastily , but that they could afford to despise their opponents ; and they result is a failure which places Messrs . POTTER and RANDALL in no enviable light . The support they received from their party renders its position as  --  despicable as their own . For the obstructive tactics of the Republicans are neither more nor less than a legitimate exercise of the reserved right of a minority to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Republicans  --  o vote on the question before the House can not be twisted into evidence of a desire to prevent investigation into frauds alleged in connection with the Presidential election . It indicates a determination , if possible , to baffle the fraud which Mr. POTTER and his fellow-conspirators are ready to perpetrate under the pretense of searching for frauds of another character . Since the men who clamor for inquiry have been obliged to disavow a purpose to assail Mr. HAYES ' title to his office , the proposal has been shorn of its revolutionary features . The disavowal may be as dishonest as the schemers whose intentions it condemns , but meanwhile it must be accepted as a practical limitation of the objects to be sought . Thus narrowed , investigation ceases to be objectionable , except so far as it implies a waste of time and money in working an exhausted mine , or as it presupposes unfairness on the part of those who prosecute it . The charges specifically implicating Messrs . NOYES and SHERMAN being new , are entitled to attention . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be proved to have acted corruptly , or to have used improper moans to influence the action of the Returning Boards . But Republicans may well insist that what pure orts to be au investigation shall not be perverted into a trial of the Secretary of the Treasury and the Minister to France by a tribunal so pronounced in its partisanship that it guards against exposures implicating persons deep in the confidence of the Democratic candidate . Mr. POTTER and his subservient majority will not listen to this reasonable proviso . They declare in effect that Messrs . Norris and SHERMAN shall be hunted down , but that Mr. TILDEN and his agents shall be protected from the infamy that would overtakt them if the inner working of the plans for securing Florida and Louisiana to the Democracy were laid bare . The hypocrisy of the movement is thus confessed . It is not designed to convict , degrade , and as far as possible punish prominent public men who directly or through agents endeavored to control the action of Returning Boards . It is a onesided device to punish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man will say that an investigation of this nature is not a fraud which Republicans will be justified in frustrating by any means at their command f Investigation , to have any value , should have still wider scope . The House would be scarcely warranted in instituting it if the net result were to be confined to damage done to the reputation of a few Northern politicians , some big , some insignificant . To get at the whole truth , we must go behind -- not the returns merely , but - the ' machinery whose action preceded the election and to a large extent controlled it . We have no disposition to assume the championship of the politicians composing the Returning Boards , whom the local laws invested with the wide authority they ' exercised . Their antecedents may have invited the overtures that were addressed to them , certainly , by friends or agents of Mr. - TILDEN , and perhaps by friends of Mr. HAVES . Let us have the whole truth about them , without stopping to consider whom it hurts . Let us also have the whole truth in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frauds ? and atrocities in Louisiana parishes and in the sparsely-peopled districts of Florida . And , the professed purpose of the investigators being to wage war against fraud , let not the work of the special committee be confined to these States . - What is known as " the Mississippi plan " has an infamy peculiarly its own . RS efficacy is attested by the extinction of Republican majorities and the transfer of a Republican State to the Democracy . Mr. POTTER pretends that only successful fraud needs to be exposed . Mississippi comes within this category , and so do other Southern States whose votes were counted for Mr. TILDEN . Fraud is fraud , however , whether successful or not , and if the tricksters who flattered Mr. POTTER until he became their tool wore not themselces guilty of fraud , they would so enlarge the investigation as to take in Oregon as well as those parts of the South in which the Mississippi plan fulfilled its purpose . Bat the Democratic majority in the House are so intent upon the attainment of a partisan advantage that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon brute force and on the readiness of  --  the Speaker to aid them , however disgracefully , they refused even to listen to the amendment by which Mr. HALE proposes to render the investigation a reality instead of a farce . All that is known of Mr. HALE 'S proposition is that it aims at thoroughness and impartiality as opposed to the pettiness and partisanship of the Potter resolution . Whatever it is , the majority are afraid to hoar the amendment lest they be compelled by a partisan vote to proclaim the fraudulent nature of the task which Mr , POTTER assigns to a committee . Bad faith is at the bottom of their dilemma . They do not want the full investigation which alone would be instructive and satisfactory , for it would spoil the game which in Mr. TILDEN 'S interest they are trying to play . ' On the other hand , they comprehend the significance of a-vote that would be equivalent to a confession of fraud in the inception of the Potter resolution and in the reasons assigned for its adoption .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        