@@742826

txt It took three Chairmen and half the politicians in the county to run the Hudson County National Greenback Convention , which reassembled in Hall this afternoon , to put new men on their ticket for Congress and Sheriff . The reassembling was made necessary by the discovery that Thomas Jacobs , the nominee put ibefore the people for Congress when the convention first assembled , had not been a citizen for seven years , and in the event of the very remote possibility of his election , he would not be , therefore , permited to take his seat ; and that Michael F. Kennedy , the compOsitor , who was nominated for Sheriff , had not resided for a sufficient number of years in Hudson County to be able to take his place as Sheriff if he was elected . The proceedings began with an animated discussion , which threatened at one time to develop into a row , over the Chairman . But Squire Martin , the Chairman of the first convention , was permitted to preside , in a figurative sense , over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two or three self-constituted lieutenants , who put all the motions , and who , when his arm had become disabled in the effort to make more noise with his hammer than the turbulent crowd in front of him , kindly assisted him in the labor . The delegates finally proceeded to make nominations for Congress . Michael F. Kennedy , the ineligible candidate for Sheriff , and John D. Winants , were named . On the first ballot Kennedy received a majority of the votes , but a mistake in taking the tally defeated him , and on the second ballot Winants was nominated . He is a carpenter , living on Clendenning-avenue . When the delegates were called upon to name candidates for Sheriff , a row which threatened to become a free fight , was precipitated by a proposition to indorse John Mullins , the regular Democratic nominee . A storm of no less threatening aspect gathered around the Proposition to give the nomination to " Con . " Donovan , a Democratic politician who sought in vain to secure the nomination from the regular Demscratic Convention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isaac Van Saun , formerly a member of the Hudson County Democratic General Committee , was awarded the empty honor . Then the convention adjourned with cheers , and without waiting to hear whether the men whom they had chosen would accept the honor thus thrust upon them . The Democrats of the Eighth District . Hudson County , have nominated Joseph W. Meeks for Assembly . 