@@740595

txt MINOR TOPICS . A bewildering task awaits the historian of the Franco-German war . In spite of the late prevalence of diplomatic mendacity. " to lie like a bulletin still bids fair to retain its proverbial significance . " This time the enemy will not deny your ' victory . " says Gen. FAIDHERDE In a very confident manner . " Near Bapaume the enemy began a retreat which soon became disastrous to them , " asserts , no less decidedly . Gen. MANTEUFFEL . Without attempting to decide between two eminently respectable authorities , it may be noted that the circumstantial details given from the French side , make the balance of probability incline that way . The left wing of the French Army of the North has evidently suffered a defeat which may tend to counterbalance the victory gained by their right at Bapaume . The reverse is not , however , one of which the French need be ashamed . They defended their attacked posi- tion for an entire day . and even when compelled to retreat , left only three cannon and five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are what Germany can not afford to go on obtaining for an indefinite time . And even could she do so , it is tolerably obvious that they would hardly be forthcoming , since the raw troops who can fight like this after a few weeks of service , may fairly be expected to turn out rather formidable opponents at the end of a few months . Some of the English papers are getting prematurely jubilant over the progress of revenue reform in the United States . Coming wealth and prosperity for the manufacturing towns are predicted from the approaching diecoral:num of protection . The British theorists seem disposed to ignore the fact , that a graduated and discriminating reduction of our tariff duties will unloose the bonds of industry here almost as quickly as it opens our markets to foreign producers . " Free traders " are hardly the power here which their English friends take them to be , and it is one of the first positions of revenue reformers that native industryneeds to be as much delivered from its friends as protected from foreign competition . Manchester and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that which English journalists appear to think possible . The Women Suffrage Society finds great difficulty in bringing together ' a quorum of members . Sundry influences , incidental to the season , may doubtless help to account for this , but there is also an element of unquestionable apathy in the repeated thinness of their meetings . Could the ladies not be induced to try the experiment of taking up some more practical and attainable reform of the condition of the sex ! We are quite willing to concede to them that enfranchisement must be kept in view as the fundamental principle of woman 's rights ; but , failing the possibility of maintaining a lively interest in it , even among themselves , something rather less fundamental might be attempted . For example , the education of women , using that word in its widest sense , is in a fearfully crude condition . Female tuition as at present administeied , is taken in ? not maimfluted ; and girls no sooner enter on the responsible duties of life , than they disembarrass their minds of most of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical utility to them . This ought to be a vital enough subject for the lady reformers . Lectures , it appears , are decreasing in popularity . and are , consequently , becoming unremunerative . We can not find in this circumstance much reason for regret . Even under their most favorable aspect of diversifying the dreary tedium of Winter life in country towns , they must stand responsible for being one of the main agencies in ministering to the intellectual shallowness of the age . For one man who is driven to the frill investigation of a subject by hearing a lecture upon it . there are at least twenty who depart with the complacent consciousness of having mastered it . and are , in virtue of this conviction , more intensely ignorant than before . A certain class of lecturers always will be successful , and they include those whom people go to hear because of the reputation they have earned in other fields of effort , and those in whom the mimetic power is so highly developed as to make the entertainment a compromise between a lecture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future turns up he will have no reason to complain of the paucity of materials . The unknown prisoner of the Sixth Precinct Station-house forms the latest addition to our increasing store of local mysteries . One of the condemned m the prerevolutionary Bastille could not have been more rigorously secluded or mysteriously screened from public inquiry than the poor man who has been kept incarcerated for some three months without accusation or trial . Being interrogated through the bars of his cell , this mysterious culprit appears to be in possession of all his senses , but declines to tell his name , or to reveal any details of his life , which is as much a mystery as his confinement . Have we no Dunzas to immortalize this unfortunate ? The Runoff trial , which opened yesterday , promises to be remarkable as a revelation of a veritable criminal romance , and as affording striking evidences of detective ingenuity . At its outset it has proved notable for a very sensible ruling made by the Presiding Judge ( Room:wolf ) with reference to the selection of jurymen . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New-York Bench has for the most part ignored the existence , and that is that to find an intelligent jury who had not read about and discussed the merits of a case of great public interest , is a simple impossibility . The rule that " when a juror is found to have no settled opinion of the merits of the ease . and believes himself to be without bias or prejudice , he is competent , notwithstanding any opinion be may have previously formed or expressed , " is one that the City would do well to learn from the State .  - -  - The London representatives of English working men , in mass-meeting assembled , send an address to the artisans of the United States . The document is somewhat incoherent , and , shows an amount of confidence in the generous impulses of British statesmanship which does more credit to the hearts than to the heads of the signers . The possibility of England going to war for " the maintenance of freedom and justice " in Europe is calmly discussed , and American citizens are entreated not to hamper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims . The lately enfranchised artisans of London have used their political observation to very little purpose ii they imagine it likely that any conceivable Government in England will go to war for anything short of the defense of assailed national honor , or territorial interests . Whether or not it can fairly be expected to do so , is an open question ; that it will not , does not admit of doubt . France , even at her lowest ebb of freedom , could go to war for an " idea ; " but the championship of oppressed nationalities has brought her so little levet that tic other people is likely to attempt it .                     