@@743255

txt Since the present general speculative " boom " began , it has not been unusual to hear the remark made that ; the rise is a hopeful sign , as proving a return . of Indus= trial and financial health . Those who speak thus regard activity as 1 synonymous with prosperity , high prices , and rising markets as always accompanying activity , and low prices as either causing ; or caused by dullness . Speculation will , of course , . snatch the opportunity as it flies , , and nobody , will trouble himself about thei , general . intemst . Still , it will be something of a holdback upon speculation if there , , ean be a correct understanding of its practical tendencies . Excluding such instances La advance as in coal and iron  --  which.are , in fact , only a reaction from an extraordinary depression ? we regard the notion:that high prices either make or prove prosperity as utterly baseless , and the present general advance in necessaries as not only unnecessary , but positively injurious . How far this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its causes , do not concern the present inquiry . At the outset , it is necessary to say what is so exceedingly simple that it is commonly forgotten , that a general rise in prices is only a decline in the dollar . Were the rise uniform in respect to every purchasable thing , it would be only a shrinking of the universal measure of values , affecting nobody directly , but mischievous indirectly by fosterin speculation and simulating prosperity . This is what happens whenever a war eurreney'is resorted to , and the experience of this country furnishes the , most recent illustration . So deceptive is the effect that the common delusion has been that the country grew rich , not only during , but because of , its war , and thousands who have never got fully sobered financially have welcomed the present craze as the return of the " good times " enjoyed in 1861-5 . Of course , prices never do rise uniformly or all together , and thus great inequalities are wrought . To the speculator , a rise means an immediate activity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit margin ; but this can last only while the movement lasts , and how anybody else can be benefited is not easy to see . There are many forms of injury , on the contrary , such as the undue stimulating of production , the too long holding or too large buying of stocks , and all the disturbances which accompany the reaction ; and the immediate benefits go but little way toward off-set . Neither wholesaler nor retailer can be helped by selling for more money what he has to ' buy ! or more money ; on the contrary , both are prejudiced in two ways : in their desire to compete for trade they , do not raise their selling prices quite as much as their buying ones riso , and consumers try to diminish their consumption . In fact , there is hardly a greater fallacy than that of highprice advantages . Protection uses it everywhere , especially whispering in the farmers ' oars , " Higher prices for all you sell , " but always omitting to add , " and for all you buy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deny that the consumer loses , to the extent that he gets less of necessaries for his dollar ; as to his profiting in the capacity of producer and seller , it must be remembered that every man is only a broker for all the rest , and that all he gots for Income is the remainder between his receipts ar:d his outgoes . A uniform increase iu DAM , to a SDOCi6.0. shrinkage in everybody 's dollar could not change this remainder for anybody ; an increase not uniform -- such as always is the case  --  works unequally . Instead of high prices being connected with prosperity , we regard that as largely dependent upon and defined by cheapness . The desirable activity in trade and manu-factures , and the ample employment of labor , accompany a gradual decline in prices . Dealers and producers may find their profits in larger transactions on smaller margins , as well as otherwise , and it is a significant fact that the most successful dry goods retailers to-day are those who have established a reputation both for uniformly good quality and uniformly low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheapness means the enlargement of his comforts and of the scope of his existence  --  the ' emancipation of his life from its worst forms of servitude to labor . The time when everybody will ride in his coach is , of course , a Greenbackers ' day dream ; but it may be possible , some day , for the coachman to be something more than a coachman . From luxuries to comforts , from comforts to necessaries , ? this is the ladder of civilization from one century to another . In the time of ALFRED , horn lanterns and rush-lights in England ; in that of ELIZABETH , logs of wood for pillows ; eighty years ago carpets were a rarity on " best rooms " ; now they are hardly lacking in any decent cottage . And if we look over the marvelous list of increased variety and abundance added since 1840 , it is evident that cheapness and abundance and consumption have gone hand-in-hand together . Put the hand cotton-cleaning and the hammered nail together , and with them them contrast the cotton-gin and the modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the contrast as a typo of the past and the future change . Only through abundance of production and cheapness of price can the mass enlarge the quantity and variety of their consumption . It is a venerable delusion that associates " hard times " with " hard money " and high ' value in the dollar in the form of low money-prices . The truest prosperity may perhaps be found in a stability of prices during long terms , and a very gradual lowering of them ; at least it ought to be accepted by this time that one of the very worst afflictions is instability in prices , production , and all industrial conditions . Of this evil draught this country has been made to take largo and frequent doses . The condition of prosperity lies in an increase of consumption , together with a gradual . decline of prices , consequent upon increased abundance . And if it be asked here how the idea of growing consumption and lessening prices can be realized without also decreasing wages of labor , and thus in some degree offsetting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the space of a discussion like this , to meet all phases of the case and define all limitations , and that , furthermore , the part of machinery may be to reduce cost of production more than wages are reduced , or , in other words , to increase the quantity of things produced which each worker may take as his share of all production . This effect seems to be the peculiar function of machinery in the problem of human progress .                     