@@742539

txt " Better late than never " is , perhaps , the first comment suggested by the tardy movement of bankers , in this City , in opposition to the Silver bill now pending in the United States Senate . Few things in connection with the silver movement are more remarkable than the apathy with which its progress has been watched by the great financial interests of the country . They have preserved an attitude of apparent indifference in the presence of an agitation directed mainly against themselves , and whose progress they might have arrested with comparative ease . It is now clear that they underestimated the combined force of the ' cause 's at work to retard resumption and to invest with the legal-tender quality a coinage which no legislation can make equal to gold . Their silence was misunderstood . When the hurried adoption of the Bland bill by the House proved the hold which the movement had acquired upon public opinion , they impaired the moral strength of their opposition to its enactment by dwelling too exclusively upon its effect on the national credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City and Philadelphia who attended before the Senate Committee and subsequently held an interview with the Secretary of the Treasury , discussed the subject from the stand-point of the public creditor . The injustice and inexpediency of the measure were brought out plainly , looking at it only in its bearing upon the fortunes of the bondholder , upon the public honor , and on the future of the debt . If other aspects of the question were not wholly overlooked , they were certainly ? made subordinate to the issue raised in behalf of the bondholders . The circumstance was unfortunate because it left untouched a large part of the case prepared by the advocates of unlimited remonetization , and so aided indirectly their effort to represent the contest as a struggle in behalf of the special privilege of a class at the expense of the people . The preliminary meeting on Saturday , and the conference in which Boston , Philadelphia , and Baltimore are expected to participate on Wednesday , form the first really important attempt to utilize the influence of Eastern bankers against the Silver bill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in dispute shall not be narrowed down to the single point relating to the public credit . However vital that issue may be , it is , after all , but one of several issues , some of which more directly appeal to considerations that come home to the mercantile and industrial classes . The Boston Board of Trade has with a little too much vagueness set forth the judgment of conservative business men against the restoration of a double standard . The heads of our banking institutions may be taken to be the exponents of a broader and more influential opinion . In this country they form the highest court of appeal in all that relates to the connection between finance and business . What their judgment will be the resolutions adopted on Saturday plainly show . They see in the pending measure a serious disturbing element , ? an.element that will operate unfavorably upon the conduct of general business , and upon the resources and policy of financial institutions of whatever character . The " serious decline " in values and credit which in their opinion " will inevitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a justification of the note of alarm now sounded . Banks and business men , financial institutions , and solvent , provident people of every class , have a common interest in resisting the enactment of a measure which will entail more disastrous consequences than an ordinary panic , and will do more than aught that has yet happened to prevent the return of confidence . The protest might have properly come earlier . It is not too late to be of service . But the extent of its influence depends upon the energy with which it is made , and upon the resolute spirit in which the purpose it indicates shall be hereafter carried out . Moreover , it is becoming evident that the sectionalism Which is conspicuous in the Congressional debates and divisions on the silver question does not extend to the banks . The . , pandering to local songs:want ... have striven to array the West and South against the East , and to depict as an . tagonistie what are ' called the debtor auei creditor classes . The leading newspapers of the West have made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the repudiation principle , and with few honorable exceptions the politicians , Republican and Democratic , have followed in their path . There have been reasons for fearing that the great body of the Southern people ' are equally zealous for . remonetization , though their feeling on the subject proceeds from causes different from those that prevail among the debt-burdened people of the West . On the other hand , Southern Sena. toffs seem less disposed than those of the West to yield to the demagogism which is the life and soul of the silver agitation . Mr. BAYARD has distinguished himself by his bold and able advocacy of honest money and the maintenance untarnished of the public credit ; and unless rumor is at fault , Mr. HILL , of Georgia , and Mr. BUTLER , of South Carolina , are equally earnest in their desire to save their section from disaster and dishonor . What the views of Western bankers really are , we have no means of ascertaining . It will probably be found that their position with reference to silver as a legal tender varies according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bankers and bankers , and while some are as ready as their neighbors to victimize capital , the better class can not fail to realize the mischief with which the agitation is fraught , and the community of interest which binds them in financial matters to Eastern influence . The New-Orleans Clearing-house Association has identified itself with New-York in a series of resolutions which vindicate the integrity of financiers in the chief Southern city . " We must unqualifiedly deprecate and protest against the passage of any law authorizing the coinage of silver , except as subsidiary coinage without a legal-tender value , or , if so , for a very small amount , " ? , is the wording of one of the resolutions adopted by the New-Orleans bankers on Saturday . We trust that the bankers of other Southern cities will follow the example , not only in order that financial opinion , North and South , may be shown to be substantially agreed against the Bland bill , but to counteract the sectionalizing tendencies of the agitation as sustained by the majority of the Southern representation in Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South , will not be devoid of influence in and out of Congress . They will tend to moderate extremists , to give oourage to waverers , and to nerve the President to the performance of the duty which the passage of the Bland bill will force upon him . It is possible , we think , even now to trace some signs of change in the spirit of Mr. STANLEY MATTHEWS . Even he , as reported in Cincinnati newspapers , begins to talk of " a truce " to overcome the objections of the President and protect the nation 's credit . Concession on these points is not enough . The real question to be decided is much broader and deeper , and the tone adopted by the bankers gives assurance that their weight will now be cast against the silver scheme in all its essentials .                     