@@740754

txt There is in England a Society for the Encouragement of Flying , whose members look fondly forward to the time when everybody shall be as it were his own balloon , and man shall ride the clouds as easily as he now careers upon the waves . Every year this sanguine association publishes reports detailing the progress of their favorite science and . making the most captivating predictions of its future . development . These , however , appear to have but a remote prospect of fulfillment . Every scheme of aerial navigation , however ingenious and promising , has hitherto come to naught , and human skill seems inadequate to imitate that exquisite machinery which bears the swallow in his trackless flight , and which the Duke of ARGYLE describes with so much accuracy and ardor in the Reign of Law . The secret of DCEDALUS has perished with him . Even that wonderful San Francisco Avitor , which many supposed had solved the problem , disappoints , at the crisis the hope of its projectors . A like ignominious end befel that pretentious aircar which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighborhood of Houston and Mercer streets , where it was housed . The difficulties in the way of a practicable flying machine are indeed so enormous as to be almost insurmountable ? at least with our present knowledge  --  and even the dream of a future conquest of the air is cherished only by the boldest speculator . ' Of these , one of the most earnest , if not the most discreet , resides in Detroit . He fancied that he had mastered the situation with a pair of immense wings constructed of oiled. silk and fastened behind his shoulders . They were to be worked by a downward movement of his arms , and so equipped he was ready to fly to the uttermost parts of the earth . Unhappily his zeal was greater than his knowledge , and the first public exhibition he gave of his new invention resulted in a lamentable fiasco . He had not even the satisfaction , like his prototype , ICARUS , of winning immortality by failure and giving his name to a sea . It would have been something to singe one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and have an ocean for mausoleum and monument . But the poor Detroit gentleman , with the first flap of his elaborate pinions , simply tumbled himself on his head in the dust he thought to spurn forever . Fortunately , whether from some secret distrust of his own success or a desire to add to the difficulty and ? clat of his performance , he had begun his flight from the modest altitude of about six feet . He escaped with no severer punishment than a serious headache and a sufficient amount of riaicule from the spectators . If this adventurous person is not already a corresponding member of the English society mentioned he ought to be made so at once . Failures are often more instructive than successes , and this individual has rendered a real service to the cause of aerial navigation by demonstrating anew the folly of attempting to fly with artificial wings . The most superficial study of the bird structure will show at once the impossibility of adapting to the human subject its means of locomotion . Even the bird , with all its enormous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy task to overcome the laws of gravity , and its . first rising in the air is always , according to competent observers , an effort of prodigious violence . If man is ever to explore the " sad blue fields and folds of air " it must be by some propelling agency vastly more powerful and buoyant than himself .                     