@@741927

txt Few people have any accurate idea of the immense number of ingenious inventions that are annually patented at Washington . It is creditable to the inventors that for the most part these inventions are intended to serve some really useful end and to meet some obvious want . Nevertheless , there are inventors who appear to have more desire to display their ingenuity than to accomplish any public benefit . Sucli inventors are akin in spirit to those captious persons who decline to rent a room or an office unless it possesses facilities for swinging a cat , although they have not the remotest intention of ever performing that exciting brit frivolous experiment . The Patent Office contains numerous models of machines framed , with the utmost skill , but intended for purposes for which no man will ever desire to employ them , or which are hostile to the best interests of the community . We may admire the ingenuity of these machines , but at the same time we must regret that the inventors have wasted or perverted their abilities . It is to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crushing Machine , " which is to be exhibited at the Philadelphia Exhibition , undoubtedly belongs  --  unless , in.deed , the nature and object of the invention have been grossly misrepresented . As its name implies , it is obviously intended for diminishing the number of Smiths . It is understood that it consists of a series of heavy rollers resembling those by which iron plates are rolled , and also of a pair of gigantic grindstones of novel pattern and euormous power , the whole being set in motion by a 12-horse power engine . Its method of operation is at once simple and effective . The operator takes a Smith of any size , and adjusting the gearing of the rollers to the exact width to which it is desired to roll the Smith , gently inserts his head between the rollers . The machine is then set in motion , and in the brief space of fifty-eight seconds the Smith is rolled to any desired degree of thinness . If a Smith is to be crushed , he is placed in a hopper communicating with the grindstones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes to five minutes , according to the size and toughness of the Smith , he is reduced to a fine and evenly-ground powder , in which such foreign substances as buttons or shirtstuds can be detected only by the most delicate chemical tests . The inventor ? so it is said  --  claims that by a very simple mechanical attachment the machine can be made to roll or crush Smythes and Schtuidts with equal efficiency , and he is confident that the general principle underlying his invention can be applied to Brown-crushing or Robinson-rolling machines . Now it must be distinctly understood that T : - :z TIMES fully appreciates the ingenuity displayed in the conception of the Smith roller and crusher , and the skill with which that conception has been embodied in iron and grindstones . A grave cqection , however , can be urged against the invention , and that is that there is no evidence of any existing demand for such a machine . That there is a large quantity of Smiths , not to sneak of Swythes and Schinidts , iu this country is undeniable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Smiths is more than commensurate with the necessities of business . It may be conceded that , at certain times and in certain limited localities , there is an excess of Smiths . A plethora of S:nitbs in one place , however , implies a corresponding paucity of Smiths in another , and the difficulty soon regulates itself . It may be confidently asserted that the great law of supply and deurand can be trusted to preserve the balance of Smiths from ally serious disturbance . Hence it is 6 uffieiently plain that there is no need of a sudden contraction of the volume of Smiths , and that the Smith roller and crusher is wholly superfluous There is still another objection to the machine , which is , at least , as serious as that already suggested . No one will deny that were it desired to contract the volume of Smiths by a certain definite number , every week or month , the Smith roller and crusher would accomplish that end with thoroughness and success . A Smith when once rolled to the unitortn thinness of a quarter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ground coffee . would be of no further use as a Smith . But why employ costly machinery to roll and crush Smiths , when they could be retired with equal efficiency in a dozen different and less expensive mil 's Y The inventor has as yet made no suggestion as to the possible uses to which a rolled Smith might be put ; neither has he proposed any . plan fur the utilization of crushed Smi the . On the ot her hand . it is perfectly evident that one result of his process would be the Ii nancIal ruin of coffin-makers , who , as is well known , regard the Smiths as their most valuable clients . The more closely the luvention is studied , the more plainly Is it seen that it meets no real want , and that it proposes do , in an elaborate and costly way , Iv might be done more simply and cheaply . It is an unpleasant task to'say to an ingenious inventor , " You have wasted your labor and have produced what is , at best , only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be , the universal verdict upon the Smith roller and crusher . The rich and idle amateur of science may occasionally amuse him . self by rolling or crushing Smiths in his private laboretory or workshop , but it is folly to suppose that the machine will evoi come into general use , or ' that the in enter or the public will ever reap any decided benefit from it .                     