@@740955

txt It is becoming evident , as the campaign progresses . that the unity of the Republican Party has not been impaired by the schemes of its opponents , and that the vote by which President GRANT was elected in 1868 can be equaled , if not increased , this year . The review which we published yesterday , of the political situation in every county but two of this State . fully bears out this inference . The testimony is uniform that the defection made by the Cincinnati movement is failing in strength , and is not now nearly so considerable as immediately after the Convention . On the . other hand . the testimony is equally uniform that the regular candidates of the Republican Party are sure of numerous supporters among the Democrats , in case the Baltimore Convention destroys party allegiance by nominating a Republican . There was never before a year when what is known as the " silent vote " was so sure to be potent in an election , or when the direction of this vote could more surely be counted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , who make up their minds quietly , with considerable independence of ordinary campaign agencies , are prepared this year to give the mere political schemers one of the severest lessons ever yet read to them in thie country . It is with these men that the strength of the Republican Party has always lain , and still lies . It is to them that its best and most prominent qualities most strongly appeal . They recognize its straightforward fidelity td its promises ; its care W administration of the finances of the military ; its prudence in not entering on dangerous experiments ; its courage in maintaining , under all circumstances , the pledged faith of the nation ; and the genuine respect it has always shown toward the will of the people authoritatively expressed . They have watched its dealings with the most complicated and trying problems of modem politics , and have seen it solve them by its simple adherence to honesty , justice , and the matured dictates of the popular judgment . Against a party which commands because it deserves the solid . confidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ordinary partisan weapons . Clap-trap is powerless when opposed to the sober and deliberate operation of well-informed common sense . Personality falls blunted and useless on minds that have been convinced by candid observation . It is in these facts that the Republican Party finds its power . When it ceases to deserve the popular confidence , the fact will be known without the necessity of machine-conventions or " personal journalism " to announce it . The men to make it evident will neither be displaced office-holders nor disappointed office-seekers . They will be those quiet , unassuming , independent voters who are now in every city and township in the Union preparing to give victory to the Republican Party in November , because they are convinced that it is still the only trustworthy political organization in the country .                     