@@742874

txt Among the numerous bills introduced in both houses to-day were several relating to the trade dollar , the purpose of all being to give the legal-tender Quality to that coin and to prevent its further coinage . In the House , an effort was made to refer the trade-dollar bills to the Committee on Banking and Currency , but Mr. Stephens claimed that they should go to the Committee on Coinage. and ho was sustained by a vote of the House . In the Senate , a resolution instructing the Committee on Finance to inquire into the expediency of substituting the trade for the legal-tender silver dollar was laid over upon the objection of Mr. Edmunds . The numerous propositions already presented upon this subject may be regarded as an indication that a measure to give the trade dollar a legal status will shortly be presented to Congress , with reasonable prospects for its passage . - Beyond a measure of this kind , however , it is not likely that any financial legislation will be attempted at the present session , and the action of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this prediction . At the last session of Congress a bill was passed by the house to repeal the third section of the Resumption act , which provides for the redemption of legal tenders after Jan , 1 . The Senate substituted another bill for this , which provided that after Oct. 1 , 1878 , legal-tender notes should be received in payment of Customs dues and in exchange for United States bonds . In this form the bill of the House was returned to that body and went to the Speaker 's table . Toward the close of the session , Mr. Ewing , who seems to oppose any legislation whatever calculated in any way to assist in the work of resumption , moved to nonconcur in the Senate amendment , but his motion failed by a very decided majority . Subsequently . Mr. Fort , of Illinois , moved to conmr with the Senate , but his motion , although receiving a majority vote , failed for the lack of the necessary two-thirds vote required to suspend the rules . The Committee on Banking and Currency , at their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determining what the action of the committee should be upon it . After considerable discussion it was decided that , inasmuch as under the operation of the Resumption act after Jan. 1 , as interpreted by Secretary Sherman , legal-tender notes may be received in exchange for bonds and In the payment of Customs duties , there is no necessity at this time for urging the bill now upon the Speaker 's table upon the attention of the House . There was a general exchange ot opinions among the members of the committee in regard t the practicability of resumption , and while some of them expressed doubts as to its feasibility , all agreed , with perhaps the exception of Mr. Ewing , that it would be unwise at this time to make any attempt whateverdo interfere with the Resumption act , particularly as no legislation could be perfected between now and Jan. 1 upon this subject , and that any agitation of the matter would simply result in disturbing the country to no purpose . It was determined , therefore , by the committee that when the bill is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to refer it to the Committee on Banking and Currency , where it will be retained until the expiration of the session . Mr. Chittenden. of New-York , who is a member of this committee , expresses the opinion , based upon the action of the committee today and conversations had by him with numerous members of the House , that no apprehensions whatever need be felt by the country that any financial legislation , other than what may seem necessary to give the trade dollar a legal standing , will be attempted during the present session of Congress . The bill introduced by Senator Morrill to authorize the issue of certificates of deposit has the approval of Secretary Sherman , elan was prepared to meet the recommendation made in his annual report upon this subject . The bill provides that the Secretary of the Treasury may issue certificates of deposit in sums of $10 , or any muitiple thereof not exceeding $100 , in exchange for United States notes or coin certificates . These certificates of deposit are to bear interest at the rate of 3 65-100 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . bonds at any time within one year from the date of their issue . Mr. ' Mon rill 's bill is intended to aid the refunding of the 6 per cent . bonds , and at the same time serve persons who desire to invest their savings in interest-bearing securities of the United States without cost or risk . The resolution of Mr. Beck , directing the Secretary of the Treasury to report how many silver dollars have been received since July 1 for Customs dues , and whether such coins have been paid out on account of interest on the public debt , is intended as the basis of an attack upon Secretary Sherman for not attempting to force silver dollars upon the holders of the gold obligations of the Government . No attempt has been made by the Treasury Department to force holders of bonds to accept payment of accrued interest in silver dollars , but whenever such creditors have requested payment in silver their requests have been complied with . This course was dictated alike by public policy and a Groper regard for the national @ @ 