@@743068

txt The prosecution in the Custom-house cases , which are on trial in the United States court in this city , rested this afternoon . For two weeks the prosecution has been engaged in the endeavor to peeve against the seven defendants , jointly indicted , a conspiracy to defra'sd the Government of certain sums of money in the construction of the new Custom-house , for the completion of which the citizens of Chicago have been waiting many years . When the case for the Government was closed , the counsel for W. A .. Potter , of New-York , and J. G. Hill , Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department , moved that their clients be discharged , as there was no evidence against them . The prosecution offered no argument in objection . The court added the name of a third defendant , Mr. Wheaton , to this list , and instructed the jury to acquit them without requiring any defense . The court stated that it was clear , from the case presented by the prosecution , that these three defendants should never have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who was for a time Supervising Architect of the Custom-house is concerned , there was no evidence whatever against him . Not the slightest reason appeared why his name should have been connected with the case as one of the conspirators to defraud . It is claimed hero , with regard to Messrs . Hill and Wheaton , ' that the prosecution failed to bring out in this trial all of the evidence which was placed before the Grand Jury . The trial of Messrs . Mueller , Mills , Burling , and Reed will proceed . These defendants propose to call Messrs . Hill and Wheaton as witnesses . The belief is growing that , in these new aspects of the case , all of the accused will succeed in escaping responsibility in spite of the fact that the poor quality of the stone used and the excessive cost of the Custom-house are not likely to be disputed . The stone and the figures alike testify for themselves on these two points . When the charges upon which these cases grow were first made public by the press , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people had long been impatient of the seemingly interminable delays In the progress of the work . The popular feeling in the matter was not allayed by the report of the experts who examined the building , and found it in such ill condition that it was seriously debated whether the entire structure would not have to be pulled down , and a substantial one put in its place . It was finally concluded , however , to strengthen the weak places , change the plans of the upper stories to secure lees weight at the top , and proceed with the costly edifice . The charges of defrauding the Government were based upon the discovery of a large percentage of poor stone , which , it was claimed , had been accepted from the contractors through the collusion of the inspectors , the Superintendent , and those higher in authority over the Government work , and upon the fact that so much more time than was deemed necessary had been consumed in the prenaration and laying of the stone , although the pay-roll was long , and  --  the workmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . . ? The prosecution devoted itplf largely to proving the defects in ' the atone . Ationg the witnesses were a well-known architect of this City , who was one of the Commissioners appointed to examine the building ; a former Assistant Superintendent , and various other employes , who had good chance for observation as the work went on . That the stone was bad ? much of it very bad  --  the witnesses were all positive . The proportion of defective stone was estimated as high as 50 per cent. , and varied from that down to 25 per cent . The defects were iron and petroleum spots , and a tendency to scale . It appeared from the testimony of one witness , a stone-cutter , that in his shop there were about 10 patehers " to 100 or 125 men . The work of those " patehers " was to till in the holes with shellac , cover the spots , and give the stone the appearance of being sound . The petroleum would keep working to the surface , however , and exposure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulting discolorations . The regular " patching " brigade ceased in 1874 , according to this witness , but the irregular " patching " continued . The defective stones were to be found . in every story , beginning at the basement . The third story was considered the best , while the top , or attic story was pronounced to be very bad , being largely made up of rejected pieces , which had been lying around in the stone-yard since the beginning of the work , and regarded as unfit for use anywhere . That the third story was built of better stone than the others was held to prove that the inspection of the stone employed in the other stories was not properly or honestly made . Many large buildings in this City are constructed of stone from the same quarries , and prove that good stone can be obtained from those Quarries with proper care in inspection . The petroleum and iron veins are known . and competent inspectors would be expected to look sharply for their presence . The majority of the Government witnesses were of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be concealed within the stone and not discernable by mere surface inspection , at least from 25 to 30 per ( lent . of the defective stone could have been discovered at the time it was put in had there been any wish to discover it . Some of the testimony concernine the methods of the workmen is amusing as well as inter eating .. To engage in idleness without detection , they appear to have had an ingenious system . To call out " big square , " and pass the word along the line , for instance , was to announce that the Superintendent was coming , and the men had better get to work at once . In sawing , cutting , and facing the stone , it was estimated by an expert that those workmen , who realized full well that they were engaged on a Government job , took more than ' four times the number of months in whhich the work could . have been done . The Superintendents seem to have recognized the fact that too much time was consumed , but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so from " boss " to men the incompetency and laziness extended . There were diverse interests constantly at work In reference to getting place , and one officer stood in suspicion and fear of another , so that nobody ventured to take active measures to alter the condition of thingsl or to hurry up the work . The cases serve to show the manner in which Government work is performed , and their further outcome will be awaited with interest . The people want to know if anybody is responsible for PO per cent . or so of defective stone in a building which costs the Government millions of dollars .                     