@@742467

txt The Massachusetts Republicans appear to have been repaid for their courage in declaring their convictions plainly . Gov . RICE is re-elected by a majority of at least 12,000 , and probably by a larger one , which is a very decided gain over the vote of two years ago , when , as now , he had Mr. GASTON as an opponent . In that year his majority was but 5,300 , and this year he has had to contend with considerable local disaffection . It ' will bo remembered that the Republican platform was very outspoken on the questions of finance and civil service reform , and that the campaign has been waged with the understanding that the party was in favor of radical measures on both these points . An appeal was made to a better sentiment in the party than it has been customary to address of late in any State , and it is a pleasure to know that Massachusetts Republicanism has not failed to respond . The country has been used to expect sincerity , courage , and good sense from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been disappointed in recent years , it has been because party managers did not appreciate their following . This year a bold stand was made , and the result ought to be instructive to the leaders in every other State . How far the attitude of the party toward the President has affected the result can not be definitely determined , but it is plain that that has not been a source of weakness . It had the rare merit of being neither evasive nor reserved , and unquestionably the spirit of the Southern policy of Mr. HAVES finds hearty sympathy in Massachusetts . That particular subject , however , can not be said to have entered very distinctly into the canvass . It is believed in the State that a portion of the Prohibitionist vote came from the Democrats . This may be the case , but the figures so far received do not throw much light on time question . Some 11 or 12 per cent. , of the total vote , as far as reported , is Prohibitionist . Tho vote on the Labor and Greenback tickets is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been carried . In Connecticut , the offices to be filled were subject to many local influences , and no general issue can be said to have been made . But the Republicans have shown themselves capable of the very important part of a party 's function , the vigorous conduct of a local contest . They have held their own on the general result and made some noteworthy gains in specific localities . They have control of the Legislature by at least 1 majority in the Senate and 30 in the House , and have carried Mr. Senator BARlimes own stronghold . in Wisconsin the Republican platform was an unusually strong one on the financial question , and was emphasized by the State Committee during the canvass . The vote is very much divided up , but indications at the present writing are that the Republicans have carried the State for hard money by five or six thousand majority . A victory by a much smaller majority would be a great moral triumph , the value of which can hardly bo overestimated . The returns from Pennsylvania are very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very surprising result , all things considered : Republicans do not come out very strong when it is so extremely difficult as it was in Pennsylvania this year to tell the ? difference between themselves and their opponents on the most important issues . Gen. licaEntor has carried New-Jersey by about 10,000 majority , the vote being quite heavy . The Democrats retain control of the Senate by one vote .                     