@@741504

txt The paupers of Kent County , Mich. , are evidently very unreasonable persons . Not satisfied with being committed to the fostering care of the State , they have rebelled against the tender mercies of the gentle overseer to whose guidance and counsel they are confided . They recently so far forgot their self respect as to drag their humble misfortunes before the public , and to complain of the overseer as unnecessarily harsh and cruel . This guardian of the county charity and honor a  --  pnears to have been principally distinguished for brutality worthy only of a jailor of the Middle Ages . He seems to have delighted in torturing the weak and starving the strong into submission . Whenever a healthy pauper was guilty of the impropriety of proclaiming that the demands of his appetite were by no means satisfied by the meagre diet accorded him in the poor-house , this gentle official was wont to beat and otherwise maltreat said healthy pauper until complaints were no longer possible , inasmuch as there was no more breath in the complainant 's body . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overseer , he forthwith stabled the wretched creature like a cow or a pig . When the investigation prompted by the complaints of the much-maltreated Kent County paupers disclosed their wretched condition , it turned out that the inmates of the poorhouse had been beaten on many occasions until their starveling frames were covered with bruises ; that many of them had been allowed to lie for days in wretched receptacles , unworthy the name of rooms , on straw and saw-dust ; and that this model county institution Had a department , called the " fools ' room , " into which all disagreeable cases of infirmity or poverty were dismissed , and whose inmates died from fright or privation , much to the satisfaction of the overseer . The examination which the county officials were finally induced to make disclosed other equally astonishing facts . The overseer and his assistants were convicted of having on numerous occasions beaten weakminded and aged women until they could not stand alone ; and the testimony shows that it was then customary to drag the fainting creatures by the . hair of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to thrust them into the " fools ' room , " in case they rebelled against such outrageous treatment . This " fools ' room " seems to have been a species of black-hole . Connected with the poor-house was a species of jail , into which paupers were thrust on very slight provocation . A word of complaint , a grimace from a lunatic , a demand for a proper quantity of decentlyprepared food , were enough to procure the unlucky offenders a sojourn in cells such as the vilest criminals are rarely familiar with . So strict was the discipline in this abominable institution , and so careful had the overseer always been to keep complaints of his infamous conduct from the outer world , that it is remarkable that the paupers succeeded in - calling attention to their heavy grievances . The Michigan overseer who has shown such brutality , and to whose account several deaths are clearly chargeable , will tmdoubtedly be Severely punished . The people of his neighborhood , and of the State in general , demand that heavy penalties be visited upon such a. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he hag betrayed their confidence . But there is scarcely a State in the Union feem which there has not , at one time . or another , come abominable stories of cruelty similar to those now told of the Michigan overseer . Many of the " poor-houses " in : reiew-England and the Middle States have long been no better than they should be . The injudicious practice of committing the county poor to the care of some irresponsible farmer , in a remote region , because he bids lower than any one else for the privilege of keeping them has , in many eases , been productive of the , very worst results. : In States which have numerous large asylums at ' central points , and under direct control of State authority , there is little danger that those wto can not defend themselves will suffer abuse . One of the chief evils of the county poor- ' , " ' houses in all sections of the Union arises from the habit of sending persons afflicted - with partial or total insanity to be fed and cared for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the sane paupers . This is a positive wrong , and its practice is permitted simply because in many States the asylums for the insane are not large enough to receive all the unfortunates who have no control over their reason , In numbers of " poor-houses " paupers are often terrified beyond measure by forced as ? sociation with violent lunatics , or degraded by contact with human beings who are hardly above the level of the lowest order of animals . The inexcusable conduct of the Kent County overseer in Michigan was evidently encouraged by his knowledge that many of the degraded unfortunates in his charge were unable to resent his tyranny or to complain of it .                     