@@742552

txt The part played by Gen. BUTLER in the House caucus on the Silver bill is another illustration of the disorganization of parties produced by the present phases of the financial question . It is idle now to.speak of this question as in any degree centrolled by ordinary partisan affiliations . The demoralization of the Democracy may bey more complete than that of the Republicans , but the difference is not so groat that , any claim to superiority can be maintained . Republican defection from the standard hitherto maintained by the party made possible the House demand for the repeal of the Resumption act and the House vote in support of remonetization ; and the result looked for in the Senate in relation to the latter measure implies the same obliteration of party lines . As if to show how completely the issue thus raised overrides the old distinctive features of the two parties , we have prominent men on either side vieing with each other in the utterance of threats as to what shall follow the defeat of the Bland bill . Messrs . EwING and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement to force New-York and other hard-money States out of the Union . " This fair land will be again convulsed , " and " the fires of liberty again enkindled , " arowords addressed by Mr. VOORHEES to the Senate by way of warning . Mr. EWING , in Ohio , has spoken not less violently . The threats emanating from the Republican allies of these mon are not quite so warlike , but they are scarcely loss mischievous . The suggestion of Senator JONES , of Nevada , that if the East by any method perpetuate the gold standard , and on that basis " precipitate resumption , " the West may retaliate with stay laws , forbidding the collection of debts and the foreclosure of mortgages  --  is as disgraceful as aught that any Democratic demagogue has proposed . And now comes Gen. BUTLER , with a proposition to circumvent any action of the President in behalf of honest money and the public credit , by tacking to appropriation bills a provision - that for one-half or more of the amounts voted silver shall be a legal-tender and shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Republican representative from Massachusetts , borrowing an idea from the English parliamentary system , calls upon the adherents of silver to " stop the supplies " unless the President forego his right to veto the Bland bill . We are told that the assembled members , drawn from both parties , received the proposal enthusiastically . GOD . BUTLER shares Mr. DAVID DUDLEY FIELD 'S disposition to import into politics the sharp practice acquired professionally in - criminal courts . Mr. FIELD signalized his brief career in Congress by a series of attempts to conduct partisan strategy precisely as he helped TWEED to frustrate some of the ends of justice . So Gen. BUTLER seeks to overcome whatever resistance may be offered to the enactment of the Bland bill . When it was announced that , should the bill become law , ? bankers and traders might protect themselves by making gold a specific element in their transactions , ho intimated that there are summary methods of defeating the effort and punishing those who make it . He would punish as criminals every banker or merchant who does'not fold his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the same spirit ho desires that Congress shall meet any exercise of the veto power adverse to repudiation . The Constitution does , indeed , proscribe the mode of setting aside the President 's objections . But Gon . BUTLER . seems to regard as certain both the fact of a veto , and the inability of the supporters of the &Bland; bill to record the twothirds vote required to pass it over the veto . Anticipating these contingencies , he looks outside of the Constitution for a remedy . And ho finds it in the reserved right of the House of Commons to checkmate an audacious Minister by withholding the means of carrying on the Government . It is hardly necessary to say that the analogywhich tickled the oars of his auditors in the caucus can not be sustained . The two systems differ radically , and each must be interpreted according to its own standard . In our case the provisions of the Constitution can not be set aside to make room for the rules of the House of Commons . Even in the latter body , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that its exercise would betoken a crisis not far removed from revolution ... The adoption of corresponding tactics here , as recommended , would also be revolutionary . The machinery of Government would be stopped with this special disadvantage , ? that while parliamentary govern-. meat , as in England , furnishes peaceful means of overcoming the difficulty , the American system provides no means of averting the consequences of such action by the House of Representatives . The alternative would be a stoppage of certain functions of the Government , or submission by the Executive to ' a perversion of power for the accomplishMent of a revolutionary purpose . We had a foretaste of those tactics in the refusal of the last House to vote the money required for the Army and Navy without proviso that would have impaired the constitutional authority , of the President as Commander-in-Chief . The Senate refused to concur , and for months the public service . suffered . We might not be warranted in saying that a repetition of the experiment in the aggravated form suggested by Gen. BUTLER would not be sanctioned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of the Congressional mind nothing is too reckless to be impossible . But the only conceivable result would be to prevent the passage of whatever appropriation bill might be selected for the attempt . Even if the Senate concurred , which ? is extremely improbable , the duty of the President ? would be more clearly defined than ever . He would be doubly bound to refuse ' to sanction the bill , whatever the consequences . As Gen. BUTLER , with all his recklessness , is not destitute of shrewdness , we can not suppose that he has not perceived the insufficiency of his plan as a mode of securing , indirectly , the remonetizAden which the failure of the Bland bill will for the time avert . None knows better than he that the only effect of the adoption of his proposal by the House would be to bring essential parts , of the Government to a stand-still , and to put one branch of Congress , at least , in an attitude of antagonism toward the Executive . Should such a state of things be brought about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense would forbid belief in the occurrence of troubles and calamities which elsewhere would be almost inevitable . But though the employment of revolutionary tactics may not ? imply actual revolution , the fact that the principal promoters of the silver movement contemplate their use shows whither the movement leads and from what kind of influences it derives its strength . Whether Gen. BUTLER 'S threat be acted upon or not , its utterance , and its apparent approval by the caucus , are signs of the times which can not be safely overlooked .                     