@@743177

txt In the year 1854 , notably in Michigan , which lave birth to it , and in Wisconsin , and sketchlug the action of the first Republican conventions in those two States , the speaker entered upon the consideration of the nationality of the party . Ile said : " The Republican Party as a party , and in its published principles , has ever Ignored the restrictive principles of the Native g1merican Party , as well as the secret organization of its more effective political successor , sailed the American Party , which so took the country by surprise and swept the States at the Pall elections of 1854 . No political organization inThis country ever sprang up so suddenly or commanded so much temporary influence as did that party  --  both North and South , East and West . Yet , whatever may be said to the contrary by those knowing but little of its real character from its being a secret organization , and who became fearfully jealous of some of its most influential members from the fact of their subsequent distinguished influence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that . a greater portion of the first vital strength of membership for substantial work against the extension of slavery came from the American Party . This is sufficiently proved by the subsequent election of two VicePresidents of the United States from that class of Republicans . From the Democratic Party came some of the most vital and efficient Republicans who have ever taken part in its action from the first . There have been those ambitious of position , or envious of the deserved high standing of others , who are willing to denyethe influence and the aid , as well as to give the ' cold shoulder to many of those Republicans who came from the Democratic Party . No greater injustice could be dine than this . To one familiar with parties during the last 40 years it is easy to trace most of these croakers back to an uninfluential position in the Whig Party , who staid out of the Republican Party until its vital popularity drew them in . All honor to the clear-sighted , humanitarian Democrats who flocked into the Free-soil and Republican Parties when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Old Line Democracy , especially of the South . All honor.to those true Americans " in the South who , though slaveholders themselves , as their forefathers had been before them , willingly gave them up and flew to the support of the Union and Republican Party in its darkest day of need , at the expense of all their personal property , and with the halter constantly dangling over their heads . Again , all honor to the patriotic band of young Democratic soldiers who , by the hundred thousand , flocked to the Union standard at the fall of Sum ter , and without whose aid the rebellion might have become a doubtful issue . The influence of the American Party , so far as it aided in carrying out the principle 's of the Republican Party , either North or South , should not be ignored ; neither should the Free Democracy , which , fortunately , is all that is now left of the old party , except in name , be denied the credit for what it did once for freedom and the Republican Party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especial way the American Party was made to serve the RepubliCan Party , during the first year of its organization , it can be answered in few words , viz. : It submitted gracefully to a perfect capture by the Republican Party in the Northern States . ' Its surrender gained some years of advance to the Republican organization , and furnished it some of the most talented and energetic workers which any party ever possessed , and , moreover , who have proved to be the most valuable servants to its cause from first to last . Its national archives in effect became the property of the Republican Party , and furnished the first regularly-organized means of communication and co-operation from State to State . The Fall elections of 1854 Were generally carried throughout many States of the Union by the influence or through the union of the American and Republican Parties . The cause of temperance was espoused by both parties , and became a leading plank in their respective platforms . " In conclusion , the speaker reviewed the history of the struggles of the party from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in earnest , down to the close of the rebellion , and declared that " if it does not make the mistakes of the old Whig and Democratic Parties , it will be the dominant party for another quarter of a century . If it neglects the salient points in its own strongholds its life may be of short duration . " 