@@743273

txt The newly-appointed Spanish Ministers took their seats in the Chamber of Deputies yesterday . Premier Canovas del Castillo , in announcing the formation of the Cabinet , said that the recent crisis was due to the form in which the bill for economic reforms in Cuba was drawn up ; that the present Government , equally with their predecessors , would support a bill for the abolition of slavery in Cuba , and would present fresh proposals for a compromise between the interests of Spain and Cuba on the basis of the equal duty of all Spaniards to support their share of the public , burdens ; that the Ministry would decide the questions at issue impartially ; and that they would soon submit their proposals with reference to Cuba . At the conclusion of the Premier 's remarks an interpellation was brought forward by a minority of the Constitutional Party , asking for further information respecting the causes of the recent crisis . The Premier stated that ho was obliged to go to the Senate , but that he would return immediately and reply to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and considerable excitement ensued , in the midst of which the President of the Chamber of Deputies put on his hat and declared the sitting closed . There was great excitement . In the Chamber of Deputies to-day , Senor Alcazar moved a resolution declaring the confidence of the Chamber in the Ministry . After Premier Canovas del Castillo had spoken , Serior Sivela , the Marquis de Auriolos , and Senor Albacete spoke against the motion , which , however , was adopted by a vote of 201 to 1 , the single dissentient being Senor Posada-Herrera . The minority abstained from voting . Senor Elduayen , Minister of the Colonies , - telegraphed yesterday to the Commander-in-Chief of the Cuban Government that he would dispatch from Spain the means required for the complete suppression of the insurrection , and that he would also carry out the proposed economic reforms in Cuba in a manner to reconcile all interests . LONDON , Dec. 11 . ? A dispatch front Madrid says : " The declaration of Premier Canovas del . Castillo , in the Chamber of Deputies , yesterday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Chamber leaving the house in a body . An animated and uproarious discussion ensued , and the result was that 70 Deputies approved of a resolution to abstain from taking their seats , pending an explanation and apology for what is considered a breach of privilege . " LONDON , Dec. 12 . ? A Madrid dispatch says Gen. Martinez-Campos has assured his friends that he intends to retire to private life , as he has entirely severed his connection with the party in power on account of their treatment of him . An official dispatch received in thts City from Madrid says : " The President of the Cabinet announced yesterday in both Chambers that the Cabinet had been formed of men of the Liberal Party . This being Conservative , there is no need of a programme . He declared that the present Cabinet will continue the policy of their immediate predecessors ; that it accepts all that was done by that Cabinet , ' with the support of the party , and even with its silence in regard to the project of the law about slavery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis had grown from a difference in the Cabinet relating to economic reforms that have no bearing on politics , and the existing Cabinet will try in those reforms to get to a formula that will harmoniously settle all questions that may affect the interests of the provinces of the Peninsula and ultramar , without preference of any kind for the one or the other . The majority of both Chambers received with applause the words of the President of the Council . " A Madrid dispatch says the first act of the new Ministry was to suppress the greater part of the foreign telegrams that mentioned the causes and effect of the resignation of Gen. Martinez Campos. 