@@742853

txt The managers of the New-York banks , and others who approve of the action of the Clearing-house in anticipation of resumption , will fall into a serious mistake if they assume that the course laid down can be followed easily or with a certainty of success , The power of the banks is undoubted , and to a certain extent the plan prescribed may be earriecl.out without difficulty . But it is well to recognize frankly the existence of strong counter-influences , which only vigorous and persistent effort on the part of the friends of a sound currency can overcome . Opposition will proceed from two sources . The more violent will be that of the original advocates of the Silver law , who , finding their cherished hopes blasted when their realization seemed ' at hand , already clamor for legislation that shall make the coinage of silver free and unlimited , and any impairment of its legal-tende r ? quality impossible . We have the cue to this prospective agitation in the rage of the Chicago Tribune , which having virtuously resisted the dogmas of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a debased silver coinage as a means of enabling the debtor to defraud his creditor . The Clearing-house method of maintaining greenbacks at par with gold , and which tends to render the silver dollar a depreciated commodity , is denounced as a roundabout mode of once more demonetizing silver . The mistaken popular feeling that carried . through Congress the remonetization measure is appealed to , to give full effect to the law , and to so change it as to make the present silver dollar the money standard of the country . If there must be some modification of the law respecting the coinage of metals , we are told , it shall apply to gold alone . To quote literally " If there is to a be change in the weight of either gold or silver coin , lot the change be made in the weight of the gold dollar . " The author of the proposition does not pause to think of the robbery which its adoption would amount to , nor does ho trouble himself with a consideration of the effect upon business of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the sole standard of value . He detected the rascality of fiat paper money , but his conscience does not hinder him from applying the fiat principle to a silver dollar worth 83 cents . Reason and conscience , however , had nothing to do with the rernonetization mania of last Winter , and neither will exercise any restraint upon the opponents of the plan sanctioned by the Clearing-house with the view of mitigating the consequences of the Silver law . The wild threats uttered by these parties must , no doubt , be taken with many grains of allowance . Their anger may prove to be in excess of their power . They were obliged to submit , last session , to a limitation of the coinage of silver , and subsequent events have not added to their strength . The Greenbackers will help them , of course , but so they did last Winter . On the other hand , some in authority who then gave them qualified assistance will act differently hereafter . There was a vague idea that , after all , the danger to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid from the deliberations of the Paris Conference . Both delusions have been dispelled . Other countries will not follow our example . Aud , as regards resumption , no candid observer now denies the operation of the Silver law as a disturbing fore* , and one whose continuance is incompatible with permanent resumption . The probabilty therefore . is , that : an attempt to legalize free coinage and to ' preclude interference with the circulation of the debased coin will not be successful . It failed when the clamor was at its height ; it can hardly succeed now that the clamor is confaented with experience . Still , the mere possibility is a thing not to be lightly treated . The agitation of the subject will at least breed distrust . It will keep alive the fears of the timid . And it will appeal to the passions of a large class who have no transactions With banks , and who will be told that the practice of the banks depreciates the value of the silver paid to them as wages . The intelligent working man does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial controversy . The demagogue , however , will have no difficulty in finding quarters where his story of injustice to labor will.obtain credence . If no other mischief follow , the keeping up of the quarrel will be bad enough . A second source of evil is the use that will be made of the New-York plan as a groundwork of attack upon the banks . It matters not that the attack will be unreasonable . The action of the banks , though dictated by the soundest regard for public interests as well as their own , will be represented as wanton interference . It is described as an effort to coerce Congress . Their intention to discourage silver deposits , and generally to enforce the gold standard , is interpreted by the enemy to mean a refusal of discounts to all who do not concur in their plan .. " Let ? the banks prepare for the consequences , " . is the warning addressed to them by the  --  hot-headed advocate of . the silver fraud who finds his calculations upset and his prophecies falsified . " Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resumption , " ? lie if the , bailie we , nt to . try . their ' strength with the American people , it may be that in that thirty clays the banks may cease to be a party to that or any other contest . " The silliness of the menace does not detract from- its wickedness . It is a specimen of the stuff which the remonetizers and the Greenbaekers have begun to print by way of commentary upon the plan devised for averting embarrassment from the banks and otherwise inevitable disaster from the Treasury . These considerations are not adduced as objections to the plan , which , with obvious defects , is perhaps the only plan by which the banks can help themselves or the Government . Its promoters , however , are in danger of taking too much for granted . They appeal to reason and prudence , and in ordinary circumstances might be excused for relying confidently on the response . In the absence of formal replies from other monetary centres , much must be left in abeyance . So far as they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Cincinnati  --  according to the Enquirer ? financial people speak of the plan in a more amicable spirit than will be pleasant to the worshipers of the silver dollar . Evidently , however , there will be much antagonism among the politicians , and among that very large body of people who want to make 85 cents serve as the equivalent of 100 in the settlement of debts . For this antagonism the banks and conservative business men can not too soon or too thoroughly prepare . The battle is not yet won . The recent elections were hopeful in their suggestions but they are not decisive of the contest between fraud and honesty , ? between the enemies of sound finance and its friends . Simple as it may seem , and ample as the discretionary power of the banks may appear to be , the Clearing-house plan can not be put and-kept in operation without a well-sustained effort to influence public opinion .                     