@@741959

txt When a member of the Anglo-Saxon race invents a new creed , whether theological or political , his first step is to organize an association to maintain his views , and his second is to establish a newspaper to publish them . The latest illustration of this practice is the course pursued by a curious Englishman who is in favor of a flat earth . About two years ago he brought himself into notice by protesting against the false and demoralizing theory that the earth is round , and he has recently organized himself and a few fellows of like views into a " Bible Earth League , " and is about to begin the publication of a Bible EartliAevietv . Who first originated the ? idea that the earth is round history does not mention . We all know , however , that COLUMBUS led the way in wickedly demonstrating the fact . Every child is familiar with the story which tells how COLUMBUS , a more itinerant Italian , one day found a party of eminent Spaniards rejoicing in the possession of an egg , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his monkey to the tender mercies of the local small boy , and made the egg stand on its end by the simple process of flattening the shell . Convinced by this demonstration that the world was really round like a ball or au orange , the Spanish Government gave him a squadron in which he set sail across the Atlantic . Although ho did not succeed in circumnavigating the globe , his example inspired the Portuguese sailor , whose name is popularly misspelled " MAGELLAN , " to attempt that feat , and although MAGELLAN did not live to return home , his ship successfully sailed around the world . The Bible Earth Leaguers admit the shareosf COLUMBUS and MAGELLAN in propagating the globular heresy , but inasmuch as both of these navigators - were notoriously " Papists , " and doubtless Jesuits indisguise , the Leaguers conclusively point ' Out that ' no Protestant Englishman ought to pay the slightest attention to their real or alleged achievements . There is no doubt that the Bible Earth League will find it a hard task to uproot the long-established heresy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deplorable blindness , abandoned the primitive and precious belief iu a flat earth , and adopted what geographers  --  falsely socalled  --  have wickedly taught as to the earth 's alleged globular shape . It may be comparatively easy for the Leaguers to explain how ' a presumptuous pride in their own intellects and slates have led Scientific men to uphold the globular theory , but they will find it more difficult to satisfactorily answer the confident assertion of thousands of persons who maintain that they have personally sailed completely around the globe . The earnest believer in a flat earth Understands perfectly well how a man may honestly believe that he has circumnavigated the world . The fly that walks around the rim ? of a Pie-plate , and arrives in course of time at the identical grain of sugar from which he started , may truthfully say that he has journeyed all around the plate , and may honestly believe that the plate is globular instead of flat . As yet the League has not taken the testimony of any flies on . this point , but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocates appear to need such testimony . Like the exploring fly , . Sir FRANCIS DRAKE  --  who , as a good British Protestant , deserves to be treated with respect  --  believed that he had circumnavigated the world .. The truth is that lie only sailed around its rim , and it is a mercy that he did not accidentally approach too near the edge and fall off upon the wide-spread table-cloth of illimitable space , there to wander amid oases . of cosmic molasses , or perchance to smother in swamps of interstellar butter . And yet , although to the alleged mind of the Bible Earth Leaguer , this explanation of DRAKE 'S hallucination may be entirely satisfactory , the world will not , o easily accept it . There are scores of tea clippers which annually arrive in England , after having made what their officers and men believe to be the complete circuit of the earth , and the perverse public will doubtless persist in accepting their assertions in preference to the explanations of the Bible Earth Leaguers . The carnal seafaring man will resent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earth , and if any Bible Earth colporteur boards a tea clipper in order to preach his peculiar doctrine , he will run the risk of being flattened out to an extent that will cause his brethren to mistake him for a model of the earth prepared by some liberal manufacturer who had lavished crimson seas and plaid continents all over its surface . OZ course , the believers in a flat earth find great comfort in their doctrine , and there is no reason to disbelieve the truth of their claim that they are sustained in every calamity and sorrow by a - calm confidence in the earth 's flatness . Still , they ought to be willing to incur any sacrU ; ee to convert the world to their belief , and to that end , instead of remaining quietly in England and publishing au organ , they should boldly charter a vessel and sail to the . earth 's rim . If they return , after having found the rim , gazed over it into infinite space , and dropped a handful of Flat-earth tracts , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible dwellers on the bottom of the world , they will convert multitudes of globular heretics . If ; on the other Land , they should fall over the - rim , and hence be prevented from returning home ; they will be recognized as the proto-martyrs of the Flat faith , and will win lasting and enviable fame .                     