@@741938

txt The probability of Republican success in the approaching campaign should not blind us to the possibility of defeat or the conditions by which alone defeat can be averted . Great as are the advantages of the position , compared . with that of the Democracy , there is danger in overrating them , and in presiipposing that the Democrats will make no effort to regain the ground lost by their persistent blundering . Some of the opportunities they have thrown away can not be recovered . Their pretended regard for sound money , for instance , vanishes before their failure to construct a financial policy DU which even themselves eau agree . They are , accomplishing nothing in the way of fiscal reform . They withhold amnesty because they will not permit JEFFERSOX DAVIS to be exempted from its provisions . They have identified themselves afresh with ** Southern ideas , have wantonly provohed a reopening ' of some of the fierce issues of the war , and in their haste to reward Confederate allies they have so misused the patronage they control as to justify imputations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business in order that they might carry on partisan investigations , and in the conduct of these they have employed methods and displayed a spirit which have impaired faith in the results of their work . At least one of their prominent canlidates for the Presidency has committed moral and political suicide , " and of those hat remain , not one appeals to the heart of : he country or possesses qualities that ; an awaken popular enthusiasm . Their poverty in this respect impels many among ; hem to look outside of their own ranks for candidate , and the expediency of nomiaating Judge DAVIS is discussed by West3rn Democrats with an earnestness which ihows how slender is the trust they repose n the chances of the Hendrickses , the Thurnans , and the Tildens of the party . All these are considerations that weigh heavily igainst them . And there is the further and supreme consideration , that the Democracy maybe trusted to adhere to the policy which gas hung round their neckmlike a millstone and doomed them to disaster when apparently on the high road to power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means a trifling one . They have nothing co fear fromindependent movements . Party hscipline  --  the cohesive force which has iept the party together when destruction oust otherwise have been inevitable  --  is still in full play . Those who cry for reform ire Democrats first and reformers afterward , and the whole party will rally around my idol whom the St. Louis Convention nay set up . We must prepare to encounter united party  --  a party from which there are few desertions for the sake of principle , and the aggregate strength of which is sufficiently large to make it always formslable . To enter upon the contest , then , with a reasonable assurance of success , the Republican Party must accept President ItANT/S advice , and " begin to unload . " Vigorous as it is , and propitious as are the political signs of the times , it has no superfluous ? force . It must rid itself of incumbrances , free itself from suspicions , and assume no responsibility that needs apology or defense . There are no obligations that require it to hide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or to make the worse appear the bettor reason for aught that its public men have done or failed to do . The " loyalty " that consists of saddling upon a party *le sins of individual leaders , or that ignores mistakes committed by the , party itself , till not stand the wear and tear . of a canvass like that which is impending . Reproaches are neither useful nor in order . What is desirable , and what must be if the party is to win , is the frank recognition of mistakes that have been committed and mischief that has been done , and the dropping of persons , great or small , who are directly or indirectly accountable for either . More than enough has transpired to warrant a demand for reform in certain departments , and especially for the reform without which others will be futile  --  the reform of the civil service . Can anything be clearer than the duty of the party ' to divest itself of the load which Must rest upon it if it submit to the direction of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abuses , and to fasten upon the party the stigma inseparable from au improper or injudicious exercise of patronage To begin the race well , we must consent to carry Only what is needful and right , and there will be some quiet unloading before this point is reached . Having achieved this preliminary task , the next requirement will bo not less plain . The Republican Party must resolve to adopt a policy and to nominate candidates that shall not only retain all who have regularly acted with the party , but shall win over the important body of non-partisan voters who are governed by convictions of duty ; and who , in the presence of certain contingencies , may wield the balance of power . So far as they have any bias , it is on the Republican side . Their affiliation with the Democracy is hardly possible , happen what may ; but it is not difficult to conceive of circumstances which may lead them to keep away from the Dolls or to waste their votes upon some third candidate . Either course would be hurtful to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own party and bring about difficulty by encouraging indifference . The construction of a platform is the easiest part of the business to bo transacted at Cincinnati . No man will venture there to assail , the demand for reform , or to resist resolutions expressive of the desire for eliminating sinister influences from the party management , and for restoring it to the level which first commended it to the country . The indispensable condition is a candidate whose antecedents , character , convictions , and surroundings shall harmonize with the declarations of the platform and ' embody the wisest and purest aspirations of . the party . Who combines these qualifications is the question to be answered by the convention . Answered it must be , squarely , if the party , on leaving ' Cincinnati , is to commence its march toward victory . Happily , there are indications of careful preparatory work , which has been too often wanting in connection with Presidential elections . The activity that is apparent is not confined to the professional politicians . The cleverest of the self-nominated candidates have captured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very feeble hold upon the respect of those who constitute the great voting power . Classes that in recent years have stood aloof , or have contented themselves with simply casting their ballots , are moving to good purpose in various directions ; and their influence can not be otherwise than beneficial , lot the nominee of the party be whom he may .                     