@@743123

txt Several Paymasters in the Army were lately appointed from civil life ; and now , although the Army is notoriously overofficered , thirty-seven vacancies in the rank of Second Lieutenant are to be filled in the same way . In the latter case , the vacancies exist after the members of the graduating class from West Point have been assigned to duty . But in the former ease , appointments were made to the Pay Department from civil life , directly over the heads of meritorious officers who have long been in the service , and who are kept in the lower grades of official rank . Is there any good reason why a civilian should be made an officer of the Army , with the rank of Major , while hundreds of well-trained men are left below him , as Captains , First Lieutenants , and Second Lieutenants ? There is none , except that political influence is stronger than military merit when it comes to a decision between the claims of the prot6g6 of the Congressman and the deserving officer in the Army . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rank of Major , is a favor with which a follower may be rewarded . To the Army officer , weary of his slow advancement , this is merely a promotion . And in the Army , promotion is very slow . In a recent report as Chairman of the Board of Visitors to the Military Academy , DAVID A. WELLS brought out very forcibly the disproportion of officers to men in.the Army of the United States . It was shown that , with the present natural increase of the force of officers , unless the number of enlisted men is increased , or the number of Cadets diminished , there is danger that the Army will become disproportionately large at the head . This fear is well grounded , and there has been , in some quarters , a demand that the numbers of the rank and file shall be augmented . Whatever may be done in that direction , ( and the ground has been often fought over , ) it is certain that the clay is far distant when there will be any diminution of the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the perquisites of the Congressmen upon whose votes depends the success of the proposition to cut down the number of cadetships . They will never give up their cadetships , although the Army should be all officers . And , notwithstanding the frequent complaint that there are too many officers to the enlisted men , and Army promotions are slow , it is proposed to pitchfork thirty-seven civilians into the rank of Second Lieutenant . The law providing for the promotion of meritorious non-commissioned officers to the rank of Second Lieutenant we nt into effect in August , 1878 . The act provides that all vacancies in the grade of Second Lieutenant shall be filled by appointment from the Military Academy , so long as any such remain in service unassigned , and any vacancies thereafter remaining shall be filled by the promotion of meritorious noncommissioned officers of the Army ; provided that all vacancies remaining after exhausting the two classes named , may be filled by the appointment of persons in civil life . As if to surround this generous provision for the advancement of non-commissioned officers with as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should not be made of non-commissioned officers who are married , or who are more than 30 years of age . The stipulation that the candidates for promotion must have served at least two years in the Army is a reasonable one . It insures at least a tolerable acquaintance with military drill and usage on the part of the candidate . Yet , the War Department , not long since , promoted to Second Lieutenancies one or two socalled enlisted men , who were specially fitted for promotion by being employed at quill-driving in the War Department preparatory to receiving their commissions . It is assumed , in the case before us , that as the graduates from the Military Academy are all assigned to duty , and there are no meritorious non-commissioned officers recommended for promotion , it is necessary that the thirty-seven vacancies existing in the grade of Second Lieutenant must be filled at once from civil life . If we must needs crowd civilians into Second Lieutenancies , why were not Captains and First Lieutenants promoted to the Pay Department , and thus other vacancies made for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Senators and Representatives 1 It is bad enough for the Army that raw civilians should be put in command of veteran enlisted men in the ranks . It is yet worse that men from civil life should be hoisted over the heads of veteran officers who linger in the grades of Captain and First Lieutenant , their ambition chilled by such favoritism . There does not exist , however , any such emergency as that which these proposed civilian appointments would seem to indicate . If there were any necessity for haste in filling these places , it is likely that acceptable candidates might be found among meritorious non-commissioned officers . We are very well aware that there is a prejudice among military officers against such promotions . It is not likely that recommendations for these promotions will be made in good faith to any great extent . And , since the feeling of caste in the Army is strong enough to keep out of the official grade any who have been base enough to serve in the ranks , we need nothope to see the law of Congress carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would not be asking too much of the civilian candidates for Second Lieutenants ' commissions that they serve two years in the ranks , on probation . There is no such haste required in filling vacancies that raw men must be taken . If the political appointments are to be made at all , let them be made two years hence . The Army can wait , and two years ' service in the ranks will not deteriorate the military qualifications of the prot6ges of Senator Pogram and Representative Blanck.                     