@@742197

txt Within a few days one of oar leading banks has reduced its capital by the amount of a million ; several other banks are following suit , and it is believed that within a short time the banking capital of New York City will be reduced several millions , in'order to escapo the excessive taxation under State laws . That is , this considerable amount of capital will ho withdrawn from banking business in this City , and will very probably be , transferred elsewhere . The Department of Taxes and Assessments informs us in its recent report that the assessments on shareholders in banks has increased from $73,390,9e9 in lel " ) to i. ; , ' S5 , l45,114 in le7G , or that an added burden of nearlyl ' 2,000,000 taxes was laid in this year of business depression on one of the most important branches of business in this City . Besides this increase , the real estate of the banks was taxed in 1 ? -. l7ti $10,395,256 . It is obvious that this is only another illustration of the familiar fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures , now that their suit in regard to taxing surplus earnings has been decided against them in the General Term , to reduce their capital , or by distributing their surplus to escape these heavy burdens . The case seems not unlike the local taxation laid in this City on the property and business of steam-ship companies . This , as is well known , became so heavy that the companies transferred their property to foreign cities , and , under both local and Customs taxation , the whole business was finally removed to European countries . No 1 American could carry on this enterprise under such burdens as we had laid upon it here . Our experience ill taxation has been frequently of this unpleasant nature . It seems only another instance of that ignorance of the principles of political economy among our legislators for which we have paid so dear . The experience of foreign nations had proved that a few taxes laid on articles of luxury and indulgence was the best source ' of income , and weighed the least on production . Under the glowing idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we began by taxing everything that man could wear or use , and , fearing to oppress anyone branch of industry , we ended by weighing them all heavily with such burdens that our manutaetares ceased to ho able to contend with foreign , and we became known 88 the country least able of all to compete with the couutries of the world in cheapness of production . After tremendous losses and burdens from this injudicious taxation , we have begun to reform our national taxation , to reduce the number of taxable objects , to aim especially at luxuries and burden trade or business as little as possible . We retain , it l A true , many foolish burdens on production , but these will gradually be lessened ; and iu the meantime the prostration of business has eo lowered all prices in the country that we are enabled now , in spite of our taxation , to compete again with foreign wanu  --  acturers . State and local taxation , however , still remain burdensome . The load placed this past year npou banking is evidently tending to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps from the City . Now , this City has already lost enough m the indiscreet burdens it has placed upon various branches of business . Factories are continually removing to the country ; largo commercial houses are transferring their offices to other cities ; the steam-ship companies have gone ; ironworks , ship-building , or machine-making are almost a thing of the past . Capital has been driven away by taxation and bad Municipal management . If now , banking capital be driven away , we shall diminish one of our most important sources of wealth , for New-York is naturally the financial centre of the country . Pennsylvania is a remarkable instance of the wisdom of sparing personal property and capital invested in business from heavy iaxation . Its great progress in wawa as compared to New York is largely aue to this fact . The experience of the world is against efforts to tax heavily personal property . Of the recommendations made in the report of the Commissioners of Taxes and Assessments it is difficult to speak until the whole report is published . They scarcely seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the taxation of personal property for State purposes would seem against all sound economical principles ; nor are license taxes held to be of the wisest nature in favoring production . The recommendations in regard to bank taxes are exceedingly vague , though they appear to except the surplus from a separate tax .                     