@@741209

txt More than a year has now elapsed since the civil service rules were perfected and Promulgated as a guide for the President and the heads of departments in making appointments in the public service . During that tune much has been accomplished . The system has been thoroughly tested . both in the departments in Washington and in the Custom-house in this City . and has worked so well as to win favorable opinions from many who were at first its bitterest opponents . So far as the positions to which 3 has been applied are concerned , it has substantially done away with the old-fashioned scramble for place . - while it has secured a much higher order of talent and character than formerly entered the service . Heads of departments and others possessing the power of appointment or nomination are relieved from pressure , and are no longer recruised to neglect the proper duties of their positions in order to decide upon the claims of the favorites of rival Congressmen to serve their country in the arduous capacity of Government clerks . It must not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the rules has lain dormant for more than thirteen months . On the 16th of April , 1872 , the President promulgated a series of rides , which had been drawn up by the advisory board after months of deliberation , prescribing the method of selecting , not merely department clerks in Washington , but Government officials throughout the country . The catalogue of officers to which the rules nominally apply includes collectors of ens- I toms and of internal revenue , postmasters , consuls , pension agents , registers , and re-ceivers of land offices and United States marshals . Although the President has often complied . with the spirit of these rules by promoting competent subordinates , they have virtually remained a dead letter so far as regards the use of the modes of selection for which they provide . A. ready , and perhaps sufficient , excuse for this has been the desire to thoroughly test the system in Washington before extendiag it to all branches of the service . The test has now , however , been fairly applied and has proved . successful to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be no question as to the practicability of bringing every branch of the service within the operation of the rules . The manner of filling the clerkships in Washington , or even in the Government offices in this City , is a matter of interest to bat a limited circle of persons . It is of vital importance that they should be well filled , it is true , but the mode of selection adopted is of personal interest to very few . Not so with . the offices throughout the country , to which the rules have not been extended . The appointment of postmaster in a country village , for instance , is one in which the whole community takes a lively interest . If made in accordance with the rules , it would go further to convince the people of the determination of the President to enforce the reform than a hundred appointments to clerkships of equal salary in the departments at Washington . So , too , in a greater or less degree with all of the offices which we have enumerated . The people are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regards the places which come under their own observation . It is those in which they feel the nearest interest , and by its Ours() in regard to which they will judge of the sincerity of the Administration in its attempt to reform the civil service . The almost unanimous approval ' with which the promotion of a worthy subordinate to be Postmaster of Philadelphia was received , and the universal attention Mkt it attracted , prove that the popular interest in the reform is unabated . It should be remembered , too , that the rules which provide for appointments to the places io which we have referred , do not set up a scholastic or literary standard of qualification . If they did , just exceptions might be taken to them . The gist of the rules is , that where there are subordinate officers whoa are likely to be deserving , the promotion shall be made from them if any are found . competent . If there are no subordinates or none who are competent , then the appointment is to be given to the applicant best , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There certainly seems to be no good reason for delay in enforcing a system so just and . practicable as this . Us chief feature is the promotion of competent subordinates ? a measure of justice to the many excellent men in the Government service , and a means of securing still higher talent in the future , by inoreasingthe range of promotion . Such a plan , faithfully carried out , would not only secure competent men in places that are now too often filled with incompetent political " wheel-horses , " but would infuse an esprit de corps into the service which would conduce to the best interests of the Government . We hone soon to bear that the order has been issued . for the enforcement of the rules in their entirety , and that the President is no longer open to the censure of having failed to enforce any of the rules which he has approved and promulgated .                     