@@741417

txt To-day , at 1 o'clock , Gov . Baxter took formal possession of the State-house . Early in the morning Gen. Fagan , commanding Brooks ' forces , sent word . to Gen. Newton , Baxter 's commander , that his forces would evacuate the State-house at noon , but at the same time he recommended that the picket lines of both parties be maintained until that hour . This was complied with by Newton . At 12 o'clock exactly , Brooks ' troops left the Statehouse , and it was taken possession of by Secretaav of State Johnson and Gen. MoCannlay , the Governor 's private Secretary . The building was then hurriedly cleared of the old clothes and decayed provisions left by Brooks ' negroes , and at 1 o'clock Gov . Baxter took the seat which he has been prevented from occupying for the last thirty-four days . At a little before the appointed time he proceeded to the Capitol from his head-quarters at Masonic Hall . He was accompanied by his private Secretary and Col. H. L. Smith , and escorted by King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowds of men , women , and children were assembled , and the Governor and his party were loudly cheered as they passed . Arriving at the State-house ho was received by Gene . Newton , Churchill , and King White , and conducted to the Executive Chamber . As soon as he had taken his scat one hundred guns were fired , accompanied by the hurrahs of the people , and a long-continued rattle of musketry . After having received the congratulations of his friends , the Governor delivered a , short address , in - which be complimented his officers and supporters upon their bravery , and recounted in brief the history of his ejectment from his position . As soon as it had become generally lmown that Baxter 's men bad possession of the Statehouse , the guards and pickets left the street corners , and the commander . of the Federal forces ordered the removal of the barricades erected by him . He also sent his two pieces of artillery to the State Arsenal , and relieved the guards at the hotels . Soon afterward many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up for the protection of their windows , and to-morrow a general resumption of business is expected . It is stated that Mr. Brooks is still in the city , bat he is only accessible to his most intimate friends . It is generally expected that a number of his friends and supporters will be indicted for treason if they remain in Arkansas , and many of thorn have taken advantage of the present excitement and left the State . A general system of fraud and corruption appears to have prevailed here for some time past , and Gov . Baxter states that a thorough investigation of the books and papers of all State officers will be made within a few days . Ho has sent word to the State Treasurer that a conuniesion would examine his accounts within a , few days . The Auditor 's books will be looked through , and many of the State and county officers will undoubtedly be indicted for malfeaaanne in office . ' The feeling here against Senator Clayton continues to be very strong . Gov . Baxter stated today that should he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to overthrow the State Government , and that , should he come to trial , there was evidence enough ; to send him to the Penitentiary for along term of years . This appears to be the opinion among the Brooks men . No matter who they supported for Governor , the people universally denounce Clayton and Dorsey . It seems now to be conceded on all sides that there will be no more organized fighting hero . At the same time , however , a general spirit of lawlessness prevails . This manifested itself early in the morning , when what was supposed to be an attempt to burn the city was made . A large building in one of the most populous streets was fired in three places , and only extinguished by the combined efforts of the Fire Department and a company of Gen. Newton 's soldiers . Near the building was situated Banter 's artillery and a large quantity of fixed ammunition . Street fights , in which pistols and knives were drawn , have been frequent throughout the day . In every instance , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbances were quelled without bloodshed . The reports from the Pine Bluff district are not so alarming . Murphy , who has been inciting the negroes , has boon arrested and lodged in jail , and no further trouble is apprehended in that vicinity . This evening Gen. Newton turned the city over to the control of the Mayor , and the Municipal Police soon after resumed duty . The Brooks party have all left the city , and Baxter 's men are going as fast as transportation can be furnished them . Another street fight occurred to-night , and one man was shot through the head . During the ** Charles Reid , Clerk of the Assembly , was fired at by a restaurant-keeper , but was uninjured . The Governor is receiving his friends at a collation in the State-house to-night .                     