@@741249

txt The recently-opened route to Washington , by way of the Northern Central and . Baltimore and Potomac Railroads , is attracting a good deal of attention . From here to Mantua Junction , a mile and a half this side of the West Philadelphia Depot , this route is the same as the old one . From Mantua Junction it follows for sixty-seven miles to Lancaster , the direct line from Philadelphia to Pittsburg . From Lancaster it runs to Yore , on the Northern Central Railroad , and . thence by that road to Baltimore . The whole distance from Mantua Junction to Baltimore is 150 miles , or about fifty miles longer than by the other route . From Baltimore to Washington , by way of the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad , the distance is about the same as by the old line . Notwithstanding the greater length of the new route , the time of the trains going South is no greater , and that of those coming North only about half an hour more than that of the other line . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliged to go by horses through the streets of Baltimore . This delay is only thirty or thirty-five minutes , and would not of itself be so great a loss of time as would be caused by the difference in distance ; for the latter would , other things being equal , be about one hour and a half . But the speed of the new line is , especially going South , is much greater than that of the old one . The difference in this respect is peculiarly observable between here and Mantua Junction , the new line leaving only ten minutes before the other and arriving at Mantua half an hour ahead . The new route is styled an " air line . " It is not easy to see what claim it has to the appellation . An air line between two places , as the expression is generally understood , is simply a straight line ? or , rather , one that would be straight were it not for the circumstance that the world is round . To call the circuitous route from Philadelphia to Baltimore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " in this sense , is about as appropriate as 2t would be to call the route , all the way by steam-boat , from here to Hartford , an " air line . " There is a great deal of talk about " air lines " just now which might as well be omitted . It is becoming a very common fashion to call new roads , where there is a competing route , " air lines . " As a matter of fact , the old line from here to Washington is almost as nearly an air Hue as it would be possible to obtain by any railroad route that could be constructed between the two cities . With the exception of the tunnel at Baltimore , and . the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad , the new line runs over roads all of which have been in use for many years . The tunnel at Baltimore is more than a mile and a quarter long , and . was a work of great difficulty and . expense . The whole route is controlled by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City and . New-Orleans which that corporation is seeking to establish , and of much the greater part of which they are said to have already obtained control . The question here very naturally arises : What use has the Pennsylvania Railroad for a route to the South by way of Baltimore I It is easy to see what they wanted with their Western roads and with those between here and Philadelphia . All these were in direct connection with their original line . But a route to New-Orleans , by way of Washington , is certainly not in any manner an extension of that line . And another question also suggests itself here : Where is the Pennsylvania Railroad going to stop From present appearances it seems likely to spread itself over the South just as it has over the West . The extent of its lines would be a wonderful contrast with its original road of 249 miles , from Harrisburg to Pittsburg , even if it should stop where it is ; and those who manage its affairs evidently have no idea of its discontinuing its growth for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new line will make any very great difference to passengers from here to the national capital . It may , indeed , if there should be a contest between it and the other line , bring down fares for a while ; but the reduction would probably not last very long . In regard to scenery , however , the new route is far superior to the old one , though the magnificent view of the Susquehanna at Havre de Grace makes up in the latter for many of its deficiencies in this respect .                     