@@781455

txt Mr. JOHN RUSKIN heartily detests the railway , because it is at war with the picturesque , and converts traveling into . a swift and tiresome rush through dark cuts , under dismal tunnels and over prosaic embankments . It is certain that the railway has destroyed the romance that clustered about the old-fashioned stage-coach , from which the traveler enjoyed the picturesque beauty of valley and hill-side ; but it is only one of the many instruments by which modem civilization is expelling sentiment and romance from every-day life . Steam is essentially prosaic ; and whether it associate itself with the manufactory , or with travel , by sea or by land , its breath everywhere withers the dainty flowers of poetic fancy . Within the last twenty years we have seen the prosaic effects of steam in the mercantile service and in the navy . There was once a fascination in the life of . the sailor , which exists no longer . The boy who dreamed of furling the lofty skysails of a clipper-ship , or passing the weather caring in a gale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life of a sailor drew him from his country home , is now only a tradition of the past . No boy , however fond he may be of adventure , finds any fascination in the prospect of shoveling coal into a steamer 's furnace , or in cleaning and oiling her intricate machinery . Steam has ' driven the sailor from the mercantile service , and the few packet-ships that yet ply between this country and Europe are manned by the refuse of cities , by men who are neither sailors nor landsmen , but whom each element is alike ready to spurn out of existence . In the navy , steam complicated with the devices of ERiCSSON , has made the sailor of MARRYAT 'S novels no longer possible . A chase has ceased to be decided by the skillful trimming of sails , but has become a test of the relative strength of two steam-boilers . There is no longer a captain of the maintop , for that lofty locality is untenable because of smoke , and the crowding stoker has made the able seaman a superfluity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , loses his boyish spirits and his capacity for mischief . He is no longer a " reefer , " for on board the monitor there is nothing to be reefed  --  if we except the emoke-stack . He can not be mast-headed for stealing the Captain 's sherry . for the monitor boasts no mast , and to send the guilty young gentleman to the top of the turret , the loftiest locality'on ship-board , would be equivalent to sending him to the weather-quarter deck of an old-time frigate . There is plainly no room for romance on the monitor , and tho midshipman so clearly recognizes the fact that he has no longer the heart to play those ingenious tricks on the Purser , with the narration of which Capt . MARRYAT was accustomed to divert his ingenuous readers . Steam having done its prosaic work in banishing the stage-coach and suppressing the sailor , is still unsatisfied . There was one Eden of romance into which it has hitherto been supposed that the unsatiate demon of steam would refrain from entering . We had given up , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but we still clung to our canals . There the fashions of the last generation still survived . The fierce Captain of the fast boat continued to cut his rival 's tow-line as of old . The boy who drove the horses idled , and earned the avenging whip of the crew , and the passengers dropped intentionally or unintentionally at the low bridge , as boys and passengers had done in the dim antiquity of the days of DE Wrrr CLINTON . The " canalers " were a. class by themselves , as strongly marked by their peculiarities as were the sailors of twenty years ago . They lived in a merry " free fight , " winch never ended . and . their unique blasphemies , rolled uninterruptedly from the lakes to the Hudson . When a break occurred in the canal , and scores of boats were temporarily laid up , the " canalers " were wont to abandon themselves to whisky . and to display , with much enthusiasm , those finer feelings of our nature which scorn the selfish pretense of ownership in chickens and . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is doomed . The devastating steamer is about to take the place of the canal-boats of old. , and to sweep out of existence the " canaler " and his cattle .. The deserted towpath will crow with grass , and the useless horses will graze thereon until death takes them from the scenes where they were so often flogged . The horse boy and the crew and the Captain will find their occupation gone , and will silently vanish into the crowded life of our cities , and here and there some veteran " canaler " will make his home in the village of his youth , and while carving miniature canal-boats from blocks of wood , will rehearse the wild adventures of his youth to admiring boys , and secretly interested old men . So will the glory and romance of the canal forever disappear , and one more victory of steam over sentiment be recorded .                     