@@741793

txt Diphtheria was almost an unknown disease twenty years ago . To-day it has nearly assumed the proportion of an epidemic this City and in neighboring towns . It attacks adults as well as children , but its ravages are chiefly among the young and feeble . The dread which parents formerly felt of scarlet fever has given place to the dread of diphtheria , and the rapid and fittal character of the disease makes it more formidable than any oilier of the diseases to which children are peculiarly liable . It is sufficiently well established that diphtheria originates , at least in very many instances , from defective drainage and sewer-gas . The poisoned air and polluted water , which are the conceded causes of typhoid fever , are equally fatal iu developing diphtheria . The most obvious precautions against the disease are , then , to avoid damp and badly-drained localities , and to protect our houses from sewer-gas . The latter object eau be accomplished With certainty , and at a comparatively small expense . It is only necessary to place a large water trap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sower , and to run a ventilating pipe from the side of the trap nearest the house to the roof . Whatever gas may force its way through this trap will escape by the ventilating pipe , since the small trap beneath the wash-stand will aftbrd a greater resistance to the gas than is offered by the column of air in the ventilator . Without the large trap and the ventilating pipe , those small traps are nearly worthless , and those who rely upon them alone for protection should understand that they are in constant danger of the whole class of diseases which have their origin in the poisoning of the system by sewer-gas . Diphtheria is not a difficult disease to combat when it is treated in time . The distinctive feature of it is the formation of a false membrane in the throat . ' rids makes its appearance in nearly all cases in the shape of grayish brown patches ; and it is hence of the utmost importance to watch closely the throats of children - who are apparently ill with cold and sore throat . Usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disease ; though in rare instances the false membrane is formed suddenly and almost without warning . If the throats of ailing children are frequently examined , there will be little danger that parents will mistake incipient diphtheria for an ordinary cold . Scores of children have died of diphtheria who would undoubtedly he now alive had the grayish brown patches in the throat been discovered at their first appearance , and a competent physician been promptly summoned . Why the disease should have been so rare a score of years ago it is impossible to say . There are , however , abundance of causes for its prevalence now . Sewer-gas is silently doing its deadly work of poisoning thousands of families in this City . In the suburbs , damp cellars and the neighborhood of mai:tritium marshes do their share in the slaughter of those who have not const itutious of cast-iron . Diphtheria is a disgrace to any community , since its prevalence in the shape of au epidemic means a gross violation of sanitary rules . Let us cut off the sewer-gas from access to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who complain of fever and sorethroat . By so doing , the roll of deaths from this dreaded disease can be greatly diminished , and , with the progress of sanitary science , it may ultimately be banished forever .                     