@@740812

txt The task of providing comfortable and cheap homes for working men has long engaged the attention and . efforts of practical benevolence . Another movement to this end was made about a fortnight ago at PLiverpool , where the Artisans ' , Laborers ' and General Dwellings Company ( Limited ) celebrated the completion of two terraces of model dwellings , containing thirty-nine houses in all . ' I hey are built of the best material throughout , differing only in size and interior arrangement . and . special care has been given to securing dryness and thorough ventilation , the two things in which ordinary tenement-houses are apt to be deficient . The foundations are concrete , the roof waterproof , and all the houses and every room in them are ventilated by the same apparatus . Shareholders in the Company are to have preference as tenants , and it is the aim of the Company to induce occupants to become owners of their houses as soon as practicable . The Company will begin the erection of nearly one hundred additional dwellings on the same plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usefulness . The provision for encouraging working men to become freeholders is especially commendable . The ownership of a house , however small , tends to give a feeling of independence and self-respect , which is one of the most effective agents in elevating the condition of the working classes . One of the pleasantest features of Philadelphia is the number of small neat dwellings , occupied by mechanics and artisans . Here , unhappily , our apace is so contracted that such an enterprise would be out of the question within City limits , or even beyond them until we have a suitable system of suburban railways . But something might be done by a judicious combination of capital and philanthropy , in the way of apartment houses for working men , to relieve the misery and degradation they are now subjected to by being forced to huddle together iu filthy tenements . Mr. STEWART 'S Home for Working Girls shows what may be accomplished in this direction . A much more comprehensive and equally noble charity would be reached by providing homes for the families of working men . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a freehold , and , by a modification of the well-known " fiat " system . secure all needful privacy . Why should we not have an Artisans ' , Laborers ' and General Dwellings Company ?                     