@@741871

txt A serious dispute between the Dominion authorities and the Government of British Columbia promises , to result in an appeal to the Imperial Government . The case , as presented . by British Columbia , and fortified by official documents , certainly looks badly for the Canadian officials . To use the mildest phrase , the people of British Columbia appear to have been induced to enter the Dominion on the strength of promises that never could be redeemed ; The agreement under which British Columbia joined the confederation contemplated the construction of a railroad and telegraph line across - the continent , north of the northern boundary of the United States . The work , beset with immense difficulties , was to be begun as soon as the covenant was concluded , and was to be finished be . fore 1881 . Competent railroad builders at once declared that the task was impossible , and it was even doubtful if such a road could ever be built , though unlimited time Were given . It was suggested that the agreement was made by the Canadians with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Purpose of securing the adhesion of British Columbia to the confederation , and without any expectation that the terms would ever be executed . One possible way out of the difficulty was'by making connections with the Northern Pacific Road , and thus avoiding the most difficult portion of the route .. That some such scheme as this was contemplated was proved by the developments made in the so-called Allan scandal , investigated by royal com- ' mission . But whatever may have been the intention of those who are said to have sought to make an alliance with the Northern Pacific . people , the shortest way ont of the dilemma has at last been taken . This is a practical abandonment of the . whole ? undertaking .. In 1,874 , work on the Canadian Pacific Railroad having been retarded by lack of funds , the Dominion Government asked for an extension of time . A long negotiation ensued , and the questions at issue were finally left to Lord CARNARVON , British Colonial Secretary , for settlement . By the terms of the compromise which he drew up , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . A wagon road and telegraph were to be built along the line forthwith , and the Pacific end of the ? line , connecting Esquimault with Nanaimo , was to be begun at once . Furthermore , the yearly expenditure for railroad purposes , in the Province . of British Columbia , was not to be less than one and a half million dollars . This was accepted by both parties to the dispute , though , as one must see , it was a great disappointment to British Columbia . The fact that the much-desired railroad could not be finished until 1890 , however , was made less discouraging by the positive promise that a wagon road and telegraph line should speedily bind the distant province to the confederation . Last September the Dominion Government adopted a minute in Council , proposing that the limitation of time for the completion of the Pacific Railroad be abandoned , and that a cash bonus of $750,000 be paid to British Columbia , in lieu of the construction of the road between Esquimault and Nanaimo , in Vancouver Island . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be given up , ? and that British Columbia is to be recompensed by a gift of $750,000 , provided the Dominion Parliament will appropriate the needed funds .. To say that this proposition was at ? once greeted with a howl of rage and derision on the part of the Pacific province , is faintly to express the excitement which its announcement caused . The disingenuousness of such a scheme is shown by the statement of the minute in Countl to the effect that the Esquininult and Nanaimo Road , now proposed to be abandoned altogether , is no part of the trans-contiuental system , though , under the Carnarvon settlement , it was so considered , and was to be built at once . But a more damaging charge is made by the British Columbian Government . It is discovered that the minute in Council , adopted Sept. 20 , 1875 , was not published , or sent to British Columbia , until Nov. 10 of that year . During that considerable interval , the surveying parties on the overland route were strengthened , and various signs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , also , the Canadian Government was engaged in. negotiating a loan for $7 ; 250,000 , iu England , on an imperial guarantee , and with the clear understanding that it was effected for the purpose of building the Pacific Road . That is to say , the Dominion authorities , after they . had formally decided not to build the road , temporarily and deceptively revived the work while borrowing money under false pretenses . This is exactly what is charged by the British Columbian Government iu a report of its Executive Council . Such allegations as , these . supported as they are by the official documents quoted in the report , must be very damaging to the Mackenzie Government . There is no good reason to suppose that the contract to build the Canadian Pacific Railroad was in good faith concluded by the Government of the Dominion . It was an agreement to do au inipPssible thing . Continual extensions of time and releases of terms prepared the way for a final relinquishment of the whole work . No adequate explanation of the long delay which occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service on the British Columbian Government has ever been given . There can bo no explanation of the undisputed fact that during the two mouths in which : that document , sealing the fate of the road , was locked up at Ottawa , work was spasmodically renewed on the hue , and money was borrowed on the plea that it was needed for railroad building . Some plausible reply must be made to these grave charges , or it will appear that . the Canadian Government has been guilty of most discreditable duplicity .                     