@@742473

txt The crop report of the Memphis Cotton Exchange for October is based . upon 144 responses as follows : West Tennessee , 41 ; North Mississippi , 51 ; North Arkansas , 52 , of an average date of Nov. 1 . It states there is much difficulty in arriving at the probable yield , but the indications are that there is a depreciation of 25 per cent . during the month , but with cool dry weather much of the anticipated loss will be reclaimed . One-half of the responses report weather favorable , the others very unfavorable from excessive rains , and less favorable than last year . All report that there was no killing frost during the month . As to picking , 37 per cent . of the crop has been picked . Sixty-five report that with favorable weather picking will be completed from the 1st to the 30th of December , the average date being the latter . ? The yield is averaged at 1 per cent , more than in 1876 , or 25 per cent . below the September prospective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the . frost which damaged the crop 2614 per cent . Owing to excessive wet weather and the absence of killing frosts , the bottom crops are more backward in opening than ever known , and are receiving serious damage by rot , The labor morale is good . The prospective ' Tierease in acreage of the wheat crop is 15 per cent , The corn crop is out of danger , but planters are much disappointed in the yield . The pork crop averages 25 per cent . less than the probable needs of the coming season . Forty-one counties in Alabama send 84 letters . The weather during October has been generally wet and unfavorable and less favorable than last year . There have been light frosts in the Middle and northern counties of the State , but no damage has resulted to the cotton crop therefrom . About 60 per cent . of the crop has been gathered , and the expectation is that picking will be finished in the upland counties by the 1st to the 15th of December , and in the prairie counties about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of December . The yield compared with that of last year is estimated at 9 per cent , less in the uplands and 17 per cent . more in the prairie counties . Forty-seven letters have been received from 20 counties in Mississippi . The weather during October has been fine in 4 counties , and wet and unfavorable in 16 counties . Compared with that of last year it has been more favorable in 6 counties and less favorable in 14 counties . Light frosts have occurred , but no damage has resulted to the crop . About one helf the cotton has been gathered , and it is estimated that picking will not he finished before the middle or close of December . The yield , compared with that of last year , is estimated at 5 per cent . increase in one county , the same in six , and 16 per cent . less in 13 . GALVESTON , Texas , Nov. ** following is the crop report of the Galveston Cotton Exchange for October : There were received from 72 counties 101 replies of the average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been wet and unfavorable in 68 counties and dry in 4 counties . The weather for gathering the crops , as compared with last year , has been less favorable in 62 counties , the same in two counties , and more favorable in eight counties . There have been light frosts but no damage in 15 counties , and no frost in 57 counties . Seven counties report picking finished , 45 ? three-quarters picked , and 16 half picked . Picking will be finished by the 1st of December . The yield , as compared with last year , is estimated at a decrease of 32 per cent . but we believe that some of our correspondents have not taken into consideration the increased acreage in their section . The late continuous rains all over the State have injured the cotton yet in the field , cutting short the yield and impairing the quality .                     