@@740820

txt The recent purchase , by the Boston Young Men 's Christian Association , of the Studio Building , in that city , for $415,000 , as a permanent base of operations , furnishes new evidence that the Christian Association movement in the United States is quietly assuming importantprouortions . There are , it is estimated , nearly one thousand of these societies , with a membership of not m uch less than 150,000 young men in the United States and the British Provinces . In the main , all these societies are inspired by a vigorous religious aim of the aggressive sort , and each , in its own field , and in the fulfillment of its special mission , is a powerful auxiliary of the Protestant Church . It could hardly be otherwise when we consider that the membership is composed of the active , liberal , working element in the churches , and this without reference to denominational distinctions . The past history of the Christian Association movement fully justifies the assertion that these societies combine , in a greater degree than any other religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sympathy , originality , progressiveness , efficiency and vitality . This is a strong claim , but the record . is an open one , and clearly bears us out in-making it . Besides the local influence and work of each of these associations , however , there is an element of strength possessed by them in the Union by-ewhich all the societies on this continent accept the leadership of a general executive committee , appointed by their delegates in annual conventions , under whom State committees and corresponding members act in an advisory capacity all over the country for the furtherance of the enterprise . By this network of far reaching administration . all the associations are kept:in a condition of fraternal rivalry in doing good , weak societies are encouraged and aided . dying ones revived , and new ones continually called into artive existence . Amid all this machinery of organization , which includes traveling agents , and the publication of a monthly organ , there is no assumption of authority over individual associations , except so far as the same is invested , by the Conventions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority is delegated , if at all , by the formal vote of regularly chosen representatives , from almost all the important societies , there is no fear of any very dangerous centralization . These associations , moreover , are rapidly getting hold of the purse-strings of the benevcant , not only in the Church , but outside of it . For their woriz is so largely humanitarian that capital recognizes its conservative power , and vies with religion in sustaining an institution which does so much for the stranger , the unemployed , the tempted , and even the vicious . Thus , buildings are being raised all over the country for the permanent use of these societies , as a base of active aggressive operations which tend to the benefit of the entire community . The latest reports to which we have access give the number of association buildings already erected as twenty-one ; but , to our knowledge , several have since been added . Twenty-ono associations , besides , . have building funds of Larger or smaller amounts . These buildings and building , funds , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston purchase adds another half million dollars to this valuation . So that we have- nearly two and a half million dollars permanently invested as a working capital in the Christian Association enterprise .                     