@@741640

txt The extraordinary sale of pews in the new church-edifice occupied by the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church deserves more than passing attention . The sale . was extraordinary , because nothing like it was ever before seen in this City , and we doubt if Church history anywhere in this country affords a , similar example of an enterprise of great magnitude so speedily car : : ied forward to completion . We see here a costly building , nearly and almost immediately paia for by the sale of pews and premiums given for the choice of the sittings . It is a striking commentary on the often-repeated complaint that Protestant congregations are languid in their support of church organizations , and backward in providing the means for the maintenance of what we used to call " stated worship . " To be sure , as in many cases of great success in religious enterprise , there are some specially favorable conditions , the like of which do not always obtain among our own churches ; but there remains the gratifying fact that Dr. HALL 'S congregation have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and led by a faithful and devoted Christian minister , may reach a success which should furnish an illustrious example to the whole body of Protestants . The total cost of the new edifice on the corner of Fifth avenue and Fifty-fifth street was about one million dollars . The original estimate was eight hundred thousand dollars . In order to reduce the cost to the figures of the estimate , a few members of the congregation made a free gift of two hundred thousand dollars to the building fund ; Mr. Romer BosN E It headed the list with th one hundred thousand . The pews were then appraised in such a way as to provide for the extinction of the debt , and for the annual expenses of the church organization : These prices ranged from three hundred dollars each to six thousand dollars , according to location ; the total valuation was eight hundred thousand dollars . A purchaser of a pew acquires with it a perpetual title ; but each pew-owner is now liable to an annual assessment of six per cent . on the cost price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put up at auction ; the highest ' premium paid was $1,550 ; the lowest was $250 ; the total amount received for premiums was about seventyfive thousand dollars . After the bidding was exhausted , pews were disposed of at private sale , the purchasers taking them at their assessed value . Up to this date the receipts from the sale of pews and the premiums amount to about six hundred thousand dollars . If we add to this the donation above spoken of , we have a total of eight hundred thousand dollars realized by this church enterprise . The church Trustees are yet left in possession of a large number of available pews which may be lot . The rentals from these , being a percentage on the assessed value of the pews , will increase the income from the church property . Tho purchasers of pews , we may add here , who owned seats in the church formerly occupied by the congregation , will receive , probably , about $216,000 from the disposition of that building , which amount may be applied toward the payment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these payments , it will bo seen , are pretty large . For example , a man who pays six thousand dollars for his pew , $1,550 as a premium , and six ' per cent . per annnm as assessment , pays nearly eight thouktud dollars into the church fund within the first year . That men are willing to do this , and that the struggle has been to see who should be foremost in a good work , speaks volumes for the prosperity of Dr. HALL 'S church enterprise . As wo have just said , it is a capital illustration of the devotion which , in ' spite of our undemonstrative ways , our people have fur the religious institutions in which they have been brought up and educated . So far as any personal influence is concerned in this particular case , it ought to be said that the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church has a Pastor whose estimation by his congregation is something more than popularity . Dr. HALL owes his influence to higher gifts and grates than those which a mere rhetorician or " sensational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great personal dignity , Dr. HALL has a direct and unaffected style of presenting the simple truths of the Gospel . He owes his power to a siugle-hearted purpose to preach Christianity , rather than to any desire to please men . Earnestness , simplicity , and devotion seem to be the chief elethents of his success . It is a good thing that , in these days of pulpit quackery and doctrinal confusion , such men as Dr. HALL and others are winning their way in the churches , and drawing into good influences so many people . It will ho a great benefit , too , if Protestants generally will study the causes which have led to such a notable achievement in religious enterprise as this which we have mentioned . Certainly , it will not be an unprofitable example .                     