@@781691

txt It is remarkable that among all the schemes for rapid transit , so little account should be made of the extraordinary water facilities of this City . London has not half the facilities for waterjourneying , over its single , small river , that we have on two sides of the City , where large boats can be used , and . where the scenery itself repays an excursion . Indeed , a few years will probably perfect an agreeable water communication around our whole island , by the widening and deepening of Harlem River and Spuyten-Duyvil Creek . Yet the Thames is continually traversed by little , cheap steam-boats Which take passengers for pleasure and business very rapidly over considerable distances . Water transit in certain parts of London is a favorite means of conveyance with the people . But in New-York , who ever thinks of reaching the Battery from the streets each side of the Park by a steam-boat ? And , indeed , what conveniences have ever been offered our public for such a transit ? Three important railroads now debouch at Harlem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long , hot , disagreeable part of the whole journey . Even the rapid trip through the Fourth avenue opening to Forty-second street will be always exceedingly unpleasant  --  hot in Summer , dark and damp in Winter ; for it is , after all , only a railroad through deep ditches and tunnels . But beyond is the most slow and annoying portion , and the time required to get to Wall street is from forty-five minutes to au hour . Now , each of these great railroads could provide a most agreeable rapid transit by running comfortable ferry-boats from the Harlem River to the Battery , stopping , as the river boats do new , at streets with crosstown railways . A dusty passenger , anxious to reach . Wall street or the southern roads , would go to a pleasant steam-boat , have au opportunity of breathing a little cool air , and , after a cool and picturesque trip , could rear : the lower Part of the City in about one-half of the time now required . Thousands of the business portion of the railway passengers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower part of the island . It is true that the interest of the Hudson River Road in the Fourth Avenue Line might prevent their adopting this great improvement . But the New-Haven Road would have no . such opposing motive , nor would the other lines lose by the change . In the same manner , the Hudson River Road might erect a dock anywhere on their water-front above Fifty-ninth street , and run ferry-boats on our western water-side . Passengers and luggage could be discharged speedily into one of these ferry-boats , and be conveyed at once to the lower quarters of the City . If these boats touched at various streets , people would soon come ro use them from one part of the City to another . They would wake an airy , cool , agreeable " rapid transit " on our West Side for the Summer season . The greatest competitors of the Hudson River Road are the river boats , but for all the lower Hudson , the road and quick ferry-boats combined woisid carry the day , for the great advantage of the regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and their direct conveyance to the lower wards . We have , by nature , in New-York a superb water-conveyance from almost every part of the City , and in time we shall haw it around the island . Why can not this be used ? In the mild seasons it is far healthier and more deleted 18 lines                     