@@742841

txt The threat becomes more emphatic . It had not been heard of until Attorney-General DEVENS issued instructions adapted to au enforcement of lielaw guaranteeing safety and freedom to the voter . Even then it assumed the form of a suggestion as to what might happen rather than the statement of a definite purpose . The organs of the Bourbon Democracy at the South said that their party in Congress will not provide a dollar for expenses incident to the execution of the Federal Election law , and they hinted that both the President . and Attorney-General might incur the penalty of impeachment for their part in the business . Such was the feeler put forth , apparently , quite as much to test the temper of the party on the subject as to operate on the fears of the Administration . That it has'not frightened either the President or the Attorney-General may be inferred from the substitution of menace for suggestion ; and that it is not unacceptable to the Democratic Party , North or South , is evident from the growing boldness of those who originated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mobile for proof of the purpose to resort to impeachment should the next Congress have the expected Democratic majority . The Washington Post  --  the most wide-awake party newspaper seen at the national capital in recent years  --  has taken up the matter and now formulates the threat with additions which show what desperate tactics its friends are prepared to employ to sustain the law-breakers and to punish officials who do their duty . Impeachment is to be only one of the measures brought into play . And in regard to expenditures , the intimation that the outlay which the District Attorneys , the Marshals , and their assistants can not avoid shall not be recognized , has expanded into a promise that expenses incurred in resisting the Federal officers and breaking down the law shall be provided . The Democratic Party , therefore , so far as it can be judged by its newspapers , not only assails the Executive for giving effect to a law whose object every good citizen must approve , but encourages the antagonism to law , and to duly constituted authority , which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present campaign . There is no trace of partisanship in the law thus assailed . Circumstances gave to its origin a partisan color , bat its purpose is just , impartial , and essential to constitutional liberty . The protection it affords extends to all . The interference for which it provides occurs only when the purity and freedom of the ballotbox are endangered . Neither the Marshal nor the District Attorney can exclude a lawful vote , admit an unlawful vote , tamper with the count , or curtail the rightful privileges of any partisan official or organition . Evil can not possibly arise from the law , while it may be the means of preventing violence and fraud and insuring to all the free exercise of the franchise . Yet the offense for which the President and Attorney-General are threatened with impeachment is no more or less than making preparation for the enforcement of this law in States where it is urgently required . They would be chargeable with neglect of duty if , in view of notorious facts , they allowed it to remain a dead letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts , his instructions to Federal officers followed as a matter of course ; and his action presupposes the approval of the President . Here we have the entire case of those who talk of impeachment , and hold it up menacingly as the consequence of Executive fidelity . The impudence with which the intention is avowed is as characteristic as the intention itself . The Democrats care little for law when it stands in their way , and they reckon so confidently on their power in the next Congress that they expose their game boldly . Almost certainly , the game includes impeachment . If the next Congress fulfill Democratic expectations , an attempt to secure the Presidency , in advance of the next election , is at least probable . The recorded acknowledgment of Mr. HAYEs ' title amounts to little . The Democratic Party respects professions only when its interest does not require them to be discarded ; and , besides , a declaration of one Congress is not binding on another . A formal refusal to recognize Mr. HatEs as President , or anything emanating from him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , wouldbe revolutionary , and the cooler heads will be slow to sanction it . If a pretext can be found for impeachment , the desired end may be reached by a proceeding less likely to provoke a renewal of strife . ? Supporters of the old doctrine of State rights have always impugned the constitutionality of the Federal Election law ; and though , in ordinary times , a partisan construction of law would not be considered a good basis for , a proceeding so extreme as impeachment , no limit can now be placed to the rashness of the Democracy . If the step taken by the Administration frustrate some parts of the Southern plan , and give effect to bona fide Republican majorities , Democratic resentment will be equal to anything . If , after all , the step lead to nothing , the anger will scarcely be less and the capacity for mischief will be greater . Absurd as the threat may at the first glance seem , there is , then , enough in it to justifythe most unfavorable estimate of the spirit and purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Southern States . Nor will the estimate be improved by the recommendation to resist the Federal Sitpervisors of Election , or the kindred pronosal of Southerners to arrest Federalofficial : who endeavor to give effect to the law in advance of the voting . Both proposieions point to a ccnflict between State anc national authority . Together they form a suggestive commentary on the professions which politicians of the Wade Hampton class are in the habit of making , and on the character of the party which encourages opposition to law when it jeopardizes the chance of success .                     