@@741980

txt The convention which meets at Cincinnati next week will probably have little trouble in agreeing upon a declaration of policy and principles which will meet the approval of the Republican Party and of the . country . The conduct of the party , through its representatives , since the last Presidential election , and the expression of the general opinion of the party during the past year , leaves few points of importance in regard to which Republican doctrine San by any possibility be obscure . Since Gen. GRANT VtVas placed in the chair a second time , it has been the fortune of the Republican organization to pass through a period of peculiar internal agitation on several questions , the result of which is a more general agreement than has been known in previous canvasses on all essential questions . Of course , the most important a these is the question of finance . On this there is no room for doubt as to what is the dominant active sentiment in the Republican ranks . We recently examined : the expressions which had been made with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and showed by careful analysis that they were incontestably in favor of the resumption of ? specie payments at a date not later than that 110W fixed by law . Indeed , it is difficult to'see how there can be any serious difference of opinion on this subject in the National Convention , The Democrats have gone far in.the direction of inflation and re-. pudiation . Even from the standpoint of political expediency , it is obvious that they can not be outbid for the votes of th ( Ae who cling to these delusions . But from a higher standpoint , the course of the Republican Party is still plainer . Our people look to the Republican Party to keep on in the path which it has chosen , and to lead the United States to a position of entire honor and untarnished credit . Every consideration which can move the leaders of a great party , to which has been intrusted not only the prosperity but the good faith of the people , urges the Republican Convention to keep true to the course which Republican legislation has marked out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage , permanent or immediate , in any hesitating or ambiguous declaration on the subject of finance , utterly misconceive the spirit of the people and the requirements of the times . When the Republican Party has taken au advanced position on any question involving the honor of the country or touching the conscience of the people , it has never failed to strengthen itself . This is a necessity of its composition . It is essentially a party of honest and sincere men . Its vital force lies iu its moral sentiment . Whenever this is fairly appealed to , the response is immemediate and unanswerable . Nothing is more certain than that the Republican Party owes it to consistency with its own history to clearly and courageously assume the responsibility of leading the country to resumption . On the Southern question the position of the party is equally clear . It expects to maintain the last amendments to the Constitution in letter and in spirit , and to do everything in its power to ' protect all American citizens in their equal rights . That secured , it is ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence . And we may add that the general sense of the party especially demands the rigid purification of the Federal civil service in the South , and heartily detests the system which has perverted this service to . an instrument for the advancement of schennug politicians . The abuse of the Federal power which has given us Spencerisin iu Alabama , and similar products in Louisana , Arkansas , and South Carolina , is no more unjustifiable than it is un-Republican , and the party would he glad if its convention would pledge its next Administration to correct and avoid all such evils . Notwithstanding the importance of the points we have hero suggested , there is another which , if not intrinsically of the same consequence , is equally prominent . ' This is the general subject of reform . On this there is only one course N ) which would prove entirely beyond objection , and that is for the Republican Convention to pledge its candidates explicity to the support of a reformed system of appointments and removals , from which political patronage should be , except as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in such a system , made a part of , the Government . machinery and rendered obligatory , that the means of adequate reform must be found . The welfere of the country , the . honest collection of the revenue , the perniatient supremacy of the Republican Party , and the honor and credit of the nation depend upon its establishment . If public sentiment would ? sustain it , it would be an ? act of statesmanlike sagacity and courage for the convention to distinctly propose such a system . This , however , is a matter which must be left to the judgment of the delegates ; we can will make a distinct avowal of their convictions . If they are not , it is worse than useless to ask them to make empty professions . Sooner or later a system such as we have pointed out must be adopted in this country , and it would be a source of infinite satisfaction and pride if the Republican Party could be the party to establish it . But neither the country nor the party would gain anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual senti4 ment and that of its constituents .                     