@@742956

txt The Senate today passed the bill to restrict Chinese immigration , after amending it so as to admit Chinese youths who come to the United States to obtain an education , and to permit shipwrecked . Chinese picked up at sea to be brought into American ports . The bill as passed by the House limited the number of Chinese who may be brought here to 15 persons for each vessel , and made no exceptions whatever . The debate occupied the entire day , the vote on the anal passage of the bill being taken about 7 o'clock . The debate was more animated and interesting than yesterday , the most remarkable speech of the day being delivered by Senator Eustis , of Louisiana . He was in favor of the bill , but did not favor it fortho reasonsassigned by Mr. Blaine . Because the Chinese could eat rice and rats , and could work for less wages than the American laborer , was not sufficient cause for abrogating the treaty with China . He turned the arguments of Mr. Blaine and other Republican Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force . He called attention to the fact that throughout the debate the Republican Senators were emphatic and harmonious in their denunciation of the Chinese race , yet when a question was presented in which the African race was brought in question , the same Senators were found to be in accord in denouncing the white race . He referred to the argument that the two races could not dwell together on the Pacific coast ; that unless immieration of Chinese was suppressed there would be violence and bloodshed , and that a large army would be required to maintain peace , and protect life and property . He agreed with this presentation of the case , and favored the bill because our own experience and all history teaches that conflicts can not be avoided between different races where they dwell together in large numbers . This had been the inevitable result in the South , and yet Mr. Blaine had frequently denounced the people of Louisiana for disturbance , which his own logic in this case shows to have been natural and inevitable . The Chinese , whose presence on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he Said , even attempted to assume the control of affairs and legislate for the superior race , and yet disturbances and bloodshed have occurred there , and greater horrors are feared , simply because the Chinese are an inferior race , and in the ordinary business of life have been brought into competition with the laboring people of that locality . He then contrasted this with the condition of affairs at the South , where a race inferior to the'Chinese  --  a race without a history , without civilization , without education  --  were suddenly enfranchised and placed in political power over the superior race . He contended that no people in any part of the country would have been so patient , and would have endured so much as did the people of Louisiana under such an ordeal . Mr. Eustis pursued this parallel at considerable length and with great skill , much to the annoyance of Mr. Blaine , to whom the argument was mainly directed . Mr. Blaine said no one had defended the outrages committed on the Chinese in California , but he made no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconsistency of his position , although subsequently in the debate he was challenged by that gentleman to do so . After a speech by Mr. Dawes , in which he cautioned the Republicans against marring the brilliant record made by that party in defense of human rights and the fullest liberty , the vote was taken on Mr. Conkling 's substitute , which provided for notice being given to the Emperor of China of the desire of the United States to terminate the treaty . This was rejected by a vote of yeas 33 , nays 31 . Mr. Edmunds then offered an additional section to the bill , declaring that the United States recognized the right of China to abrogate any part of the treaty . In supporting his resolution Mr. Edmunds said . that the Chinese might desire to object to more than a . tertain number of Americans landing upon their shores . They might object to our tivilization , to our Christianity , and to our diet and customs , and he wanted to say to them in advance that if we violated our treaty by Imposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to abrogate any section of the treaty which might be considered inimical to their interests . Mr. Thurman thought this was an invitation to the Chinese Government to annul all treaty stipulations guaranteeing commercial advantages . Mr. Maxey thought that to abrogate one section of a treaty was to abrogate the entire instrument , and should the treaty right of the Chinese to mitigate to and dwell in the United States be denied , the Emperor of China would be justified by international law and practice in annuling the entire treaty . Mr. Matthews was glad to discover from to  --  day 's debate that there were others than " sand-lots orators " and " hoodlums " to be considered in this matter , and warned the Senate that if one section of the treaty was violated by the United States , the commercial advantages secured to our people by the remaining sections would certainly be withdrawn . Mr. Edmunds ' amendment was rejected  --  yeas 27 , nays 39  --  and the the bill , which had been considered in Committee of the Whole , was then reported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had previously been rejected by two majority . He assailed the bill in an able speech of an hour 's duration , in which he pointed out the folly of such legislation and the disadvantages which would occur ? to our commercial interests should the bill be pasSed . Mr. Conkling 's substitute was again rejected . Subsequently Mr. Whyte offered the amendment , changing the dote so as to make it admissible , and It was rejected for the third time . The bill was then passed by a vote of yeas 39 , nays 26 . In the affirmative there were 18 Republican Senators , and in the negative 17 . The amendments will undoubtedly be concurred in by the house . It is believed that the President will veto it . It will be noticed by ixamining the record of the vote that the strongest men of the Senate , with two or three exceptions , voted against the bill . It will also be noticed that Messrs . Bayard , Blaine , and Thurman , who are candidates for President of the United States , voted @ @ @ 