@@741673

txt Last Spring we had our usual warning that the fruit crop of the Middle Atlantic States was Certain to prove a failure . Somehow or other , this is always the song in early Slimmer . Whether the growers ' and producers:expect to make the prospect so dark that consumers will be glad to pay any prices , by and by , or a natural disposition to grumble moves them , we ' can not say . There something in . the culture of the soil which induces a grumbling disposition . Grain-growers and fruit-raisers are never satisfied with the weather ; and . both classes invariably look on the dark side of things and predia short crops . While the peach and cherry trees - were in flower this year , we heard doleful accounts from the Chesapeake and Delaware Bay region . The inhabitants of that Peninsula were assured that the late frosts had killed the fruit-buds and nipped the growth of young trees . There had been hard'J , freezing , and ice formed in some places . Bat in spite of all gloomy predictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ healthful vigor in flowering and setting " of fruit , which shamed the faint-hearted growers who were so confident that there could be no crop . Perhaps this was in defiance of . all precedent ; there was some reason to suppose that frosts in May and Nine were so untimely that tender buds would be killed . The fact is , that there is likely to be a larger peach crop harvested in the famous Delaware and Chesapeake region than has ever before been grown in that favored locality . This is certainly good neWs . A plentiful fruit market is a boon to be desired by all city people . In. the country , where many natural advantages combine to insure the health of the inhabitants , they appear to thrive on fried pork and hot bread , and a diet that would seem to be fit only for an iron-lined stomach . But in the city , - where the only taste of country secured by many is that which they buy in the markets , cheap and good fruit is a desideratum . On the peninsula to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four million peach-trees , in bearing condition , are now growing . These are capable of producing from four million to eight million baskets of fruit , it is thought , and at least half that quantity - will in addition . be raised in adjoining localities and sent to Philadelphia and Baltimore . Of course ; New-York has the lion 's share in this abundant prospective yield , and . it looks now as if we should have about twice as many baskets of peaches put upon our market this year as were ever before brought here . Good prices and partial failures in past years ' have encouraged the growers to enlarge the borders of their orchards . They were preparing for any emergency of short crops or new demands . The result is that the yield is likely to be prodigious . Yet , as our correspondent says , the full extent of the resources of the peninsula are by no means brought into the peach-producing interest . If all the tracts available for the business were so used , it is estimated that about one hundred and . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can only imagine such an enormous yield , for it is not probable that this generation will see a demand for so vast a quantity , and there is now no system of transportation equal to the task of shipping it to market . As it is , the rates of freight may seriously interfere with our full enjoyment of the benefits of this year of fruit . There sometimes come seasons when " it do n't pay " to pick fruit and send it to market . This has been true of strawberries in some localities this year , and , so long as this City can be supplied from contiguous regions , the more distant growers have been obliged to leave their fruit ungathered . But what with drying , preserving , and otherwise preparing fresh fruit for Winter use , or for transportation to less favored lands , our people manage to take care of a larger crop each year . The man who can invent a can or jar which shall cost next to nothing , and be complete for the purpose of keeping fruit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a meat-devouring people that every invention which makes fruit cheap and available all the year round is a real blessing . This Summer , at least , there will be uo excuse for neglecting the use of this delicious and wholesome addition to our daily fare . For what has been said of the plentifulness of peaches is substantially true of other varieties of fruit , with possibly some exceptions against two kinds of berries . The season of peaches will be succeeded by those of apples , pears , and grapes , all of which are promised us in profusion . Thin is a prospect to rejoice over ; and the poor will share in all the advantages of a , season of plenty .                     