@@742315

txt President HAyEs can not do better than to make a frank appeal to the country on the issue of a " radical and complete " reform of the civil service . It is the one aggressive measure loft for him by which to fix the character of lus administration and to command the confidence of good citizens in all parties , which is the object that he has sot for himself . No question can be brought home more clearly to the people ; there is none other which they can be made to understand more completely , and none on which their influence can be more directly and wholesomely exercised . There is no doubt that . the President understands the principles by which any satisfactory reform of the service is to bo accomplished . He has defined them in his letter of acceptance and in his inaugural adddress with a fullness mid distinctiveness which wore very satisfying to the friends of the cause . And we have no reason to suppose that lie has abandoned the intention of applying those principles to the framing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be denied that his delay in doing so has excited some apprehension in the minds of those who expected most from him . There have been a considerable number of incidents in the history of the Administration up to the present time , which have indicated . a very creditable spirit with reference to appointments . There have been others which have produced . a very different impression . The announcement early made in regard to the principle which would be adopted . in disposing of postal appointments was one of the latter , and was somewhat disquieting . The illustration which it received in the selection of GEOP.GE BUILER for a position of some prominence confirmed the unpleasant impression . It appeared only too obvious that whatever care and sagacity were exercised in particular instances , there had been no really thorough system adopted which could be relied on to test the merit of all appointees , and to shut out the bad ones . And this is the weak point in the case of the Administration . A reform which does not present a distinct system , rigidly observed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the first place it can not be in itself efficient , and in the second placoit can not produce a clear and convincing impression on the public mind . If Mr. lavEs intends to simply rely on the old and customary methods of selection , taking advice from Congressmen , from party leaders , or from  --  personal friends , he may make great improvements , and doubtless would make them . But he would do nothing that could not be undone . He would not establish any barrier against abuses by his successor . Ho would not even protect himself against numerous errors . And . every mistake he made would be so conspicuous ? as in the case of BUTLER ? that it would outweigh a score of instances of prudent and wise appointments . It is simply impossible to produce permanent reform by the old methods . The task is too groat and too complex for any man , clothed only with such powers as the President has , to compass . The solo hope of success lies in erecting a well-considered system , which shall provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for good behavior within the terms fixed . by law , and shall leave an opportunity for regular promotion . Anything short of this will prove an illusion and a snare . It may bring about temporary benefits , but it will actually make a thorough reform of the service more difficult than it now is , for it will give a certain sanction to radically bad methods . As we have said , a systematic reform could very clearly he set before the country . Let the President devise such a reform , put it in practice'wherever lie has the power , and ask Congress to embody it in law . This would . imply , in the first instance , a careful weeding out of the incapables in every part of the country by a thorough testing of their work , and in the next instance , the filling of their places  --  where they were to be filled ? by a process of promotion or appointment founded on the combined tests of competitive examination and promotion . This would be something which would from the start build up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have no hesitation in Haying that it would lead to a hearty and effective support of the reform , and that every Congressman who undertook to oppose it would soon learn from his constituents that he was opposing tits own interest in doing so . The fact is , that any real reform , whether attempted by the old methods or by systematic changes , will bring down on the President a bitter , persistent , and unscrupulous opposition in the ranks of his own party . He will not be able to overcome this by any selection of advisers which lie can make . He can not contend with the body of Congressional politicians with their own weapons . If he tries to do so , ho will encounter practical defeat , for they have innumerable advantages over him , and lie will have no effective means of enlisting public opinion on his side . On the other hand , if lie plants his standard on a matured and comprehensive system , the advantages will be all on his side . Ile will not have to give positive reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He will simply have to point to the equitable and uniform rules of his system , the justice and propriety of which can readily be made clear to all . Instead of fighting a battle on every appointment , in which he must assume the defensive , lie would occupy a generally impregnable position , which few politicians would care to assail openly , and which would be very safe from flank attacks. ? We are entirely convinced that he has only to give the country a definite reform to sustain in order to find the country promptly and firmly united in sustaining it .                     