@@742437

txt The appointment of Judge L. C. Northrup to be District Attorney for South Carolina puts an end to the further prosecution of the Ellenton and Hamburg murderers . The appointment was . made by the President n9 , 41 , sort e parting gift to " that great and good man , " Gov . Hampton , when the two patriots parted after the recent Southern tour . Judge Northrup is a Hayes-Hampton Republican , or a HamptonHayes Democrat  --  an interconvertible very useful at this time , Hampton gains other political and personal advantages by the appointment . It creates a judicial vacancy , which is to be filled by the election of Gen. Wallace , now Speaker of the House . Col. Simonton , of Charleston , is Hampton 's choice for Speaker , and will doubtless be elected , which will greatly aid Hampton in keeping down the up-country repudiationists . Hampton would be greatly pleased if ho could persuade or frighten Patterson into a resignation of his seat in the Senate . He could then leave Lieut. - Gov . Simpson to complete the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the responsibility of all retrograde legislation . In the Senate Hampton feels that he could play the role of " great and good inati " without meeting with practical applications of his glittering generalities . Ho could favor the education of the negro while the Legislature of his State was cutting of the supplies to the public schools ; he could insist on sacredly preserving the public . credit while his State . pursued the course of utter repudiation ; he could insist on a tolerance of political thought and action in the South while his friends were making it hot for Republicans in his own county . lie has hopefully entered himself as a Presidential aspirant , but ho sees many a difficulty before him because of the eagerness of his people to realize to the full the fruits of the surrender of April 10 . For instance , it would not help a Presidential candidate in sonic sections of the Republic if lie had signed a bill to re-establish the whipping-post in South Carolina . Yet the " ruling class " here is determined not to be longer without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has spoken in favor of the speedy revival of whipping as a punishment for petty crimes . The truth is the average South Carolina Democrat can not believe fully that he is relieved of carpet-bag rule until he can again see a " nigger " squirming under the lash . He asserts and believes , in the words of the Keowee Courier " that the only way to reach the limier consciousness of a negro is through his hide . " The up-country delegations will come to the next meeting of the Legislature determined upon this measure , and it will require all of Hampton 's tact to stave it off . Having close connection with the revival of the whipping-post , is the organization of the " Labor Reform League . " Edgetield and L aurens started it two years ago , but practical progress was hindered as long as Republican Judges , juries , and executive officers were possible . These were liable to hold that a negro had a right to work for whom ho pleased , at wages acceptable to both parties . Stich officials were apt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " labor . " Home-rule " has removed such hindrances , and the Labor Reform League springs into life and active work . The league is an organization of land-owners whose object it is to reform labor  --  that is , bring it under control . What is sought from legislation is the reenactment of most of the provisions of the Black Code of 1866 . That code sought to substitute a serf for the slave . It practically attached the laborer to the land . Gen. Canby put his armed heel upon that most infamous enactment , and Republican gtvernment has hitherto kept it clown . We are now returned to 1866 , with no dread of a Canby or a Sickles . The Legislature will now be asked to see that agricultural labor is performed under yearly contracts ; violation of such contract by the laborer to ho a misdemeanor. punishable by forfeiture of crops and by whipping ; unemployed negroes to be declared vagrants , punished by the lash ; coming or remaining on the land of another without permission to be trespass , also to be expiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor will he found in the organization . Members are not to sell or rent land to negroes ; wages are to be regulated by the league ; no negro is to be employed without consent of his previous master ; agricultural products are not to he bought of negroes except when they are raised upon the purchaser 's land . The confident hope of the " intelligent property-holders " of the State is that by the time another crop is planted labor will be reformed . Heretofore the public schools opened on Oct. 1 and remained open about five months . This year , if opened at all , it will be not until Jan. 1 . As the amount raised for school purposes under Hampton by State and local taxes is limited to $100,000 , instead of about $400,000 , as under Republican rule , the school term will be necessarily very short . Short as it is likely to be , however , the new ruling class is determined that a total change of school text-books is an immediate necessity . The newspapers point out that those now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the causes , progress , and results of the late war . It is very truly remarked that children thus taught are likely to grow up with the belief that secession was a crime as well as a blunder , that the men who fought for the Union were patriots rather than plunderers ; that the abolition of slavery was a blessing instead of being a robbery ; that Lincoln , Seward , Sumner , Grant , Sherman , Sheridan , &c.,; are names to be honored , not hated , &c.; Southern youth must not thus be corrupted , and Southern books for Southern schools are to be had before another dollar is expended to educate the poor . The private schools here have always used Southern histories , and readers and Northern parents have either been obliged to reteach these studies or withdraw their children from the schools . The foregoing signs of the times seem to be about as significant as are the shouts of crowds at railway stations during the " progress " of the President through the dominions of Hampton . 