@@740604

txt Senator WiLsoisT 's bill regulating the appointment of inferior officers in the civil service , is in some respects the best effort that Elias been made in the direction of a very important reform . Except upon a single point , it is superior to the plan with which Mr. JENCKES ' name ishonorably identified , because guarding against abuses which the Rhode Island representative failed to touch , and operating with simpler machinery . And it is infinitely more efficacious than the bill of Mr. TRILL. who aims at arresting the political demoralization which the present system entails upon senators and members , but without making provision for otherwise improving the service itself . Instead of organizing a civil service commission , as proposed by Mr. JENCKES , Mr. WILSON would make all appointments subject to the approval of a board of three examiners , selected by the head of the department in which the appointees are to serve . In the first instance , moreover , the appointments are to be temporary  --  the question of continuance being contingent upon the practical efficiency and propriety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the appointments are for four years certain , ? any removal meanwhile being contingent upon incompetency or impropriety of conduct , as reported upon by an examining board . The weak point of the scheme is the limitation of the appointment to four years . The fact that the persons holding offices are eligible to reappointment , without further examination , upon the recommendation of the chief of bureau or head of the office in which they may be serving , does not essentially improve the case . Every four years , under this bill , the victorious political party might make a clean sweep of the departments . The test of fitness is indeed an obstacle to the flooding of the departments with incompetent men , and is , so far , a vast improvement upon the system as it is . But the loss to the country arising from the time required to familiarize the officers with their duties , will be continued , and . the opportunity for wholesale change will introduce other evils . It may not be desirable to offer bonuses to young men to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service is ever to be as efficient as it ought to be , a sense of permanence must be created . Only thus can capable officers be induced to give the Government the full benefit of their capacity . The fact that every change of the Federal Administration will virtually send them adrift , will naturally induce the best men in the service to be on the look-out for openings elsewhere . And . the politicians , with their eyes upon the recurring opportunity for rewarding their friends , will avail themselves of the discretionary authority vested by Mr. WiLsox 's bill to prevent the reappointment of incumbents who stand in the way . The remedy for these forms of mischief is the making appointments permanent , subject only to removal for just cause . Apart from this defect , there are two features in Mr. WILSON 'S bill which can not be too highly commended . One forbids any person holding office by appointment to take part in any political committee , convention , or other like organization , " under penalty of summary dismissal . " The other prohibits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government , anywhere , for political or other purposes  --  making the superior official who permits such assessments , or fails to prevent them , subject to dismissal and punishment by fine and imprisonment . Both of these provisions are excellent ; the second is of the highest importance . Put an end to the levying of assessments in Custom-houses , in the Postoffice or Internal Revenue service , and in the Departments at Washington , and a more excellent work will be performed than Mr. Tatminumis bill could possibly effect . We can not hope that the reform for which Messrs . TRUMBULL . WILSON and JENCKES are all working will be achieved at present . The warmth with which so strong a man as Mr. MORTON resists the action contemplated by the Illinois Senator indicates the tenacity with which mere politicians will battle against a change that would confine their influence to legitimate channels . As against their hostile zeal , there is little besides lake- warmness and ar disposition to compromise at the expense of vital principles . Theitath is , that civil service reform implies nab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of legislators , and these are qualities for which we can scarcely look until the people realize more vividly than they seem now to do the damage inflicted by the present system upon the morale of the Government and the interests q the country .                     