@@741531

txt The City of New-Orleans has of late been unusually agitated over the subject of mixed schools . ? The local papers are filled with accounts of numerous controversies , which appear to have been provoked by the fear that colored youth and maidens were about to demand general admission to white schools , rather than . by their actual presence in any large numbers there . Our readers are alfeady familiar with the story of the ' young men who , a few days since , procured the expulsion of all colored girls from the girls ' Lower High School in New-Orleans ; and have also been told how a street riot ensued , in which policemen and students were seriously injured , and during which one negro , we were gravely informed , dropped dead from excitement . But they have , perhaps , not yet heard that the City Superintendent of Schools was suddenly beset the other day , in the streets , by ten or fifteen young men , who laid violent hands upon him , and conveyed him to the girls ' high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pupils , " he was compelled to apologize for some language he ? was supposed to have used concerning the mixture of races in schools , and was also forced to sign a document by which he is bound to prevent the mixture of white and colored pupils in the public schools . ' This was certainly ail extraordinary proceeding , especially as the City Superintendent subsequently affirmed , in conversation , that he was opposed to the admixture of races in schools , and as the principal of the school exonerated him from the charge made against him . It was then discovered that the reporter of a Republican paper in the city had said something which the young ladies of the school thought insulting , and he was forthwith cowhide ( ' on the street by an indignant champion . It is evident from these facts , which are stated by the Conservative press of NewOrleans , that any determined attempt to insist on a general system of mixed schools in that city would result in violence and bloodshed . As soon as negroes began to apply for admission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most absolute hostility to every official who countenanced even the examination of the blacks previous to admission . About thirty negroes , described as " well qualified , " made application for examination for the boys ' high school some days since , whereupon the Caucasian youth at once complained to the City Superintendent , and announced their intention to oust the negroes forcibly if they entered the school . The Superintendent replied that he did not believe there would be any general demand on the part of the blacks for admission , and hinted that the School Board would soon meet and take measures which would satisfy both races without causing any disturbance . Thus the matter rested until the occurrence of the recent riot , which ? was disgraceful to both parties , just as the forcible and illegal arrest of the City Superintendent , and the arbitrary manner in which ho was forced to sign a humiliating disclaimer , were discreditable to the city . If such hot ; : ended proceedings are continued , it is possible enough to have trouble of a serious charac- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special aggressive disposition . When precocious young schoolboys assume functions which only belong to legally-constituted authorities , awkward events may be anticipated at any moment . Mixed schools are plainly far from desirable at present either in Louisiana or in any other of the ex-slave States . We have had enough non-partisan testimony ou that point to make it perfectly clear that any measure insisting on an admixture of races in the school-room would be destructive of civil order in communities where its enforcement was attempted . But the Southern people are not wise in attempting to browbeat and stamp down the negroes who now and then , actuated more or less by jealousy , and inflamed to anger by the Caucasian 's assumption of superiority , try to pass examinations for , or even to . enter , white i schools . Nothing is to be gained by such a course of conduct as that which NewOrleans white pupils and their friends have latterly been engaged A friendly demeanor toward the negroes , and the provision for their boys and girls of good . high schools by the ? School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end in a total separation of the races . The board appears to have acted wisely just now in closing the schools for a few days , until the excitement subsides . The " colored persons of mixed blood " who voted with the White Leaguers at the late city election must indulge in a few bitter reflections as they see their children spurn-. ed from the doors of public schools as if they were pariahs . But their only remedy is to encourage moderation , and to do all they can to obtain In separate schools , school facilities equal with those enjoyed by the whites .                     