@@742636

txt A number of members of Congress met at Wormley 's Hotel to-night , including Representatives Monroe and Cox , of Ohio ; Harrison and Burchnrd , of Illinois ; Chittenden and Hewitt , of New-York ; Banks , Norcross , Morse , and Crape , of Massachusetts ; Clymer , of Pennsylvania ; Dunnell , of Minnesota ; Tucker , of Virginia , and Senators Hill , of Georgia ; Eustis , of Louisiana ; Butler , of South Carolina ; Jones , of Florida , and others . The invitations were extended to these gentlemen . by Messrs . Banks and Hewitt , to hear the statement of M. Loon Chotteau . The meeting was organized by calling Gen. Banks to the chair . Ho stated that the object of M. Chottean 's visit was to procure an extension and permanent enlargement of the commercial relations between France and the United States . That gentleman was a member of the committee organized in France for that purpose , asking the co-operation of the citizens of the United States . Gen , Banks said it might bo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction , but it would be well first to hear what N. Chotteau had to say on the subject . Chotteau then read a short address , in the course of which ho said : " We think in Paris that all is not quite right in the commercial relations of France and the United States ; most of the Ameri can articles are prohibited with us , and the French products which different rules of exchange would bring to you desert your shores . You want to extend your foreign trade .. Should the prohibitions which paralyze the exports from the United States to Franco be removed 1 That is the question which I beg of you to come and discuss at Paris with my countrymen . If the debates of the France-American congress reveal that no economical reform is to be desired between the two nations , then we shall separate in a friendly way and the actual state of affairs will be maintained . If , on the contrary , the interested parties counsel both the Governments to an urgent reform , then will now satisfaction be given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French committee of which I am a delegate . what committee represents largely the industry of France . M. Mentor is the President ; the Vice-President is DI , L. Hielard ; the other members represent the Chamber of Commerce of Paris , the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate . They all honestly desire the ce-operation of the business men and legislators of the United States in establishing a more perfect commercial unity between these two Republics . You will respond to the loyal appeal of the Deputies , the Senators , the manufac ? turers who have honored me by their confidence . Organize a national committee , which committee will send a delegation to Paris , and in Paris during the Exhibition , hand in hand , our hearts equally animated by the same impulse , we will strive to augment the prosperity of the two Republics which have to-day but one common desire ? to attain greatness by labor . " Mr. Chotteau 's remarks were applauded . Gen. Banks said that perhaps it would not be deemed advisable by the gentlemen present to take any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do anything which would give the meeting formal significance . hut whatever gentlemen might say could be said with perfect freedom . Gen. Banks then called on Representative Hewitt , who said that in 1867 he had the honor to be a Commissioner to the Paris Exhibition . It then occurred to him that the commercial relations between the two countries ought to be mote intimate , but the fault was with France more than with the United States . He mentioned the fact that at the Paris Exposition there was a contest between the Wood American reaper and the English and German reapers , and the rivalry was as to what reaper would first cut down the field . Mr. Wood harnessedhis machine and accomplished the task before the other machines got to work , and vet the sale of the Wood machine was prohibited in France , while the Cobden treaty permitted the English machines to come in . But Mr. Wood sold 1,000 machines in Hungary alone . Mr. Hewitt gave a number of reasons , why Americans should meet the French committee in the effort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the movement here to that end would be successful . Senator Eustis said that as a citizen of Louisiana he felt a deep interest in this subject . The people whom he represented were united to the French by tradition , association , language , and a large portion of them by religion . As a itizen of that State he gave this movement his hearty and sincere commendation . Representative Harrison , of Illinois , said all they could do was to encourege M. Chotteau . Our people know the necessity of an enlarged trade with France , and after the citizens of New-York , Philadelphia , Chicago , St. Louis , and other great cities move it would then be for Congress to act . Representative Chittenden , of New-Yord , as a merchant , knew the causes which are so prejudicial to our commerce . Ho spoke of the restrictions of the French tariff as to American manufactures , and said that if the prohibition should be removed , the export of cotton goods alone to France would bo surprising . He therefore was in hearty sympathy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington , John Adams , and Jefferson were in favor of commercial treaties only with foreign nations . We have changed in this res  --  mct , but France has adhered to the opinion . France now feels that there should be larger markets for her products , and ' hence the movement we are now considering . He was surethe intelligent opinions expressed would stimulate manufacturers , merchants , and others , and show the French committee that we are ready to co-operate with it in the effort to enlarge our commercial intercourse. , Mr. Chotteau. through Gen. Banks , tendered his heartfelt thanks for the attention which the company had paid to his remarks , and for the encouragement they had given to him in the expression of their views . The company then separated . 