@@740631

txt An unusual case has just been decided by Judge BACON , of the Municipal Court of Boston . It arose from an alleged . violation of a city ordinance by a clergyman . The ordinance in question forbids any person to stand in the streets " for the purpose of grinding cutlery , or for the sale of any article , or for the exercise of any business or calling , unless duly licensed by the Board of Aldermen . " Now it appears that Rev. J. L. HATCH . felt called upon to stand in the streets of Boston , and . to distribute there a certain tract or pamphlet . The tract was of the reverend gentleman 's own composition , and was distributed by him without price . His object being to gain for it extensive circulation , he naturally selected the most crowded thoroughfares . While giving away his documents , it frequently happened that questions were put to him by those who received them . Hence theological debates of a protracted character would often arise . Public talk of this kind always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sidewalks . These academical discussions created stoppages which it became the duty of the Police to prevent ; and thus Rev. Mr. HATCH was pounced upon , and formally arraigned for violation of the ordinance . It is , of course , alleged that the odium theologioum had something to do with the case . One Boston paper says that there were present at the trial " members and promoters of the Young Men 's Christian Association , who seemed eager that the defendant should be prevented by law from injuring them in their business , " and another journal directly imputes to the Association the instigation of the proceeding . The motive for this , as claimed by the defense , appeared on the trial . Mr. HATCH testified that he was a regular officiating clergyman , having a pulpit in Scituate ; that he entertains strong convictions adverse to the doctrine of eternal punishment ; that his views are embodied in the tract which he distributes ; that he spread them about " as a noonday recreation , and because he thought they were effecting great good ; " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . recompense for this labor , which he did because he thought it his duty as a Christian minister ; that the opposition to him was inspired by a spirit of Puritan orthodoxy , which , however , would not long have things all its own way in this age of progress ; that he bad probably scattered fifty thousand of his tracts among the multitudes , and hoped to scatter a great many more ; and that , in fact , on the previous day , after his arrest , and when he had succeeded . in finding bondsmen for his appearance to answer , he had continued to spread " God 's justice and mercy " among the people of the City . Mr. HATCH 'S counsel contended that the gratuitous distribution of tracts did . not constitute an offense within the meaning of the ordinance . The counsel for the city held a contrary view , and pointed out that the object of the ordinance was toprevent obstructions to travel , and that the defendant 's acts caused such obstructions . The Court , however , declined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinance , and consequently ordered his discharge . Judge BACON 'S decision was " greeted by a subdued murmur of applause , " and the reverend de-r fendant left the Court , with fresh spirit no doubt , to pursue the path he holds to be that of duty . It appeared in the testimony that Mr , HATCH always " moved on " when requested by the officers to do so . but that he moved only a few steps and then resumed his task as before . His counsel held that the act of distributing tracts was not in the natare of the business or calling of his client . He did not do this in his ministerial capacity , " but as recreation for an hour or so during certain days . " Of course it is clear that if Mr. HATCH 'S conduct is legally defensible , it is equally so whatever may be his opinions respecting eternal punishment ; and if he carried his peculiar hobby so far as to become a public nuisance , he could be indicted , no doubt , irrespective of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originate this proceeding , it is a curious illustration of the fact that ancient methods of carrying on controversies have not altogether died out , even in this liberal ago . In old Rome the disseminators of poisonous opinion were thrown to the lions ; in more modern Rome they were gently entreated by the faggot and the rack . In still more modern Boston they are accused of the heinous offense of violating a city ordinance.                     