@@742656

txt The North , German , Gazette , of Berlin , says : " The action of diplomacy centres in the answer of England to Italy 's inquiry as to the English programme . At the outbreak of the war , England honorably laid down her interests.as the guide and measure of her attitude . Since the conclusion of peace she has been exclusively parading in the cothurn of so-called European interests . No one knows how those interests are to be described . Her programme . the color of which England must sooner or later make known , and which has already assumed very various aspects from the language of the different English Ministers , will ultimately be decisive of the Eastern crisis . " Referring to the Italian proposition , the Times says : " It would be futile and inconsistent with our position to propose any scheme until the main principle of European control has been conceded , without which no scheme could acquire validity or sanction . " The St. Petersburg correspondent of the times , in a letter to that paper , says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention to the street disorders which recently occurred in St. Petersburg and Moscow . Some organs seem to regard them as symptoms of a dangerous revolutionary movement . In reality they have no such significance . There is not the slightest danger of public tranquillity being seriously disturbed . Any danger of that kind will first appear , if it appears at all , when prices rise and taxation is increased . " The Times , in its leading editorial article this morning , comments on the dispatch from its St. Petersburg correspondent in which it is stated that one issue out of the present complications consists in undoing much of Russia 's *work , and giving , the rest a European instead of a specifically Russian character ; that another consists in what is called the principle of equivalents or compensation to the powers for Russia 's acquisitions , and that the latter solution is the one Russia desires , while Great Britain seems resolved to insist upon the former . The article says : " It is partition of Turkey that Russia desires now ; it was partition she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a policy we contended then and are contending now . " The London correspondent of the Manchester Guardian , in a dispatch to that paper sent hence last night , says : Great enthusiasm was manifested in military circles here to-night on its becoming known that the whole of the staff and commissioned officers stationed at Aldershott had received stringent orders from the War Office to hold themselves in complete readiness for immediate active service . In addition to ? this general order it was stated that all the principal officers had received important secret instructions for certain contingencies . " The Central News Agency of London announces that it is informed that orders will be shortly issued for the immediate formation of the Second Army Corps , and the raising of the battalions of that corns to a war establishment . 