@@741736

txt We are often told that the American is developing certain characteristics which bid fair in time to render him physically a new and distinct type of man . For example , it is asserted that he is slowly but surely developing himself in the direction of cheekbone , and . that he is growing longer in legs and straighter in hair than were his European ancestors . It is very probable that these changes are in progress , but as yet no scientific person has noticed what is far more important  --  the obvious and . growing difficulty with which Americans are killed . It is well known that there is a vast difference among animals in respect to their tenacity of life . The . dog will die under a blow which , if given to a goat , would merely induce him to return with fresh appetite to his lunch of tomato-cans and hoop-skirts . It is very easy to kill a rabbit , but exceedingly difficult to kill a cat ; and a full charge of buckshot fired at the latter animal will frequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grade of his back and excite him to a sudden but harmless inflation of tail . Hitherto ' there has been little difference noticeable among men in this respect , but it is now apparent that the American is separating himself from the rest of his kind by his greater powers of resistance to physical injuries . Within a few months we have seen two American editors recover after having received pistol wounds which medical min asserted to be necessarily fatal ; and still more recently a : New-Brunswick musician , who undertook to find out the true nature of the music of the future by shooting himself through the bead , cutting his throat , and beating in his brains with a hammer , not only failed of immediate success in his complicated effort at suicide , but is now in a fair way to recover , and to try whether nitro-glycerine or fifteen-inch cannon can do anything for him . Now , nothing is better established than the fact that if an ordinary European has an ounce pistol-ball lodged in his brain he is a dead man . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him through the temple , cut away at his throat until your knife is broken , and then beat in his skull with a hammer , you can feel honestly confident that he will never be of any farther use . Bat it is now clear that any or all of these processes applied to an American may not result , so far as he is concerned , in anything more than a tittle temporary inconvenience . It is impossible to avoid the conclusion that he has a firmer hold . on life than has the contemporary European , and the extreme difficulty with which he is killed is thus clearly entitled to be regarded as a national characteristic . The followers of Mr. DARWIN will find in this fact a new illustration of the doctrine of the survival of the fittest . The American has ' not only4from the earliest period . of his national existence been proverbially " spry with this weapons , " bat ho has lately passed through a civil war of four years ' duration , in which casualties from fire-arms and bayonets were matters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who were most liable to be shot and stabbed have been to a great extent killed off , and . that the survivors are those upon whom bullets and steel have comparatively little effect . So , too , it will be argued that thirty years of railroad accidents have gradually smashed a large proportion of those who were so constituted by nature as to be peculiarly susceptible to casualties of this kind . Hence we find among the survivors that strength of resistance to blows on the head of which the New-Brunswick musician is just now so conspicuous an example . Whether the difficulty of killing an American will continue to increase as it certainly has increased of late years time alone can show . The Darwinian will probably claim that in ' a few more generations we shall have on this side of the Atlantic men whom no bullet can hurt and no railway train seriously injure . The process of natural selection will , of course , have its share in bringing about this result , since the scarcity of families hereditarily liable to gun-shot wounds and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contracted between those who have already become in a measure invulnerable to such casualties . Thus the field of action of the bullet , the knife , and the railway train will continually grow smaller , and Darwinism will point proudly to America as the home of a people who illustrate in their own impervious persons the great truths of natural selection and the survival of the fittest .                     