@@742300

txt Though as a rule the theological student plays a very weak game of whist  --  owing to his habit of holding on to his trumps to the very last moment ? he nevertheless has his uses . Landladies find hum extremely handy to have in the house , since he can always be ? coerced into lending his assistance in moving furniture during the house-cleaning season . Moreover , for the purpose of escorting middle-aged single ladies home from evening meetings , he is easily without a rival . Generally speaking , and , of course , excepting his unwillingness to lead trumps , ho is an inoffensive young man , containing no deleterious ingredients , and contributing in various ways to the benefit of his fellowmen . Like the full-grown clergyman , th o theological student is by no means aquatic in his habits . Both clergymen and theological students occasionally attempt to manage sail-boats , but such exploits tend so directly to diminish the population that they are sternly frowned down by all persons who are not sincere Malthusians . Rowing is regarded as less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on condition that no citizens of any real value are allowed to enter the clerical row-boat . The theological student , very naturally more reckless and deacon-defying than the clergyman , is sometimes an habitual oarsman , and as a rule lie drowns only a small proportion of his acquaintances . The recent accident which befell a theological student at Waukegan ought to bo terrible warning to him , and to others of his kind . One afternoon he invited a young lady , only fifteen years his senior in age , to brave in his row-boat the tempests and reef of the local mill-pond . ' Remarking , in the words of the poet , that his boat was in the shore-house , and that several barks were presumably at sea , and further asserting that if she would come with him , he would bring her home before tea , lie won her consent , and in course of time gayly pushed from shore , trolling a wild chorus from his favorite hymn-book , and handling his oars with the air of a determined and ruthless pirate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough for all useful purposes , since objectionable people never grow to the height of ten feet . The boat was a light and unusually crank craft , and the lady had the usual middle-aged love for lilies . Of course she leaned over to pick a lily , and of course the boat capsized , the lady instantly disappearing under the surface . In these circumstances , a man of merely ordinary courage and integrity would have swain quietly ashore , and , after changing his clothes and finished his supper , would have notified the Coroner that there was a job waiting for him at the mill-pond . The theological student was , however , as brave as a combined African lion and Julius ( LESAR . Being a good swimmer , he amused himself by various aquatic feats until the lady reappeared , when ho grasped her hat tightly in his left hand and struck out for the shore . He made such rapid progress that he glanced around to see how it was possible that a woman weighing seventyono pounds could bo dragged so easily , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had separated from her hat , and had sunk for the second time . Hastily thrusting the hat into his bosom , careless of the pain inflicted by innumerable hair-pins , he waited for the reappearance of the lady , and determined that this time he would secure a firm hold . In a few minutes she rose to the surface in a reversed position , and the eager young man , seizing one of her feet , resolved to tow her ashore before attempting to place her on an even keel ? so to speak . However , the lady 's rubber overshoe parted from her foot almost as soon as he had seized it , and she sank for the third time . Once more she rose to the surface , and the theological student , grasping her by her hair , said to himself softly but joyfully , " This time I 've got a sure thing . " Hardly had he spoken , when the hair gave way , and he indignantly threw it from him , and began to despair of saving his companion from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to drown without making one more farewell appearance at the surface of the water . The theological student met her views half-way by diving for her , and grasping one of her oars . Fortunately , the ear did not give way , and the lady arrived on shore greatly exhausted , but still with sufficient presence of mind to clasp her arms around her rescuer 's neck , and to call him her " dear , dear preserver . " " And afterward , of course , he married her , " gratuitously remarks the reader at this point of the narrative . Strange as it may seem , that theological student , when visited by the lady 's father , and urged to name an early day for the wedding , stoutly declined . He said that he did not regard priestly celibacy as an orthodox doctrine , and that it was possible that he might marry at some future day . He admitted that Ito held the lady whom he had rescued ' in high respect and esteem , but ? he felt compelled to say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean to disparage her or to cast any reflection upon her parents , but a woman who was ? so insecurely constructed that she could not be touched without falling apart was manifestly unfitted for the duties of a pastor 's wife . It is pleasant to add that the father listened to these candid words in a friendly spirit , and returned home With a determination to have his daughter put in complete repair , no matter what the cost might be . This story teaches us that a theological student may be the bravest of the bravo , and that a woman who is apparently firmly put together may be as prone to come apart as is au article of cheap furniture manufactured expressly to be sold at auction as part of the property of a leading citizen about to visit Europe .                     