@@741304

txt The Republicans of New-Jersey , after the experience at Newark , one " would suppose , should need nothing further to stimulate their exertions in the present canvass . We venture , however , to remind them once more of the necessity for increased effort . The Democrats have  --  strange as it may seem to outsiders  --  drawn enough life from , the recent Sabbath law victory to give them a very good start . It is necessary , therefore , that the arguments of their speakers should be promptly met and refuted . It is a serious mistake , as ' we have so often said before , to rely neon accumulated testimony as to good character , and to victories already gained , to carry the day on the 4th of November . It is like a brave man going unarmed into a den of thieves , and declaring that he has guns and pistols at home to use against them , if they should dare to molest him . . The Republicans have the weapons with which to gain a victory ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic thunder is , it may prevail . The Republicans , in truth , never had stronger reasons for desiring to have the word success inscribed on their banners than they have this year . The Democratic newspapers at Newark have lately been making wholesale charges of fraud against Republican officials in that city . The Essex County Grand Jury , having investigated some of these charges , has called the attention of the court to certain " irregularities " in the manner of opening streets . Because it did not indict the men accused of robbing the tax-payers , the newlyfledged " reformers " insinuate that it was " fixed " by the Sheriff in order that the guilty might escape . To this the Sheriffs friends make reply that " the Grand Jury was selected before the campaign of scandal began . " It was unfortunate that some of the members of it happened to be municipal office-holders , but we can not believe that , as a body , it was influenced in its action by this fact . The voters must be made to understand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the " reformers , " who , if they are to be believed themselves , have been indicted by the Grand Jury as reckless libelers . It will never do to beat around the bush on the eve of an election . The Republicans owe it to themselves that everything shall be cleared up to the public satisfaction immediately . If a few members of the party have proved unworthy of the confidence reposed in them , the sooner they are kicked out the better . It is an error to suppose that the intelligent voters of the State will be influenced by the dishonesty of one or two city officials to go over to the enemy ? or , in other words , to cast their ballots for the candidates of a party that includes in its ranks the very worst classes of the community . It would be just about as reasonable a proceeding as hanging a respectable family because a worthless member of it bad stolen a sheep . The organs of the Republican Party in the State have , with few exceptions , thus far , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in urging the importance of the coming election . Being an " off year , " the necessity for strong appeals to the voters has not seemed obvious . But from the present aspect of affairs , there is a necessity for such appeals . Some Senators are to be elected whose terms will not expire until a successor to United States Senator STOCKTON has been chosen . This , of itself , ought to be sufficient to give interest to the canvass . When there is an Assembly of sixty members to be elected , the reason is stronger why Republicans sLauld not be apathetic .. The work of the last Legislature was , omi the whole , too well done for any , person with the welfare of the State at heart to wish it undone . The argument that a Democratic Legislature would prove corrupt enough to thoroughly disgust the people , and help to gain a grand victory for the Republican Party in 1874 , may be a good one , but it ought not to be used at the present time . Besides , the Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , being on good behavior , might , if restored to power , be so inconsistent as to keep their hands out of the public purse until after the election for Governor and United States Senator next year . Then they could afford to extend their grasp , and make the final haul the greater . Considering this possibility , Republicans should immediately come to the front , and labor as hard as possible until sundown of the 4th of November .                     