@@740589

txt JOHN H. SURRATT lectured last night in Rockville , Md . He said that lie was introduced to J. Wititris BOOTH in the Fall of 1864 , and that after meeting several times , Boom disclosed to him a plan to effect an exchange of prisoners , winch , lie said , the United States Government had refused to make . The plan was to kidnap President LINCOLN and carry him to Richmond . Mown , after two days ' reflection , informed BooTit of his willingness to Join in the plot , but such a thing as assassination was never spoken of by any of the party . Months passed before an opportunity was presented to attempt the seizure ; however , all arrangements were perfected , and boats even were in readiness to convey the captive and the captors across the Potomac into Virginia . One day information was received that President LINCOLN would visit Seventh-street Hospital for the purpose of attending an entertainment ? to be gluon for the benefit of the wounded soldiers . The report reached them only about three-ipiarters of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their communication that they were instantly in their saddles and on their way to the hospital . This was between 1 and 2 o'clock in the afternoon . It was their intention to seize the carriage , which was drawn by a splendid pair of horses , and to have one of their men mount the box and drive direct for Southern Maryland , via Benning 's Bridge , over the eastern branch of the Potomac . They felt confident all the cavalry in Washington could never overtake them . They were mounted on swift horses , besides having a a thorough knowledge of the country , it being determined to abandon the carriage , after passing the city limits . They depended for success upon the suddenness of the blow and the celerity of their movements . To their great disappointment , however , the President was not there , but another of the Government officials was , Mr. CHASE , he believed . They did not disturb him . This was their last attempt , and a separation finally took place . This scheme of abduction was concocted without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gov- ' ernment in any shape or form . SURRATT left Washington on the 4th of April , for NbwYork . Two days before President LINCOLN 'S death . Being in Elmira , on business for the Confederate Government as a spy , he registered his name as John Harrison . Subsequently he heard , at the breakfast table , of the assassination of President LINCOLN and Secretary SEWARD , but ho put so little faith in what one of the guests said , that he remarked it was too early in the morning to get off such jokes as that . The guest then showed him the newspaper , but as no names were mentioned it never occurred to him that the assassin could be ROM , or any of the party , perhaps for the reason that assassination had never been spoken of during his intercourse with them . 