@@742906

txt Englishmen are not in the habit of speaking despondingly of the future of their country . As a people , they have an abiding faith in its vitality , and in their own capacity for surmounting whatever difficulties may arise . Lord Carnarvon accompanies his protest against the tendency toward imperialism with the declaration that " there is no duty which our country need ever decline ; there is no burden , however great , which it ever need be afraid to bear . " O. late , however , exceptions to this hopeful rule have multiplied . And they embrace thoughtful men , whose misgivings are rooted deeper than financial disaster , or the accidental causes of a competition which is to some extent misunderstood . Mr. BRIGHT is probably the last man who would admit that any connection exists between passing disasters and the policy of free trade ; he is prompted as strongly by his instincts as by his prepossessions to look confidently behind the dark cloud which envelops the fortunes of vast industries . Yet even ho gave utterance , more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losing some forms of its commercial supremacy . More recently Mr. GLADSTONE has vaguely expressed the same apprehension . He admits that in the long industrial race England will be outstripped by the United States . More suggestive than either of these expressions of opinion is the line of thought pursued by writers of repute who , starting from-the liberal point of view , have undertaken to discuss the industrial problem in the light derived from the prevailing depression and the attendant conflict between labor and capital . The depression is not , in their judgment , the transient evil which superficial observers suppose it to be . In a large degree it is the result of a series of causes involving a permanent change in the relation of English producers to the foreign world . Following this process of reasoning , the wages-struggle is an indication of difficulties so deep-seated that mere reductions will not remove them . Employers proceed on the assumption that England 's competing power.is impaired by cornparatiye dearness of production , the remedy for which is lower wages . Mr. JOHN MORLEY , addressing the representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Manufacturing industry , he argues , has been unduly developed . Markets are glutted . To go on producing , even at lower cost , will simply be to prolong the glut . Diminished production , therefore , is the remedy he prescribes . To the working men the prescription can not be encouraging . Shorter hours of labor imply less pay , and the class concerned must either submit to deeper poverty or devise methods of transferring themselves to more fortunately situated fields of labor . In the current number of the Fortnightly Review Mr. L. H. COURTNEY pushes the argument further . Discussing " the migration of centres of industrial energy , " he finds in the past the best means of elucidating the probabilities of the future . Industries , he sees , decline permanently when the conditions favorable to their prosecution disappear . Within the memory of the present generation Cornwall was renowned for the production of copper and tin . Now , copper-mining has almost disappeared and tin-mining declines so steadily that the same result approaches . Why ? Not because the Cornish supplies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of produotion has so increased , that supplies can be obtained more cheaply elsewhere . The gradual abandonment of these industries in Cornwall has led to the emigration of its mining population . More slowly , perhaps , but quite as surely , the same causes are operating in the iron and steel manufacture , and the mining of coal . Mr. Hy sSET VIVIAN , during his brief visit to the United States , saw enough to convince him that his own country can never again send iron or steel hither ; and in our gigantic coal-fields he recognizes the basis of future manufacturing greatness . England 's coalfields are far from exhausted , but the conditions of working them yearly grow more costly . When the coal becomes dear Englandis  --  manufacturing supremacy will be at . , an end . The evil as Mr. COURTNEY presents it is , that while the consumption of coal increases geometrically , the stores of force which coal supplies are expended in an excessive production of other commodities to keep pace with a limitless competition . The competition can not be kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal production will be dearest . Prof. JEVONS contends " that many among the present generation may live to feel the pressure of the gradually increasing difficulty of obtaining coal force . " Mr. COURTNEY insists " that the dangerous expansion of national industry should be kept under . " He would even repress by arbitrary measures the consumption of coal as a moans of keeping the development of England 's industrial organization within narrower limits . All this - " . ? + ' the geographical relations of manufacturingindustry . If the argument of Messrs . MORLEY and COURTNEY is sound , the strait of English manufacturing capital is as serious as the strait of labor . Reduction of wages can not bring lasting relief to employers k who are confronted with comparatively unfavorable conditions of production ; nor can strikes , even though successful , avert the deterioration in the value of labor which is inseparable from a diminished demand for its products . The experience of Cornwall will be shared by other of England 's industries . Capital will seek other fields ,  --  and nowhere are they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in store for labor is 9 , terrible one , ? all the more terrible because labor can not at will follow the example of the emigrating Cornishmen , if it were disposed to do so . The proposal of the workers in the iron trades to expend an accumulated quarter of a million of dollars in a bootless struggle against diminished wages shows how imperfectly the English working men realize their precarynis position or the more profitable use to which their fund might be applied . It is a question only of time . The coming immigration will differ from its predecessors . Capital will migrate more freely than labor . These contingencies involve probable changes in some of the industrial centres of the United States . We are familiar with the effect of the migration of industrial energy as applied to the production of wheat . A generation ago , the Genesee Valley was the great wheat centre . To-day the centre is the Red River Valley of Minnesota . and Dakota . The expansion of manufacturing enterprise has been quite as marked , though less precise in relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was altogether agricultural , is strong in the diversity of its manufactures . It will be the fault of the Southern people if their region fail to attract the migrating forces which the restoration of confidence will set in motion here , and which seem likely , at no distant clay , to prove still stronger on the other side of the Atlantic .                     