@@742225

txt A year or two ago a Methodist minister with an unsatisfactory log was suddenly ( ired of his lameness while attending a camp-meeting at Ocean Grove . This alleged miracle gave rise to a good deal of discussion at the time , the minister insisting that the joint prayers of two eloquent sisters had completely repaired his leg , while certain of his fellow-ministers claimed that lie still perceptibly limped , and that hence his alleged cure , being imperfect , could not be regarded as a miracle . Whatever may have been the truth as to this affair , it leas been entirely thrown into the shade by the recent cure of a paralytic Chicago lady , who , instead of a merely local leg difficulty , was suffering from inability to speak , eat , or walk , and who , without any extraneous aid , prayed herself entirely out of the house and into a neighbor 's parlor , where she sang hymns with a determination to make up for lost time which cast a gloom over the entire neighborhood . This interesting woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left side , with its appurtenances , was totally useless , she was able to move from room to room with crutches , though , of course , too slowly to overtake an active husband or a wary book agent . The worst misfortune was her inability to speak . Iles jaws could only be opened , as she asserts , by prying them apart with a piece of cork an eighth of an inch wide  --  and it may be incidentally remarked that this is the first instance on record in which cork has been used as a crowbar . Of course , no woman could do justice to any subject by slowly filtering her remarks through an opening an eighth of an inch wide , and hence this remarkable person abstained during nearly eight years from all conversation . Naturally , she found great difficulty in eating , but her husband , who was quick to perceive the advantages of a wife who could neither go out shopping nor comment upon his faults , kept her alive with " nourishing liquids . " It must have been truly pathetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his helpless wife with a teaspoon , and calmly ignoring her mute dissatisfaction with the quantity of sugar , , or the quality of the lemon peel . Perhaps , if ' 0,3 e old have foreseen the future be would Lassa swallowed the nourishing fluids himsslf , procured a divorce , and married a wifo from a deaf and dumb asylum furnished with a written guarantee of her incurability . But we can never know what may be the consequences of a kind act . Many a man has warmed a small boy in his bosom , only to have him grow up and blow a tin horn in his ears . Many an unmarried woman has cast Christmas slippers before her Pastor , who has subsequently turned and reuded her holiest feelings by marrying some one else . We can not tell what misery a single kind act may produce ; and there are scores of men whose lives have been blasted by a thoughtless kind word spoken to a determined widow .. thoroughly , fa- , miliar with the sort of evidence that insures success in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endured her sufferings with the resignation that is so beautiful in a woman who can not lift a stove-lid or remark , " 0 ! I 'll lot you know . " Recently , however , it occurred to her to pray , and iu spite of the fact that she was a confirmed resident of Chicago , she boldly knelt down and began her devotions . If it be possible to criticise her conduct in this particular without irreverence , it may be asked why a paralytic who could not sustain herself without crutches , should have thrown them aside and knelt ? Still , we are obliged to accept the fact that she did kneel , for we have her solemn assertion to that effect . Presently the devout lady heard a voice in the room , and felt a natural indignation at the irreverent interruption . The sound of the voice grew louder and louder , until it occurred to her to investigate her mouth and ascertain if it had any connection with the phenomenon . Haying " put her hand right in between her teeth , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice . Site recognized it as soon as she touched it , and her delight on finding that she could speak was so great that she instantly sprang up and ran across the street to mention the matter to an intimate friend . As she was running she happened to notice , that she was able to move without crutches , and this naturally added to lice joy . That she demonstrated her recovery of her voice by violent singing was not to be wondered at , and it can hardly bo doubted that she also illustrated her improved condition in point of legs by throwing a fetv graceful somersaults  --  although she abstains from mentioning this fact . A veil must be dropped over the subsequent meeting of husband and wife . There are griefs too sacred for comment , and we should respect the feelings of the man who returned to a once happy home to find his wife standing erect at the front door and overflowing with long-suppressed language . This is , in substance , the story told by the woman herself , and it would scarcely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Chicago , including at least one presumably intelligent minister of a reputable sect , insist that the woman has been the subject of a genuine miracle . It may not be the province of a secular newspaper to decide upon the genuineness of an alleged Chicago miracle , but it is permissible to point out the consequences which the acceptance of the woman 's story of her claim that her cure was miraculous involve . There is sufficient evidence to prove that so-called " magnetic healers " have apparently cured cases of paralysis by commanding the patient to throw away his crutches and walk . The Zouave JACOB certainly did this in several instances , and other quacks of equal impudence have been occasionally equally successful . Why should we refuse to accord these men the power of working miracles , if wo grant that the prayer of a Chicago woman has wrought a miraculous cure ? Or to make a closer parallel , there are well-authenticated cases of paralytics , or other invalids , who have been cured by praying at the shrine of sonic popular Roman Catholic saint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Lourdes if we believe the miracle wrought at Chicago . It ' the Chicago woman really was cured in the form and mummer alleged , it is much simpler to assume that her paralysis was a form of hysteria , iu which case her sudden cure was in no wise marvelous . To adult the truth of Methodist and Presbyterian miracles is to admit the truth of Roman Catholic miracles . If the Chicago Protestants who believe that a genuine miracle has been wrought in that city are prepared to make the latter admission , it is their own business , but they will find that in this matter there is , at this day , no stopping place between Rome and Reason .                     