@@741821

txt In less than six months the Centennial Exhibition will be opened . The energy with which the preparations have been pushed forward gives abundant promise that the Opening will show a degree of completeness in the ail:augments which will be of the most gratifying character . Our design at present , however , is to speak not so much of the Exhibition itself as of the position and . other qualities of the grounds contained in the inclosure appropriated to its use . That this is an exceedingly important point is evident at a glance . Whatever advantages might be possessed by the great celebration iu other respects , if the space allotted to it were too small , or the situation , unfavorable , it would almost inevitably prove in a great degree unsuccessful . In regard to the size of the Centennial inclosure , little need be said . We can give a pretty definite idea of its extent , ( though not of its shape , which is very irregular and could hardly be described in words , ) by saying that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manhattan . Island south of Fulton street and east of Broadway . Of the whole space thus appropriated , about twosevenths will be covered by buildings . Of the site of the Centennial grounds , one of the most important features is its elevation . The plateau on v Lich the main exhibition building and most of the other structures stand is nearly l20 feet above the Schuylkill . From this plateau the ground descends rapidly to the river . The commanding position thus given to the buildings , in regard both to the extended view afforded to visitors and the manner in which the edifices themselves can be seen from a distance , is not the only nor the greatest advantage thus obtained . The immense concourse that will be present will render a free circulation of air highly needf-l at all times , and particularly in nodsummer . It ' the buildings had been ou low ground , it would very seriously have impaired the comfort of the people assembled , and would probably also have materially diminished the attendance . The advantages of the situation of the Centennial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are familiar to our readers . A passenger going from New York , for instance , will be taken by the train he enters at Jersey City a good deal nearer the main exhibition building than the distance that many of our merchants have to walk between the omnibuses or cars that convey them down town in the morning and . their places of business . In respect to the way of getting to the grounds by residents of Philadelphia or strangers staying there , a few words may here be said . The topic is one which has excited very Hutch attention and considerable anxiety in that city . The great majority of the Philadelphians will have to traverse , in going frog . their homes to the Centennial , distances varying from two and a half to live miles . In most of these cases , the only practicable mode of conveyance will be the street-ears . At present the facilities for reaching the grounds afforded by these vehicles render the operation easy enough . From filmiest any part of the closely-built portions of the city , an individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at most an eighth or a quarter of a mile , take a car that will either carry him direct to the grounds , or cross the line of another road that will do so . The only doubt about the convenience and comfort of getting to the Exhibition relates to the number of cars . What extra preparations the companies are making in this respect , we do not exactly know . They are doing a good deal , we understand ; but whether it is sufficient or not , we can not tell . It would certainly be a great pity if the Philadelphians , after contributing toward the Centennial expenses more than all the rest of the country put together , should not be able to go there and take their families , without occasiouin , to the latter , if not to themselves , a dogre of discomfort and fatigue that would do stroy a great part of the pleasure and profit ableness of the visit . We have spoken of the elevation of th Centennial grounds and the lino view to b obtained from them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scenery form a very marked addition to the othe attractions of the great celebration . It deed , the part of Fairmount Park withii the Centennial inclosure could of itself b made a complete and splendid park wit but little expeuse . The combination of eon venience and beauty afforded by the Oct tennial grounds constitutes an advantag upon which not only the people of Pinhole phia , but of the whole United States , hay great reason to congratulate themselves We may add that the taste and good Judi ; went displayed in the position of the build ings is , in respect to this point , as well a in regard to many others , worthy of vet , high praise . To erect buildings of such inn memo size with so little obstruction to th , view , and without marring the outline c the scenery , was a problem of no inconsid erable difficulty ; but the object has hap pily been most successfully accomplished .                     