@@742265

txt Philosophers inform us that just in proportion as a nation grows in civilization its amusements become humane and improving . Of course , all philosophers do not hold this theory , for if they did we should have the amazing spectacle of philosophical concord , but at least as many as four or five of thorn regard this assertion as to the relation of civilization and amusements as an axiom . It is quite possible that it does contain more or less truth . The Romans delighted in gladiatorial battles , but we regard such sports as worthy only of'a barbarous people . Tho Spaniards are addicted to bull-fights , and we quote that fact whenever we desire to show that t hey are still uncivilized , and that wo ought , therefore , to annex Cuba . Years ago the English country parson thought it no harm to take an active part in cock-lighting , and the New-England minister relaxed his mind by hanging Quakers . We ; who have abandoned all those diversions , pride ourselves upon the advance which wo have made in civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of late years prize-fighting has been pretty thoroughly suppressed in this country . Its brutality is conceded by every decent person . It is true that only in rare instances has a prize-fighter been killed in the ring , but , though prigs-fighting may not be particularly dangerous , it is eminently disgusting . The object of the prizefighter is to pound his antagonist into a helpless condition , and it seems incredible that there over could have been a tittle when civilized mou were willing to witness such a proceeding . But the love of seeing other people fight is inherent in the AngloSaxon blood , and many centuries were minted before the race could reach that stage of civilization in which prize-fighting became a hideous anomaly . In the place of that obsolete and atrocious sport wo have , in this City , recently welcomed a form of muscular amusement which can not be too highly praised . The popularity of public wrestling is a plain proof of our great superiority in point of civilization over Englishmen of the last century . Wrestling is properly one of the fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wonderfully elevating influence . When we see two athletes locked together in a close embrace , we involuntarily feel that the hunger of the immortal soul after the True , the Good , the Beautiful , and other things beginning with capital letters , is in a fair way to ho satisfied . Such an entertainment is obviously the very antithesis of prize-fighting , and if the latter is a degrading and brutal sport , the former is unquestionably relining and ennobling in its tendencies . In order to convince prejudiced and ignorant people of the admirable nature of the rational and refilling amusement which lute superseded prize-fighting , it is only necessary to mention the leading incidents of the great wrestling match for $6,700 which began at the American Institute Building on Tuesday evening last , and ended at nearly 6 o'clock on the following morning . At 9 o'clock the two wrestlers entered the arena , and were warmly welcomed by an audience of fully four thousand of our wealthiest and most fashionable peoltle . One of , the wrestlers was suffering from an injured arm and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ badly swollen  --  these injuries being the result of a previous encounter . For nearly nine hours those noble men performed their mission as ministers of The Beautiful . They throw one another with the utmost violence , and each one left no means untried to exhaust his opponent 's strength . Occasionally one would throw the other over his head , in the hope that the fall would stun him , but no fractures of the skull or spine occurred , in spite of the cheerful hopefulness of the spectators . Occasionally the wrestlers would be compelled to rest for a few moments in order to summon up strength for a continuance of the struggle , but so intense was the enthusiam of the cultivated audience that no one thought of going home without waiting for the end of the fight  --  that is to say , the wrestling match . Filially , at 5:90 Wednesday morning , both the gladia  --  wo should say the artists  --  became so utterly exhausted that they were unable to keep their feet , and wore helped from the platform by their seconds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breasts , shoulders , arms , necks , jaws , and wrists , there was hardly a spot from which the skin had not been rubbed , " says the report of the match . " Their lips and noses were swollen , and altogether they were pitiable sights . " That so beautiful and elevating an exhibition should have attracted so large au audience is conclusive proof of the immense strides in civilization which we have latterly made . We can hardly realize that only . a few years since a prize-fight would per , haps have been actually witnessed with delight by the very men who enjoyed the purlfying and ennobling sight afforded by these two wrestlers , And yet how enormous is the difference between boxing for a sum of money and wrestling for a like amount 1 The brutal prize-fighter did not intend to kill his antagonist , but Ito endeavored to so bruise and exhaust hint that ho would be forced to give up the struggle . The wrestler on the contrary , does not intend to kill his ) ntagonist  --  except by accidentally breaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhaust him that ho will be forced to give up the struggle . The defeated prize-fighter was often unable to walk alone after the prize-fight was over , and in nearly all cases ho was a pitiable sight . Tho wrestlers in the late great match were , as has been said , unable to walk alone , and were pitiable sights . The world-wide difference between prize-fighting and wrestling for a prize is thus perfectly obvious , and wo can not be too thankful that the latter rational and beautiful amusement has taken the place of the former brutal and revolting sport . When the next groat wrestling match takes place , every one ought to attend it and to take all his children If ministers would advertise wrestling matches from the pulpit , and if superintendents would take their Sundayschools to witness such improving spectacles wo should make even more rapid progress in civilization and true culture than wo have ever yet made .                     