@@781905

txt May the Indian be citizenized ? Any plan of bringing the general question of reform in Indian management under the deliberate ' consideration of a committee or select commission will strike at once upon this question . One of the most salient and attractive proposals for reform has been the idea that the tribal relation ought to be abandoned , and the Indian dealt with as an individual , constituted a citizen , and addressed by the same motives , hopes of advancement , and apprehensions of punishment as the ? whites . President Glum 's advocacy of this principle will be remembered . The idea has many recommendations , and has made warm friends . The question will underlie any extended , thorough effort to resettle the Indian policy . What position our Government might be inclined to take , and justified in taking , were the subject a new one , is a very different question from the more practical one , What position have we taken ? what status has been assigned ? what rights have been accorded ? The colonial forefathers did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wader circumstances which favored great forecast and longheaded development of permanent principles of public law , in their dealinga with the Indians of their day . They lived by sufferance of the dusky lords of the whole . ? territory . They dodged , or fought , or bargained , as the exigency of each day required . They were weak and intruders , while the Indians were strong and in possession ; hence the early dealings were naturally with Indians as tribes , having an organized , independent , quasi national existence , not with them as individuals , subject to the governments the whites were gradually constructing . President ADAMS , in his Message of 1828 , happily describes the early policy thus : " At the establishment of the Federal Government the principle was adopted of considering them as foreign and independent powers , and also as proprietors of lands . As independent powers , we negotiated with them by treaties ; as proprietors , we purchased of them all the land which we could prevail upon them to sell ; as bee thren of the human race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the knowledge of religion and of letters . " It is easily seen that this was the only way in which an . Indian policy could commence . The policy thus initiated was continued . Gove enment has always dealt with tribes . The number of our treaties with tribes has been stated at above three hundred and sixty . If , next , we review the course of decisions of the courts , we shall find the idea of the independent existence of tribes constantly recognized , , though undergoing some modifications as the advance of our civilization and settlement of the territory has required . According to the courts , the Indians have . always been considered by ow ' people , and recognized in our public dealings , as ' dietinot , independent political communities , retaining as such their original natural rights as the undisputed possessors of the deleted 2 paragraphs                     