@@741624

txt Formerly it used to be said . that when France was discontented , Europe could not rest . Since the war of 1810 all this has changed . The current which determines the symptoms of political disturbances has been displaced . It does not now run through Paris . Paris is too much absorbed in national problems to take much interest in outward affairs . The causes of anxiety by which Europe has been agitated of late , came from Germany . If there are yet some black spots and war eonds at the horizon , they are traced to the banks of the Spree . There sits the oracle whose double-edged words fall like daggers from his ; there is the man who has it in his power to turn the scale for war or for peace . When Germany was engaged in a bloody struggle for the establishment of German unity , she had the good will and good wishes of the world . She has them still so far as her interior organization is concerned . She has the right to fashion this as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own . Her Government may use all the means calculated to consolidate her forces and promote her welfare . it may propose any measures or laws . if Parliament grants them , the mere fact of constitutional sanction carries with it a title to respect and obedience . Such laws may be just or unjust , but being laws they must be complied with . Those who , on any ground whatever , choose to violate them must abide by the consequences . But the man who frames or suggests them has to take his chances . He may be right or wrong , deserving of approbation or criticism , but he must be prepared for either . llis action is open to inquiry , and in countries where there is a free press , it is likely to be discussed without regard to his feelings or aims . It would be , on his part , the height of arrogance to presume that everybody should express satisfaction at his acts , or bow to them in submissive silence . There are two sides to all things , and no man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay down a rule of judgment and to assert that it is a crime on the part of others to dissent from it . These are not maxims good only on paper and in theory . They have a great practical value . No statesman can safely disregard them . Whatever may be his power , it is efficient and sound only within the limits of its legitimate exercise . If it go beyond , if it trespass on foreign ground , or on other peoplo 's rights , it challenges criticism and creates alarm . The condition of Europe at the present moment suggests these reflections . A State has grown up there , powerful and ambitious , led by a statesman of undaunted energy , not over-scrupulous , emboldened by success , and ready f ' ? any emergency . Behind him stand over a million of well-trained soldiers and the best corns of officers of the age . This , together with the record with which everybody is familiar , does not look much like a guarantee for the tranquillity of Europe , and Europe is beginning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up , and people , anxious for the future , ask themselves what is to be done in order to avert the dangers always proceedPig from an undue supremacy of 011t3 power over others. / If war be in the interest of such a power , war is constantly to be apprehended . The only method of preventing it is by an alliance of those powers which have a common interest in preserving peace . It has recently been suggested that such : um alliance could easily be formed by England , Italy , and Austria . These countries have no reason for ambitious schemes of aggrandizement or ideas of revenge . They are engaged in working out the social and political problems which have arisen within their respective provinces . They have their national resources to develop , and the great principle of constitutional liberties to carry out . Peace , undisturbed peace , Is indispensable for such a work . They might do much toward securing it by uniting their efforts and influence . It would not be a selfish league , conducive to particular ends ; it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore would be more enduring and more useful than alliances such as are brought into existence by transient political combinations . All the lesser States , and those generally which ' have reason to fear abuses of strength ' , finding in it a guarantee and a security front danger , would become so many natural allies ; and the effect of such a union would , in some sort , be to reconstitute the equilibrium fatally destroyed by the war of 1870 , As things now are , any accident may be the cause of another terrible convulsion . It is distressing for Europe to be exposed to it . She longs to be extricated from a condition which disturbs the present and leaves the future uncertain ; and experience has shown what may bo expected when public liberty and peace are at the mercy of one man , whether he be a Hapsburg , a Bourbon a Buonaparte , or a Hohenzollern.                     