@@742413

txt The election for State officers which takes place in Maine next Monday promises to be a somewhat tame affair . For twenty years the Republican Party of that Commonwealth has been successful , - yet year after year the Democrats have galled conventions , nominated candidates , and with a loud flourish of trumpets entered upon a fresh contest . Last.year , it will be remembered , they were , or at least pretended to be , particularly sanguine of success . They declared that the people were tired of what was called the Blaine dictation ; that they would no longer consent to have the affairs of their State controlled and administered by one man . They were going to " throw off the yoke , " so to speak , and be freemen once again . The recently-defeated candidate for the Presidency has always been regarded as a very shrewd political manager , but he Was not shrewd enough to deal with the Maine Democrats . He actually believed the assertions to which we refer , and , entertaining the absurd notion that the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform , " he was foolish enough to send an exceedingly large barrel of money to be spent in making assurance doubly sure . Some of the most notorious Democratic orators  --  SAm BARD , the ex-Postmaster of Atlanta , and JOHN FELLOWS , the ex-Confederate Colonel , for instance  --  made glowing speeches in every hamlet from Bangor to Portland , and oven up on the Canada border . But their eloquence was all to no purpose ; for , by a majority of fifteen thousand votes , the people of Maine declined to accept the services of the Democratic candidate . In spite of this somewhat disheartening mishap , the unterrified , with a persistency worthy of a better cause , again came to the front this year . They held a convention and listened to a number of the old war-horses who repeated that pleasing ryhme , " If at first you do n't succeed , try , try again , ' : and assured them that in this election they wore certain of success . The Republican Party was represented as being hopelessly divided on the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic speakers declared , with much apparent confidence , that " BLAINE and his clan " had triumphed for the last time . Then they denounced the " Presidential fraud " in very harsh terms , nominated a gentleman named WILLIAMS for Governor , and adjourned their convention to organize for victory . But a cruel fate had ordained that they were once more to be disappointed . Mr. WILLIAMS was not the kind of a person they took him to be . In fact , he soon began to display traits of honesty and nobility of character quite unpardonable in a Democratic candidate for office . Ho did not believe that the President of the United States was a fraud , and he said so . Further than this , lie dared to express the opinion that Mr. HAYES had obtained his position fairly and honestly , and in strict accordance with the laws . This was more than the Democratic faithful could bear . They felt themselves wounded in their tenderest point  --  stabbed by the man upon whom they had heaped honors . In this new trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they are now united in declaring that WILLIAms , and not HAvEs , is the greatest fraud in American polities . They tried to get him to resign his place ou the State ticket , but he refused to oblige them , and now they are substantially without a candidate . From this unfortunate position the Democratic leaders are entirely unable to extricate themselves . They are prolific of suggestions , but can unite upon no plan which promises to get them out of their troubles . One gentleman , the most prominent Democrat in Oxford County , proposes that " pastel 's similar to those in use in New York " be prepared , and that upon them be printed the name of old JOSEPH TICOMD , of Kennebunk , for Governor in place of " the traitor WILLIAms . " Other prominent Democrats suggest that the party refuse to vote for any candidate for Governor , thus " displaying their indignation at the base treachery which has been practiced upon them . " Very naturally these divers propositions and the course pursued by Mr. Wm ' , JAIN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They have on gone so far as to call each other hard names . Mr. PILLsantY , the Chairman of the State Central Committee , charges that Mr. DtErtY , one of the war horses , does not always tell the truth , and Mr. EMERY retorts by declaring in the public prints that " EBEN F. PILLSBURY , having engaged in a conspiracy to sell out the Democratic Party of Maine to  --  the fraudulent Administration in Washington , and finding the rotten grounds upon which he has undertaken to do so exposed to public view , boldly resorts to falsehood to excuse his crime . " We need hardly state that these and several other complimentary personal references , which are now being exchanged by the Maine Democrats , do not tend to increase their harmony or good feeling . It is a somewhat remarkable fact , however , that in spite of the many difficulties which confront them , in spite of the many dissensions among their leaders , they still profess to believe that they will be successful in the approaching contest . Mr. PILLSBURY , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tilden fashion , to the Chairman of each of the County Committees , says : " A quiet but vigorous effort among the live men and active workers of our party in every town will give us the State . " There may be a few people who believe this statement . They will have to be looked for in the backwoods of Alainel however , and after Monday 's election it will be exceedingly difficult to find them even there .                     