@@741632

txt The bills empowering the Governor to reMove State officers , and prescribing the procedure under which eueh removal may be effected , were debated at great length in Committee of the Whole of the Assembly to-day . The Senate bill as passed , which provides for the removal of all State officers , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate , was first moved . Mr. Waehner opened the debate by Moving to amend the Senate bill by striking out the first section thereof and inserting in its place the first section of the Assembly bill reported by himself from the Judiciary Committee . This bill directs that the Governor 's charges against any State officer shall be heard and tried before the Court of Appeals , and that upon their finding of guilty only shall be have power to remote the accused officials and appoint their successors . Mr. Daly , of New-York , moved as an amendment the substitution for the first section of the Senate bill the first section of the bill introduced by himself , giving the Governor the summary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Canal Commissioners . The discussion was then begun . Mr. Waehner ? If Mr. Daly and his party were in a different position before this country on this question of centralization , against which an outcry bad been beard all over the nation , how would this proposition answer his views 1 Substitute in our State a Republican Governor i and a Republican State Government , and bring such a proposal here , and Mr. Daly would , as he did last year , rise in his place and denounce such an invasion of democratic and republican principle . Admit , if you please , the principle in political parlance , of the necessit ? of a system of checks and balances . For that reason we have different departments of government presided over by different officers , who are chosen by the people . Now what new wisdom has gone abroad through the land that makes it desirable to change that well-established system and give anyone man power to sweep these officers out of existence I lie hoped the motion made by Mr. Daly would not prevail . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to compliment the gentleman from New-York for the calm , dispassionate view he bad taken in Ins remarks . The gentleman , however , charged him Mr. Daly with being inconsistent is his position at this time , but he asked the gentleman to ! look back at his own action , and . of see 1 : if e that - was all consistency . es : Only f ' two t months ago his eloquence was heard in this Chamber in favor of a bill enlarging the powers of the Mayor of New-York , and fixing on him responeibility for the acts of other Municipal officers . This bill for absolute removal of canal officials merely completed the chain , and was the last link required to carry out the reforms suggested by the Governor in his special Message . It must be conceded , even by those who were opposed to this measure , that this bill had advantages too apparent to need any demonstration over either the Senate bill or the bill reported from the Jndiein ry Committee . And for this reason : It provided a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without expense to the people . Why attempt to overload the already incumbered Court of Appeals , or drag in- the slow and expensive method of bringing an indicted official before the Senate I Load the Governor with power , and hold him responsible for the way in which he exercises that power . Ile may be removed himself by impeachment , and he may also be repudiated by the people at the ballot-box should he again present himself for their favor . Impeachment was a slow and tedious and by no means a sure process of dealing with delinquent officials , rarely if ever terminating short . of six months . Be sought no revenges , no personal ends ; all he asked was that the House should consider fairly , calmly , closely , and earnestly this question , and hehoped that in the end their judgment would lead them to give to the Governor this power to protect the public interest and the public Treasury , and punish official delinquency . THE SPEAKER ON THE FLOCK . Mr. , of Chemung , ( the Speaker , ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out by the Daly bill was a vioIstion of principles which this Assembly had already condemned , a violation of the fundamental principles of government , and of our own organic law . It could not be sustained on any principle in our system of Government , and belonged only to that government of the party , the government of absolutism  --  the concentrae tuns of power in the hands of one man and the taking of it from the people . He had listened patiently to the gentleman who had advocated this measure in the hope that they might he able to adduce some reason for the passage of this bill , but had heard none . He gave to the gentlemen who have advocated this bill credit for whatever argument they have made . He understood the gentleman from New-York , - who appeared to father this bill , to say that the Governor was a great big wheel meandering through some vast labyrinth , and that momentum should be given to the big wheel to keep all the little wheels , who are represented by the other State officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentleman from New-York , who had seen this country almost destroyed by one-man power , and who ought to know something of the sufferings of the people of his mother country , brought about by one-man power , should come hero to advocate this principle . It was merely an attempt to reassert the dogma of 290 years ago . that " the King could do no eirone , ; " and if be desired to go into that subject and analyze history , it would be easy to show that all the political and national miseries of that time were traceable to that theory , that the King could do no wrong . " And now . in what he pro ? posed to say , be desired to be understood whenever he used the word Governor , as referring to the Governor of fifty years ago alike with the Governor of to-day . He alluded to the office , impersonally , and having no reference whatever to the present incumbent of the office . It was bad for any Legislature to assume that any was so pure and good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States expressly refused to invest George Washington with extraordinary power with constitutional sanction ; yet who would have supposed that George Washington would have abused laws confided to his execution 1 Yet it ? was proposed to give all future Governors of this State powers which were refused to Gages Washington . It was proposed to allow him to remove officials summarily from office and to appoint temporary successors . That meant that he should appoint officers until the next election . And if the people did not elect successors to suit him ho could remove them also . The founders of our Government pledged their lives , their fortunes , and their sacred honor to the establishment and maintenance of the principles of government which they advocated and under which we bad lived for a hundred years ; they went through a seven years ' war to establish it ; and the colonies expended millions of money to establish it . ? ar And now he proposed to overthrow this principle which cost them so much , because , if it is true , a few canal contractors had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted this House to reflect that it was a Democratic House , and that those powers are proposed to be given to a Democratic Governor . What would have been thought of Goy . Dix or Gov . Fenton , had they asked such powers , such extraordinary authority ? What would have been thought by the Democracy of this State if a Republican Legislature had attempted to give either of them this power I He asked this responsible majority to consider well this question . Mr. Daly said ho was in favor of the Senate bill as it stood with regard to State officers generally , but that he desired to give the Governor absolute power as to State Engineer and Canal Commissioners . Mr. asked what sort of discrimination was that which sought to deny the same process of indictment , trial , and defense to a canal officer that they were willing to give to the State Treasurer , to the Controller , or to any other officer . It was the right of every officer , of every citizen , to be tried fairly , openly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assert his innocence if he can . Why seek to subject any man to the judgment and possible error of any one man It had been said that the Governor was the head of the Democratic Party . As such should it not be his duty , or might it not be his weakness , to be influenced politically 3 It had been said that there was a public demand for this measure . Ile denied that there was any such demand , except that which had its origin with a few newspapers . He said the other day , and he maintained it now , that there were but four papers in the State which maintained this movement for absolute power . He hoped that the Senate bill would pass the House . The other bill snakes the Governor the accuser , the witness , and the judge . Pass the Senate bill . Send it to the Governor , let him sign it . Under it he may proceed against any State officer , send his charges to the Senate , let them try these charges , and within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF MR . ALVORD . Mr. Alvord , of Onondaga , then rose to address the committee , but as it was near the hour for adjournment , and , as ho said , he expected to occupy the attention of the committee for some time , be moved that the committee rise and report progress , so that in the House be might move that the House go into committee at 4 o'clock this afternoon and sit until 7 o'clock for the consideration of these bills . The committee then progressed the bills , and in the House Mr. Alvord moved the afternoon session . and it was agreed to . On reassembling the House went into Committee of the Whole , Mr. Petty resuming the chair , and Mr. Alvord gave way to Mr. Edson , of Chautauqua , who spoke briefly in support of absolute removal . Mr. Alvord then took the floor and said he had made no preparation for this subject , but he bad been pleased to notice that the gentleman who had preceded him had laid aside all narrow views and seemed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government was founded on the principle that all the power was latent in the people , and their rulers were chosen only to carry out the people 's views . In this country there had been great efforts made ? to educate the people up to a true appreciation of the rights and responsibilities of the Government and the governed . It was true the President of the United States had the power to remove the members of his Cabinet , but they were not elected by the people . They were nominated by him and confirmed Ws the Senate , and he could only fill their places after removal by and - with the advice and consent of the Senate . He held that members were here not to direct or coerce , but to follow public opinion , and not to forget either the rights of the people or the principles of the Constitution which they were sworn to maintain . The people , when they elect their , officers , know what the duties of those officers are , and what they elect them for . The people have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for the punishment of officials who commit offenses against the people , by providing for their impeachment . But coming down to the point of the Governor 's power : be removes Sheriffs , Mayors , County Clerks , and other officers , under provisions of law . Why was he vested with this power ? It was because it was impossible to create a Court of Impeachment in every county in the State . These officers were elected by the people , it was true , but they were elected by local votes and not by the people at large . Mr. Alvord continued in this strain at considerable length . OTHER SPEECHES . At the close of his address Mr. l ) esrar , of New-York , addressed the committee in favor of the absolute removal bill . Mr. Whittemore , of Cortland. next read a brief speech in support of the bill . Mr. Daly then again rose and said that Mr. Alvord had assumed that this bill was designed to grant extraordinary powers . He begged to remind him , however , that it would only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Superintendent of Public Instruction had the power to remove School Commissioners , yet the Commissioner was an elected officer , while the Superintendent was an appointed officer . Mr. Daly 's amendment was then put and lost by a vote of 32 yeas to 58 nays . Mr. Hosted , of Westchester , then rose and said be loped the motion of Mr. Waehner would not prevail because the Court of Appeals bad now just as much as they could attend to . The Court of Appeals was not only lifted above the plane of politics , but above the plane of public ) business also . Their duties are confined to the construction of the laws and be would support the Senate bill . If the Senate of New-York could not be trusted there was no power in this State that could be trusted . It was a body not only unimpeached , but unimpeachable , and he know that the Senate Ind the confidence to-day of the Governer himself . He hoped there would not be a single vote cast against the Senate bill . Mr. Wachner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on verbal arrangements which were proposed and afterward withdrawn , the committee agreed to report the Senate bill to the Rouse and recommend its passage in the House . Mr. Daly somewhat startled the Assembly by a motion to substitute his Absolute Removal bill for the Senate bill , and the yeas and nays were called . for on the motion . Nearly one-half of the members rose to explain their votes as their names were called . The motion was lost by a vote of 37 to 67 . As soon as the vote was announced Mr. Alvord moved that the bill be now , by unanimous consent , given its third reading and final passage . No objection was made , and the bill was read a third time , and passed . Davis of Washing-ten alone voted nay . The bill was then declared passed , and ordered to be returned to the Senate . 