@@742560

txt Whatever success may have attended the policy of conciliation elsewhere , in Louisiana its results are unsavory . There , if nowhere else , Democratic partisanship retains its violence and malignity . The cruel spirit which imparted life to the White League , and carried terror into parishes that had active Rupublican voters , is still vigorous and aggressive . Having possession of the machinery of government , the methods on which it has for years relied are no longer requisite . Its dominion is undisputed by the poor blacks , and since the murder of WEBBER and the flight of ANDERSON white Republicans have quietly submitted to its decrees . Even absolute mastery does not satisfy it . The criminal proceedings instituted against the members of the Returning Board , in violation of the pledge made by Gov . Ntenons and his Legislature , are rendered doubly inexcusable by the moans employed to prevent a fair trial . To arraign men as criminals charged with political offenses for which they had been guaranteed immunity is bad enough ; but to conduct the prosecution under Circumstances which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infamy . The denial of the application for a transfer of the cases to another district or to a Federal court , the packing of the jury , and the pressure applied to the Governor to prevent his interference after conviction has beau secured , are so many illustrations of the recklessness with which partisan malice pursues its work , and of tho bad faith of the Louisiana Democracy toward the President and the country . The pretense that the State authorities have instituted those prosecutions in the interest of morality and law is too transparently false to deceive anybody . WELLS and his associates of the Returning Board are not models whom we should hold up to admiration , and we are ready to believe that some of their methods reflected the kind of partisianship to which the atmosphere of Louisiana seems peculiarly adapted . It is not improper to assume , however , that the real character of any irregularities they may have been guilty of in connection with the returns was as well understood in Now-Orleans last April as now . The fact that Nu-toms and his Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an acknowledgment of the fact that the proceedings which are now made the basis of indictments wort ) partisan merely , not criminal in the ordinary sense of the term . Are we to conclude that NICHOLLS and his friends compounded felonies , or that in their eagerness to clutch power they made promises which they now refuse to fulfill i If it be said that the indictments ' preferred , and others that are talked of as in contemplation , have been preferred independently of them and in the interest of justice , we ask at least for some sign of impartiality. , If law is to be vindicated , its champions should , take no note of politics . The offenses imputed to WELLS and other members of the board are trifling compared with those that are on record against their political opponents . Republican rascals are plentiful , no doubt  --  at any rate in Louisiana ; but the murderers , the incendiaries , the torturers , the beasts that hunted men because of polities , and perpetrated crimes too horrible to be described to prevent Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WEBBER after the " bargain " had boon consummated shows that the appetite for blood is still unsated when an active Republican is to be the victim . How happens it , thou , that of the many Democratic murderers who are known , not one has been arrested , and that not a stop has been taken to discover murderers at present undetected I How are we to reconcile this pretense of zeal for law and justice with the fact that Democrats tainted with the most atrocious crimes walk the streets of NewOrleans unmolested . or are rewarded with honors and offices in other parts of the State ? WELLS is a fugitive from his State ; which makes his Republicanism a penitentiary offense . OGDEN , the leader of the White League , and because of his position cognizant of the atrocities which that organization perpetrated in the name of the Democracy , is Attorney-General of the State and the custodian of its legal conscience . To exhibit the contrast is to furnish the best commentary upon the hypocrisy as well as the treachery which the indictment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is said , and there is nothing improbable in the allegation . The transaction which culminated in the abandonment of PACKARD and the inauguration of NICHOLLS could scarcely have been consummated without them . The fact does not imply corruption or dishonor on either side , unless the bargaining were different in character from any that has yet been alleged . The real ground of complaint , as it seems to us , is , that the terms , such as they were , have not been complied with by either ' party , and that ' the most important itemwas overlooked by the National Administration . It is not easy now to indicate specific conditions which the President should have insisted upon before surrendering the vantage-ground which his party had won , but the reputation for treachery and cruelty earned by the Louisiana Democracy should have taught him the necessity of exacting sonic guarantee more potent than any which he or his friends obtained . Perhaps these proceedings against members of the board may be taken as proof that any compact entered into would have been broken . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this point when Gov . NICHOLLS more clearly shows the position he is prepared to assume in regard to the Wells and Anderson prosecution . On the other hand , the Administration , or the politicians acting in ' its behalf , can not be credited with any very earnest effort to sustain if not to shield ' Louisiana Republicans who imperiled their property and lives in the service of their party . Whether Mr. SHERMAN did or did not promise protection to WEBBER and ANDERSON , the Feliciano .. Supervisors , we must believe that somebody assured thorn , and others like them , of the succor which the discharge of a hazardous duty might render necessary . Men would have been fools to risk everything without some guarantee of help . It is humiliating to be obliged to confess that these assurances , whatever they amounted to , have not been carried out . The Administration is so enamored of the policy of conciliation that it has had no time for thinking of its victims . Meanwhile the Democrats of Louisiana have the satisfaction of knowing that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that the fault will not be theirs if they do not succeed in stirring up sectional animosity and strife . They could not labor more efficiently in that direction if they tried .                     