@@743052

txt It is now almost a year since a small steamer arrived at the Port of New-Orleans from the West Indies with two sick men on board . They were allowed to land , and subsequently died of what the attending doc tors pronounced bilious fever . It was several weeks later that the yellow fever broke into an epidemic and began its career of devastation . When there was time for inquiry , the pestilence was traced with tolerable clearness to the arrival of that little vessel in the middle of May , with its two victims of " bilious fever , " for these were connected by a series of sporadic cases , little noted at the timb , with the beginning of the real epidemic . The insalubrious condition of New-Orleans and the other towns visited made them quickly receptive of the germs of the disease , and ready to spread and multiply them with uncontrollable rapidity . Not only is the preponderance of evidence in favor of the belief that the epidemic of last Summer was imported , but a heavy balance of authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all cases of exotic origin . If this is true , a quarantine at New-Orleans as effective as that which is constantly maintained at this port would have saved the country from the distress , the loss , and the alarm which it underwent . The experience of last year leaves no occasion for argument to prove'that the matter is one of national interest . The heated season is upon us again , there is no evidence that the cities of the Southern Mississippi are any less shamefully neglectful of sanitary precautions than heretofore , we are not sure , even , that the seeds of contagion are not still lurking there , ready for a new outbreak , and the same imperfect and ineffective quarantine regulations remain as the only safeguard against a fresh importation . The investigations of last Winter , made under authority of the Federal Government , have as yet resulted in no practical measure that is likely to afford security against a repetition of the painful and expensive experience of 187S . The committee at first reported in favor of a National Health Bureau , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Health . It was at once manifest that such a body was impracticable , for there can be no authorithy under the Constitution for superseding local action in the matter of regulating internal sanitary affairs . It was then proposed to divide legislative action , and institute a National Board of Health , with merely advisory and supervisory powers , and establish a national quarantine . The bill having in view the former purpose was passed , the National Board of Health was appointed ) and is now hold ing an important meeting at Atlanta , Ga . The bill to establish a national quarantine , with its administration under the direction of the National Board of Health , was defeated by the fatuous fear of Southern Representatives that the rights of States were menaced . The power of Congress over the subject , under the clause of the Constitution intrusting it with the regulation of commerce , is unquestioned , and there was really no conflict whatever with any right of the States , unless it be the right to admit and propagate plagues from which the whole country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions and gave to the Board of Health powers of doubtful validity , but the Southern opposition was not directed at its form or details , but at the principle of national regulation . A bill of similar import has been under discussion at the present session , and the opposition has assumed more rational ground . It has just been recommitted , and may yet be put in a form to be effective , and at the same time acceptable to the majority . Without it , the Board of Health may assist in needed investigations and the dissemination of information and sound opinions , and give advice and exert some influence upon local action , but it can of its own authority do very little practical work . If a national quarantine were unnecessary , that is to say , if local authorities would establish and enforce all needed regulations for the protection of their own ports and of the interests of the country which are threatened through them , there would be no ground for calling into action the power which the Federal Government undoubtedly possesses . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is placed under national supervision , and should be averse to the change if we were concerned only with the Port of New-York , or if others were equally well guarded . But if there is no effective barrier against the incursion of yellow fever at the points most subject to its attack , it is manifestly our interest and our ? right to call upon the Government to exercise its authority and maintain one . Supposing the theory to bo sound , which is not yet established beyond controversy , that this particular form of epidemic is invariably of foreign origin , the Government may afford the country complete protection from it by a thorough and vigilant quarantine at exposed ports . This protection it owes to the people so long as it is necessary . It can not compel Southern cities to " purge and live cleanly " or en- force internal sanitary regulations , and it is greatly to be desired that it shall have no occasion to extend its enforcement of quarantine regulations over inter-State commerce . If yellow fever never originates in the country , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the subject , protection at the ports visited by foreign vessels is ' all that is required , and that we should have so far and so long as it is needed .                     