@@742943

txt The fourth week of the Reno inquiry was begun today , with further testimony from Col. Benteen , : who was on the stand last Saturday . The only interpretation , he said , that he could give to the order from Custer for him to go off to the left hunting the Indians was to go valley hunting ad infinitum ; that is , to look for them in one ravine , and if not there , to go on to another . At the same time the regiment was on the main trail of the Indians , and this to him looked like a senseless order . The witness thought that atter Gen. Custer sent Reno off to the left , his plan was to get him into the rear to attack the village from that direction , but Major Reno had no idea of what Gen. Custer 's purpose was . The witness thought Major Reno acted well on the 25th , and he had never expressed an adverse opinion . The Recorder asked if the witness at that time entertained a good opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Col. Benteen said that his opinio'n was as good as it had ever been , and he was as much in accord with Gen. Custer as he had ever been . Lieut . Winfield S. Edgerley , Seventh Cavalry , now stationed at Fort Abraham Lincoln , testifled to the division of forces on the morning of the 25th . He accompanied Col. Ben-teen . This witness in the course of his testimony said that when Martin , the trumpeter , who was sent back to Custer , had delivered his mes- sage to Col. Benteen. the witness overheard him telling the orderly of Col. Benteen , in a laughing manner , that Castor had reached the biggest village he had ever seen , and was charging and killing everything before him , men , women and children . When Beacon 's column reached the bill , Reno 's troops were corning up ; there were about SOO or 1,000 Indians to be seen , running about in the bottom ; one of the first persons seen by the witness on the bill was Major Reno ; he was in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wore a white handkerchief around his head ; while the witness Was looking at him he rushed to the edge of the hill and fired his pistol down toward where the Indians were ; the Indians were about 1,000 yards away from him , away out of pistolrange ; one of the next persons seen by the witness was Lieut . Varnum ; he , too , was very much ex. cited and crying ; the firing down the river could be distinctly heard ; it was certainly heard by everybody about the witness ; it lasted for three  --  quar-ers of an hour , except the scattering fire ; it was about three  --  quarters of an hour after the witness arrived on the hill before Capt . Weir 's command went out , and it was about 35 minutes after that before the rest of the companies set out . When the company with which the witness had gone down the river met Col. Benteen 's company going down , they fell in and continued to advance until orders were given by Col. Benteen to move back . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indians did not drive the command from position . There were orders to fall back and the command fell back . Being asked what he thought of Major Reno 's conduct on the 25th and 26th , the witness replied : " When ho first got up on to the hill ho was excited , but not enough to impair his efficiency or discourage the men ; there was no need of many orders , and ho did all that was necessary ; it was plain to the officers what ought to be done ; afterward he was cool , and the po ition selected was the best possible within a radius of many miles . "                     