@@741706

txt The duties of a common carrier , as defined in the English common law , have been so modified by charters and other statutory enactments in the various States of the ' Union , that it is almost useless to consult BLACKS-TONE in reference to any point that may be under consideration in regard to the duties of any particular corporation which works in that capacity . And yet , while one can not determine by common law , or by common sense , which is the essence of common law , what a corporation can be compelled to do , it is right to apply the rules of common sense to determine what the corporation ought to do . If a corporation obtains from the public the privilege of serving as a common carrier , it thereby receives a favor in the first place . For each specific service rendered it receives a specific price , and each transaction is thereby complete in itself , leaving the original favor unrequited . In return for this favor the public have certainly , according to common sense , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , decently , and with a due regard for their comfort . Taking the case of  --  a ferry across the East River to illustrate the argument , it is clear that the public have a right to be carried in clean , comfortable boats , crossing at regular intervals of time , and that only a reasonable price should be charged for the service . The Brooklyn Ferry Company has a monopoly of a vast trade . out of which it pays large dividends on its stock . The Fulton Ferry , which carries more passengars than either of the others belonging to this company , is crowded beyond the limit of safety twice a day , and . the boats each carry from twice to ten times as many passengers as would stand ? t reasonable chance of being saved if the boat should be sunk in the middle of the river , between the hours of 6 and 9 in the morning , or 5 and 7 in the afternoon . It.is no exaggeration to say that thousands of persons place themselves daily in a position where certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boat . Now this is not necessary . It is merely a way by which the Brooklyn Ferry Company increases its profits .. Boats could be run more frequently , thereby diminishing the number of passengers on each one . Any person who will stand in the ferry-house on the New-York side at 7 o'clock in the evening will see that the gathering crowd is kept for ten minutes waiting for the next boat , which , like those that run at more frequent intervals before 7 , will be crowded to excess . Aside from the question of safety , this delay is a robbery of no small amount of time . Probably five hundred persons are daily kept waiting an average of five minutes each , ' or over forty-two hours in all . If the company had to pay for forty-two hours ' service instead of taking that amount of time from the public , they would probably find it cheaper to make two trips during the ten minutes . It is no answer to this to say that five minutes is of no ffeat value to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each one pays to cross is of no great value , but the total is enough to pay a profit on running the ferry . The principle involved in this is theoretically recognized in the existing steam-boat regulations . Any one who will take the trouble to read the license which can be found , framed and fastened to the wall of any excursion boat running from New-York , may easily learn the number of passengers she can lawfully carry . Did any one ever hear of a passenger being refused on any one of these boats because the full complement was already on board , before an example was made of the Plymouth Rock ? We venture to say it was never done . If a few more owners of steam-boats are fined according to this precedent , common carriers will find it economical to provide proper accommodations for each passenger . It is reported that the Secretary of the Treasury has refused to remit the fine imposed ou the owners of the Plymouth Rock , and the only occasion for surprise is that the owners should have had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long suffering public submit to , is the amount charged by express companies for the carriage of parcels . It is a fact that it costs as much to send a parcel from one part of the City to another as in many cases it would cost to hire a special messenger to carry it . This is manifestly an imposition , for the express companies base their business on the fact that it is cheaper to carry packages in large quantities than singly . As a rule , the principal express companies give little cause for complaint in the manner in which they do their work , but their tariff of charges appears to be regulated only by the patience of the public . As for that patience , there is no limit to it . We get into cars and boats where no seats are provided , and where we are elbowed and jostled by crowds of fellow human beings , deprived of oxygen , the primary necessity of life , insulted by conductors , placed in peril of our lives , cut off from Police protection , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place from where wo got on we.pay money . That there is a remedy for this the common law declares . There is no wrong without a remedy . In some cases the law specifies the manner in which the remiedy may be obtained . In other cases it would seem that it might be possible to obtain such a remedy by petitioning the Legislature to revoke the charters of the offending corporations . There would be no difficulty in obtaining thousands of signatures to a petition clearly setting forth the grounds of such application .                     