@@740829

txt In our suggestions with reference to the reorganization of the Health Board . we laid . particular emphasis on the necessity of reform in the direction of vital statistics . Society 11 ... s a profound . interest in the correct registration of births . deaths , and marriages . Not only social morals , but also property , the rights of heirs , the question of titles , and many others , are involved , which closely concern every member of a civilized community . It becomes the duty of the civil authorities , therefore . to so provide that these statistics shall be accurately and fully reported ; thi , older communities of Europe are consequently scrupulously exact in regard to them . In New-York. however , we have hitherto been extremely careless about securing these essential statistics , except in the matter of deaths , which , it is only fair to say , are here reported with a completeness perhaps unparalleled by European cities . Oar record of deaths , indeed , is so near absolute perfection as to make it impossible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New-York is entirely surrounded by water . and every custodian of a bridge . ferry-boat , car , express and other means of conveyance of heavy bodies is instructed and obliged to require a burial permit of whomsoever has charge of a dead . body , aids essentially to bring about this completeness . It sometimes happens that a corpse is smuggled out of the City , but the opportunities for evasion of the law are rare , and the chances of detection numerous . Such - exceptional cases may , therefore , be safely left out of the calculation . The twenty-seven thousand deaths now annually reported undoubtedly include nine hundred and ninety-nine in every thousand that occur , and form as complete a record as it is possible to obtain . This accuracy-of death statistics , in one respect , tells against New-York , for , by reason of it , we get the name of a higher rate of mortality and consequent unhealthfulness than we deserve . In Philadelphia , for instance , where such statistics are less perfectly gathered , there is apparently a lower death rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably not the case . Only two cities on this continent show by their statistics so high a death rate as New-York  --  New-Orleans and Montreal . The fact of the large influx of immigration to this port naturally tends to aid to give us this unenviable distinction ; but far more than this the exceptional accuracy of our death returns - produces the result . In ' the matter of the registry of births and marriages , however , we are wofnlly deficient . Of the twenty thousand marriages that , it is safe to say , annually occur in New-York , not more than ten or twelve thousand are reported to the Register . This inaccuracy in part grows out of our Democratic constitution of society and the absence of any ecclesiastical law , " but wore from certain remedial defects of our system of registration . To obviate these we have recommended the appointment of a , considerable class of " sub-registrators , " each one to live in a certain district known to him , and authorized and instructed . to obtain from all persons competent to solemnize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy legal penalties being imposed ' upon all ministers and magistrates-who do not . make such a return . The question of divorce occupies a large part of the attention of a certain class of social reformers , but after all that of marriage is the more important . and , as it more intimately concerns a coming generation , property . morals , the family and the public generally , it first invites the thought and attention of the true reformer . Whether we adopt the French system of marriage before a notary as absolutely necessary to its legality , whatever may be the subsequent religious ceremony , or not , it becomes us , in the interests of good morals and property , also to so provide that marriage shall be faithfully registered . At present , we believe , the Roman Catholic priests in the City are among the most remiss in the matter of such returns , and their power with the Ring and in City politics has been such that they have not been punished , as they shonldhave been , for their frequent and flagrant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to births oleo , our records are exceedingly incomplete . The law- of increase of population , is that the births are about one-third . greater than the deaths , and . yet though our deaths , as we have said , are faithfully reported , and amount to about twenty-seven thousand annually , our births as returned . reach only about twenty thousand , whereas , they are probably between thirty-five and forty thousand . And even this small proportion of return was much lower before our present Register of Record -- Dr . CHARLES P. Russzrz  --  came into office . By strong personal effort among physicians , and . in their societies , he has succeeded in calling their attention to the propriety and necessity of accuracy in the reporting and registry of births , and the result has been that there is the large increase in these returns . since he took office , of between five and ten thousand . But no individual efforts . unaided by legislative action , can accomplish the end . that is so desirable . It becomes of the highest importance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any new Charter given the City .                     