@@741333

txt In the long category of rectorial installations at the University of Glasgow , that of Mr. Disieseset is in many respects remarkable . The addresses delivered on these occasions form a series of the highest oratorical efforts hymen who have held a foremost place among the leading statesmen , scholars . and writers that Great Britain has produced . They are the deliberate works of accomplished men , prepared for the critical judgment of scholars and of the world , more , perhaps , than of the students who are supposed to be most immediately addressed . As such they have in all cases reflected the personal and special merits of the speaker , but nowhere have they displayed the versatility of talent , the power of adaptation to the occasion under peculiar circumstances , and the eloquence of style , as well as of manner , more completely than on this last occasion . Mr. DISRAELI is a statesman , a leader , and an author . In the first two capacities he has no superior in the British Parliament ; in the last he may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Matter and the manner of his address to the Glasgow University he showed that he is more than all this . The wonderful tact . Which , for five and twenty years , has helped to keep him at the head of the Conservative Party in England , was never more prominently apparent The circumstances under which he spoke wore different from any he had before , experienced , and he was different too . Among al the speeches he has delivered at various times during forty years of active public life , it would be impossible to find one that can compare with this to the Glasgow students . There may be many as powerful , many as eloquent , but there are none like it . There are no politics , but there is o , weighty political lesson runtang as an undercurrent beneath the surface , which , when fully analyzed , is found to be of the utmost import . There is no attempted display of learning , but there is ample evidence of the speaker 's research , and of the appreciation that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing obscure nor illdefined , and vet the whole address is pervaded with that glow of a fervid imagination which characterizes alike Mr. DISRAELI 'S writings and his most extempore:Loons speeches . It need not be disputed . that in this address Mr. DISRAELI , to a certain extent , outlined the secret of his own success . In so doing he has provoked the sneers of his opponents , but he will be awarded the favorable judgment of impartial critics . All things considered , there is no British statesman whose success has been greater ; and it is well to be told whereon it rests . The secret , too , is simple  --  a knowledge of self . and a knowledge of the times . We can well - understand , as we look back to the early career of Mr. DISRAELI in the House of Commons , how the necessity of the first part of this knowledge became indelibly impressed upon him . Few men have ever worked more patiently or with more determination to attain it . That was a labor involving . self-restraint and incessant industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it may be doubted whether men of less true genius Willa , by the same means , have attained that delicate perception of things around him , and that remarkable insight into political complication s , whichscombined with a ' patient and well-balanced temperament , - have raised him to the high position he now holds . These are the leading features in his character , but it can not he affirmed that they are within the reach of everybody , or , at any rate , not in the same degree of perfectiorn Yet they are qualities essential to the statesman in days when moral power is asserting its superiority over material might ; for they alone will tend to regulate the public policy of a nation in harmony with the spirit of the time , and with the advanced demands of ittl-talttet nal vrogreiiti . And this brings us to another noticeable feature in the Glasgow address . A too corittiOn conception of an English conservative is of one who stubbornly resists all advancement , a man whose mind is impervious to modern ideas , ' who inherits his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far as he is concerned , the world shall not advance . Mr. Disnalm 's speech ought to dissipate all such silly e cations . No one doubts . the true conservative spirit of the man whom conservatives have , by common consent , acknowledged for the last quarter of a century as their leader . Nor can any one read his latest speech with an honest intention , and then say that English conservatism is not progressive . There is nothing in it which the most zealous conservative would hesitate for a moment to indorse , but there is not one word which indicates that the conservative policy is not strictly in accord with the progressive ; demands of civilization . It stops at destruction ; it stops at unnecessary and worthless reforms ; it stops at those principles which burned the Tull-. cries and in a former day abolished Christianity and denied a God ; but it keeps pace with the requirements of the times and with the spirit of the age . When ' Mr. Drsnersu told the Glasgow students that , a true comprehension of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , following and . adopting it if it were good , and as carefully . resisting it if it were bad , but always understanding it , he pointed out , not only a piece : of valuable advice , but the true nature of sound statesmanship , and the first principle of a conservative policy .                     