@@741292

txt The proceedings of the Democratic Convention yesterday were very characteristic . At a-moment when its leaders were pretending to be rallying the party to a new and advanced position on national questions , and when it was an obvious necessity to them to prove to the country that they were united and resolute , the Convention was thrown into a violent turmoil by a quarrel between two factions in the City of New-York . With the merits of the quarrel no outsiders need pretend to be acquainted , but what its consequences may be every one can see . It occupied the delegates to the Convention the greater part of two days ; it brought them to the very verge of a free fight , which was only averted by the device of adjournment ; and it has resulted in the arbitrary exclusion of the representatives of Apollo Hall , who are not likely , with their friends , to forget the insult put upon them . This , we beg our readers to remember , is the work of the Democrats of New-York , whose leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , and who claim to do so now . It is a fine record for the party of " national opposition . " We do not very much wonder that , seeing the turn things were likely to take , Mr. SEYMOUR , who was " slated. " for temporary Chairman , found it convenient to be out of the Way , returning only after the trouble was settled , and . then making a speech of most depressing dullness . That great man is used to avoiding unpleasant complications in this manner . It will be remembered that two years since Mr. SET-noun was called off by a sudden and unaccountable illness , just when , if he had remained , ho would have linen compelled to take a decided stand as to the position in the party of his fellow-statesman , Mr. Wm . M. TWEED , late of this City . Another gifted loader , with regretful memofies , perhaps , of the watch which his fellow delegates once eased him of on their way from the Convention , fled a long time beforehand , and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about THONIAS JEFFERSON over the , heads of the impatient crowd , he was enjoying himself on the other side of the Atlantic , in a prudent , if not patriotic , manner . The " leaders " who remained had a happy time of it . Poor EE-Lieut . Gov . BEACH , a harmless dullard whose elevation to the position he once occupied has always been a puzzle to his less lucky associates , made the opening speech in that style of empty extravagance which feeble minds are apt to mistake for eloquence . He informed his hearers that " the constitutional rights of the States are trampled i it the t ! itst , " and " that the neck of labor is under the heel of capital "  --  a brace of statements of very doubtful interest to a swarm of politicians waiting to hear who was to be on the Committee on Credentials , and to see how the New-York fight was coming out . Mr. BEACH was followed by Mr. BEEBE , of one of the rural counties , who as temporary Chairman , vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Gen. McenEnnAen and comparing it with that of Vice President WILSON , to the great disadvantage of the latter . And BEEBE was followed by Congresstuau THOMAS CREAMER , of this City , who opened the great fight , and brought things to such a state that the Chairman declared the Convention adjourned to get rid of the roughs , who were getting very . ugly . In this way the Convention approached the business a nominating a ticket and making a platform which should represent the " national opposition , " and inaugurate the terribly-belated " revolution " for which the Democratic office-seekers have so long been pining . Nothing more unworthy of a great party , or more discouraging to its decent members , could possibly have been witnessed . The course of the Convention is another proof  --  which was hardly needed ? of the complete demoralization of the Democratic Party in this State . The remnant of the Tammany Ring , led by JOHN MonnissEY and Ex-Justice SRANDLEY , secured a triumph petty and barren enough . for themselves , and fatal to what little hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform " organization , claiming support on account of its superior purity , and led by men of this stamp , is simply ridiculous . There was no need of the bitter quarrel in this City , and the estrangement of some of the most energetic and . popular politician of the party , to make defeat certain . The Republican ticket , composed of such men as Messrs . THA.YER , HOPxiNs , and SILLIMAN , and . known to be in full sympathy with the honorable administration of Gov . Dix , has nothing to fear from any ticket the Democrats can name . The Republicans have now only to carry into the Senate and Assembly Districts the policy of good nominations which they have adopted . as to the State , and they will certainly win all the coming elections .                     