@@741312

txt The authorized addition to our naval force in the Pacific indicates the increasing importance of our commercial relations in that part of the world . We may look now for the ratio of that increase growing year by year ; and if the opportunity afforded by the Centennial Exhibition be properly used , there is every reason for believing that we shall start upon the second century of our independence with the immediate prospect of having a powerful commercial marine in Eastern seas . All our interests demand this , and if we let the chance slip from us , we shall have only ourselves to blame . Meanwhile the rapid progress that is being made in that part of the world preparatory to great commercial enterprise is remarkable . News received within two weeks by telegraph from Australia conveys information of the unexceptional prosperity of those colonies . The yield of gold is increasing . More than sixty million dollars in value of the precious metal had already been produced this year to the end of September . The exports of copper , tin , wool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is largely in excess of expenditures , and no taxes are levied except such as are required for revenue . Northward the war in the Dutch EastIndies has impeded commerce and impoverished the supplies of native produce , but in China there is a trade which , judging from the latest returns , is worth not less than eighty million dollars annually , and the demand for American goods is becoming more active every year . In Japan the signs of progress are yet greater . Notwithstanding the comparative limited area of that Kingdom , the value of imports and exports as reported by our Consuls for  --  the last official year was : 1,122,498 , of which the imports exceeded the exports by nearly ten millions . Here , too , the indications of social progress are most marked . An engineering college is about being started at Yeddo by the Japanese Government for the instruction of mem , hers of the Public Works Department . The Principal is a practical engineer , from the University of Glasgow , and the Universities of London and Edinburgh have contributed Professors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of whom , together with teachers of drawing and English , have begun work . The college was built ou the grounds of a suppressed Daimio , and besides a large collection of philosophical apparatus , it contains a library well stocked with standard American and English books . Facts like these are of the utmost importance to American interests , as showing the determination of an active and energetic people who are nearest to our shores to build up a prosperous future for themselves on the foundation of modern civilization , from which we must , also . derive benefits . Nor is it in the arts of peace only that the Japanese are active . They not only know the value of commerce , but they also understand its obligations . Only a few years ago the first steam vessel was owned in Japan . It was a screw trading vessel , and was purchased at an enormous price by one of the then powerful Daimios . Directly the bargain was completed the new owner dismissed the English crew , retaining the engineer only so long as was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Daimio put to sea , and all went well . But on coming into port again the engineer found to his horror that he could not stop the engines . The Daimio grew furious ; some of the crew immolated themselves to appease the Western magicians , but without avail ; and the only remedy was to keep the helm hard-astarboard and to let the ship describe circles at her own pleasure . This she did . till the Captain of a foreign man-of-war came to the rescue , put one or two of his crew on board , and brought the ship of the distressed Daimio to an anchorage . Such was the first Japanese experience in steam navigation , and it is recent . But now the Japanese Government possesses a navy of seventeen ships of war , of which fourteen are steamers ; and sill are manned exclusively by natives . Two are armorplated vessels , six are gun-boats , and three steam transports . Besides these , there is a dispatch vessel being built in this country , and a number of gun-boats have also been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unarmed fleet of 132 ships , of which 93 are steamers , the majority of which are chartered for mercantile purposes on the coast . To man these vessels a naval school is established at Yeddo consisting of three departments , and providing jointly a complete naval education . The Navy Department absorbs $2,000 , - 000 of the public revenue annually , and , although framed on the English model , is intended as much for the development of a commercial marine as it is for the establishMont of a defensive power . So rapid a development of Eastern Asia as these things indicate , necessitates a greater interest on the part of American merchants and manufacturers to Eastern traffic . Trade with these nations must increase , and the questions we have to consider are whether we shall monopolize the larger share , as we ought to do , and if so whether it shall be done in American bottoms or by means of Asiatic vessels . If we answer these questions as we are bound to do , it is private enterprise that must make the practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waited for nor expected . All classes of our people are interested , and the reward that belongs to so large a field for enterprise should be a sufficient impulse to action , independently even of other considerations .                     