@@741187

txt A murderous tragedy of shocking atrocity was enacted in this city late on Saturday night , in a tenementhouse , No. 458 New-Market-street , which resulted in ? the murder of a young girl and the self-destruction of the murderer . About 10 o'clock smoke was seen to issue from an attic of the premises named occupied by an Irish shoemaker named Jerry White . The door of the room was found looked by PerBOES who rushed up to extinguish the flames . An entrance was effected , when White was discovered lying upon the floor dead , with on throat out from ear to ear . The mattress of the bed had been fired , and after the flames were extinguished . stretched out upon it the lifeless body of a young and beautiful girl was found with the flesh upon her lower limbs partly burned . The lower portion of the throat . was horribly mutilated and slashed almost from ear to ear . In a pool of blood , in which the Corpse of White lay , a bloody razor was discovered , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonnet was found where she hadj lett it on a chair . Her shawl was neatly folded away on a chest . A lamp was also burning upon a stand in the room , with the chimney turned back as if it had been carelessly handled . White used the attic as a lodging place . and lived alone . The girl was identified as Mary Bracken , sixteen years of age , who resided with her parents , at No. 11 Clark-place , in the immediate vicinity . reputy Coroner Lees was sent for , and . when he arrived , be took charge of the bodies and had them removed to the Morgue . Meanwhile the news spread rapidly , and a great crowd collected in the street in front of the premises occupied by White , and the greatest excitement prevailed . This morning the Coroner 's physician-held a post-mortem examination upon the remains . The bodies were stretched out upon marble slabs in the dead-room , and the sight they presented was horrible . The heavy jaws of the man White were set in rigid firmness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ features of the dead girl . The larynx of Miss Bracken was found to have been severed , and five deep gashes extended from the left ear almost around to the right . The jugular vein was cut , and the carotid artery also . The lower extremities were burned from the hips down and the left foot was nearly consumed . One thumb was out off , and several gashes also appeared upon the hands . White 's windpipe was severed in two places , and a gash Bight inches in length was cut in the throat . Be l &; the jugular vein and the carotid artery were severed , and his face bore visible marks , as if the girl had forced her finger-nails into the chin . In his hand were found tufts of ham which upon being compared with that of Miss Breech:I , was found to correspond . White is said to have loved the girl for a long while . He bad lived with her mother for a number of years , and was very intimate with the family . He induced her to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is believed that he murdered her from a premeditated intention . No outcry or disturbance was heard to issue from the room , but there is every evidence that the poor girl fought desperately for life . After he had killed her , be set the bed on fire with the lainp , then cut his own throat . The girl has borne a good character , but there are rumors that she lived on intimate terms with White . The cause of the murder is supposed to have been jealousy , as White had hinted that he would get the girl in trouble . He is forty years old , has been in the country eight years , and has a family living in Bedford . England , whom he abandoned . The murder is the most shocking that has occurred for several years . To-morrow the ? Coroner will hold an inquest in the case .                     