@@741995

txt This is the season when the approach of the Fourth of July is heralded by the blowing up of manufactories of fire-works , and the diffusion of small particles of exploded workmen , over miles of startled country . In these days the Coroner wears a happy and confident expression of face , and hopefully lingers in the neighborhood of shops where fire-works are sold . Now that fulminate of silver , nitro-glycerine , and other violent explosives have been converted into playthings for juvenile patriots , the blowing up of a single small boy may furnish business for a dozen Coroners , each of whom may reasonably hope to pick up a finger , an carol jack-knife , or other organ of the victim , upon which an entire inquest can lawfully be held . The other day a manufactory of paper percussion caps designed for toy pistols blew up iu New-Jersey , and gave such an impulse to inquests that all the Coroners of the county expect to be able to attend the Centennial Exhibition in a special Pullman car . A year or two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and scattered finely comminuted workmen all over the neighborhood . To-day there are scores of shops in our crowded streets where tons of fire-ivorks are so recklessly exposed that the spark of a cigar may suddenly- fill the air with vagrant rockets rushing with murderous intent upon unsuspecting pedestrians , and with flaming Catherine wheels revolving among the legs of passing horses , or dashing against the skirts of terrified women . In the midst of life we are also in the midst of fire-works , and no man knows at what moment his ears may be deafened by an explosion and his hat flattened over his eyes by the parabol c descent of some total and Mangled stranger . There is something to be said in defense of ornamental fire-works as a means of celebrating the Fourth of July . They are frequently beautiful in themselves , and the extent to which they set buildings on fire endears them to mechanics in search of employment . Mere explosives , however , are utterly indefensible , except from the Coroner 's point of view . Fire-crackers , torpedoes , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's love for noise makes deafened millions mourn . That the small boy frequently puts out his eyes , or ruins a dozen insurance companies by burning up a whole city , can not be pleaded ? as a sufficient compensation for the torture which lie inflicts during the twenty-four hours of Independence Day . If there has been any decay of patriotism among Americans of late years , the cause is to be sought in firei-crackers . No man , outside of a deaf and dumb asylum , who is awakened at midnight on the 3d of July with  --  a hideous din that he knows will grow worse and worse for the next twenty-four hours , can help feeling that the Declaration of Independence w as a terrible mistake , and that slavery and quiet are infinitely preferable to freedom and fire-crackers . This feeling is , of course , of only temporary duration ; but its annual indulgence can not but dull the patriotic instincts of the noblest men . Why does the small boy delight iu firecrackers 7 . Obviously because they make a noise . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ licensed to make unlimited noise , and accordingly he calls in the aid of the benighted heathen of China ; who furnish ' him with fire-crackers , and of the less excusable heathen a our own land , who are not ashamed to pander to his depraved passions with fulminate of silver and picrate of potash . While there ' is no hope that public opinion can ever induce the small boy to abandon his prescriptive right to make the Fourth hideous , it is possible that he might be made to achieve his noisy ambition in some other way than with the aid of explosive compounds . The thoughtful and studious small boy is already aware that he can Make noises of the most exasperating character without the aid of ' a particle of gunpowder . Why should we not point out to our little ones the safe and cheap instruments of uproar with which every household is provided , and - prevail upon them to accept these in exchange for the fire-cracker that burns by day and the " niggerchaser " that kindles in the night-time 7 The ordinary front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy can produce more noise by violently and persistently slamming it than can be produced by a whole pack of fire-crackers . There is also the familiar species of dining table with swinging leaves , the rapid upsetting of which rivals in deafeningresults a regimentalvolley of musketry . Every man who has " moved " on the 1st of May is familiar with the magnificent effect in point of noise , which is produced by loading a small boy With an assortment of coal-scuttles and directing him to carry them carefully down stairs . If this experiment were to be repeated , say at . half hourly intervals on the Fourth , and especially if a few worn-out articles of tin ware were placed at the bottom of the stairs to receive the loaded boy , the crash and . rattle that would ensue would far eclipse the best efforts of the largest " giant crackers . " The common domestic baby can , in skillful hands , be made to yield noises . of great variety and penetrative power ; and the eat-piercing results of sawfiling are so notorious , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a carnival of saws ought ' long ago to have been recognized : True would fail were the attempt made to give a complete list of domestic instruments of patriotic noise . Those that have been men'tioned are alone sufficient to give expression to the wildest . juvenile patriotism . Let us , then , discard the dangerous explosives sold by pyrotechnists and substitute for them the harmless front door , the innocuous dining-table , and the safe but Satisfac- ? tory baby and saw . What a sublime spectacle would be presented on the ensuing Fourth were the small boys of this happy laud to celebrate our national independence by the unremitting slamming of doors , the upsetting of tables , the filing of saws , and the pinching of babies . Of course , the selfish and scoffing Coroner wi say that such a method of celebration would be wholly unworthy of the day ; but we all know that what ho calls his love of country is only a love of inquests , and that when he pretends that the fire-crackers of pagan China are better adapted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the saws and files of Christian America , he is ' secretly longing for scorched corpses and shattered limbs . His business lies with contemporaneous human bodies , and his profession of interest in the corpses of the men of 1776 , who are now far beyond the reach of inquest , is obviously a hollow mockery .                     