@@743216

txt The jury in the case of JOsEPEC A. BLAIR , indicted for killing his coachman , JOHN ARMSTRONG , at Montclair , on the 26th of last June , brought in a verdict of " not guilty " yesterday morning , after a continuous seclusion of four days . The obstinate juryman , who is always present upon trials of this kind , was labored with until either worn out or convinced of his error , and , after four months of suspense and doubt , two weeks of an exciting trial , and four days of weary waiting for the verdict , Mr. BLAIR breathes freely once more , amid the congratulations of his friends . He has escaped conviction of a terrible crime and , the ignominious penalty attached to it , though we are bound to believe that there was ' at least one impartial and fair-minded man who thought , after listening attentively to all the evidence , that he was guilty . Perhaps it can not be said that his escape was narrow , for , though he might have ' had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly a chance that any jury would have been ! ' unanimously convinced of his guilt on a charge of murder . BLAIR has teen favored in several points , and the benefit of the doubt , which the law rightly accords to an accused person , has been greater in his case than it might have been under different circumstances . His station in life and his previous good character , which was in no way assailed on the trial , afforded a strong presumption in his favor , which could not fail to have effect upon a jury . A hasty temper is a common weakness , but if his moral conduct had been no better than that of great numbers of men who are never charged with crime , the same circumstances would have shown in a different light . The principal witness ' against him was a garrulous and light-headed servant-girl , who not only indulged in much random talk about the ease which could not be made wholly consistent with itself or with her sworn testimony , but who was also weak enough to be at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off from testifying . The inference from this was , not so much that she could tell damaging truths , as that she desired to give the impression that her testimony must be strongly against the accused , in order to make it seem worth while to stop her mouth with money . The effect at any rate was to cast doubt upon her whole testimony , the benefit of which accrued to BLAIR . Again , he was fortunate in the privilege of testifying in his own behalf , which , not so very long ago , would have been denied him . Precisely what occurred in that stable loft no one but he and the dead man knew . The attendant circumstances and the sounds that came from the unseen conflict at the head of the stairs did not throw sufficient light on the delicate question of self-defense , but the ' doubt as to the necessity of shooting to save his own life , was greatly increased in a favorable direction by his explanation . A flaw and a seeming inconsistency was also fortunately found in the dying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he might make was subject to suspicion . All these things tended to increase the doubt as to the action of the accused being such as couldbe reasonably construed into manslaughter . The law very properly requires the case against any person charged with crime to be clearly made out , and will subject no man to the chance of being punished while a reasonable doubt as to his guilt remains . In BTAIn 's ease there certainly was great doubt , and his acquittal is in strict accordance with human justice . But , while the verdict cleared him from the penalty of the law , it does not declare his action blameless . His experience is not without a lesson for hasty employers . ARMSTRONG was a profane and brutal fellow , we will admit ; he was very likely dangerous when stirred to anger and worked into an altercation . It may be that in a personal struggle for the keys of the stable , or for his ejectment from the premises , he might have used a weapon and made a summary mode of self-defense necessary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of calm self-possession , or one impressed with the duty of avoiding a violent quarrel with a ruffian . If the coachman had not been supplied with a pistol , or if Mr. , BLAIR had not been so ready to resort to his in. dealing with a fractious servant , the difficulty might have passed , as many such do every day , without bloodshed , A man has a right to defend his life even by taking that of another , if it can not be avoided , but it is his duty to use every effort to keep clear of such dire necessity .                     