@@781765

txt The World had an article , yesterday , in which Dr. JOHNSON , BELSHAllAR , DANIEL , and other celebrated personages figured " very conspicuously , and in which ( as a further compliment to Dr. JouNsoii ) all the longest words in the dictionary were trotted out . The heavy Johnsonian style has always been popular in the World office ; and on this occasion it was employed for the purpose of predicting that the Republican Presidential ticket would be defeated in November . Perhaps the writer drew his conclusions from the fact that in every State election thus far held . the Greeleyites have been signally beaten . Or he may have derived encouragement from the circumstance that the Congressional majorities just gained in Maine actually exceed those of 1868 . When people are so easily sal billed it would be cruel to interfere with their harmless amusements . Three Emperors  --  a German , an Austrian and a Russian  --  are holding a small Congress of their own in Vienna . Out of compliment to one another , they wear one another 's clothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emperor wore a Prussian uniform and an Austrian order ; the Austrian Emperor wore a Russian uniform and a Prussian order , and Emperor WILLIAM wore an Austrian uniform and a Russian order . Now , when these Imperial gentlemen desire to change their dress , it must be a perplexing problem for them to decide what uniforms , and what orders shall fall to each Emperor . Three Emperors with three sets of uniforms and three sorts of orders to be worn among them all  --  can each manage to make nine different toilets I if each Emperor had only himself to consult , he could make these nine changes without trouble , but when he has to make sure that neither of His two friends shall hit upon the same combination of uniform and order that he has chosen , the effort of mind required to properly arrange the matter must be gigantic . and the perplexity of the Imperial valets de chambre absolutely maddening . MT . GREELEY is determined to " conciliate " the original rebels . Ile referred on Saturday to his pet scheme of universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' Why , you do n't want to elect Toomns or somebody else , do you , ' No . I do n't want to elect any of those men ; but suppose other people do ; who are you or who am I to say whether they shall or not I " This makes a square issue , which is easily met . If Mr. GREELEY wants to know who have the right to say that JEFFERSON DAVIS , ROBERT TOOMBS , and their companions in hatching the treason of 1861 , shall not again hold office in the United States , we answer , the American people . These men are , all technicalities aside , wicked traitors . Had they been hung as such seven years ago , the whole world , including a majority of the Southerners , would have conceded the justice of their fate . We are now asked to remove from our statute  --  book the last trace of disapproval of their treason , and invite the South to send them to the United States Senate . To this there can be but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as blind as a bat to the temper of the people . Any man who , like Mr. GREELEY , proposes it to count Southern votes , is as wrung-hearted as he is wrong-headed . It would seem that Mr. GF:EF.LEY 'S Southern friends do not share in his professed desire for universal kindliness between opposing political parties . A party of them broke up a meeting of Republicans in Mobile , as Saturday evening , by an attack . We have no desire to magnify the importance of these incidents . They have frequently occurred in other campaigns . But then , as now . the Democrats were always the offenders , and Mr. GREELEY , as an apostle of peace . is , quoad hoc , a failure of the most melancholy character . The railway ticket-agents have been holding a convention , and discussing , among other matters , the subject of " laying-over " tickets , as they elegantly call tickets whi , oh permit the holder to stop on his way and resume his journey subsequently . It would be better If these ticket-agents decided to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used in this way . The law , as decided over and over again , asserts that the man who buys a ticket from New-York to Albany has the right to stop at any station on the road for as long a time as he pleases. and afterward to resume his journey without buying another ticket , Yet it is the universal custom of all railway servants to ignore the law in this matter , ana to demand extra fare in eases where a ticket is not used ow the day of ail date only . In seat oases the traveler , even when he knows what his rights really are , submits to the imposition rather than incur the inconvenience of being ejected from the train . It the ticket-agents would deoide to obey the law , instead of discussing " laying-over " tickets , they would show both their good sense and their honesty . The Subcommittee of the Tammany General Committee for " reforming Tammany ' ' consists of Jona kIOnnteasT , Justice Lanwrra . BILLY Wattitt. and E. PLUM . If these are not true Reformers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliged to make room today for twenty-eight columns of advertisements . Frequent supplements will enable us to keep pa  --  s with this demand upon our space , without depriving our readers of any news . We beg to call the attention of our advertising friends to the advantages offered them in our weekly paper , which now circulates in every part of the Union , and in numbers which make it the beak medium for this kind of communication now open to the public .                     