@@781544

txt When Mr. TENNYSON wrote that popular poem " Enoch Arden , " he probably meant well enough , but he ought to have foreseen the inevitable consequences of his act . From that day to this no husband has ever returned home from a temporary absence and found his wife in the possession of a substitute without having his domestic difficulties paraded in the local newspapers , and himself described as " another Enoch Arden . " In this country , especially , the annual crop of Enoch Ardens has been enormous . " Out of tllo golden . remote , wild West , Where the sea without shore lea vast procession of wandering husbands is continually winding its way homeward to Eastern hearth-stones , where other and superfluous husbands are comfortably trespassing . One would naturally think that no really chivalric husband , after going alone to California and residing for a dozen years in a land flowing with bowie-knives and revolvers , without once writing to his deserted wife , would dream of returning home to earn the title of " another Enoch Arden . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last . He may be cast upon the waters iu a Pacific Mail steam-snip , but instead of being drowned or burned he is sure to return after many years . And when ho does return , so potent is the influence of Mr. TENNYONIS preposterous teachings upon him that he always tries to surpass the original Enoch Arden in unprofitable idiocy . It will be remembered that Mr. TENNYsos 's hero , after spending several years on a lonely island , in the unworthy occupatin of writing doleful blank verse to the grieved but patient monkeys , finally took passage for England , and returned to the cottage where he had left his wife . Most men in his circumstances would have gone boldly to the trout door , and , after tenderly embracing ' their wives , would have asked where on earth their slippers lied been hidden , ' and whether they were ever to have ally supper . Arden , however , preferred to look through the dining-room windows , and to gaze upon ; the apparent felicity of his wife 's new husband , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who infested the house . After this disreputable proceeding he withdrew from the window , rolled on the vegetables in the back garden , and finally went away to a cheap boarding-house , where he died on a suspicious-looking cot-bedstead , after haying told his landlady his true name , and thus made it certain that ins wife 's matrimonial mistake would become the theme of universal gossip . Absurd as this poor creature 's conduct was , Mr. TENNYsox and the dramatists who have fitted the story for the stage have convinced nearly all wandering husbands that they ought to do likewise . When the American Enoch Arden returns from California to Oshkosh , lie does not , indeed , descend to the meanness of surreptitiously gazing through the hack window , but he enters his house stealthily and under cover of night , and creates a wanton and nsel 8.5 degree of embarrassment in the family . The wife hurriedly sends both kinds of children to had lest they should ask troublesome questions , and then bursts into tears to avoid taking an active part in the ensuing conversation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arden nobly says that , heart-broken as he is , lie will not make his wife unhappy , but will go forth and wander , leaving her to reflect that she is living with a man who is not lawfully married to her , and that her conduct has made her real husband an outcast and a homeless vagabond . The next day , after having mentioned the matter to the editor of the Oshkosh Commercial Eagle , he hastens to his California wife , feeling that he he s , ou t he whole , proved himself as intelligent and noble as any Enoch Arden on record . lied Mr. TENNYSiN never written that unfortunate poem , the wandering husband , on learning that his original wife had promoted another nian to his place , would stay away altogether , or else would return with the intention of either promptly insisting upon his rights or of effecting a compromise . Perhaps the latter course would be more in keeping with the spirit of our institutions , provided the second husband is possessed of money and a desire to avoid scandal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the strong arm of the law , and whatever improvements in the shape of bonnets and furs he may have put upon the disputed property during his term of occupancy should be confiscated by the real owner . It is safe to say that in the absence of the Tennysonian precedent , disputes between lawful and trespassing husbands would invariably be settled in Some such manly and intelligible way , and the so-called Enoch Arden who returns home merely to make everybody uncomfortable , and goes away again without having reaped the slightest benefit from his visit , would be absolutely unknown . The dawn of a better day is at last heralded by the able conduct of a wandering husband who returned to Boston last week , and is now mentioned by the provincial press as a new and startling species of Enoch Arden . This man walked boldly into his house , and , finding an unnecessary husband upon the premises , quietly sent for a policeman , had the intruder removed to the sidewalk , and then , putting on the abandoned slippers of his rival , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper . She shed no tears , and ho upbraided no one ; he merely took possession of his own wife and furniture , and rid himself of the superfluous husband in the simplest possible way . The contrast between this man 's prompt and efficient course and the preposterous conduct of the usual Enoch Arden is so manifestly creditable to the former , that it is to be hoped that hereafter the influence of Mr. TENNYSON and the number of Enoch Arden 's imitators will steadily decrease .                     