@@781762

txt The evidence before the Legislative Committee on Commerce with reference to the Commissioners of Emigration , has been closed somewhat abruptly . Still , it has brought out some items which throw a lurid light upon the economy and purity of Demo4 lines deleted management at Castle Garden . The testimiony comes wholly from the Commissioners and . their employes . In.the first place . it appears that the Commissioners Select MIKE NORTON and ToM CANARY as the men who have the absolute right to handle emigrants ' baggage . We doubt whether the Commissioners would . like to trust their own property in such hands . This same man CANARY had a contract for transporting sick emigrants from various parts of the City , for which he received about twentyfive dollars a bead , but an inquisitive and reforming Commissioner having discovered the fact , it was reduced to a little over one-third that rate . It seems too that the business of the Board is conducted . so loosely that . after a. committee having the matter in charge had adopted the plan of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without authority . erected a three-story building . The Board adopted a plan for a building to coat $250,000 . They found too late that it would cost $750,000 , and : We 110W defending a suit for $34.00D fees arising out of their error . Mr. TWEED appointed a relative , one KING , the purchasing agent . He happened to be sick one day , and a Commissioner took his place . The difference in prices was so great that the Boss ' relative had to retire to private life . It seems that one thoroughly competent physician was removed for political reasons , and an incompetent one put in his place . Dr. CanNocrtaN , not content with his huge fees at Quarantine . took $2,500 a year as physician at Ward 's Island . but has recently had to forego that . One striking fact appears . The Commissioners of Emigration not only deem it right to use the money collected from poor emigrants in paying Postmaster JONES and Judge WATERBURY three thousand dollars apiece for lobby services at Albany . but they paid Gen. HILLYER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object being to defeat the passage of a bill to place the care of emigration under the control of the General Government . All the industry and virulence of Senators CASSERix and BAYARD failed to discern in the entire Custom-house any misappropriation of public funds at all approaching this in grossness . We call the particular attention of these gentlemen to the striking fact that two brief days ' investigation of this Democratic Board have brought to light every one of the abuses which they assert exist in the Custom-house . There are , first , assessments on office-holders. and second . removals of competent men for political reasons and the substitution of incompetent ones . while the Quarantine investigation shows taxes imposed upon commerce greatly in excess of anything to be found in the Custom-house.                     