@@742849

txt The influences which contributed to the defeat of Tammany have their counterpart in the causes of the larger triumph of the Republican Party in national politics . Distrust of the Democratic Party , disgust excited by its abandonment of principle and its indifference to the character and qualifications of its candidates , and a determination to resent the immorality of its tactics and the disorganizing tendency of its measures , ? all helped to consummate the defeat which almost everywhere in the East and West has overtaken it . The gains of the Republican Party , on the other hand , are traceable to the faith which its policy inspired , to an appreciation of its struggle in behalf of honor and honesty , to the personal superiority of its candidates , and to the conviction that its success alone can check existing dangers and restore the confidence which must precede prosperity . These considerations explain the uncommon energy and activity of Republicans , and the aid rendered them by conservative and nonpartisan forces whose action depended on the development of events . The results of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their significance can not be overrated . Three months ago apathy endangered the Republican cause . The Greenbackers were aggressive , boastful , and in some States apparently irresistible . Misled by appearances , the Democrats generally hastened to conciliate them . Their ideas dominated in Democratic platforms , and their demands governed the choice of Democratic candidates . The financial question became the controlling question . Meanwhile hesitancy had crept into the Republican management , and there wore signs of a disposition to conduct the campaign on a temporizing basis . The party lost heart . Gradually , however , the efforts of the party press called forth the latent moral strength of the Republican rank and file . It soon became evident that equivocal platforms did not express the convictions of the party and that a halting leadership was-not suited to its needs . Its old spirit was brought into play . It ascended to the broad platform of principle as steadily as the Democrats descended to the level of demagogues . These opposite movements gave definite character to the contest . There was no more doubt as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had taken up the gauntlet thrown down by the allied advocates of inflation and repudiation , and having fought the good fight with all their old devotion to principle , they fairly earned the victories they have won . In this contest as in many that preceded it , the Republican Party has achieved the distinction as well as the success incident to the steadfast maintenance of sound prinple . It had drawn around it , in darker days , the men who cared more for country than for party , ? more for the Union than for aught else . So now its organization became the rallying-point of all who value the public credit as they would value the life of the nation , who realize the danger involved in demagogues ' plans for tampering with the currency , and whose conservative instincts prompt them to crush the partisan agencies . that are at work unsettling affairs and scattering broadcast the seed of financial mischief . The Union Democrats of the wartime are succeeded by the honest-money Democrats of to-day ; and the Republican Party has once more profited by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Connecticut , Massachusetts , and NewHampshire , in New-Jersey and Pennsylvania , might perchance  --  so far as the financial issue is concerned  --  have been acquired by the unaided Republican vote ; but their moral value is enhanced by the fact that in all of these States the bulk of the non-partisan vote and the votes of an influential class of moderate Democrats , have contributed to the Republican achievements and rendered more certain their wholesome effect upon national politics . Of course , in spite of these achievements , the next Congress will be Democratic . The gains , substantial though they be , are not large enough to destroy the present majority in the House . They are partially offset , moreover , by the results of Democratic fraud and wrong in the Southern States . The South in the next House will be " solid " on the side of the party which , on Tuesday , sustained material reverses throughout the North and West . Still , what has been accomplished largely mitigates the danger that confronted the country , and will almost certainly modify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be apprehended . One that the Democaatic majority would be so large as to render the veto power inoperative . The other , that the Greenback Representatives would on critical occasions hold the balance of power . The occurrence of either of these contingencies would have been a calamity . Having been confident of success , the Democrats'llave been frank enough to explain some uses to which their absolute control would be put . There would have been no limit to their recklessness . Whatever obstacles stand between them and the objects they cherish would have been removed . The public credit was in jeopardy . Resumption Was threatened . The Administration was warned that its hands would be effectually tied . Nothing would have been . left.undone that might be required to satisfy the demands of the South , or to fortify the party 's position in 1880 . To understand the evil of these intentions or their prevalence in the party , it is only necessary to glance at the party journals of dates prior to Tuesday . Happily the country is relieved from these possibilities . The Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while in the Senate it will be subject to . restraints within its own party that will prevent serious harm . This , at any rate , the Republicans have effected : they have acquired a strength that will prevent the passage over the President 's veto of the infamous measures that have been threatened , and will lead to various modifications of Democratic designs . Nor will the Greenbackers ' dream of a balance of power now bo realized . Itis too soon to sneer at them as an extinct party . Their separate vote has been comparatively insignificant , and the delusion they have cultivated will wither under repeated defeats . But their obnoxious schemes have been adopted by many of the Democratic delegations , and it would be imprudent to make their distinct representative force a measure of the influence acquired by their opinions . We have , however , the satisfaction of knowing that their votes in the House can not turn the scale . Mischievous they will try to be ; dangerous they scarcely can be . They will probably succeed in embarrassing their Democratic allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a powerful Republican minority , united in support of the conservative principles which are the proper key to Tuesday 's successes . Once more , then , Republican victories indicate the removal of some causes of financial and business anxiety and the abatement o.5 others . Tho party will be unable to shape the legislation of the next Congress . It can not prevent so much mischief as depends only on the action of a majority . But it offers a guarantee against reckless measures affecting finance and trade , and to this extent it will directly contribute to the confidence which both urgently require . Its own future is contingent upon the courage and sagacity with which its leaders shall give effect to the popular judgment . The meaning of the victories , and the methods that led to them , are not likely to be forgotten .                     