@@781832

txt Weather like this forces upon the attention one of the greatest deficiencies of NewYork as a city of residence , and one which we have more than once commented . on  --  its want of shade-trees . On every score of beauty and healthfulness , this is to be regretted . Just now , of course , it is mainly for the sake of their coolness and protection that trees will be missed most on our thoroughfares , by panting and perspiring citizens . Especially will the suffering wayfarer long for them in the lona expanse of those blazing up-town streets , where the pitiless sun beats down , without so much as a leaf to intercept his fury , and where the heat is radiated from pavement and houses , until the air seems like the breath of a furnace . It is not too much to say that to the lack of shade-trees in our streets is , in some part , due the terrible frequency of sun-stroke during every heated spell like the present . This is the direct and obvious reason for wishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no less the beauty and elegance which abundance on foliage lends to the town , and which might disguise in some degree even the bald common-placeness of our prevailing domestic architecture . Besides , trees , it is well known , are notable disinfectants , and their sanitary aid at a season like this is not to be despised . As a measure of undeniable public usefulness , it would seem as if their propagation might properly be undertaken by the public authorities , say the Board of Health , or the Commissioners of Parks . But if neither of these bodies has the power or the will to move in the matter , and . if private enterprise is too sluggish , why should we not have a Society for the encouragement of trees I With assiduous and systematic planting and some degree of care , New-York in ten years or so might bo redeemed from this reproach . Such a consummation is certainly worth an effort and the comparatively trifiingexpense which would attend it . Let any of our citizens who have been in New-Haven and seen those noble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that town , think if they would not gladly sacrifice a few dollars to see New-York similarly adorned . A trifling contribution of money and time from a thousand public-spirited citizens  --  and we can easily count ten or twenty times that number  --  would put us fairly on the road to achieve that object , and to leave our children , or , at least , our grand-children , one of the loveliest and shadiest of cities , with its Fifth-avenue the fairest promenade in the world . Who will start this Arboricultural crusade ?                     