@@741356

txt The States of the central West have a high reputation throughout the Union for the excellent quality of their schools . Michigan is certainly unsurpassed in the country for its primary education . Even the North-west . as far away as Iowa and Minnesota , has framed a remarkable system of popular education . But there is evidently somewhere in - this school system " a screw loose . " The public instruction has not taught the masses to think . Indeed it has not laid some of the foundation axioms in practical sciences . The average classes of the community have not been taught the great results of human experience in all ages and . countries . There are now in all practical sciences certain truths , or axioms , or principles , which no intelligent man doubts . They are so taught that every child understands them . Even in so general and philosophic a science as politics , every youth in England and America is familiar with truths which are settled . He never thinks of questioning them . The ideas , for instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be resisted only by legal means ; that taxation and representation must go together , and many similar doctrines , would seem novelties to a French youth , while to our own young men they have become almost as axioms . This shows a general intelligent condition of political education among us which gives , us a ; great advantage . Now , it is evident that in one important practical science , the West is as far behind in thorough education , relatively to many other countries , as the French are in the political science . Congress . is unquestionably a fair representative of the education of each part of the country . The average Western Congressman represents the average Western man . From the discussions in Congress this session , it is appareot that the Western mind is utterly uninformed as to the simplest axioms in political economy . ? The members , especially some from the North-west , enter on the discussion of this ancient science , as if nothing had been settled by human experience , as though no country before had resorted to irredeemable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation bad experienced the unchangeable laws of political economy where paper takes the place of gold as currency . One would think from the utterances of Mr. WILSON , of Iowa ; Mr. BROWNLOW , of Tennessee , and Mr. GORDON , of Georgia , ' that the United States were sublimely elevated above the laws of finance ; that the Treasury had only to issue unlimited quantities of paper money to enrich every producer and sustain every consumer ; that we could not have too much of so good a thing as money ; and that all countries which enjoyed irredeemable paper currency were raised above panics and financial disturbances , while it was the hard money countries which were periodically shaken by money convulsions . Mr. WILSON ventured to utter the platitude , which ought to have long since been consigned to the limbo of fallacies , that " every particle of the property of the United States was pledged . to pay the United States notes , " and therefore nothing could be safer than these notes . Mr. Wn.soN might have remembered that in the oft-quoted history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was pledged in payment of these bonds , and yet it took 3,000 francs to buy a cup of coffee . The Confederate States pledged three hundred millions of cotton for the security of their bonds , but we may yet recall the experience that a Southern housekeeper found it necessary to take a market-basket of money to the market , while she could bring back her purchases in her pocket . These Western gentlemen seem to forget that a security of general property for a currency is nothing to the world . The only basis the world wants is gold and silver . They also never bear in mind that the increase of paper would not help their farmers in the least , but would immediately be swallowed up in prices . Mr. GORDON , whose mind must have been in a peculiarly hazy condition , wanted " more paper in order to lower the rate of interest ! " As if , when all other prices had risen , say fifty per cent. , through a fifty per cent . increase of the currency , interest alone would remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now in Georgia , or as though money was not a commodity as much as cotton . Why should a moneybroker exercise a noble self-denial and . keep his price down fifty per cent. , but his neighbor , the cotton-broker , put his up the same degree t Mr. MORTON , from whom better things might have been expected , speaks as though he had . never read the most elementary treatise of political economy , or the simplest history of the financial experience of Europe . He knows perfectly well that the policy he favors will merely force the country through the same round of inflation and speculation , carrying up the prices of every article consumed by the farmers he represents , while the price of the wheat they sell must depend on foreign demand , and be measured in other currency ; that irredeemable paper currency will bring the savings of the country to our money-centres , to be there again ventured in - wild stock speculation ; that under his policy the rich will grow richer and the poor poorer , and that if two hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currency , it would need but a year or two to reabsorb it in increased prices , and so bring about a stringency again . When the next great financial crash comes , as come it surely will if the Western policy be adopted , the country may ascribe its ruin to want of knowledge in the Western States of the simplest principles of political economy .                     