@@742672

txt A bitter and determined war is being carried on by Mr. John Hoey and Rev. Father W.tlsh against the saloons and disorder . ly houses of Long Branch . The power of granting saloons licenses has been invested in the Long Branch Board of Commissioners , and as every Famon  --  sieeper commanueu many votes , nearly every applicant for a license received one . When Kavanaugh and his gain : of incendiaries were broken up , and the leader and some of his accomplices safely lodged in jail , it became apparent to those who had rid Long Branch of its " fire.bugs " that most of the crime at that place originated among the many " bucket shops " and houses of ill repute with which . the place was infested . Numerous complaints were made against saloon-keepers who violated the law , and the disorderly houses were repeatedly pulled ; but with little success , howewer , and it soon became Dvideut that the Police officials were in collusion with these people . The Representative of Long Branch in the State Legislature succeeded in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Town Commission to the Court of Quarter Sessions , and this gave an opportunity for plans of reform which had been planned for the benefit of the Summer resort .. This was the opening day of court , and the day appointed for the granting of licenses . It was known that a hard fight would bo made against saloon . keepers , and nearly every one in the county was present with counsel to look after his case . Judge Scudder and four associates sat on the bench and listened to the various applicants . As the managers , of the large hotels along the coast came up , licenses were granted them without dissension , but when any person raised objection to the licensing of an ; inn it was laid over for one week . As the name of each saloonkeeper was called , Mr. lieu 's counsel put in an objection , briefly stating his reasons therefor . Nearly all of these were laid over for further action . The few licenses that were granted to Long Branch saloons were to those situated a mile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cottage and Summer hotel district . Judge Scudder , in his ' charge to the Grand Jury , directed that body to ; carefully look into the Long Branch disorderly cases . He said that fire after fire had taken place among the cottages and hotels there , and it had become unsafe for a man to trust his life and property in the place . Disorderly houses aboundedin the fashionable parts of the town and the place was overrun with vile liquor or " bucket shops . " We must put a stop to this or property will depreciate entirely in value , . and respectable people will seek less attractive sea resorts as a residence . Over 200 witnesses were subpoenaed from Long Branch who will be compelled ' to testify against the incendiaries and disorderly . houses . Nearly all the saloon-keepers to whom the . attention of the Grand Jury was called , were in-dieted at the last term of court . If an indictment is. found against them this time , from the tenor of Judge Sendder 's charge there is no doubt that that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for one year . During the coming Summer Long Branch , in addition to the local Police force , will have the extra protection of a number of New-York detectives , who have been procured for Police duty . No reliance can be placed upon the " fishermen " Police who have heretofore been engaged to guard the place . The expenses of the New  --  York officers will be paid by the cottage and hotel owners . 