@@742458

txt On the return of President Hayes from his Southern trip , and at the suggestion , it is stated , of Gen. Hampton , Judge L. C. Northrop was appointed United States District Attorney for South Carolina , in place of District Attorney Stone , who had resigned . Mr. Stone is the District Attorney whose report on the Hamburg massacre was so fiercely denounced by Gen. M. C. Butler . The Senate committee ( Mr. Angus Cameron , Chairman , ) who investigated last December the election of 1870 in South Carolina , obtained testimony that corroborated each and every statement of Mr. Stone 's report . But there is no doubt that , for telling the truth about Hamburg , District Attorney Stone bad rendered himself especially obnoxious to the leaders of the South Carolina Democracy . Judge Northrop is a " native , " and was recommended to President Hayes as an honest Republican . The truth is , that he is one of the most conspicuous representatives of that element in the Republican Party which Gov . Chamberlain was so enthusiastic:tic eulogized. before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otlicially and personally . It was the faction which brought disgrace on the party in that State . The culmination of the wrongs done by this dishonest Republican faction was the nomination of Moses and Whipper as Judges . Gov . Chamberlain resisted their nomination , and stretched his Executive prerogatives to the utmost to prevent their inauguration . This is the mildest statement that can be made of his action . It might ho said , without violating the truth , that he exceeded his lawfnl authority in doing so . But there was no other remedy for an outrage so great . The Governor succeeded . Every Democratic paper and leader in the State was loud in his praise . The leaders of the bad element in the Republican Party were equally fierce in denouncing him . Now , it has become known that Judge Northrop was in the caucus that nominated Moses and Whipper , and not only worked for them , but advocated their election in a speech ! During the Rifle Clubs ' campaign Judge Northrop took great care not to offend the Demo cratic leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Hayes by praising the people of his native county , Anderson , in South Carolina , for having been the first in war against the Union , and the last in peace ! The Anderson Intelligence ) . of Sept. 20 says : On last Monday night a number of the citizens of Anderson , accompanied by t. ; e Anderson Cornet Band , repaired to the Waverley House for the purpose of attesting their gratification at the presence of Judge L. C. Northrop and Solicitor Cothran in our midst . After the rendition of two beautiful pieces of music , Judge Northrop was loudly called for , and re ? sponded from the hotel balcony in a short but eloquent and appropriate address , thanking the company for their melodious compliment , which , ho said , was S no doubt paid to the official position he occupied rather than to him personally . Ho regretted that he could not respond to this compliment in such manner as he would like to , but lie was not in the habit of making set speeches , and besides , during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon a rail in order to reach his post of duty in the court-room ; but , he said that if he had been ruling 10 nights and sleep had to ho kept from his eyes by propping his eyelids open with a prong , Ito could not forego this opportunity of ex ? pressing his high appreciation of the noble old County of Anderson , and her people . Ho knew the history of this county , and would never forget the real with which her citizens enlisted beneath the Red erases Banner of the lost cause , under whose folds he had stood for several years , and he would likewise never forget that Anderson County was the last in South Carolina to be overcome by Federal bayonets . The Judge then complimented our people upon their patriotic and prudent course since the surrender , and , without direct reference to politics . congratulated its in common with the whole people of our State upon the great Governmental reform which we now enjoy as a nation and as a State . He urged our people to continuo in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and expressed the belief that tut era of unprecedented prosperity and material advance . meat was in store for us . With the best wishes for our people , and the most sincere thanks for the compliment they had paid him , he bid them good night . The Judge was frequently and heartily applauded . " It is not surprising that Gen. Wade Hampton should recommend this man , but it will be a surprise if a Republican Senate should confirm his nomination .                     