@@781653

txt Man has been called a cooking creature , to distinguish him from other animals , and the designation is both pertinent and just , To prepare food by the action of fire so as to render it digestible has been a general custom from the earliest times of which we have any record . Its preparation soon extended to palatableness. which , in greater or less degree . divides the civilized being from the savage , who eats , without thought of or care for relish , only to support life . More or less skill in cooking has always been displayed , according to the knowledge , wealth , and refinement of the race or nation . The Greek stoic , GosErnomus , hold that the culinary process was immediately subsequent to the discovery of fire , and that it was primarily a copy of the method of mastication and digestion , an idea too fantastic for acceptance . In the patriarchal days , ABRAHA3f is reported to have entertained the three angels who had paid him a visit with cakes of fine meal and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savory meat ; the chief butler and chief baker to have been officers of consequence in Filenames household . In the East , where spices . abound , compositions and condiments came into use , and great . feasts were first given . Beef and goose'formed the principal part of the animal food of the ancient Egyptians , though the goat , gazelle , duck , quail , and many kinds of fish and vegetables were frequent articles of diet . Great bread  --  eaters , they appear not to have used wheat flour , while having the finest , for common bread , which they made of spelt , or the centre of the lotos dried or pounded . Large flocks of fowls were kept for the table , hence their plan for.the artificial hatching of eggs . HERODOTUS tells us that they had beer brewed from barley , and Anomaaatrus that they ate , sitting , the simplest , most wholesome fare . The Greeks kenorallv liked good things , as they understood goodness ; but there was much difference of viands in different States , some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frugal to excess , even niggardly , if we may credit the comedians , who ridiculed their parsimony . Many of the Greeks were supreme epicures ; ' for the nation had cookery books , the names of their authors being preserved in the writings of ATIIEN.eEIIS . ARCHESTRATITS was the most renowned , and is styled the inventor of made dishes . Fish was a favorite with all classes ; but the wealthy sought after choice , expensive sorts , and prepared them most elaborately , with oil , wine , fragrant herbs , and grated cheese . The Athenian bread was most celebrated ; the bread of the poor being made of barley , sometimes mixed with oil , honey , poppy-seed , and other things . The Grecian household did not ordinarily employ a regular cook ; but the rich hired several women for the kitchen ; these looked after the requirements of the table , and the feminine head exercised a certain superintendence . Professional cooks cause hi time , carrying their art to perfection . They could serve up an , entire pig roasted on one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , birds , with eggs , and divers delicacies , and tasting like wholly different viands . Painting , sculpture , dancing , music , lent themselves to glorify the splendid festivals at which philosophers discussed and poets recited their own verses . The invention of a new sauce , the preparation of a new dish , was reckoned an honorable achievement , worthy of the most illustrious minds . During the early era of Rome , barley gruel was the principal nourishment of the people , and continued , with vegetables , to be such for many generations , meat being rare , and in very moderate supply . But as the Empire grew in strength and prosperity , especially after the Asiatic conquests , luxury arose ; Lucuaaus setting the example of culinary magnificence associated with his name ; the gourmand Aricius excelling all others in artistic gluttony , and spending the greater part of his fortune in its assiduous pursuit . Having been reduced to a sum equivalent in our day to $2,000,000 , ho poisoned himself , because he could not provide a decent table on so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serving of the dishes not less than for the dishes themselves , and they expended fortunes on the pleasures of the table . Their fancies and extravagance knew no bounds . They ransacked the then known world for dainties ; they exhausted ingenuity and princely incomes in gastronomic experiments . GALBA 'S breakfast cost enough to enrich a hundred families . Vrrars - sans co &posed; a single dish at an expense of a thousand sestertia , equivalent to $40,000 , and many millions were needed to meet the demand of his kitchen during one season . DOMITIAN aroused the Senate from their beds one night , and , when they had gone trembling to his palace , believing they were to be executed , found that he wished to consult them as to the best method of preparing a turbot , just arrived from Ischia . HELIOGABALUS was accustomed to sup on the brains of six hundred thrushes . Thus luxury , for the sake of luxury , sapped the Empire till it fell , with little resistance , into the hands of the barbarians . Refined cookery reappeared in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when great wealth had accumulated iu the hands of merchants engaged in commerce . It was much extended , at the period of the Renaissance , and flourished , with poetry , eloquence , and painting under the ESTES , the Mzmoi , and the worldly , voluptuous Cardinals . Italian sumptuousness and delicacies were introduced into France when CATHARINE DE MEDICI went there as the Queen . of HENRY II . Ever since that date cookery ' has advanced among the Gauls , who rank it almost as a science , and dignify it by serious study , by untiring diligence , by every application of art . Paris has been regarded for generations as the home and radiating centre of fine cooking ; her cooks have been deservedly assigned to the list of artists ; her Cafe Riche , Velour 's , liaison Dore ) , Vachette-Brebrint represent to-day the gastronomy of the capital at its best . She has incontestably taught other nations how to prepare their food ; their most valuable lessons have been learned , from her . What Russia , Germany , Italy , England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been largely borrowed fromFrance . When , we breakfast daintily , or dine elegantly at our hotel or the club , or under our own roof , we can not resist gustatory recollections of the : Boulevards or the Palais Royal . Paris has instructed us in Epicureanism ; we should be grateful to her for many of our palatal pleasures , and our gradual redemption from our national ailment  --  dyspepsia . This is the land of abundance , of variety , of material comfort , and these are converged in their fullness in Manhattan . one of the great capitals of civilization , and the most profuse and luxurious of the three . We waste enough to feed Paris ; we have a market so plentecnis that she is inclined to think our every-day lase a the product of fancy . We have here , and in some other cities , cooking as good as hers , but far less in the country at large than in France . But we are steadily improving in culinary skiii ; we have begun to learn that we can not afford to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be carried too far . But as yet we fall as a people sadly short of the harmful extreme . We need development of the palate . Food makes brawn and brain . What we eat , to a large extent , we are . Cooks are in a certain sort the creators of nations . We may be much more fastidious as to our viands for generations to come , and yet clearly escape danger . The physical man is correlative to the intellectual and spiritual man . The loftiest heroism has its source at , and is regulated by , the dinner-table . Think what America and Americans may acs complish , relieved of their dyspepsia !                     