@@741257

txt The Democrats of Ohio assembled in convention , yesterday , resurrected a fossil as a candidate for Governor , repudiated. all connection with the Allen County movement , and adopted a string of platitudes in resolutions of much sound and fury , but signifying nothing . It is hardly possible to seriously consider the doings of men who shout themselves hoarse over the nomination at this late day of such a man as Mr. WILLIAM ALLEN for Governor of a great State . Gifted , it is true , with great abilities , and of irreproacTiable private character , politically he is the most vulnerable of candidates . He has been through a long life a consistent Bourbon Democrat . Belonging to the era before the war , he can have no sympathy with the needs and aspirations of the present . Always the devotee of party , he was misled by the action of his party into thorough support of its anti-war policy , and into acquiescence in all the demands of the slavery propagandists . Whatever the Democrats may resolve to be their present principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be wedded to the delusions of the past . But the Democrats are careful not to declare their principles with any distinctness . They fight shy of that declaration as to the political equality of all men which the World implored . them to utter . On the contrary , they only say " The Democratic Party seeks to revive no dead issues , but stands by its principles , which are suited to all times and circumstances . " It was a Democratic precept , as well as practice , admirably suited to the time of Democratic ascendency to kill " niggers . " Are we to infer that this sport is to be revived in case these people regain power ? But these Democrats go further and repeat the old party groan about the reserved rights of the States and their opposition to centralization . All this has a most familiar sound . We heard it uttered with most vigor when Democrats were stealing forts and slaying loyal- ists . The people know what it means coining from Democrats , and want none of it . Having indulged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with other issues with the utmost caution . They spread a clumsy trap of honeyed words for the farmers , whom they call " agriculturists ; " they " recognize the evils of an irredeemable currency , but insist that in the return to specie payments care shall be taken not to seriously disturb the business of the country , " whatever that may mean . These utterances are a fair specimen of this platform as a whole , and it will be seen that rarely has performance fallen so far below promise . It was expected of this convention that it would plant the Democracy.on a line with the present ; it has , on the contrary , both in its candidate and its platform ; clung to the dead past . It is not possible that any Democrat supposes his party can run a winning race in Ohio with the auspices under which it was started yesterday . There is certain to be widespread disaffection in the party , if not a triangular contest , as a consequence of the complete and studied ignoring of the now party movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to kiss the hand that smites them in this ugly fashion . The voter who believes that his Government was right in making war upon the rebellion can hardly vote for Mr. ALLEN . The citizen who believes that the time has come to fully and heartily recognize the Republican principles upon which the nation was finally established by the war , can not support a party that speaks as the Democracy did yesterday . Deceived by the prestige of a name in a former generation , and confused by complicity in the political crimes of their party in a former period , the Democrats of Ohio have finally and irrevocably decided that they will be true to the errors of the past and false to the present . This means defeat , of courser but they seem to prefer defeat to hearty acquiescence in the system of political truth which their opponents have established . In Virginia the Democrats appear to have been in greater distress yesterday even than in Ohio . The Richmond Convention wasted its time and temper in long and hot debates over credentials and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this looks no more like organizing victory than the proceedings of their brethren in Ohio . In both States the Republicans have only to be energetic and true to themselves to make a final end . of Democracy in their midst , so far as it is represented by the men who have made it a reproach to our civilization , and who yet appear to guide its councils .                     