@@740908

txt If our readers want to read something decidedly " cool " in official correspondence , let them examine the letters we published . yesterday between Controller GREEN and Mr. WILLIAMS . President of the Board of Excise . It will - be remembered that the Tammany Ring in their experiments upon the City , turned their attention to the Board of Excise , which had been doing an excellent work in diminishing crime and disorder on Sundays , and had collected something like a million and . a half of dollars annually from the license moneys of liquor-sellers . These two facts rendered the Board obnoxious to the Ring , and it was reconstituted . and . the Sunday law modified . The chairman of the new Board was appointed from among the liquor-sellers , and the day was given up to drinking and orgies . The Commissioners , however , were required by law to pay ninety per cent . of their receipts to the City Chamberlain for the benefit of the Sinking Fund , and to account for the remaining ten per cent . to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes on liquor-sellers bad been very properly appro .. priated in a large degree by the Commissioners , under specialacts of the Legislature , to relieve the evils arising from drunkenness . Out of the million and a half of dollars , a considerable sum went for the support of the Asylum for Inebriates at Binghamton , and . other sums for the maintenance of the children of drunkards . With characteristic contempt for any such humane pro-visions , the Ring turned over those moneys , or the small portion remaining of them , to the City Sinking Fund . But under the new Board there was no great interest in collecting any large amount from the liquor-dealers , and they took their own time for depositing these moneys , though the law enjoined that they should be paid to the Chamberlain , " within five days after receipt . " Mr. GREEN 'S attention was early called to the fact that the Commissioners of Excise were deliberately violating the law , and , though it was the Mayor 's duty to look into the matter , the Controller , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal letter to the Board , demanding an explanation . . But explanation they had . , none to give . Though the former Board easily raised over a million dollars , they report only four deposits of $292,321 during 1871 , and say nothing about the ten per cent. , and only three deposits of $292,644 in 1872 , with a similar silence in regard to their own perquisites or expenses . Mr. GREEN , of course , is not satisfied with this method of doing business and obeying laws , and demands categorically a statement of their expenditures and roceiptesince they came into office , and reminds them that the law absolutely requires that all moneys received from licenses should be paid over within five days to the City . If we bad a Mayor worthy of the name , he would . at once impeach these worthies or turn them out . Who can tell whether they have raised a million of dollars or not ? Who knows what has been done with the eight hundred thousand dollars balance which they ought to have had every year ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has been ? As they receive ten per cent . of all fees and licenses , it might be supposed that the whole sum collected would certainly be as large as it used to be . Or does Mr. Wu , niAms  --  who , we believe , was President of the Liquor-dealers ' Association  --  get his profits more directly from his associates ? The whole thing has a suspicious look , and . we are glad Mr. GREEN has raked it over . It is a most fortunate thing that we have an honest man in the Controller 's office . With a true Reformer as Mayor , and Mr. GREEN Controller , we could . keep the rogues in check another year . But indications plainly show that the birds of prey are gathering for another feast of roguery . Where MANIERRE and " HANK " SMITH are , there is corruption . Combinations are already on foot in Albany between these men , old Tammany thieves , and disaffected Republicans , to secure the Mayor 's chair and all the patronage of the City to affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guard against any new measure in Albany which shall tend to throw the Mayoralty and the offices of this City into the hands of these corrupt politicians . The Committee of Seventy must be ready with suitable provisional measures before the Legislature . They must secure the best possible candidate for Mayor , and . press him , without regard to party , by every means in their power . We need . hon8st and . independent men , first of all , in our City offices .                     