@@741509

txt It is obvious that the problem of pauperism and of charity will press itself on this community during the coming Winter , with urgent demands for solution . The Tammany orators have been spreading Communistic ideas during the campaign , and the public must reap the harvest in demands by the unemployed on the City authorities for work . The indiscriminate benefactions of last Winter are already drawing hither the idle and vagrant to the expected " feast of charity " this Winter . Many were pauperized then who will demand help now . The Herald is already urging the formation of grand committees of charity to advertise to the needy of the whole Union our readiness to assist . We trust there will be no such spasmodic and sensational efforts to relieve the poor . Let us not make proclamation to the paupers of the whole North that we are preparing to feed and lodge them . On the contrary , let us quietly put in order our machinery of charity , that we may help judiciously when the time comes ; but let us not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of giving the poor the impression that , whatever they do or neglect to do . they have a " right to relief . " The American working classes have the habit and the power of taking care of themselves . Only iu extreme necessity do theyneed help from outside . One of the good results of last Winter 's trouble and necessity was the formation of a society , long needed in this City , to furnish information both in regard to the poor and to charities , and to regulate the somewhat indiscriminate alms-giving of the community . This society , the Bureau of Charities , was controlled by some of our best citizens  --  such gentlemen as Mr. Tnaonolin ROOSEVELT , Mr. WILLIAM BUTLER DuxCAN , Mr. H. E ' PELLEW , Rev. Dr. HALL , and others . Its associate members were some of our largest property-holders , such as Mi . WILLIAM B. ASTOR , Mr. A. T. STEWART , and others . Its operations during the first season , though somewhat crippled by the refusal both of some of the Catholic charities and of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were yet productive of great good , both in detecting the " repeaters " who live on various benevolent societies , and in exposing false or useless associations of charity . The work begun was one whose necessity is felt by all familiar with the wants of this Metropolis . As a labor requiring much delicacy and discretion , it was performed , all will admit , with wisdom and consideration . Now , in the approaching Winter , which , it is plain , will be one of much pressure upon the laboring classes , and of suffering among the poor , what better organ could be found to direct the benefactions of the City than the " Bureau of Charities " ? In place of forming a new and inexperienced committee , as the Herald recommends , and of advertising over the country the jubilee of alms-giving we are about to celebrate , why should not our citizens quietly obtain from the bureau the information they need ? of where best to apply their gifts of benevolence ? The bureau is thoroughly conversant with all the charities ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management ; it knows the names and addresses , by the thousands , of poor individuals ; it , can advise , or it can itself distribute to societies the money given . No additional cost is incurred , as the expenses of the bureau are all paid by previous subscriptions . The names of its managers are a guarantee that the distribution will be made with integrity and wisdom . The system of this society is a pledge that the money will go direct to deserving objects , and solely to them , as they require lists of the names of all the beneficiaries and the sums allotted to each . Thus , for instance , persons wishing to aid " poor widows with small children , " and fearing that gifts at the door or on the street would ' only do injnry , and not knowing anything about the various societies for this especial object , could send their subscription to the Bureau of Charities , and request them to allot according to their discretion for this purpose . So in the case of ? orphans , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or for homeless young girls , the Ordinary giver is confused at the number a societies and , " homes " in their behalf . We believe , for instance , that of homes and institutions for homeless girls and women , there are at the present time more than twenty-five in this City . How shall a benevolent but busy citizen find out about their respective merits ? Or suppose he would aid destitute children , there are societies , asylums , schools , and homes without number for them  --  for sick children and . well children , for colored and white , for Catholic and Protestant , for homeless and those with homes , for deaf , blind , and lame , for those with hip disease and those with deformed feet , for newsboys and bootblacks , for orphans and half orphans , for foundlings , and for waifs . How shall the kind-hearted but absorbed merchant or professional man distinguish between them , or know , when he has given , whether he has not been supporting some accomplished swindler and his large and idle family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or can distribute his gifts itself . We , think then , if the Bureau of Charities would let the public know that they are ready to advise or to direct the allotments of charity among our citizens during the coming Winter , much good would be done , and many mistakes saved .                     