@@781806

txt If a stranger were told that within the limits of the United States are from two to three htualred chartered colleges , and if ho were to judge from this circumstance alone , ho would conclude that we are the most learned nation on the glebe . Were he to count up tie list of Doctors of Divinity , and of Law , anti of all who have been decorated with academic honors of various sorts , and to observe the rate of annual increase in their number , ho would be confirmed in this favorable opinion . But , on looking further into the character of the great majority of these colleges anti , universities ; on finding that the libraries of some of them include not more than three hundred volumes , and of ninny not over ten thousand , and that the museums and the apparatus for illustrating science are commonly of the most meagre description ; and on taking a fair gauge of the literary qualifications of those who wear collegiate honors , the inquirer would , no doubt , be led to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education is the common-school system . If a little learning is a dangerous thing , the absence of all learning in the mass of the people is a formidable danger also , especially in a free State . If the coin/non school imparts but little knowledge , compared with all that is included in the entire circle of ascertained truth , that little knowledge may , in many cases  --  of which one of the most conspicuous is that of PnexKw=fall into a genial soil , and multiply itself a thousand-fold . Yet for the proper efficiency of the system of popular education , it is requisite that there should be a body , as numerous as possible , of men who have had the advantage of thorough training , and who are thus qualified for difficult intellectual work . In old times we were accustomed to hear of " the learned professions . " The feeling was that those who are to be trusted , in a considerable measure , with the care of our souls and bodies and estates  --  ministers and physicians and lawyers  --  should superimpose upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education for their several pursuits . Such is still the feeling , and such the demand of the civil law , in most European States . But . " the learned professions , " in the old sense of the phrase , can hardly be said to exist among us at present . It is only a small portion of the lawyers , a smaller portion , probably , of . the doctors of medicine , and not so many as formerly of the clergy , who have gone , through a col-. legiato course . The best-educated physicians would testify that no inconsiderable part of the men who have been turned out of the medical schools upon the community , for the last thirty years , are decidedly incompetent , both as regards general and professional culture , for their responsible employment . Their diplomas do not certify to the truth . The same is true of the lawyers . How many of them are able to take into their hands a complicated cause where a largo interest is at stake Of the preachers , the people have a somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities , and in the less cultured sects , the proportion of unlearned men in the ranks of the clergy has been vastly in excess of what was the fact in the last century , This has been deemed , perimps justly , inevitable , in view of the rapid increase and peculiar character of the population of many of the Southern and Western States . We have not written the foregoing lines for the purpose of uttering a complaint , but rather to call attention to signs of improvement in the grave matter of which wo speak . The older and stronger colleges , from year to year , are raising their standards of scholarly attaiwnerits , as regards the qualifications both for admission and for graduation . They are becoming more sparing and discriminating in the bestowal of their honors . Doctorates are not so often given " by favor , " - as an incentive to donations ; or as an effect of assiduous " log-rolling . " The distinctions thus accorded by colleges will not long be deemed of equal value , from whatever , source they come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survival of the fittest " will operate , so that ninny a university will descend to the rank of a . country academy . In some of the medical and law schools , duribg the last five years , there has been a radical alteration in the curriculum for the purpose of securing more thorough and extended study . In several of the colleges a considerable number of young mon now roinain. after receiving their degree , - in order to pursue branches not belonging strictly to a professional course . In these graduate improperly styled pest-graduate  --  schools , there will be trained a class who will bo fitted to teach in higher institutions , and in other ways to promote the advancement of learning in the country . In Yale College , not loss than fifty graduates are engaged in the study of mathematical and physical science , philology , history , or some other branch of knowledge . Especially attractive are political economy and political science generally . The now questions which have been forced upon public attention since the war , and since the abolition of slavery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had the effect to kindle an unexampled interest in the minds of young mon . None but good results can ensue from this newlyawakened zeal . It should be added that at Yale , Harvard , and Princeton , and possibly in one or two other colleges , fellowships have boon established , the incomes of which are devoted to young graduates who re pursuing courses of study , either at home or abroad , which are not directly connected with preparation for either of the professions . These endowments , if not always sufficiently liberal in . amount , are bet-ter guarded than similar foundations at Oxford and Cambridge . On the whole , although there is very much in the present condition of higher education in the United States which is open to criticism , the auguries are hopeful .                     