@@741400

txt REPUBLICAN PROSPECTS . We shall soon have to face the enemy in the field again , and it will be well for our Republican friends to bestir themselves in good season . It may be too early to plan the details of the campaign , but it is not a day too soon to survey the ground , and measure the opposing forces . Above all , it is the duty of the Republicans to place themselves in as good a condition as they possibly can for the approachinff contest . AS regards the state of IN ew- Y ork , the Legislature should hasten to finish its work . It should give us rapid transit , and attend to State business of a pressing character without delay . It should also refuse to be " run " by the new Boss , as other Legislatures were run by TWEED , and decline to have anything to do with the said Boss ' quarrel with . the Controller . It should keep a sharp lookout for jobs of all kindre , an . d suppress the lobbyists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by VANDERBILT , GEORGE LAW , or JAY GOULD . This is an excellent time to begin breaking up lobbying as a trade . The lobbyists are all howling at us , and as we are well into the fight , we should like very much to finish it up at onee ? if the Legislature will only give us the chance . The allies of the lobbyists at Albany are also vowing horrible vengeance against us , but we are used to that sort of thing , and rather like it than not . Let us , then , give the lobbyists , some of whom have acquired large fortunes by their calling , a blow which they will recollect all the rest of their lives  - -  not forgetting Skilled Talent with his New-York paper , warranted to support any project for which the editor is " retained . " In national affairs , so many things ought to be done that we scarcely know where to begin in reviewing them . The trade of the country should be relieved from the heavy burden which at present rests on it through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has now been argued over for four mortal months , and the Senator ' who thinks that delay is the : best policy ought to be perfectly satisfied . Our merchants and storekeepers are trembling for the Spring trade , and . large investments are impossible while so much uncertainty surrounds all questions connected with the currency . The inaction of Congress kills ' enterprise , and disheartens the entire commercial community . It is injuring ' the Republican Party in all directions . Of course our " lead9rs " will not believe that  --  they will say it is only our , " treachery " which leads us to make the statement . But everybody who goes about with his eyes and ears open knows that the Republican Party is being stabbed to the heart by its own friends ; that beneath the weight of Congress , Treasury officials , endless talk instead . of action , Sanborn contracts , inflation , and obstinancy on all sides , it is struggling for its very breath . The leaders have had their own way all Winter , and have not spared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . And what have they done for the party ? Has the session of Congress strengthened or weakened it ? Is it more popular now than it was this time last year , or the reverse We are told that it-is very wrong to utter these warnings ? it scares people . We are inclined . to think that the party itself would be much better off if its so-called leaders could be scared . All Winter they have been asleep  --  or have only woke up to rail at us for trying to arouse them . They would have an " organ " of their own , and Mr. PLATT should buy it for them and turn the handle . We told them they were making mistakes , and . they sat down in a corner and " resolved " that THE NEW-YORE TIMES was abolished . This . may have amused them ? we hope it did  --  but it does not compensate the people for the neglect of their interests . Is the time for the Spring trade to be all frittered away before Congress makes an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we shall have to pronounce that another grave mistake , and our friends will have to call us hard names f'or making things so unc om tbrtable . Let us set our house in order . We have bard work before us , and we ought to go before the people with good recommendations . The Democrats arc at present nowhere ? if it were not fin ' their incredible blunders , the task winch the Republicans will have before them for a couple of years to come would be much harder than it is likely to be under present circumstances . The Democrats help us more than some of our own friends .                     