@@742159

txt To the credit of the good sense and patriotism of the collector , it is observed that the picture gallery of JOHN TAYLOR JOHNSTON is thoroughly representative of American art . Andnow that the well-known and . admirably balanced collection is about to be dispersed , we maybe excused for expressing a most sincere regret that some such semihistorical group of paintings by our own artists should not become a public possession . In New-York we have nothing which answers such a description . Here and there one may find a few pictures by men who were among the earliest of American painters ; and the National Academy of Design owns one entire collection of early pictures and . one or two specimens of the works of those who were among the founders of the institution . It has been suggested that annual prizes might be given to meritorious artists , and a fund . for the purchase of prize works be raised . for the use of the Academy . The idea is a good one . If ever there fs lo be a public gallery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made soon . In one of the private collections of this City we recollect the names of DOUGHTY , MOUNT , LEUTZE , FISHER , Monsit , and several other American painters , whose labors have long since ceased , and . whose canvases rarely find . their way to sales-rooms of dealers . The Boston Athenettni , before it lapsed into a fossil state , made a good beginning in collecting pictures and . statues by American painters . But that institution furnishes a melancholy instance of arrested growth . Possibly the new Museum of Art ' will do for Massachusetts all that the aged . Atheneum might have done . We may be certain that any gallery or museum under municipal or State control , or liable to governmental regulation , will be more intelligently and honestly managed in Boston than in New-York . But we do not now recall any single city whore there are so many works desirable for the special purpose named than New-York . As we have said , one collector , at least , has kept together several works of the period represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallery of Mr. JOHNSTON contains examples of WEST , ALSTON , STUART , SULLY , TRUMBULL , and other men who have left an enduring mark upon the developing art of their country . Here are at least some celebrated . American names , though it does not follow that these are their best works . In a country like ours the fostering of art is , of course , purely a matter of individual concern . It is even doubtful if education in art can properly be the duty of a State to its citizens . The most that can be expected of any branch of our Government is the collection of works of art which may serve as educators of the public taste , and possibly as a means of recreation to the people . Nobody looks for the advancement of any very high ideas in art from the officers or agents of a State or City Government . Private liberality and taste must furnish the means for accumulating a permanent collection which shall be historical of American art in any sense . Private liberality , too , must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some central point a gallery of paintings , drawings , and sculpture , which should tell the story of the development of art in this Republic . But until our people are more keenly alive to the necessity of strengthening the hands of our living artists , it would be useless to expect that such a project could receive serious attention . With a few rare exceptions of men who have achieved eminence among their fellows by their commanding genius , or by speciil. means , most American artists earn a precarious livelihood . One may count upon Ire fingers the painters who are in what is called " comfortable circumstances . " The rest live " from hand to mouth , " or with an uncertain reliance on the future , and a dread of disappointment which is chilling to hope and imagination . Much of the imperfection which calls out caustic criticism of American pictures is due to the fact that the unhappy painter works under a cloud , not only anxious to be true to his art , but that his canvass shall sell . The man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hill . Nevertheless , our picture-buying public is largely commercial . It demands " potboilers . " It is hardly necessary to add that it gets them . Is it any wonder , then , that the progress of art among us is slow ? Of course , we make no account of the prevalent complaints of those struggling geniuses who are " unappreciated , " and . who , like other equally worthy men in other professions , have mistaken their calling . It is yet true that hundreds of deserving artists are restrained . from doing violence to the noblest ideas of art because they cherish a spark of devotion to their ideal , and not because an enlightened public taste has withheld them . A rich picture-buyer hangs a canvas on his wall and glows with honest pride as ho points to the signature of its European painter . If he is seduced into visiting an American studio , ho reckons up the time which the artist consumed in his work , asks the price of pigments and canvas , makes a mental calculation , and grumbles if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions as these art may develop itself and glorify the American Republic . American pictures , just now , are not in fashion . The modern French school has flooded our galleries at an enormous cost . The Spanish-Roman manner is now coming in to succeed that of the French salon . Our picture dealers have created an American reputation for a few European artists who are elsewhere unknown . The names of some foreign painters whose works have brought great prices here are world-famous . But not a few find in the United States their only celebrity and their only market . So long , therefore , as dealers buy cheaply abroad and sell dearly at home , and so long as they decline to show American pictures which they have not handsomely taxed with a frame , foreign works will crowd the market to the exclusion of native productions . The.avenue by which the American artist can reach the general public are few . And . the general public does not care enough about his pictures to search him out . Our people lack a hearty , practical patriotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in England , and . whichkeeps Enghsh pictures in England . A British art-lover Ni ill show you with genuine pride his pictures by British artists , though the painter may not be known outside of his country , or London ; The rich American takes his art at second=hand . He is proud of his country when he goes abroad , because an American has a pass port to the good will of almost all peoples . But the American appears to be willing to allow the art of his country to struggle on without his aid . Perhaps he wonders why the American artist does not paint as good pictures as those which ho sees in foreign parts .                     