@@781604

txt Assuming that the County ticket completed yesterday will be adopted by the Anti-Tammany and Republican Conventions , the local issues to be decided a fortnight hence are now tolerably well defined . The contrast in character between the candidates presented by the opponents of Tammany I fall and those nominated under the orders of JOHN is not more pronounced than the contrast between the principles of government represented on both sides . Any candidate put forward by Tammany Hall must necessarily be the mere instrument and creature of the vulgar , insolent , and incapable autocracy of which the Kelly rule is the evidence and expression . The candidates who have been nominated are as obviously litted to be the subservient tools of the one-man power in local government as they are unfitted for either capable administration or the subordination of partisan demands to public interests . A thick-skinned and superserviceable political hack like AUGUSTUS SMELL is precisely the kind of man to serve as a dummy Mayor without wounding his conscience or his self-complacency . A lawyer of mediocre ability , once legal adviser of PETER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outward show of respectability , to do the work of au unscrupulous partisan , would admirably suit the sinister purposes of KELLY in the office of District Attorney . The renomination for judicial position of a person with the character and antecedents of GUNNING S. BEDFORD is an insult to public intelligence which could only be perpetrated by a political dictator who stakes his power on the strength of the ? ignorant and the vicious elements of our population as boldly as ever did his predecessor , TWEED . The characterless nobodies nominated for Coroner and Aldermen at Large are worthy of the rest of the ticket . The three Aldermen who have been renominated have a public record of demagoguism and jobbery ; the fourth has been adjudged guilty of " disgraceful condlict " in public office by some of his present associates , and their attempt to secure for him another position of trust is as impudent as it is foolish . The Tammany County ticket , as a whole , is but another illustration of the familiar truth that a political despotism drives out of public life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a sot of lackeys whose conscience is as elastic as their talents are contemptible . While Tammany has acted on the insolent assumption that it ? can elect whom pleases , without regard to character or antecedents , its opponents have been careful to select mon whose rectitude is as unchallenged as their fitness for public trust is manifest EDWARD COOPER . is a gentleman whose incorruptible honesty is admated by the men who have most reason to fear the vigor of his action as a reform Mayor and the clearness of his perceptions as an administrator of public business . His social and commercial position entitles him to the support of those whose wishes are but seldom consulted in political nominations , and his thorough acquaintance with the details of municipal affairs will render him incapable of being used by men who are ready to turn to questionable account their knowledge of the intricacies of local administration . There have been mentioned in connection with the Mayoralty the names of business mon of the highest standing , whose usefulness in such a position would be greatly impaired by their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agents best fitted to co-operate with them . Mr. COOPER is not the man to be controlled by the tricksters of any party , or to use the Mayoralty as a personal perquisite for the benefit of private friends . The character and record of District Attorney PHELPS are known to the public . At the close of his first term he wasre-elected by 77,000 votes ; and after six years of faithful and efficient service , he may fairly expect a still more emphatic mark of public confidence . RUFUS B. COWING , the reform candidate for City Judge , is a man whose vigor and respectability are all the more manifest because of the entire lack of both in the character of his opponent . The candidates for Coroner and Aldermen at Large are no less obviously superior to the Tammany nominees in all the qualities necessary to secure public confidence and fidelity to official trust . The choice between these two sots of men and principles is a momentous one . It will involve the reorganization of the entire City Government , the purification of its politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come . Defeated and baffled now , Tammany Hall , as a nucleus of public plunder and a bulwark of the most demoralizing kind of political dictation will cease to exist . The New-York City Treasury will no longer supply the moans to corrupt the Legislature , to manipulate party conventions , and to degrade the entire judicial and executive system of our local Government . Successful now , the despotism of KELLY and of Tammany will be more secure , more arrogant , and more grinding than ever before . Controlling the power of the ? Mayor , the Public PrOsecutor , and the Board of Aldermen , KELLY will find new means to reward his friends and punish his enemies . Judges will more abjectly than ever surrender to him their patronage , and will show increased alacrity to take hints from the lawyers who enjoy his favor . Ho need recognize no limitations on the claim of his followers to place every department of the City under the control of obedient retainers of Tammany /hill . In the State , he will become a greater power than TWEED @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arena of national politics with more assured confidence than ever . This coarse and ignorant dictator has presented , without concealment or disguise , himself and his methods for the approval of the citizens of New-York . If they indorse him now , it will be a long time before they will have another chance to be rid of him .                     