@@781731

txt People of limited means are under a substantial obligation to the World for calling attention to some of the present exorbitant prices of living . Pausing in ' its fusillade against the possible Republican candidates for the . Presidency , that admirable journal has given us some sage , but gloomy , reflections on the subject of restaurants . There is mucn sauna sense in me iforia 's remarlis concerning the high prices charged for a dinner at a really good restaurant . We regret to be obliged to add that this wise discretion is somewhat tainted with . evidences of bad taste . The general public accepts only from men of a high degree of culture any conclusions to which they may arrive in the survey of a field of aesthetics . It will look carefully at the qualifications of one who sets himself up as ? an authority on restaurants . With all New-York before him , ? the editor of the World lights upon what may be called a semi-up-town hotel , where he orders his dinner with the following surprising result : deleted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the dinner poor . There was a time , and that not long ago , when the editor of the World was considered , or . considered himself , ( which is almost the same thing , ) an authority on ' such delicate points as the precise place to be occupied by Chablis in a repast in which an East India curry prominently figured . In the editorial lucubrations of this eminent person , too , we have seen references to beefsteak a la Chateaubriand  --  a dish of which it was wittily said that an indifferent diplomatist was honored by having it called by his name . There is no more mournful evidence of the decadence of the Democratic Party , as well as of the Manhattan Club , than to find that an epicure of such pretensions should confess that he had eaten a ' dinner in which " lamb , ram , sheep , and mutton " constituted the , entr  --  e and the roast , and a Swiss meringue and a vanilla ice-cream took the place of a more sensible dessert . Then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he not order them a ? a jardini  --  re , a method of serving which combines meat and vegetables in a fashion at once artistic and economical Y ' We shudder to perceive that boiled mutton , follows hard upon the lamb chops . A cut of rare roast beef were better , and , instead of the potatoes , which the editor plaintively avers were " neither new nor Bermudas , " the diner might have had a plain lettuce salad . His cauliflower , too , is clearly out of . season , and the cost of it might have been saved or judiciously invested in. a bit of Stilton cheese , with a hard cracker . As for ' the meringue and ice-cream , good taste and prudence alike forbid their appearance in such a menu as that which the gastronome of the World invites us to consider . If he must have sweets , our restaurants are not yet , so niggardly with their provision that a poor editor , who has long been debarred the sweets of political preferment , may not browse furtively on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small cup of coffee . The subject of ? wine is important enough to demand a separate paragraph . The Sun , which has before now showed its superior erudition in the matter of curries , has already called attention to the incredible extravagance of a pint of La Rose at a dinner of lamb , ram , sheep , and mutton . The " demnition total , " as Mr. Mantilini would say , shrinks materially when this absurd item is subtracted . Princes drink La Rose ; foolish New-Yorkers drink what they fondly dream is that sunny vintage . The Sun recommends the editor to substitute for La Rose , at two dollars a pint , the same quantity of Chateau Dillon , at seventy-five cents . This advice is discreet ; we can improve on it by suggesting a pint of Laubeitheimer , or of St. Julien , either of which can be got at any restaurant not wholly depraved for fifty cents . And either of these is good enough for a brain-worker . The black coffee is indispensable , of course , especially since with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . About the small glass of brandy there are grave doubts . We suspect that this , like the big said " leaders , " it must be acknowledged , is rather that of gin and soda , We can not leave this ' ' subject , ' which comes home to the business and stomachs of all men , without adding that the World is right in its main statements , however barbarous its taste may be . As we have shown , there is a radical defect in a menu which includes lamb and mutton , and claret at two dollars a pint . The footing , therefore , like a forced balance in the Treasury Department , proves nothing , It is evident that a better dinner may cost less ; but it is also true that a dinner so bad a3 this should not cost so much . The ignorance of the diner is no excuse for the extravagance of the prices .                     