@@741118

txt There are two seasons of the year in which experience has taught us to expect freshets . The melting of the snow under the warm winds of Spring is always followed by the sudden rising of the rivers . and the annual January thaw produces a like result . During the Past few days . the Middle States have suffered more heavily than of late years from the January freshets . From all the riparian towns within this region we hear of ice-gorges , of unexampled floods , of buildings and steam-boats swept away , and of bridges and dame demolished . The freshets have not yet anywhere subsided , and it is impossible now to estimate the damage which has been done . It is certain , however , that thousands of dollars of property have been destroyed , and that not a few lives have been lost . Year after year we have to chronicle the disasters caused by the January and Spring thaws , and yet not the slightest attempt has been made to apply science to the contest with swollen rivers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assert that any undertaking not directly at variance with the laws of nature is chimerical , and surpasses the possibilities of human achievement . To prevent the overflowing of the Hudson River in the freshet season certainly seems a - gigantic task , but the Past triumphs of man ever nature have been too great to warrant us in placing limits to those of the future . We know precisely what are the conditions under which rivers overflow their usual bounds , and floating ice-cakes form a temporary and dangerous dam . Knowing the causes of these phenomena , can we not devise means either to prevent them or to render them harmless ? Consider for a moment the simple overflow of a river swollen by rains or melting snow . We know that it rises because its ordinary channel is too narrow to contain the exceptional volume of water . In ordinary seasons , the level of the water in an artificial mill-pond is controlled by sluices and /1 ? 04-gates . Is it impossible to protect , say the City of Albany , from its semi-annual inundations by a somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formed by the sudden stoppage of drifting ice by some obstruction in the river , and its subsequent heaping up and consolidation under the pressure of the current . Could not a powerful steam-boat be used . to keep open a channel , through which the , drift-ice could find a way , and to break up the first beginnings of an ice-gorge ? If no better plan can be devised , the old-fashioned dikes that line the Lower Mississippi , and protect the lowlands of Louisiana from floods , could be used to advantage in our Northern rivers . To dike the Hudson from Troy to Catskill would unquestionably be a costly undertaking , but if thereby the cities and towns along the river could be rendered safe against the heaviest freshets , their safety would be cheaply secured . If little Holland can successfully fight the ocean , surely the Great Republic need not surrender to its swollen rivers . In proportion as we clear away the forests , the cofiFietiticiiit failure of Summer rains tends to assimilate our rivers to the mountain torrents of Italy , which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the Spring melts the snows on the Apennines , Our Winter and Spring freshets will increase in suddenness and force from year to year , and unless we propose to tamely accept the disasters which they will bring , it is time that we began in good earnest to fight against them .                     