@@741075

txt The London Spectator has compiled a list of the wealthy Englishmen who have died during the last ten years . From this , it appears that between 1863 and 1872 , ten persons have expired in Great Britain leaving to their heirs more than a million sterling . During the same period . fifty-three people have died worth half a million , and one hundred and sixtyone leaving more than a quarter of a million sterling . These figures refer solely to what is called " personalty " in English probate records , i. e. , actual bard cash , or its equivalent in bonds , stooks , business interests , furniture , pictures , &o.; The fortunes represented by the great and small landed estates transmitted during the same period are not included in the statistics referred to . A century ago , there was probably not a man in England who possessed the equivalent , in any torm. of half a million sterling . Clearly , large fortunes grow in the British Isles , whatever else may be becom-ng stunted . The burning of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its consolations to the public . Those who were familiar with the internal arrangement of that theatre are aware that it was one of the most dangerous man-traps in the City . Had it taken fire when filled with people , there would have been a frightful slaughter , for the means of egress were so few and so wretchedly arranged , that , in case of a panic , they would have been almost useless . Thatit burned when no one was in it , is a matter of congratulation , for , bad it remained open as a place of amusement , it might , sooner or later , have proved the funeral pyre of scores of men and women . There still remain other theatres which are by no means as safe as they should be . and their reconstruction , with a view to the providing for the safety of an audience in ease of fire , ought not be delayed a day longer . Mr. KELSO is just now exhibiting an activity in the suppression of certain forms of vice which , it is to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spasmodic thrill of official virtue . His first attack on the concertsaloons was generally regarded as a mere ostentatious exercise of authority over the wretched waiter-girls , but he subsequently followed it up by the arrest of the keepers of those dens , and has by this means perceptibly lessened the number of such haunts of vice in our principal thoroughfare . On Friday the Police made a raid on the Policy-shops , in which the poor are robbed of their earnings , and arrested a large number of persons engaged in that villainous trade . For this activity he deserves commendation , and should he persevere in the path he has entered , he will unquestionably receive it . At the same time , the public does not forget that a similar raid was made some months ago on the policy-shops , and that nothing came of it beyond the closing , for a brief period , of the pernicious places which on Friday were , and bad been for a long time , in full operation . The astonishing ease with which municipal authorities can go from bad to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cleveland . Having nothing else to do , as we are distinctly informed , the City Fathers proceeded to change the names of certain streets , and , as a consequence , there are streets in the city now burdened with such names as Otter , Corn , Blee , Duty , Marine , Pin , Silver , ** Sugar , Nursery , Lucia , Coon , and Minerva . Very many of those upon whom the duty of naming our streets and places has devolved , have struggled earnestly and with great success to be absurd , but none of them have ever surpassed the authorities of Cleveland . The proprietor of a Brooklyn bar-room was , the other night , astonished by a most extraordinary visitation . Just as he was about to put up his shutters , two men entered the room , and , without saying a word , immediately began a desperate fight , which they continued in complete silence . The proprietor succeeded in temporarily parting them , but the moment he turned his back , they resumed their struggle . He looked on in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fell over his furniture , and broke whatever fragile articles came within their reach . He finally went for a policeman , but , on his return , found that they had vanished . Had it not been for the broken glass and furniture , the policeman would probably have doubted the man 's story but , convinced by this evidence of the fray , be went in pursuit of the fighters , whom he finally arrested , and who , consistent in their mysterious speechlessness , decline to give any explanation of their conduct . It unknown men are to enter casual Brooklyn bar-rooms , and silently bruise each other , without itching the proprietor the satisfaction of an explanation , bar-keeping in Brooklyn will lose its charms .                     