@@743263

txt One of Mr. FERNANDO W'ooD 's bills for amending , without greatly simplifying , the complicated mass of legislation , known as the tariff laws proposes to exempt from the payment of duties all works of art and articles of a scientific or artistic nature , intended for scientific purposes , imported by any State or Territory , or by any municipal , educational , scientific , or art corporation , and " not intended for exhibition or sale . " It may be the idea of those who regard as sufficient such a loosening of the restrictions upon importing art objects , that it removes all obstacles to their use for educational purposes , while it subjects them to a tax as luxuries . But the education of a people in matters of taste , and especially in appreciation of the higher forms of art , depends much less on the possession of such works by institutions that use them directly in processes of instruction than on their general diffusion among collections which are for exhibition or sale . The mass of the people are , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they may get , and there ought to be every encouragement for the formation of collections intended to be seen by all comers , as well as to be studied by artists and art-students . For a country in the backward position of our own in art culture and art achievement to put obstacles in the way of the importation of the only effective means of improve ment is the height of absurdity . It is almost as bad to burden the sale of art objects from abroad for any purpose , as to restrict their acquisition for galleries and public exhibitions , for the encouragement of native talent depends on an appreciation which is promoted by the possession of the best works , oven in private hands . The more we acquire of the art products of other countries for public or private admiration , the more general and discriminating will the taste for such things become , and the demand will rapidly outgrow the foreign supply of such as a cultivated judgment will approve . The benefits will accrue to the people in a higher taste and appreciation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a wider desire for the possession of their works . There is no sophistry by which it can be argued that restriction upon the importation of works of art is an encouragement to native production . Whatever force there may be in this plea as applied to other forms of industry , it can not appear otherwise than ridiculous in this . Effective cultivation can only come with familiarity with the best work . This is needed to develop popular appreciation and to invite the emulation of artists and furnish them with models of excellence , not for imitation , but for study . And such cultivation is absolutely necessary in order at once to create a demand and to fix a national standard . Deprive a nation of the opportunity to see and to study the works of countries more advanced in this respect , and it will he a marvel if it makes any progress at all . Restrict such opportunity , and its progress will be hampered and inevitably slow . To give the utmost encouragement and the strongest impetus , we must remove every obstacle out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salerooms , and in the possession of those who have the means and the desire to purchase , of such works of art as may be available in the best markets . , And certainly we need in this country , where the direct encouragement of State patronage is hardly to be expected on any considerable scale , to be free from unnecessary burdens and trammels , and to assume them by our own legislation is , to say the least , a shortsighted policy . And this matter has a very practical aspect . Whatever pictures , statuary , and other works of the highest taste and skill may be as personal possessions , as national possessions they are not . mere luxuries . They are a means of education that can be , turned to valuable account . Industrial production is profitable just to the extent that it has excellence . Much of the prosperity and recuperative power of France as a nation depends on the superiority of its manufactures in point of quality , which gives her a command over the markets of the world in certain lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superiority is the result of generations of education in art , which has been fostered and encouraged in every way , and which is bearing rich fruit . The efforts which have been ? made in England during the last twenty-five years to promote a general culture in the fine and industrial arts have already brought profitable results in the higher grade of her fabrics and wares . We have much to do in this country , and doubtless , shall have for a long time yet , to supply ourselves and outside barbarians with products of the soil , raw materials , and the coarser and clumsier articles of manufacture , in which utility is the main consideration . But we are getting on in national ? life . We are acquiring a taste ourselves for finer goods and for the embellishments of life , and we are ambitious to compete with others in the production of whatever civilization demands for the satisfaction of its wants . Especially in the older parts of the country , we begin to feel the need of getting into the competition of the higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we must use every means to cultivate taste , increase skill , and raise the standard of excellence in our work . Every barrier to improvement should be torn down , and as there is no interest that could feel any effect but a beneficial one , there ought to be no difficulty in making the work complete .                     