@@742973

txt It used to be considered a cardinal doctrine of the Democratic Party that centralization of power is a dangerous thing . The proposition must be modified , in the light of recent history , to mean that centralization is dangerous except in the hands of the Democratic Party . It is true that this form of the doctrine might be based on facts in the record of the Democratic Party not very recent . The Fugitive Slave law was an instance of the exercise of extraordinary power by the General Government , which was as unjustifiable under the Constitution as it was offensive to the moral sense of the North , The proposition to exclude anti-slavery publications from the mails , which received support from a Democratic President , and the course of AMOS KENDALL , a Democratic Postmaster-General , in that connection , were examples of how far the powers of the Federal Government could be stretched on occasion . The interference of the United States officers with the elections in Kansas  --  an interference so lawless , so oppressive , and so outrageous that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  was in the same direction . But these instances are insignificant cordpared to those of the last ten years , which show that while State rights and State sovereignty were in favor with the Democrats because they gave the party the means of using to the utmost the undisptited power they held in the Southern States , the opposite theory became equally in favor with them , when they saw a prospect of gaining possession of the Federal Government . The course of the Democrats on the question of a legal-tender currency is the most striking illustration of this tendency . They would give to Congress a power without authority in the Constitution , unlimited in extent , and involving the fortune of every citizen of the country . Their policy in the last session of Congress demonstrates clearly that in other ways they are ready to concentrate power in their own hands which they once held never Gould be exercised through the agency of the Federal Government . During the , f ore:part of the session a bill was passed by the Senate to " provide for and regulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decision of questions arising thereon . " It enacted that each State might provide for the trial and determination of any controversy concerning the appointment of Presidential Electors , and every such determination should be conclusive evidence of the title of the Electors , and should govern in the counting of the Electoral votes . If , when the two houses met , more than one return should have been received from a State , those votes only should be counted which were given by Electors determined by the State tribunal to have been appointed . If there was a question as to which of two tribunals was the lawful one , then that question ana none other must be decided by the two houses , and the conclusion of the tribunal decided to be lawful must be accepted . It would naturally be supposed that this equitable , constitutional , and eminently conservative provision for the settlement of a , vital measure would have been adopted by the Democrats of the House . Par from it . The House consigned the Senate bill to the limbo of the Speaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure of its own slightly modified from one introduced by Mr. SOUTHARD , of Ohio . This bill provided that where there had been a dispute in any State regarding the title of Electors , and it had been determined by the " highest judicial tribunal " of ' the State , the two houses should have the right to " reverse " such decision . Further , if there was a question as to which of two tribunals in a State was the lawful one , then , after deciding that question , the two houses might proceed to " reverse " the decision of the tribunal found to be lawful . It is announced from Washington that if the President does not show himself pliant to the threats of the Democrats regarding the appropriation bills with the political amendments attached , the Democrats will add the Southard bill to the others and adjourn . Such a desperate course is quite within the range of their inordinate thirst for power . Mr. SOUTHARD , the author of this atrocious bill , was the recognized Democratic leader in the debates on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His utterances were of the most extravagant character , and his manner was in the last degree dictatorial . There can be little doubt that he enjoys the confidence of his party , and that both in his outrageous Electoral bill and in his position regarding the political amendments , he will be sustained by a majority in both houses . In regard to the political amendments , the Democrats are prepared to say that they will stop the operation of the Government if the President does not consent to the repeal of laws for the protection of the freedom and purity of elections . But , on the Electoral bill they go still further and say , no matter how free and pure the elections may be , no matter by what State tribunal ? . their result may be determined and declared , a partisan majority in the two houses may " reverse " the decision of the tribunals , and . with it that of the people . This is the latest phase of Democratic centralization . It seeks to place in the hands of the majoritY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President and Vice-President of the United States .                     