@@742573

txt One feature of the proposed peace in Eastern Europe will be of deep interest to all students of history and all admirers of heroic courage . We mean the final settlement of the frontiers of Montenegro . As we have frequently reminded our readers , the little Principality of the Black Mountaineers and the Kingdom of Servia are the latest survivals of an ancient order of things . They are like . the protrusion of primitive dikes through a modern diluvial plain ; the remains of what once covered the whole surface , but which have now been worn and swept away , except in these primeval cliffs . When the Turks first poured their hordes over Eastern Europe , a ' considerable Slavonic Kingdom  --  the Servian  --  extended from Belgrade to the Black Sea and the Adriatic . This was overthrown and submerged , but the two provinces which were never thoroughly conquered were Servia , and Montenegro . Servia , indeed , remained under the yoke for centuries , though finally freeing herself ; but the little Principality among the mountains , with first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the power of the Ottoman Empire . For five centuries the struggle has been continued . Sometimes the petty Princedom seemed about yielding to its mighty enemy , but nature and indomitable courage have protected it . It has always arisen again after defeat , and has always finally vanquished its opponent . The homes of the brave mountaineers have been preserved safe , and their religion . has not been overwhelmed by the power or corrupted by the arts of the Moslem conquerors who forced so many youth from the neighboring provinces to receive the faith of Islam : The whole history is a most inspiriting and heroic one , and had it but possessed its " sacred bard , " would have ranked with the annals of the immortal Greek cities which , in population , were no larger . The spirit of resistance and defiance has been transmitted from father to son ; even the women share in the unconquerable tone ; and take part in the battles . The farmers are said to leave their crops and . the herdsmen their flocks for the skirmish with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " gladness " for battle which belongs to a more vigorous age of the world . Yet free- , dem ' has brought its blessings , even to this ruggedprovince . Recent trayelers tell us that it is making more real Progress , especially in education , than any of the neighboring districts under the rule of Turkey . Schools are established ; roads made , and the little Principality seems entering on the ways of modern advance . But the great want of the country is a connection with the sea . A narrow strip of Austria separates her on one side , and of Turkey on the other , from the waters of the Adriatic . could Montenegro but have a port , she would be placed in an entirely different position toward the world . Now for products , . or arms , or travelers to reach her , a strip of foreign territory must be crossed , and then rugged precipices be aseended . The Prince is a friend , possibly a pensioner , of the Czar , and no doubt the terms of peace with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and an addition to her territory from Bosnia . If this latter country and Herzegovina be placed , as the terms of the armistice indicate , under foreign protection , the Turkish power will soon come to an cad ; and then a natural confederation would be that of these Slavonic provinces , with , perhaps , the Albanians , under the race which has shown itself by deeds worthy to rule the Black Mountaineers . Russia can not but reward the faithfulness of her petty ally , and the natural recompense is territory and a leading position in the reconstructed provinces . It is difficult to predict or to measure the progress and growth in all goods , arts , and civilization , which the world will see in Eastern Europe when once the Mohammedan incubus is removed . The Ottomans have but camped there . The very name for their Government is derived from the gate of a tent ? /a Porta Sublime . They have pitched it for five hundred years among races who never ceased to hate them . Their camp has desolated the finest provinces in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand compels them to strike their tents and flee to the shores from which they came . They depart , leaving not a blessing or a friend behind them . But over their departure , none will rejoice as do the Black Mountaineers , whose warfare of five hundred years is over , and who can now till their rugged . mountain sides without danger or disturbance .                     