@@741981

txt A report that Mr. Baine had been suddenly struck down with paralysis this morning while on the way to church with his family produced the most intense excitement among all classes in Washington , and within an hour trom the time he was attacked crowds were assembled at the hotels and street corners discussing the startling event . At one time the crowd at the residence of . the ex-Speaker was so great , and the demands for admission so numerous , that a guard had to be stationed at the door to prevent the admission of all but intimate friends . Every one sup posed to have facilities for obtaining late intelligence from the sick man was stopped and plied with questions , and those who emerged trom the house , were followed by , persons anxious to learn particulars of the sick Man 's condition . It was known that Mr. Blaine was lying in an unconscious state , and as the hours wore away with no favorable symptoms , the worst apprehensions filled the public-mind , and gave rise to reports that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general beliet in the hotels was that the doctors had pronounced his ease beyond their skill , and a discussion of the cause of the attack gave way to speculation as to the probable effect which his death would have upon the Presidential nominat About 4 o'clock Mr. Blaine regained consciousness , spoke to his - wife and others ' gathered at his bedside , and moved his body and limbs with freedom , showing that the fears entertained that he had been stricken with paralysis were not well founded . " These favorable symptoms soon became generally known . upon the street , and tended to dispel the gloom which had previously prevailed . This morning Mr. Blaine arose at his customary hour , feeling as well as usual , took a good breakfast , and seemed very cheerful . Upon opening his mail he , found a letter informing him that his friend , E. Rockwood Hoar , or Massachusetts , who had been one of his warm supporters , . had decided to oppose his nomination for the Presidency . This seemed to annoy him considerably , and during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . About 11 o'clock he started for the First Congregational Church , situated on the corner of Tenth and G streets , about five blocks from Mr. BlaMe 's residence . He was accompanied by his wife and Miss Dodge . They ' Walked to the church , Mr. Blaine taking no precaution to protect himself from the het sun . He did not , however , complain of the heat , and seemed very cheerful . Just as they reached the Tenth street entrance to the church Mr. Blaine took out his handkerchief and wiped off his forehead , rking to the ladies that he had a severe pain in the back of his head . Turning to his.wife he said , " I fear I am going to be sun-struck . Let me sit down on the steps , while you procure . a carriage . Take me home and send for Dr. Pope . " He sat down on the steps of the church and Mrs. Blaine sat down beside him , wizen he laid his head in her lap and immediately became unconecious . Mr. D. C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a carriage , but not finding any near , a passing omnibus was called , and the ex-Speaker - was lifted into it . He was laid out upon the , long seat , with his head resting on his wife 's lap , and was driven to his residence accompanied by a few gentlemen who had accidentally come up . Upon reaching his residence he was lift'ed from the omnibus , still unconscious , and carried into the hall . A sofa was brought upon which to lay hint , when he opened his eyes , looked toward it , and said to Mr. D. C. Forney , who was holding his head , " No , lay me on the floor , " and then immediately became unconscious again . A bed was brought from an upper chamber and put up in the parlor , and the patient was laid upon it . Dr. Pope , his family physician , arrived about five minutes after and gave immediate direction about his care and treatment . Surgeon General Barnes soon came , and in quick succession Drs . Verdi , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at once called , which lasted some time . There was a disagreement as to the nature of the attack , some calling it sun-stroke , while others thought it a more serious affliction . All the physicians , however , , agreed that as Mr. Blame has always been homeopathically treated , and as Dr. Pope , his family physician , was in attendance , that there should be no time wasted in a discussion about what treatment ho should have , but that Dr. Pope should treat him as he saw fit . Plasters were applied to the breast , and other remedies were promptly resorted to . But for a time there was no improvement , and the ex-Speaker lay with his eyes wide open , staring at the wall unconscious , and at times hardly able to breathe , and occasionally unable to take the simple restoratives that were given him . For hours these unfavorable symptoms continued , and the doctors held frequent and earnest consultations . Ono or two , and sometimes all of them , were about the bedside watching every action , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Surgeon General Barnes , with a troubled look , turned to Dr. Bliss and said : " I am afriad he is dying . " Dr. Bliss , however , took a more hopeful view of the case , and thought the large recuperative power of the patient would enable him to rally . During these hours of anxious suspense the excitement in and about the ox-Speaker 's house was intense . Telegrams were being received from all points of the country , anxiously inquiring about Mr. Blaine 's condition , ' and replies were dispatched as soon as there was any implevement manifested upon which to base a hope that be would recover . Last week Mr. Blaine , in order to insure rapid and constant communication with his friends at Cincinnati , had a telegraph wire run into his house , and today an operator was kept busy replying to the numerous messages received from all parts of the country . In some cases two or three telegrams from the same parties would be received before a reply could be seat . About 4 o'clock Mr. Blaine became quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this a favorable symptom ; but a few moments later when he opened his eyes , and recognized his wife and asked for other members of the family , they gave the assur ance that there was little cause for alarm , and the gratifying intelligence was sent over the wires to the thousands who were waiting in suspense to know  --  the truth . About the first to call after Mr. Blaine had been brought home , sent the first official dispatch as to his really improved condition to Hon. Eugene Hale , in Cincinnati . Postmaster General Jewell followed by sending the news of his assuring symptoms to the President at Annapolis . Mr. Jewell also telegraphed. the same good news to Mr. Blaine 's son , now in ' Yale College , and arranged for him to come to Washington by the night train . About 6 o'clock , after consultation , the physicians decided to apply electricity to the patient 's side . which was done with such good effects that Mr. Blaine went to sleep soon after the operation was concluded , and thereafter seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the members of the Cabinet , a number of Senators and Representatives , and several of the foreign Ministers called to inquire about Mr. Blaine 's condition . At 9 o'clock Dr. Pope furnished the following diagnosis of Mr. Blaine 's case : " Mr. Blame 's condition is one of simple cerebral depression , produced primarily by great mental strain , and , secondarily , by the action of excessive heat .. There is no apoplectic congestion or effusion , nor any symptoms of paralysis . He has free use of his limbs . The pupils of his eyes are normal . He has spoken several times , and recognizes his family . Ile lies quiet , breathes naturally , and is disposed to sleep . He has responded excellently to treatment , and I have every reason to anticipate a speedy recovery . " At 11 o'clock to-night Mr. Blaine 's condition was still ' steadily improving . Ho has the entire use of all his limbs , is able to turn himself in the bed , recognizes his attendants , and occasionally makes a remark , though , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dr. Verdi , who , in connection with Dr. Pope , has been in attendance from the first , concurs entirely in the latter 's statement of the case . Dr. Palmer , of Maine , also concurs in it . Surgeon . General Barnes , although not in charge of the case , and therefore not giving a formal diagnosis , expressed the opinion at 8 o'clock this evening that Mr. Blaine was better , and that the anticipated improvement in the ensuing eight hours would relieve the apprehensions of his friends . Dr. Barnes and Dr. Bliss also say in private conversation that the case is not one of apoplexy or paralysis . At midnight there was no change in Mr. Blaine 's condition irons that previously reported . At 12:45 A. M. he was still sleeping quietly and naturally .                     