@@781883

txt New-York has the reputation of harboring ome of the most enterprising thieves in the rorld . From a bond robbery to a street opening . from despoiling a house to plundering a city , there is apparently no achievement in the circle of rascality to which they are not equal . Brit even their fame must pale before the superior audacity or certain West Virginia burglars . Tired , no doubt , of the monotony of " cracking " private " cribs. " these bold operators hit upon an idea which is entitled to be called an inspirration of genius . This was no less than to break into a place which most gentlemen of their kidney are only too glad to break out of . They conceived the highly ingenious and original design of robbing the Penitentiary , and what is more , they did it with a success as complete as the conception was happy . They climbed over the wall by means of a ladder , and . having made their researches and . secured their " swag , " escaped in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoes and other light articles which pleased their simple fancy . That they did . not take the jailer also is probably due to the fact that they thought he might be useful to them in another way hereafter . There is about this feat a delicious whimsicality which shows the Virginia rogues to be not only accomplished artists in their profession , but keen humorists besides . Probably it was not so much for the sake of the plunder that they performed their novel exploit  --  indeed , they hardly seem to have obtained enough to recompense them for the risk , and a jail is not the likeliest place for valuables , ? as for the capital practical joke on the Warden and the turnkeys . What these poor innocents can do to turn aside the storm of riacule that must be even now making life a burden to them we can not conjecture . As little can we imagine what should be done with these humorous rascals if they are caught . To send them to jail would be only simplifying their labors by giving them an opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quietly depart . Allowing for the difference in value of the " stealables , " it would be as sensible to lock them up in a bank-vault . Robbers that put you at your wits ' ends to keep them out of the place intended for their punishment , are certainly very difficult to deal with . Perhaps the best plan would . be to let them continue to gratify their curious fancy for jail-breaking from the wrong side , if in consideration of that immunity they will consent to forego the attacks upon private houses . Or , still better . on the principle of " set a thief to catch a thief , " they might all be made jailers . Taking the persons in charge of the Wheeling Penitentiary as a sample , they could not very well be worse than some of the worthies they would displace.                     