@@781668

txt Among the Greek statesmen of the present generation there is no one who deserves to rank higher than Col. AGATHANGELOS . From his earliest youth he has displayed enthusiastic patriotism . While yet au Athenian small boy he constantly threw stones with wonderful precision at casual foreigners , and since his first entrance into public life he has induced hundreds of English and French tourists to contribute their purses and their boots to the sacred cause of Greece . His intellect is of that keen and subtle typo which is universally recognized as a truly Greek characteristic , and he has repeatedly detected watches and money which travelers had concealed about their persons so skillfully as to defy the penetration of less subtle minds . Fifteen years ago this eminent man , who was at that time one of the leading local statesmen of Athens , withdrew from the city , and took up his residence in the Poloponnesus . It is an error to suppose that he was driven to take this course by the persecutions of his enemies . He had no enemies , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Col. AGATHANGELOS promptly killed him , and as soon as ho was fairly under the sod , fully forgave him . The true reason why he left Athens was because ho felt that in the open country , at the head of a gallant band , he could servo Greece more effectually than in the narrow limits of a city , where an ignorant policeman might some day thwart his patriotic efforts . So he enrolled a company of fearless patriots , and for many years reaped a rich crop of foreign tourists and conferred new glory upon the Grecian name . It was at the little hamlet which occupies the site of ancient Sparta that Col. ? GATIIANGF.LOS one day summoned his followers to attend a council of war . They found him sitting on a stout British nobleman who had been captured the day before , and noticed that he seemed plunged in grief . Prom time to time he applied the British coattail to his eyes and wiped away his tears and incidental particles of the sacred soil of Greece . For several minutes the silence remained unbroken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " What ails our chief and father 3 Is the English dog 's money counterfeit , or was his flask filled with antiniouial wine 9 Speak , 0 , heir of Achilles and all the rest of them , and relieve the minds of thy children I " Thus entreated , the fleet-fingered Colonel , answering , said : " I weep for the lost iron drachma of our fathers . " Whereat his men said that his tears did him great credit , but upon the whole , they would like to have a little further explanation . Col. AGATHANGELOS thereupon delivered a powerful oration , showing that ho and his followers were descended in a general way from the Spartan LYCURGUS ; that LvCURGUS had made iron the standard of Spartan currency , and that certain unspecified and unspeakable villains had robbed the modern Greeks of the iron drachma of ancient Sparta . He had just discovered the fact of this robbery , and it filled him with mingled horror and grief . That men should ever be dishonest , except in the case of foreigners , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words could depict the infamy of the conspirators who had got up in the middle of the night , so to speak , and stolen the idolized iron drachma . " They have robbed each and all ot us , " cried the noble patriot , " and I call upon you to aid me in restoring the lost iron drachma to its rightful position . " Whereupon his followers , with loud lamentation over their suddenly discovered loss , resolved to have once more their passionately loved iron coin , without which life would no longer possess any charm for them . The next day Col. AGATIIANGF.LOS collected a number of cast-iron stoves from the more wealthy villagers , and broke them up into small pieces , ou each of which ho scratched the words , " one drachma . " With this coin he immediately paid his men their arrears of wages . He lost no time in sending one of the captured Englishman 's ears to the nearest British Consul , with a note explaining that in addition to a heavy ransom iu gold or silver , ho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coinage . Two days later he received the ransom and the stipulated stoves in exchange for the prisoner , and was so delighted at . the weight of the iron that he deliberately buried the gold and silver as an expression of contempt for these demoralizing metals , and nobly shared the fragments of the stoves with his faithful men . For a few weeks contentment reigned in the camp of Col. AGITHANUELOS j but the day arrived when his men came to him and remarked that they wished to exchange their iron money for silver money . They said that they still loved the drachma of their fathers , but that they found it impossible to buy anything with it . Not a sheep nor a goat nor an ounce of gunpowder would their degenerate countrymen sell for any amount of iron money . They had carried hundreds of pounds ot the iron currency from one farmer to another , and from the Athenian shops to the Corinthian shops , but no one would take it except at the rate of one cent per pound . " No man " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our love for the grand old iron drachma of our fathers , but since we ca n't buy anything with it , we should prefer to exchange it at par for the wretched modern money which you doubtless have laid up in your treasury . " In vain did the patriotic Colonel tell them that a drachma ; , was a drachma , whether it was made of silver or iron , and that they should scorn to permit mere tradesmen to influence their views of finance . His ignorant followers would listen respectfully , but they would always reply that they must have money that would buy something , and that iron money would buy nothing ; so , in the end , the Col.onel had to yield to their stupid claims . He announced that at 10 o'clock the next morning , Im , would . redeem ? all iron.monav : with silver , but that ho would nave to sit up all night to get his accannts in order , and:must not 1:m interrupted , His wishes in this respect were strictly complied with , but when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was missing . He had taken his gold and silver with him , and had left nothing but a few thousand pounds of iron . Ho is now living in strict retirement in Constantinople , whore he hi understood to be preparing a work entitled The Best Currency , which , when translated into English , will unquestionably have ' a great sale in our Western States , and will be regarded as the only work upon the sub ? ject which a people deeply in debt and filled with a noble scorn of creditors eau study with profit .                     