@@742907

txt Too many triumphs , victories to which they were not entitled , have not tended to strengthen the position of the Democrats in Louisiana . On the contrary , the outrageous frauds which were perpetrated by the leaders of the regular organizations ? frauds which in New-Orleans at least seem to have been directed quite as much against the so-called independent Democrats as against the Republicans  --  appear at last to have aroused the fair-minded people of the State to some sense of the tyranny and injustice of the little clique of demagogues who seek to control the destinies of the commonwealth . This feeling , and there is reason to believe that it is a growing one , has certainly led to the recent exposure of Democratic frauds practiced in the city election and to the establishment of a number of independent and influential white organizations , with the publicly avowed object of guarding the ballot-box against the corrupt practices of those who control the dominant party . While these better elements are gradually breaking away from the Democracy , however , there are many indications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form the great bulk of the Republican Party in Lousiana , are daily becoming more firmly united , more alive to the responsibilities of citizenship and the rights'which belong to freemen . An evidence of this is to be found in the recent organization of the Young Men 's Progressive Association of Louisiana , a union of influential young colored men who have come together for the purpose of exposing outrages which may be committed upon men of their race for political effect , and to secure as far as may be , fair elections and honest counts . In a moderate , but none the less effective , address to the country , which has just been issued by the association , it is shown that the conciliatory policy which was adopted by President HAY Es toward the South has not diminished the number of crimes committed by the White League for political purposes , but , on the contrary , by supporting the belief among lawless men that the National Government has neither the power nor the will to punish their transgressions , has made it more dangerous than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to exercise the rights which are popularly supposed to be guaranteed to him by the national Constitution . To remedy these evils , and others of a like character , it is well suggested by the address that the Federal office-holders in the South , but particularly in Louisiana  --  officers who are charged with the enforcement of the laws ? be held to a strict accountability for all their official acts , and be made responsible for a plain and fearless enforcement of all the laws and constitutional enactments which have been passed for the protection of colored voters . There can be no doubt that the carrying out of this suggestion . by the National Government would be productive of many good results . As they are at present administered in many parts of the South , notably in South Carolina , the United States laws afford absolutely no protection to the black men and have no terrors for the White League . With such men as District Attorney NORTHRUP acting the part of prosecutors , the Democratic wild riders , who break up Republican meetings , beat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with impunity snap their fingers in the face of justice and defy the power of the Government . In this connection it is well pointed out by the address to which we refer that crimes against citizens of the United States can be checked in the South as well as in the North , if the laws are enforced with the same energy and diligence . For these reasons the association , representing , as it does , some of the best elements in the Republican Party of Louisiana , strongly protests against any scheme looking toward a disfranchisement of the colored voter . It is argued , with no little force , that the right of suffrage was conferred upon the freedmen as the result of a great achievement ; and that it should be as sacredly preserved to them as it is sacredly pledged in the Constitution , there can be no doubt . It may be questionable whether it was wise in the beginning to call nearly a million of ignorant men , who had lived a life of chattel slavery , to take part in the councils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every effort to deprive them of rights thus guaranteed should be firmly resisted . The negroes of the South have learned with a rapidity which , considering their opportunity , is little short of marvelous . To day they are no longer the half-civilized beings they were when the war broke out . The knowledge that they are citizens and have a right to share in the administration of the Government has elevated and enlarged their minds as nothing else could have done , until now , in many parts of the South , notably in the large cities and towns , they are quite as well-informed in all matters which concern the State as are their white neighbors . What they have long needed is intelligent organization , an organization controlled , not by designing leaders for their own selfish ends , but by men who have the real interests of their race at heart and the power and courage to thoroughly expose the wrongs committed by the shot-gun Democracy . There is reason to believe that the Young Men 's Progressive Association will in some degree supply this want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should lead to the most satisfactory results .                     