@@781926

txt The throne of the Sandwich Islands is in a fair way to be filled with a King of the royal Kamehamehan race . Upon the death of the late monarch , there were but two scions of his house who were regarded as having any claim to the succession . These were a certain Mrs. BISHOP , of unknown relationship to SAMEHAMEHA V. , and Prince WILLIAM LUNALILO , who was the legitimate heir to the throne , but who was regarded by the white population as an extremely ineligible candidate , for reasons not wholly unconnected with whisky and street-gutters . Nevertheless , this Prince BILL , as he is irreverently called , has shown himself an ambitious and astute Kanaka . No sooner did he receive the news that the lamented KemEHAME111. had , died in the odor of palm-oil. than he astonished his boon companions by proudly arising from the gutter , and proceeding to wash himself with unprecedented care . Furthermore , he refused all invitations to indulge in whisky , and announced his determination to henceforth eschew ardent spirits and to live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ washed , and attired in an entirely new collar soon spread throughout the islands , and brought dismay to the partisans of Mrs. BISHOP , and the occasional Kanakas. who , under the vague impression that a republic is a novel and particularly toothsome form of roast-pia , clamorously called themselves republicans . Prince BILL , intoxicated and abandoned to the Capuan sloth and luxury of the gutter , was a person of no possible consequence , but it was impossible to say what he might attempt under the influence of cold water liberally applied , both externally and internally . He might organize a strong party among the more hungry Kanakas , and even prevail upon the Legislature to recognize his claims as the legitimate heir to the throne . As the event has proved , Prince BILL is a prompt and skillful politician . As soon as his hand became sufficiently steady to permit him to use a pen , be signed a proclamation calling upon the Kanakas to vote for him as the successor of the Kamehamehas . That ne had not the slightest authority to issue such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his purpose , neither did it deter the Kana has from voting for him . Flattered by the compliment of an appeal to their suffrages , the inhabitants of the Sandwich Islands went to the polls and voted nearly unanimously for Prince RILL . Indeed , it is said that but one vote was cast against him , which we may fairly suppose to have been cast by the dutiful husband of Mrs. BISHOP . Armed with this overwhelming public indorsement , Prince BILL is now ready to decorate himself with a few imposing pieces of broken china and a glass bead or two , and to boldly appear in the hall of the Legislature to demand from that body a ratification of the popular vote . That his demand will be acceded to no one now seems to doubt , and in all probability we shall soon be called upon to chronicle the crowning of WILLIANI I. , King of the Kanakas . Whether the Sandwich Islanders will have reason to regret this choice , time alone will show . If Prince BILL continues to remain sober , he mayprove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , always remain tie unpleasant .. possibility that the washed Kanaka may . return to his former gutter , and thereby bring sadness and disgrace upon his impulsive and confiding subjects .                     