@@781739

txt During the dispute over the Presidency in the last session of Congress a bill to provide for the payment of the indebtedness of the several Pacific Railways to the Government was somewhat lost sight of by the public , and was finally dropped for want of time . The subject was first brought forward by the Union Pacific Railroad Company in a letter from SIDNEY Dua.ox , its President , to the Secretary of the Treasury , dated Feb. 1 ) , 1875 . The following table shows the indebtedness of the several companies to the Government as returned in the public debt statement for July and as it will lie at the maturity of the subsidy bonds , twenty years hence , supposing that in the meantime they repay one-quarter of the accruing interest in the way of Government transportation : deleted table Since it has been judicially determined that this indebtedness i ! ; not due until the maturity of the subsidy bonds , interest can not be computed upon the amounts pail by the Treasury . The annual interest upon the amount owed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and . upon that owed by the Central Paeilic and Western Pacific , ( the two having been amalgamated , ) $ 1 767 1 , 31 Any annual paymmts by these companies less than the foregoing sums will leave the present indebtedni ! ss constantly increasing quantity , except so far as it may be redueed by comp:eunding. the interest on such payments semi-annually . Statements have been put forth from time to time implying that the sum duo to the Government in 1 89 7 will be between three and four hundred millions of dollars , such statements being intended to create belief in the puldie mind that any kind of a settlement with the railroads now would be better than waiting till the loan collies due . What the aggregate indebtedness would be if the law were diff , r , at  --  that is , if it were such that compound interest deleted 3 lines merely for the reimbursement of moneys actually paid out of the public Treasury . it was a hard bargain , but it is a bargain , and while the railway companies insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is for the Government to insist that they stand up to it also , and fortunately the two principal companies are quite able to do so . The letter of SIDNEY Dli.tox , President of the Union Pacific Railroad Company , to Secretary BnisTow brought this important subject to the attention of Congress about two years ago . In this letter Mr. DILI , ox reminds the Secretary that . there is a large debt aecumulating against his company ill favor of the Government , and that if the company allows it to accumulate till maturity , it the company " will probably be utterly unable to pay it , " and furthermare , that the Government " will be unable to collect it , except upon the assumption that it will advance the money to discharge prig ) ' mortgages and run the road on GOVel'ilmeat account  --  a policy which wise statesmanship could not advise . " There being only one mortgage ahead of the Government 's mortgage , the use of the plural noun to convey Mr. DILLox 's idea is not appropriate . Nor is lie justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking up that of statesman , to assure the Government that it would be unwise for the latter to pay oft the first mortgage and operate the road as Government property . What it will be wise for the Government to do twenty years hence will depend upon many things to happen meanwhile , and especially upon the then condition of the civil service . The best managed railways in Europe , and those giving the highest satisfaction to the public , are the Government railways of Belgium . and Germany . At present , we grant , it would not be wise for the Government to undertake an extensive job of railway management . But the necessity of doing so twenty years hence , even in the ease propounded by citizen DILLON , is not apparent . It can lease the property at a fixed rental , or it can sell the whole to a now company . The plain duty of the Government twenty years hence will be to pursue , its property wherever found , and get as much out of it as possible . The motive which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , and here is the key to the whole matter . The stockholders of the Pacific Railways hold a terminable annuity having twenty years to run , the amount of the annuity depending upon the earning capacity of the roads , but limited in any case to 10 per cent . " on the cost of the roads , " What the cost was has never been judicially determined , but is liable to be . They would naturally like to convert this terminable annuity into a permanent holding , provided it can be done at other people 's expense . The first thing to be done , of course , is to put on the semblance of zeal for the public interests and of gratitude to the Government for its bounty , and of such self-abnegation as may be inferred from a desire to commence paying a debt now which is not duo for a long time to come . The fact that this company has resisted , and still resists , the collection of the small fraction of its net earnings which its charter requires to be paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in keeping with its professed desire to pay its debts promptly . Nor is there anything ill its past history which warrants the belief that it is about to perform a generous or an honest action . A careful examination of what it has offered to do shows that it has not changed its character in the least . But the impression has been produced in the public mind that it is more for the interest of the Government to come to a settlement with the companies than it is for the interest of the companies to come to a settlement with the Government , and hence that the concessions , if any , should lie made by the Government . That this is a perfectly gratuitous assumption , and that the terms of settlement proposed are wholly inadmissible , we shall show in the further discussion of the subject .                     