@@741837

txt Although the regular fortnightly settlement at the London Stock Exchange has absorbed much attention , a fairly active business has been transacted. during the week , and the fluctuations in some stocks were wide . English and American Government securities have been in request with an upward tendency , but Austrian and Hungarian bonds and English railway stocks have attracted the principal share of attention . The former were depressed partly on account of difficulties arising in the negotiations for a revision of relations , and partly in consequence of the projected issue of new loans , Railway shares were generally lower in consequence of the dividends declared , which , though mostly better than the last half of 1874 , did not meet the expectations of speculator 's . Turkish and Peruvian securities have been dull , without material change . Egyptians live been largely dealt in . Money has been in active demand for the purposes of settlement , but there has been little commereiil demand for accommodation , and in the absence of inquiry for new loans and other financial enterprises , the rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent . for throe months ' bills is scarcely maintained . To-day some transactions are reported at one-eighth lower . A reduction in the bank rate of discount next Thursday is already talked about . Continental exchanges , however , owing to the scarcity of bills , were less favorable to this market at the close of the week . Cotton. ? The Liverpool cotton market has experienced a severe pressure to sell , the tone has been depressed , and there has Veen much irregularity . Continued heavy roe eipts and large shipments appear to have led to increased crop estimates , and induced merchants to place a great part of the recent imports on the market . The demand for the trade has been small , and the week has been one of much disappoint- , ment to holders . It closes without any relief to the feeling of depression which prevailed , notwithstanding the total stock of all descriptions is 134,000 bales less than last year , and the American 83,000 bales less . Egyptian staples were pressed for sale at a quarter of a penny reduction in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixteenth to an eighth decline , but at the close of the week suffered from the fall in Egyptian  --  spinners pplerring the latter at such a decline . Arrivals experienced the same depression which characterized the spot market . Prices have slowly and steadily given way with the increasing pressure to sell , and the market closes at the lowest prices of the week . Produce. ? In Mincing Lane the markets for produce continue depressed . Sugar has been very dull . Deliveries proceed favorably with the stock in the kingdom under the average of three previous years at the same date . There is more inquiry for all descriptions of hops , both now and old , at full prices .                     