@@741455

txt Kansas has the honor of presenting to the American public the latest new party . This promising infant has not ' yet been named , but it may , for lack of a better title , be called the Independent Party-of Kansas . It has begun its existence with a declaration of principles ; life is not worth having without principles ; and this is no feeble wail , but a stentorian cry from " the boundless prairies of the free West . " The Independents have read the Declaration of Independence , and they garnish the front of their address with a liberal quotation from that much-abused document . The usual touching allusion to life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness  --  now supposed to be highly endangered. ? tapers off into some reference to the late amendments to the Federal Constitution , which are also presumed to stand in immediate deadly peril . Then there is a demand for State rights , couched in language that , as the play-bill would say , " can not offend the most fastidious . " Next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defiance " of the present Administra. , tion , with a paragraph neatly turned with " ancient landmarks . " There is a good word in favor of paying the public debt according to law , which nobody can deny ; a dab at the national banks , the tariff , and some other things , and the remainder is occupied with local politics of immediate interest to the people of Kansas . If the Independents can purify or even assuage the nastiness of Kansas politics , they will not have been born in vain . But the error they have made is in attempting to cover too much . They begin with " life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness , " rest half way on the repeal of the tariff on lumber , and . wind up with a general objurgation of Kansas political corruption . In other words , there is too ranch rhetoric for the occasion . The Independents may feel very deeply on the subject of the Declaration of Independence and the immoralities of the Republican Party , but their views on these topics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in earnest as to what they say about the price of lumber , and the duty of the National Government thereto ; but the outside world will take little heed unless they go to work and elect good . men for office . It is not so much what the new party in Kansas thinks about things as what it does , that will attract attention . The field is all before the Independents . If they shall choose honest and capable men to govern Kansas and represent her in Congress , they will deserve well of their country .                     