@@742669

txt The momentous announcement is made that the President has under serious consideration a request to permit the re-establishment of the so-called State Associations in Washington . Tho breaking up of those organizations was one of the few visible results of the famous civil service order . Although their discontinuance was a very small fraction of that reform of the civil service which the country had a right to expect , and although the question has boon magnified out of all proportion to its real importance , we , nevertheless , hope that the President will not grant the request . Now that public attention has been called to them , it may be worth while to inquire what the nature and purposes of these associations are . Prom all the information which we can gather , if there is anything for which there is no place under a proper administration of the public service , it is a State Association . They are . simply organizations of subordinate clerks in the departments at Washington , for political purposes . Their only legitimate functions are the distribution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election time , and if they had but confined themselves to these , no fault could have been found with them . But they were not usually able to restrain themsolves Within such narrow bounds . They aspired to become a controlling power in the departments , and it was doubtless in consequence of the meddlesome and dictatorial spirit displayed by their managers that their dissolution was ordered . Every one knows what opportunities such associations offer for the advancement of windy and ambitious demagogues .. Insignificant as these organizations were , they formed no exception to the rule . They attempted in many cases to control appointments , promotions , and dismissals in the public departments . They appointed emissaries , appropriately known as " smelling committees , " to make inquisition concerning the politics and private opinions of the various employes , . and if ? any could be found whose views were not up to the orthodox standard set up by the association , they were summarily reported for dismissal . Their recommendations were too frequently re ceived with favor by the appointing power . Subordinate clerks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the head of the department , by sending them back to their desks if they had acted in their individual capacity , were enabled , by banding themselves together under the pretentious name of a " State Association , " to secure the dismissal of their fellowclerks , and so , perhaps , save their own places . ? In other eases , the influence of the " association " was successfully invoked by its members or officers to secure their own advancement . In either case , the interference was meddlesome and improper , and at war alike with the efficiency and discipline of the public service .. Being thus used as instruments for the gratification of personal spite and selfishness or of partisan bigotry , it is not Strange that they became odious to all who had the welfare of the service at heart . That any lazy , worthless clerk with a talent for intrigue should be enabled , by joining one of these associations , not only to secure his own retention or advancement , but to control the fate of others , was simply intolerable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was called to the President 's attention immediately after his inauguration , whereupon he promptly abated it . He properly considered that their influence was opposed to the principles of civil service reform , or of proper administration , and that any effort to correct the abuses of the service must embrace the destruction of such agencies for mischief . It is , therefore , gratifying to learn that the President has given no encouragement to the proposal to revamp them . But while the influence and interference of these associations was thus injurious and odious , it must not be forgotten that they were a natural outgrowth of the system of administering the public , service which had grown up . They were an effect rather than a cause . If the public service had not been so conducted as to permit , if not invite , the interference of such influences , their efforts would have been harmless . But so long as ' partisan activity was permitted to outweigh meritorious service , so long as the officers of the departments made themselves the judges of the orthodoxy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strange that organizations should have boon formed to take , advantage of such a condition of affairs . In suppressing these associations , as iii the issue of the civil service order , the Presi7 dent is , therefore , dealing with an effect and not a cause . If the service were so conducted that officers found no personal advantage in the management of political organizations , if the public servants were selected and retained solely on account of their capacity , there would be no need to put any restraint on their political activity . Their conduct in such matters would be governed by the same motives that actuate the private citizen . Our complaint against the President has been that , while he was professing to strike at the result , he left the cause unscotched . Wo feel bound to confess , however , that , while his performance has fallen far short of his promises , and has been marred by many errors , inconsistencies , and apparent haltings of purpose , there has been on the whole a considerable improvement in the tone and character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if ho could but lift himself above . the haze of self-satisfaction which obscures his vision , and , discarding all personal and selfish considerations , steadily and firmly conform his administration of the public service to the high standard which he himself sot up in his letter of acceptance and inaugural address , he would rally to his support the entire better sentiment of the country .                     