@@781922

txt It is to be supposed that Secretary TROMP ? SON appreciates the magnitude of the task he has iuidertaken when ho promises to build ships as cheaply in the Government yards as they can be built by nrivato citizens . The Secretary is understood to be a man distinguished for shrewd common sense . But it is not certain that he will be able to overcome all the difficulties in the way of conducting a department of the Government " on business principles . " Such a reform would bo more radical than any now contemplated by any public . officer . If it can be accomplished in one branch of the public service , it can be in all of them . Of course , we must premise that Congress will grant the money needed . to pay for the ships which we need to make MS a complete Navy . The question is not DOW as to building the ships at all , but as to hew they shall be built . If obstructionists and frugal persons in Congress are able to stop supplies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to naught . If ho gets the money , he will have a big job on his hands when he attempts to have it used by his subordinates and contractors just as prudently as Mr. Roncir , for example , might expend a like sum in his establishment at Chester , Penn . In fact , the probability is that oven so good a business man as the shipwright above mentioned  --  would come to grief if ho essayed the management of as many separate establishments as those under control of the Navy Department . Tho very extent of the service seems to make waste unavoidable . Of course , we take it for granted that everybody knows that Government operations everywhere are more expensively managed than private business affairs . It is as true of public works in Great Britain , France , and Russia , as in the United States . Aside from the fact that there must be waste by the dishonest use of materials , and the employment of men who do not earn any wages whatever , it is true that Government workmen are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the materials actually used are generally the most costly in the market . If we take New-York City as an example of the truth of this statement , we shall see indifferent work at fabulous prices , and a degree of inefficiency in management which is unknown in national affairs . If the immense sums annually spent by the Navy Department , for instance , had been laid out as the City funds have been , our local disgrace would have been a world-wide one . At this moment , the shabby condition of parks , streets , and squares in this City , costing as much as they have done , is a perpetual reminder of the reckless management of City affairs , But it is not necessary to make ally comparisons . Everybody admits that it is expected that " the Government " ? City , State , or National  --  will pay the highest wages and get the least for its money of any customer in the market . As a rule , it will be Rise admitted , however , that the quality of work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind . Notoriously , the greatest difficulty in the way of a thoroughly economical administration of any department of public work is summed up ill one word  --  politics . In respect of navy-yards politics have much to answer for , not only for maladministration of affairs , but for needless multiplication of establisluneuts . When the Secretary gets at the work of banishing politics from the navy-yards the trouble will begin . Politics have been intrenched in the navy-yards through successive administrations  --  Whig , Democratic , and Republican . When BuCHANAN was trying to crush out the heresy which subsequently split the Democratic Party , proscription nut so high that the humblest laborer in the yards was obliged to pronounce the shibboleth of the dominant faction of the dominant party . Senators have wrestled with each other  --  as GwIN and BRODERICK did ? for the control of navy-yards and their incidental patronage . Ships have been built or unbuilt , repaired or laid up in ordinary , with reference to the immediate needs of the controlling politicians . These abuses are almost as old as the Government itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . But they will be found most formidable in any attempt at reorganization . Senators and Congressmen will not give up their perquisites and privileges without a struggle . And until they do give them up , the national work will be more costly than any private work . But , for all that , the Secretary of the Navy will be heartily applauded by the public in ins proposed reforms .                     