@@742476

txt If we rejoice over the conviction of the President of the Security Life Insurance Company on a charge of perjury , it is in no spirit of vindictiveness toward the individual or toward other insurance officials who remain to be tried . A verdict which stamps as a criminal and consigns to the society of felons a man 68 years of age , who in various relations of life has borne an unblemished character , is an incident which can not be contemplated without some emotion . Yet it is impossible to study the evidence adduced at the trial without feeling that the jury have reached the proper conclusion , or to consider the nature and consequences of the crime without being convinced that the prosecution was at once righteous and necessary . The sympathy is misplaced which mourns over Mr. CASE , now in the Tombs awaiting sentence , and forgets the cruel wrongs for which he , and such as he , must be held responsible in the administration of the life insurance system . The penalty may be severe , but at least it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if none else : it will encourage victimized policy-holders to believe that the law is not to be inoperative as against careless and dishonest managers , and it will compel insurance Directors and officials , from the President downward , to exercise a vigilance and a care which ordinary entreaties and arguments have failed to exact . The facts relied upon to sustain the accusation of perjury do not leave room for reasonable doubt . Indeed , no attempt has been made to deny them . The company 's statement , purporting to be signed and sworn to by Mr. CASE as President and Mr. ALLEN as Secretary , was in essential particulars untrue . It gave a fictitious value to the company 's real estate ; it represented the bank balance as large when , in truth , it was at one time merely nominal , while at another time the account was overdrawn . Thus the company was made to appear as the possessor of large assets and an ample surplus when its condition bordered on insolvency . Tho statement represented.the assets to be " as per ledger account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been concocted with the view of deceiving the Insurance Department and the public . The books themselves had been " doctored " in a barefaced manner . Agents ' balances were mixed with real estate , and items relating to the latter were altered arbitrarily with no other conceivable purpose than that of I fraud. * Those are samples merely of the book-keeping which Mr. McCALL , the efficient Deputy Superintendent of Insurance , exposed in his testimony . C onfused as the books were , however , they sufficed to prove not only that the sworn statement of Mr. CASE was inaccurate , but that the discrepancies proceeded from a fraudulent intent . Had other proofs been required to perfect the chain of evidence upon this point , they might have boon derived from the testimony of Mr. THOMAS R. WETMORE , Vice-President of the company , and Mr. ALLEN , its Secretary , the former of whom is indicted for embezzlement , and the latter for participation in Mr. CASE 'S crime . Mr. CASE 'S explanation , as rendered in court , left untouched the facts we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of things revealed by Mr. MCCALL , or to disprove the allegation as to the falsity of the official statement which bore his signature . He pleaded only that , though President of the company he knew nothing of its affairs ; that while receiving for his services salary and commissions , making an average annual income of ten thousand dollars. , he trusted implicitly subordinates ; that ha signed and " meant to swear to " the statement without troubling himself to scrutinize particulars or to verify its figures in any way . It is clear that Mr. CASE was out of his element , and that , to use Mr. WETMORE 'S words , " he did not appear to understand the machinery of the business more than a mere child . " We have in this confession of his unfitness a curious commentary upon the system which thrusts retired or decayed traders , or persons having social or other influence without even a trader 's experience , into positions of trust and power in connection with life insurance . No other position , perhaps , more urgently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , where brains , experience , and industry should be . The result as Mr. CASE tells it is , that the chief officer of a company whose - personal reputation and social alliances are used to obtain for it the confidence of the insured , may be as ignorant of its condition as the janitor , and may be wholly incapable of testing the accuracy of the financial exhibit which he swears to be true . Beyond this confession of his own incapacity , and of the methods of management which characterized . the Security Company , and as certainly characterize many others , Mr. CASE had no defense . He might have condensed all of it into the plea , " Guilty but without criminal intent . " The lawyers for the defense raised but a. single issue . The fact that the statement was sworn to as well as signed by Messrs . CASE and ALLEN was elicited from the notary public who took the affidavit and whose seal was attached . It was contended , however , that though the signatures wore unquestionable , the swearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were called to cast doubt upon this point . Both being under indictment , their testimony carries little weight . Mr. ALLEN unwittingly helped to substantiate the charge which he was in terested in disproving ; while Mr. WETMORE 'S testimony would alone be enough to stamp with infamy the company and its management . As for the argument that an oath as to the correctness of a statement of whose details the person swearing was ignorant , can not be regarded as perjury , it is as repugnant to justice and common sense as to Judge DAVIS ' interpretation of the law . The legal aspect of the question is covered in the Judge 's masterly address to the jury . Its other phases the popular judgment will not misapprehend . Sworn statements would be worthless if the parties making them could afterward shield themselves from the consequences of perjury by declaring that they knew not what they signed . Confidence in the accuracy of any document , and in the value of the accompanying affidavit , would be impossible if those whose names they bear could thus promulgate with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The knowledge that there are officials who entertain this loose notion of their responsibility , and that they send forth statements which they have solemnly declared to be true , but of which they were absolutely ignorant , is not calculated to produce a reassuring effect upon policyholders or the public . Mr. CASE 'S conviction and punishment will be an inestimable benefit if they destroy the lax ideas of responsibility which are the bane of corporate management generally , and are at the bottom of nearly all that is criminal and corrupt in life insurance .                     