@@742380

txt The great consideration this year for pleasure-seekers is economy . To find places in the mountains or by the sea which are cheap and passably comfortable is the problem . The American Summer traveler is so much in the habit of making it an essential point of his pleasure to spend money freely , or at all events not to have to look closely after prices , that it will be a new experience for him to economize . But it is evident that for this year at least lie has made up his mind to learn the difficult lesson . It is a great mistake to suppose that nice economical places for Summer resorts can not be found in this country as well as in any other . Of course , whoever chooses them must expect no great variety of dishes or effort at " style . " He must be contented to get an approximation to what he enjoys at home . In fact , the disagreeable thing at most of our hotels is the variety of dishes and the noisy attempt to imitate " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerous dishes prepared ( at least in America or England ) nothing will lie very good . What people want is one good roast or joint , nicely cooked , and fresh vegetables , and then what en r the means of the establishment will permit . The essentials are good bread and meat , and fresh , pure milk and eggs . If guests secure these , they can dispense with many other things . They do not want pies , or innumerable cakes , or compounded dishes . If landlords would only put the money they expend on these dishes in the best meats , carved properly , : Ind fresh vegetables and fruits , they would do all the public require . What the general community seek for this year is a place in pure air and near interesting scenery , with a decent table , where the prices are moderate , say from $7 to $10 per week for each person . There are plenty of these to be found . In first regarding the sea-coast , our pleasure-seekers have an unequaled opportunity along the whole coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no spot where cheap houses can not be discovered . The cream of all seaside resorts is , of course , Newport . Nothing equal to it exists in America , and indeed we know nothing in Europe surpassing it . But even here economical boarding-houses can be found , cottages with eizeap rooms , or farm-houses on tile coasts near by . where you have all the beauty of the marine scenery and very inexpensive board . Going north , the pleasure-seeker discovers most lovely resorts on the coast of Massachusetts , between Marblehead and Manchester . The Beverly region surpasses even Rhode Island in its woods and mingling of forest and sea , and , though studded with villas , it offers many quiet farm-houses and cheap boarding-places . Mount Desert and the coast of Maine are too well known to need description . The grand combination of mountain and wild ( mean in the former is unique . The table is indeed poor at most of the farm-houses in Mount Desert , and not always low in price ; still , economical places can be searched out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighboring region . Again , still further north , the St. Lawrence , with its habilma cottages , offers a most cool and picturesque Summer resort . The " Murray Bay " French Canadians will rent their cottages and provide excellently for an American family at a very low price . In the interior of our own country we have theAlleglis hies , with wild and cheap places of resort ; the hilly country of Massachusetts and Connecticut  --  where low-priced board can be obtained amid very romantic scenes  --  and the small towns of the Upper Hudson . Perhaps the easiest and cheapest Summer resort for our citizens is in the country of the Catskills , behind the mountains and in the various ravines or river-valleys . The great inducement for this resort is the case of access and cheapness of traveling outlay . Again , Lake George and Lake Champlain present many little hamlets and solitary houses on their borders , where Summer visitors could be accommodated at very moderate expense . The most charming resort of all is the Adirondack country . Here are plenty of farmhouses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoy the purest mountain atmosphere which this country affords and a most invigorating outdoor life . A camping trip is very expensive , but this is not a necessity . The number of economical places amid the grandest mountain scenes or by woody lakes , is increasing every year . People have only to look about to find them out . All these resorts ought to be made known to the traveling public by diligent advertising . As it is , most pleasure-hunters. are forced to learn about them by a good deal of hard experience . But the same possibility exists here as in Germany or Switzerland of finding a Summer resort at once comfortable and cheap , and near pleasant or grand scenery .                     