@@740593

txt To the proprietors of the side-shows of traveling circuses , and to that intelligent rural population whose eyes distend and whose pockets open before their misshapen wonders , there has come of late abundance of good things . Whether it is that the almost-forgotten tidal wave , with its unwelcome train of floods , and earth-shakings. and tornadoes , has disordered the staid procession of things , or that Nature has had a violent reaction from the monotony of her usual routine . certain it is that the last few months have developed such a succession of choice monstrosities as would serve to stock a museum . Calves with too many legs , and dogs with not enough , have , indeed , grown so familiar as to be objects of contempt , while the most acephalous rooster , or the most attenuated living skeleton , has no longer any charm for the satiated sightseer . A horse with two tails , even , has proved so ignominious a failure in San Francisco , that be has been degraded from the proud pre-eminence of a side-show to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than this to offer in that remarkable transparent lizard , lately rescued alive and well from one of her petrified trees , after a confinement of several centuries . This , it will be seen , is quite superior to the familiar rock-imbedded toad , and , exhibited with a section of the tree , would undoubtedly prove a great attraction . Then there is the child without any arms or legs , and the child with two heads , who have lately gladdened their appreciative parents and the newspapers in the West . If these should fail to draw , the Tennessee sleeping girl might doubtless be induced to sleep for the public amusement , and when even her charms lose . their potency , Cape Cod will furnish the crowning , irresistible delight of a snake child . If we believe the enthusiastic physician who communicates this discovery to the Boston Herald , the classic fable of Lamia , and . Dr. HOLMES ' curious speculations in Elsie Termer are here fairly realized . This interesting infant is three months old , and " has more the general appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in the head and limbs , though the shoulder blade is wanting or very unlike the natural one . " The eyes are particularly pleasing , being " large , snakish , elongated , protruding and much in motion . " The tongue is slightly forked at the tip , very " thick and active , " and the nose " looks snakish . " There are two soft places on the head , which " resembles the back of a turtle , " and two cavities over the eyes . " The face has a natural expression , " but ? and here we must confess to a slight feeling of disappointment ? " rather snakish " only . As a partial compensation . however , we learn that the three middle toes of each foot " are inclosed in a kind of sheath , a thick skin and some flesh , all terminating , " singularly enough , " at the ends in one broad and large nail , inclining downward like a half tube . " " This nail , " it is consoling to know , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and feet , " and probably all the other nails of this pleasing child , " have a decidedly snakish look . " A snake with nails is certainly a novelty . And we fire quite reassured at finding not only that his " aspect is snakish , " as well as " his appearance and movements , " and that " the general appearance of the hand is wonderfully suggestive of the snake but that " the little fellow , " unlike other little fellows , " seemed unwilling to have his hands held long enough to have them examined , making one feel that he was handling a snake . " There is a trifling uncertainty here as to whether it was the doctor or the little fellow who felt that he was handling a snake . That , however , is unimportant . The general balance of snakishness is evidently on the side of the little fellow , and we can quite understand the worthy physician 's " kind of shuddering , " and " wish to withdraw from " his snaky presence . We have not told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have doubtless said enough to make all our readers long for a sight of its unique excellence . The strict enforcement of the Prohibitory Liquor law in Massachusetts forbids any possible suspicions of evil-minded scoffers with respect to the source of the snakiness observed by our informant , and we trust to see this charming child speedily brought into that commanding notice to which its merits clearly entitle it .                     