@@743164

txt That eminent blatherskite , the Hon. HENDRICK B. WRIGHT , of Pennsylvania , has been praised in California . More than that , Eastern newspapers that have presumed to criticise Congressman WRIGH'P 'S silly speeches are spoken of derisively by the California newspapers . Mr. WRIGHT is at the head of a Congressional Committee on . the Condition of Labor . His committee is usually known as " the Hard Times Committee , " since its duty is to find out why business is dull and the times are hard . Mr.WRIGHT went to California , accompanied by a large suite of men and women , at the cost of the Government . As soon as he arrived , he made a speech ? to the Kearneyites , re-echoing the slogan of the great DENIS , " The Chinese must go . " This was an undignified and improper thing to do . WRIGHT was sent to California in an official capacity ; the Chinese question had little or no place in his programme of duties . Yet , he took it up , and , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common sense , he made a speech in which he prejudged the case of the Chinese , and forestalled his own report . It was evident that Mr. WRIGHT could not keep out of a political canvass , and though he was nominally in the Pacific States on an official errand , he took the stump , and announced that the Chinese must go . For this he was Ballad a demagogue , as lie is . Whereupon some of the California newspapers petulantly declare that " political ignorance has prompted several Eastern journals " to characterize WRIGHT as he deserved to be . ' This is the California way . When anybody presumes to disagree with the people over there on the all-absorbing question of Chinese immigration , they charge that this is just what can be expected of ignorant and benighted drivelers who presume'to discuss a subject which they have not personally investigated . We are informed that the Hard Times Committee have been " welcomed " in the Pacific States , and that Mr. WRIGHT , who is a statesman and a philanthropist , has actually gone through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hordes " with his own eyes . Nobody who has not gone through the Chinese quarter and seen the hordes is competent to express any opinion on . the Chinese question . Moreover , Mr. WRIGHT has had before his committee a number of eminent men who have testified to the sufferings endured by the people on account of the Chinese evil . Of course , the fact that these witnesses gave , the same evidence before the Morton committee , two or three years ago , and did not . give it again until after Mr. WRIGHT bad publicly assorted that the Chinese must go , has nothing whatever to do with the ease . Before he had been there a week , and before his free excursion party had begun to exhaust the sights and wonders of the Golden State , he was prepared with an opinion which gains him credit for " the comprehensive knowledge he exhibits on the Chinese question , and the candor with which he discusses it . " And his committee was in session only four days in San Francisco . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement that " Mr. WRIGHT 'S visit to San Francisco will always be a green spot in the memory of its people , " If Mr. WRIGHT were not a demagogue , he could not have prepared for himself the compliments and praise which ho , has received . He catered to the lowest and meanest prejudices of the people ; and , before he could have formed any intelligent opinion on the facts presented to his attention , he followed KEARNEY in his truculent denunciation of the Chinese . We have always said that the people of California might very fairly be ' allowed to say'whether the effects of Chinese immigration were evil or otherwise . There is a ' differtince of opinion on this subject among Californians . but the weight of pubile senti- ment is against the immigration . But it is a.pity that California critics should be in such haste to denounce as ignorant all who disagree with them , and to praise the intelligence and statesmanship of the casual stranger who coincides in their extravagant opinions . Of course , we are bound to admit that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain mystery which forbids the intelligent comment of strangers . It is not possible for any of the peculiar institutions of that peculiar people to be comprehended by the Eastern person , sunk in dense ignorance as he is . But HENDRICK B. WRIGHT , a member of Congress , whose vagaries have been the laughing-stock of his associates , has divined the California situation at a glance . He , at least , is a statesman " of , of comprehensive knowledge . " Congressman Wax a HT has found his sphere at last .                     