@@742287

txt The temperance question has come anew o the front , and promises in the near future to be one of the social questions of the hour . The movement in England , and the discussion in Parliament of measures which may restrict intemperance by law , is complemented here by Mr. MOODY 'S efforts to convert and reform the drunkarks of Boston , and by active efforts in the Now-England and other States to set on foot a general reformation which shall turn public opinion in favor of temperance , and exert a wholesome influence in the practical ' suppression of this vice . In many instances , the movement will need a different leadership from that which at present exists . The original call for temperance reform came from the sober , religious element of the community . The movement conformed itself to existing lines of social influence . It then passed into the hands of persons who chose to push it by the resort to excitement and other dangerous expedients , and to elevate into an institution what should always have conformed itself to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attempt to legislate men into sobriety recalls the remark of an English Bishop , " I would rather see England free than sober , " and repeated efforts to put all men upon the strict pledge which demands total abstinence  --  necessary for some  --  as the rule for all , shows the touch of fanaticism , and indicates to thoughtful citizens the radical unsoundness of much which goes under the name of temperance reform . The truth is that the present advocate 's of temperance have in most instances indulged in intemperate language and arguments in favor of a movement which especially needs the backing of the conservative and educated classes , and which can only become powerful in proportion as it transforms and controls public sentiment ? which , in fact , must travel along the same great lines as any other public movement intended for the uplifting of all classes ? if it is to become a public and social blessing . In 1864 a son of Rev. Dr. BAcox , of Now-Haven , wrote an Occasional Pamphlet on " The Mistakes and Failures of the Temperance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the obvious lino of operation of a society for suppressing the crime of drunkenness should be . " In its relations to society , its duty was to fasten public attention firmly upon the main subject ; to inform the public mind thoroughly of the substantial facts and unquestionable principles of the case ; to quicken the public conscience to a healthful sensitiveness on the subject of the great sin to be opposed ; to consolidate so : ciety to the utmost in opposition to drunkenness ; and to bind itself in the closest possible alliance to the Christain Church . In its relation to the criminals themselves , its work was to strengthen the moral power of motives for refraining from crime , and to increase the restraints of law to deter from it . With reference to the antecedents of drunkenness its , work was to demonstrate by every just argument the wickedness of enticing to drunkenness , and to discourage by all just considerations such.temperato use of liquors capable of producing intoxication as is likely to do harm . This ideal of the temperance reform has never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fine enthusiasm of such a noble movement in the course of years , and forgot that the chief work done for man comes within the sphere of individual influence , there is considerable evidence that there is a return to this broader and more hopeful basis of reform on the part of temperance agitators and in the efforts which are put forth by thoughtful citizens to enable the whole community to reap the benefits of this reform . In our largo cities , no great gain can be made for temperance by the methods which are in the hands of extremists , who induce the unthinking multitude to hurrah for the cause , and the conservative people , who can not confound temperance with total abstinence , are repelled by the crude methods of the reformers . This reform is a question of morals , and can best be advanced by those who control the religious interests of society . If this would not reach all classes , it still sets in motion the agencies which will ultimately reach them . Just as pride or self-respect is often stronger than principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properly constructed , holds mon from drunkenness and controls this vice , when the appeal to the conscience or the enforcement of right principles count for nothing . This is going back to the basis of work which inaugurated the temperance movement in this country some fifty years ago , and is the only'mothod by which the permanent result may be reached which all parties are anxious to secure . If slow , it is sure ; . if it does not gather multitudes , it interests each man in reforming his neighbor ; if it is contented with the moral forces which pulpit , press , and church put forth in the community , it still employs the only continuous forces which act powerfully upon individuals in the direction of good morals , and enlists all good citizens by arousing their best sympathies in subduing a vice that to be hated needs but to bo seen . The evidences of a retuin to healthier methods of action will be given at another time , but the fact that such methods are at present encouraged in the best quarters , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most ' hopeful features in the present renewed attention given to the temperance question .                     