@@740784

txt The battle against fraud and corruption goes on , not - only in New-York City , but , we are glad to see , in nearly every Department of the General Government . The spirit of the contest here seems to have taken deep hold upon the authorities at Washington , and there probably has not been a time within the past ten years when the energies of every Department were bent with greater vigor , or have co-operated with greater harmony , in detecting crime and punishing criminals . The encouraging spectacle is seen of an Administration so strong in the confidence of the people that it can purify its own ranks by the unrelenting processes of the law , regardless of the appeals of political influence within its own circles . People may well take courage for the future , when they see the members of the Government not only animated by a desire to do their simple duty in this respect , but evincing unflagging public ? spirit , and . an unsparing determination that the guilty shall bet condemned , let the consequences tall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few weeks afford abundant proof of the stern determination of the President and his Cabinet advisers to uproot and prosecute fraud and crime wherever they are discovered : The last notable case is the apprehension of Ex-Congressman . STOKES , holding the office of Supervisor of Internal Revenue ; a man not without strong political influence ? enough , in the presence of a weak Administration . to have screened him from arrest and punishment . But the Departments of War and . Justice , in their investigations , put their hands not only on the tools who had carried out the details of the fraud , but upon the man who conceived its framework , while occupying the honored position of a member of Congress . The moral effect of such examples must be felt in every branch of the public service , and in a great degree among . the people also . Within the past month the calendar of prosecutions and convictions has been unusually full . The War Department has convicted and . sentenced HODGES , and put STOKES and his confederates in the hands of the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Departments of Justice , prosecuted , convicted and sentenced two Deputy Collectors of the port of Baltimore , both Republicans , and has just convicted . an Assistant Assessor for attempting to bribe a juror . The Interior Department has exposed to pubhc shame a conspiracy to rob both Indians and the Government , implicating a prominent officer of the last Administration . and is now engaged in two other investigations promising similar results . In Utah the Department of Justice is crushing out polygamy through the machinery of the civil law , after it has defied the bayonets of the Government for fifty years . The War Department is also , at this moment , engaged in important investigations covering matters which have , like the Stokes frauds , even received the sanction of Congress . and the results will be shortly apparent . Not the least important procedure in this direction has been the vigor , the skill and the success with which the Departments of War and of Justice , acting in entire accord . and under the official direction of the President , have brought to light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its members , tried and convicted more than two score , and broken its power forever . If the history of the manner in which the secrets of the organization were , in the hands of bold , discreet agents of the Government , turned into means for the downfall of the Klan , ever comes to be written.it will be a fascinating and startling story . Well may " the leading njtizen3 " pf South Carolina , or any other State , leave their homes in haste and . their crops in the field , when they learn that for the last three months they could not ride in one of their midnight raids without the presence , nor exchange the grip of the Order , without grasping the hand of a United States detective in Kuklux disguise . The Order is stripped bare , the names of its leaders are known , and . the Executive Departments , in obedience to the mandate of Congress , will suppress it . These facts afford the best answer to the cry raised by the Democratic journals that " Republicans are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fate of HODGES , it will become such journals to brag about their virtue .                     