@@742431

txt The Socialist Congress which has recently been in session in Ghent has had before it a communication . from the socalled " Labor Party " of the United States . This somewhat lengthy epistle was signed by a Mr. VAN PUTTEN , of Chicago , but how far ho represents this organization we have no means of knowing . In this letter an apology is first made for not entitling the Labor Party in the United States the " International Communist Party ; " but there existed in the United States , says the writer , a deep prejudice , after the events of 1871 , against the Communists , and they believed that they could accomplish the same results as the International aimed at under a better name . A brief history is given of the movement in this country to shorten the hours of labor , and otherwise to advance the interests of the laboring classes . Co-operative stores , it is stated , have been moderately successful here , but co-operation for protection had failed . The crowning effort of labor , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somevhat imaginative account is given , and these are believed to be only an indication ) f what can yet be accomplished by proper ! ombination . The great aim now of all organizations of abor in this country , it is stated , is to inluence political parties , and to secure the ) assage of such laws as will raise the scale of wages and relieve the laborer . The letter gives a . list of the Socialist journals through this country , among them being one ( German ) in New-York City , and one ( in Bohemian ) in Cleveland . The writer complains on the part of the American Labor Party of great want of co-operation by the Socialist associations of Europe . This might well be . The letter itself fell very coldly on the ears of the Ghent convention . They were considering the propriety of doing away with the wagesystem altogether , and to have thrust upon them a programme merely for the raising of wages by law was somewhat chilling . Their great subjects of difference were between the " Collectivists " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former desiring all property . to be held by groups of workmen in common , and the latter aiming merely at " tile expropriation of all capitalists " and the assumption by the State of all property in land and in means of production . For au American society to seek to organize a labor party merely ill order to raise wages and shorten hours of labor was evidently a proposition too " far behind " for the progress of this convention . They only concurred where the American prophesied a speedy downfall to " the false Republic " if this labor system continued , and the erection a monarchy or oligarchy on its ruins . Addresses were made by members from each European country , all urging the entire overthrow of society as it is , and the doing away with individual property , but differing as to who should finally possess and manage the common property of the community . The only sensible speech was delivered by an English member , who said that this expecting everything from the State came from those who were citizens of nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he believed that " groupe of workmen could manage capital and labor better than the present capitalist class . Ono remarkable feature of the discussions was that no especial sympathy was expressed with labor unions or strikes . Such methods of aiding the laboring class were not " radical " enough . by the State , and the carrying on of every species of manufacture or agriculture by the public authorities . That the Socialistic idea has been planted in this country , it did not need this communication from Chicago to the congress to show . Yet we venture to say that it exists mainly in the brains of foreign enthusiasts and half-crazy native reformers . We doubt if it ever penetrated deeply into the ranks of our working classes , whether foreign or native . And we are quite confident that it will never take any firm hold of any class in this community . The reason of this hope and belief lies in the wide-spread intelligence of our people , and the existence of such large quantities of cheap land . Where a laborer can have land enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acre , he will never be a Communist . The power of this nation is in its agricultural class , and this is especially conservative , and hostile to Communism . The foreign laborers of the largo towns may , indeed , be more open to these ideas , but their children are becom- ing rapidly instructed , and more and more open to the best American ideas . Whatever the Labor ** may really aim at , it will never succeed in planting Socialism in the minds of our people .                     