@@741701

txt Complaints are constantly being received at Washington from American travelers abroad concerning the inconveniences , and " sometimes the annoyances , they undergo from not having passports . This is nothing more than we anticipated before the season for European travel began . Although in many of the countries of Europe passports are nominally unnecessary , they are practically indispensable if the traveler would reduce to the lowest degree his chances of being subjected to discomforts . We intimated this long ago , and if persons decline willfully to take precautions which they know to be desirable , it is only their own faults if they are inconvenienced . The United States and Great Britain are the only countries within which the use of passports has at no time prevailed . All the nations of Continental Europe have required them . The French Government first granted concessions to British subjects , who were especially privileged , under the second Empire , to enter France without passports ; and while that privilege lasted in its limited form we are not aware that any inconvenience resulted . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in France , Belgium , Germany , Norway , Sweden , Italy , and Holland . So far the intentions of the Governments of those countries are rightly directed . But what was originally proposed as a protection to the State , has by such measures of abolition been now rendered necessary for the protection of the individual . The unsettled condition of Continental politics , the total absence of freedom in the sense an Anglo-Saxon understands it from all the continental systems , the unstable condition of many of the Governments , render . necessary a degree of supervision over the movements of strangers . This is not a commendable state of things , perhaps , but it exists . And in consequence , subordinates of the several Governments have been unable to act up to the spirit which has actuated the heads of these Governments in abolishing passports . Theory and practice have once more been found at variance . And , hence strangers are often being arrested , or placed in circumstances of great inconvenience , through not being possessed of a document which policy or expediency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have . There have been comparatively few travelers in Europe of late years who have not had occasion at some time or another to prove their identity . This may be done to the satisfaction al . those requiring it in most instances without much trouble , but the possession of a passport would at once preclude all difficulty . Even fir receiving letters at the various Post Offices , a passport will frequently save a great deal of trouble and vexatious delay . It is also prima facie evidenceuf.the right of the holder to the ' protection of his Government , besides Bettinir forth his claim to the protection of all other Governments with which his own is at peace . It is not , however , our purpose to defend the system . In some of the nations , Austria for example , where it has not been even ostensibly abolished , au opinion prevails that it does not answer all the purposes for which it was devised . But that is of little consequence when the comfort , and sometimes the safety of travelers render a passport desirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or pleasure takes them across the Atlantic , to provide themselves with a passport , as an absolute necessity of travel . One point , however , yet remains to be noticed . There is au impression among some people that any separate State in the Union can give , on the authority of the State Government , a valid passport . An act of Congress , passed in 1856 , distinctly states that the person authorized to grant and issue passports is the Secretary of State , under such rules as the President shall prescribe and designate , for and on behalf of the . United States . And any person not duly authorized , who shall grant , issue , or verify passports , is to be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor , and punished accordingly . No form of certificate in the nature of a passport can be lawfully issued by a State officer . It may be well , also , to remind those who are interested in the subject that these laws are applicable only to citizens of the United States . Foreigners must apply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed in 1863 , passports might be issued to any person , although an alien , who was liable to military duty ; but this was corrected after the war in an act passed in 1867 . These are matters which have received too little attention , under the idea that they are unnecessary . But experience this year has convinced many people that they are of considerable importance , and if all who intend to travel abroad would bear them in mind , they would assuredly save themselves a great deal of unpleasantness .                     