@@781603

txt At the Maine election in 1877 , the Democratic candidate for Governor had 42,114 votes ; in 1878 , the Democratic candidate had 29,000 votes , or 13,114 less than the party polled one year before . The Republican candidate , in 1877 , had 53,631 ; in 1873 , he had 58,000 , or about 4,500 more than Le had the year before . Yet some of the Democratic papers think that this result is something to hurrah over . Since the election in Maine , the World has appeared with a series of broad grins breaking out all over its morning face , as if it was mightily tickled by the result . Each day its irrepressible mirth bursts out in a series of quips and jests relating to Maine , and BLAINE , and HALE , and all the rest of the Republicans of the Pine Tree State . It goes off in a roar of Falstailian laughter , and , recovering itself long enough to wipe its eyes , it gasps , " Oh , Lord , oh , Lord ! This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another spasm of hilarity . Such a political Mark Tapley never was seen before . The Democratic Party in Maine is virtually wiped out , and the Democratic organ in New-York laughs and crows as though it were a huge joke . The Republican Party in Maine stood up manfully in the cause of the national honor , for hard money and honest financial legislation . The Democratic Party did nothing of the sort . The total vote for Governor in 1877 was 101,821 , of which CONNOR ( Rep. ) had 53,631 , WILLIAms ( Dem. ) had 42,114 , the Greenback candidate had 5,266 votes , and there were 310 scattering votes . This year the total vote was increased to 124,000 , of which CONNOR had 58,000 , SMITH ( Grbk. ) had 37,000 , and GARCELON ( Dem. ) had 29,000 . The Democrats were third in the field ; their loss is about 30 per cent. , as compared with last year 's vote ; and this moves them to inextinguishable laughter . The World , in one of its paroxysms of mirth , says that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " grease-spot " left of the Republican Party , next August . We need not wait untill next August to find the greasy reduction of the Democracy in Maine . A party which loses more than 13,000 of its votes in a single year , and is far behind a new party in the race , has small occasion for mirth . Of course , if the Democratic Party and the Greenback Party are one and the same , there is cause for jubilation . In Maine ; for example , the combined Democrats , and Greenbackers will probably control the election of State officers by the Legislature . ' Possibly , even , the Democrats , as a pitiful , little third party , may hold the balance of power . The two great parties in the State are the Republicans and the Greenbackers . This is also true of the Legislature , and the , Democratic odds and ends drift between the twain . Yet the World , dancing a rigadoon on the grave of its own party , sings : " Oh , have you heard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat of : hard money and the triumph of inflation , then , such a great victory ? Is the Democratic Party so sure of capturing the Greenbackers that the triumph of the Inflationists is a virtual triumph for the Democracy ? There ifs no reason why the Democrats should have voted for Mr. EUGENE HALE for Congress , none why they should be glad if he had been elected .. But when HALE is defeated by a Communist and a tramping Greenbacker , there is no decent reason wiry , Democrats should claim a victory . Either , Democrats who do regard this as a victory are in favor of inflation and repudiation , or partisanship is more to them than the sound financial legislation which they profess to favor . In Maine it was perfectly understood that the Democrats expected to capture the Greenbackers . But the Greenbackers " have got away " with the Democrats , and have left them so far behind that they will never be heard of again . It is a case of the tail wagging the dog . Perhaps the Democrats think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are handling the Greenbackers . Or some of the hilarious newspaper organs of the party may feel that the two . parties are- really one . But it is too late to save the name of the Democracy , whatever may become of the game . If the party of TILDEN , SEYMOUR , and other hard-money Democrats is to throw itself into the arms of the inflationists , it must leave its name behind . In Maine , at least , the triumphant party is the Greenback . The shabby remnant of the Democracy may be taken into camp , but it must not put on any airs . Long-headed politicians say that the national issue is to turn on inflation or noninflation . If the Democracy is sitting on the fence watching the preliminary skirmishing , we can understand why it should cheer so lustily when inflation wins a victory .                     