@@742367

txt The French Republicans and Constitutionalists certainly should have the profound sympathy of lovers of reasonable liberty the world over . They have shown in the past year that the old reproach against French Republicans , and indeed French politicians , of want of self-control and a power of reasonable adaptation to circumstances , is no longer deserved . The Liberal leaders of Prance , during a most critical and trying period , have proved that they deserved to govern the people , by governing themselves , and have shown an almost English or American political skill in being content with small gains , and choosing the second best Micro the ideal was not possible to attain . They , of course , fully understood the difficulties of their task . They had to preserve popular liberties and reasonable freedom , with a constituency on one side demanding communism and government by revolutionary committees , and various parties on the other urging the restoration of imperialism or monarchy as the , only safeguards of order . They were obliged to make use of constitutional methods , to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Constitution itself was cumbrous , and , like all such instruments , somewhat equivocal . France had to be trained to representative and constitutional government . The Liberals were , perhaps , fortunate in their President , who , on the whole , has not seemed to be scheming for his personal ends . Still , Marshal MACMATrON was a part of the old order of things , and unused to the liberties of a constitutional system , and no doubt much under the influence of the Clerical Party . His great virtues were his honesty , moderation , and patriotism . The chief obstacle , however , to Republican success in Franco is the people itself . It is one of the providential conditions of the world that the abuses of liberty are the supports of tyranny . The French nation have never forgot that nightmare of confusion , cruelty , and calamity which preceded and attended the first Republic . The outbreak , as from the nether regions , of the horrible communism in Paris , during the last war , has equally made an indelible impression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priestcraft , the appearance again of the bonnet rouge of revolution , or the cry of commune from those who strike at both property and religion . Society ill general has a profound horror of the excesses and disorders which any radical change of government may bring , and which , above all , are supposed to follow the triumph of the re-public Tho French Liberals have had to consider this , and to avoid giving to the timid the slightest grpunds for dreading another popular outbreak . It is this caution which has kept even GAMBETTA 'S southern fire down , and has usually made him so moderato in his defense of republican principles . Nothing better could be devised for the training of French liberalism than this enforced selfcontrol . Nothing was more calculated to inspire France with confidence in the Republican Party than the experience that it bore everything rather than resort to disorder or extreme measures . All was going on well in this political discipline of France , till , unfortunately , the Ultramontanes got possession of the mind of the old General , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fatal step of dissolution of . the Chambers . The Berlin Post  --  an organ of imperialism in Germany  --  was reported yesterday as saying that ill Franco " the republic meant peace and order , but an Ultramontane monarchy , war . " This is the view of the most thoughtful persons throughout Europe . If MACMAII0N 'S party is defeated at the polls in the coming election , and he does not resign , there will be almost a dead-lock between Government and Parliament  --  a condition in Franco sure to end iu revolution or a coup d'etat . Then may follow a bigoted Catholic administration or military monarchy , the republic being crushed . Such a government would only obtain , pardon from France by wiping away its disgrace , and again engaging Germany in war ; perhaps , too , arousing the Ultramontane factions in Italy and Germany . Such a result would be unspeakably disastrous to France and to Europe . Liberty would be trampled under foot ; and arbitrary power and . bigotry have a free field . Tho hope , however , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has always shown himself ? and save his country by yielding or resigning .                     