@@740795

txt Yesterday the TIMES gave an account of the collision of an express train with a loaded horse car , in Jersey City . The terrible accident with its fatal results , should be a warning to our City authorities and railroad corporations . Opportunities for similar frightful catastrophes are numerous in the vicinity of our own railroad depots . The Belt line of horsecars crosses the Hudson River Railroad Company 's tracks , corner of Tenth-avenue and Thirty-sixth-street , and extreme caution is necessary there , to prevent the horse-cars from being run into by trains suddenly issuing from the depot . The eastern division of the same line of horse-cars crosses the tracks of the New-Haven and the Harlem Railroads , in Fifty-ninth-street , and it is as much owing to chance as to the precautions adopted that lust such an accident as the one of Tuesday in Jersey City has not happened in New-York . The most fearful death-trap of this character which exists upon the island is that part of it covered with a network or railroad tracks which have their principal terminus in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near Lexingtonavenue . One has but to stand a few minutes in Forty-fifth-street , where the ears enter and pass out of the depot , to see the peril to which life is daily put , and to wonder that more people are not wounded or killed for their temerity in attempting a crossing . This lastmentioned thoroffghfare is much traveled by carts , trucks , market wagons , carriages and vehicles of all kinds , and pedestrians , passing and repassing in this now populous quarter of the City . Tracks in great number , and but a few feet apart , are laid over a space of two wide blocks . Trains , cars and single locomotives are coming in and out of the depot nearly every minute of the day , and there is a continual ringing of bells and screaming of whistles that is confusing to the senses , awakened to the possibility of danger from an unknown or unseen quarter . Vehicles singly and in strings of a half a dozen or more , and hundreds of foot passengers , men . women and children , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their danger than the sudden snorting of a locomotive , ringing of a bell , or the cry of a signal man or switchman . Often the warning comes too late , and sometimes when hastily jumping out of the way of one train with its iron-wheeled death , men and themselves confronted with another locomotive tearing along at full speed . A. TIMES reporter yesterday watched the scene , with the trains rapidly coming and going , and saw a myriad of human beings scattered over the area , some at work on the different iron tracks , others briskly crossing the street , and others gazing in curiosity at the depot and buildings in process of erection . While observing the lively spectacle , the ireporter saw more hair-breadth escapes in the space of a brief half hour than he has seen under a two hours ' cannonade . Twice he observed a child rescued from being run over by the friendly hand of a gentleman ; once an aged woman had her dress entangled in a locomotive cow-catcher ; three ? young ladies were saved , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one wagon came within an ace of being run into by one train , and , backing out of the way , the horses took fright and were nearly run over by another train ; two other wagons  --  one loaded with stone and the other with mutton  --  narrowly escaped collision with outcoming and incoming trains , and many similar incidents were constantly occurring . Forty-ninth-street , although not so much traveled , was found to be a most dangerous crossing , and the danger was found to extend as high as Sixtysixth-street . There are one hundred two trains coming and going daily along this part of the island ; there are no signs up to warn persons who attempt to cross , and no fences , bars or chains at any crossing , with one exception . The exception is at Forty-fifth-street . Here posts and chains have been put up for use , but on inquiry it was learned that the chains were only used at night . The principal safe-guards offered to the public beside the noise of the engines are the signalmen and switchmen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand at the crossing to look out more particularly for the oars running on the road than for the piddle passing through the streets . Everybody living in that part of the City knows the danger that exists , and is in expectation of accidents . Human life is sacrificed at an average of one every other day for want of proper safeguards . Seven persons have been killed between Forty-fifth and Fifty-fourth-streets. within the last twelve days , as the reporter was informed by railroad employes . A man by the name of WARD , employed on the New-Haven Railroad , was run over on Monday last , by the 5:22 A. M. Boston express train , between Fiftyeighth-street and Fifty-ninth-street . He was taken to Bellevue Hospital , where he died . But little notice was taken of the case , nor of that of a wagon loaded with furniture , which was run into at the Filty-lirst.street crossing about two weeks ago . In this last case , two men in the wagon were severely injured , one of the , horses had to be shot in consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was broken and destroyed . In the case of- the seven deaths , not one of them was reported from the Coroner 's office . A serious interference to traffic through the streets , . from and inclusive of Forty-fifth-street and Fiftieth-street. is said to be the New-Haven freighttrain , which blocks up those thoroughfares from 635 o'clock to 8 o'clock every evening . Running backward and forward from the depot is a switch-locomotive , numbered seven , which carries cars and trains from one track to another . This snorting monster has killed several persons , and is nicknamed by the switchmen , " Old Danger . " One of the men who thought that bridges , or something of that sort , would have to be constructed to prevent accidents daily happening and expected , said to the TIMES reporter ; " We always have to look out for them switch-locomotives running up and down every minute , and especially when ' Old Danger ' is coming . Ho is a regular murderer . " The need of precautions in the neighborhood of the Grand Central Depot has finally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who sent a report to the Board or Health , which was road yesterday , calling attention to the great danger to life from the concentration of railroads entering the depot . It was stated that during the past twelve days seven persons have been killed by the cars on these railroads through Fourth-avenue , between Forty-fifth and Fifty-fourth streets . The report recommended that the companies be required either to sink their tracks below the level of the streets , or to put gates at all the cross streets . The subject was referred to the counsel to determine whether the Board has power to enforce either of these recommendations .                     