@@741557

txt The discussion of the Hennepin Canal bill in the House of Representatives yesterday and the speeches before the Joint Legislative and Aldermanie Committees on rapidtran sit for this City present apt illustrations of one of the most dangerous tendencies of our time . That is , briefly , the tendency to substitute government effort for private enterprise ; to take money out of the public Treasury for purposes which ought to be effected by private capital . In regard to the Hennepin Canal scheme there are certain special arguments which are perfectly conclusive against the General Government having anything to do with it . The canal in question is needed to connect Rock Island on the Mississippi , with Hennepin on the Illinois River , and by that means to supply an essential link wanting in the communication between the Mississippi and the lakes . By this improvement , it is claimed that all the . trade of Iowa , Minnesota , and Western Illinois could be brought into direct water communication with Chicago , and to that city would thus be diverted a very large share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Louis . The whole of the canal would be situated in the State of Illinois , and the immediate benefits of its construction would be reaped by that State . But Mr. BURCHARD yesterday reminded the House that the State of Illinois , through its Constitutional Convention , by a vote of 49 to 11 refused to permit the money or credit of the State to be loaned for the construction of the Hennepin Canal . That being so , it presupposes a good deal of effrontery on the part of certain Congressmen to insist on saddling the General Government with the expense of such a work . Besides , there is no argument in favor of the Hennepin and Rock Island scheme which could not be urged with equal effect to induce Congress to vote money for the James River and Kanawha Canal , for the Georgia Canal , the Fort St. Philip Canal , the Florida and Gulf interior line of water communication , or any other of the more or less ambitious projects for cheapening transportation and doubling the national debt . The promoters of the Hennepin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would probably swell to ten before Congress had done with it . But , then , as was remarked yesterday , it is merely " the entering wedge of a vast system of internal improvements , that would begin and end no man can tell where , " and the millions provided for which " would become vast corruption funds for the demoralization of the people and the corruption of legislation . " The immediate duty of Congress is to provide for the existing deficit in the revenues , not to find means to create a new one , and . that argument ought to be as fatal to the Hennepin Canal scheme as to the subsidy bill of TOM SCOTT . If anything were needed to make the argument still more conclusive , it was supplied in the statement of Mr. DAWES that the revenues were filling below the estimates at the rate of three millions a month , and that unless there was a decided improvement between this and July , the . deficit to b  --  provided against would be nearer fifty than twenty millions . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported in Congress were repeated at yesterday 's session of our local Rapid Transit Committees . " A great work to be carried on by the Government for the benefit of the people , " is a convenient phrase which will cover a " strike " upon the National Treasury just as easily as a forced contribution upon the tax-payers of New-York . Whether it be a railroad or canal that is in question . we are invariably asked to believe certain things which are very unlikely to happen . First , that the cost of the work will not exceed the modest estimate on which it is started ; second , that it . will be economically constructed and honestly managed ; and third , that the additional burden it imposes on the tax-payers will be . more than compensated for by the consequent increase of tax-paying power . It never occurs to any of these people to ask for what purpose the Federal Government was called into existence , any more than it does to inquire how the functions of a municipality can be adapted to the necessities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are most desirous to subject the official organization of the City or the nation to a strain which its authors never provided for , would be likely to be foremost in advocating the separation of the public service from the disturbing influence of politics . But , on the contrary , they are usually among the most indifferent to the prostitution of the civil service to merely political ends , and are very frequently the most obstinate defenders- of this class of abuses . When did the leading advocates in Congress of vast schemes of internal ' communication , to be carried out at the public expense , have a good word to say in favor of civil service reform ? It is hardly necessary to ask when the Democratic legislators , who are so anxious to compel this City to build a quick transit road , ever gave a thought to the question of divorcing public appointments from the influence of political bargain and sale . They - would never have been Democratic legislators if they were capable of any such reflection , and they - would very quickly cease to hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they would exert no influence to help their followers to a place at the public crib . The City of New-York 's financial position is at present pretty much like that of the United States  --  it has neither money nor credit to spare for the construction of costly public work which ought to be built , withoutits aid . If it had . plenty of both , it would be just as inexpedient for the City to . proceed . with them , under the influence of political jobbers in the Board . of Aldermen and the Legislature , as it would be for the United States to add the canal and railroad business to the existing facilities for political corruption .                     