@@781487

txt The Ohio resolution in regard to tile remonetization of silver may be taken as a fair illustration of the movement to which it is a tribute . There is nothing honest about It  --  nothing that commenus it to the respect of persons who like candor in political discussion , and see in linanee a constant necessity for clear and well-settled convictions . The resolution , like the movement itself , affirms one thing and means another . It attempts to conceal the dishonesty of its purposes by a parade of qualifications that are inapplicable ; and it presents impracticable conditions to socure a confidence that is undeserved . An explanation which aaves a reputation for . sagacity at the expense of sincerity is not more creditable to the managers of a political organization than to the leaders of an agitation which derives support from both parties , but it is the only explanation admissible in the circumstances . The moral sentiment of the nation revolted against the undisguised objects of the greenback faction . These were , in plain terms , the robbery of creditors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosperity by methods that would have rendered the inevitable crash universal and complete . The movement addressed itself to the ignorant. , the reckless , and the dishonest classes , and enlisted their favor by direct appeals to their passions and suppdsed interests . At one time it seemed formidable . Politicians on both sides courted it . Conventions shaped their platforms to avoid collision with its adherents , and the chances of candidates were measured by their ability to harmonize its views with their own . The moral cowardice which shrinks from the risk of local unpopularity in defense of sound principle revealed itself to an extent not complimentary to party organization in various States . When at last resistance was offered , the hollowness of the movement became apparent . The integrity of the American people rose up and crushed it . And to day the greenback movement has no terror for the most abject of partisans . If the effort to restore the legal tender attribute to a silver coinage fare better than the effort to increase the greenbacks and to enlarge their function , it can only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We can not hope to eliminate from financial discussion the terms " creditor interest " and " debtor interest , " but surely there is intelligence enough to resist the notion that these interests are always antagonistic , and that the debtor class is made up mainly , of knaves , The hypothesis , absm  --  l and disgraceful as it is , underlies the advocacy of silver . Starting with the fact that there are more debtors than creditors , and that a debtor discharges his indebtedness with the currency that is most cheaply obtained , it is assumed that this whole class may be relied upon to sustain the silver movement . So far , the resemblance to the greenback faction is complete . Both presuppose that in a contest between honesty and dishonesty , the latter will be found , numerically , much the stronger . The greenbackers , however , despised circumlocution . They appealed plainly to the basest motives , and proposed to legislate a large percentage of indebtedness out of existence . They would Piave so cheapened the currency as to renler the process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand ; beat about The bush a good deal , keeping out A sight the ultimate consequences A their plan , and trying , after the nanner of the Republicans at Cleveland , to nvest it with characteristics which it caniot possess . The only chance of success is n the ability of the managers to play andmssfully this game of false pretenses . Lot hem state their ease bluntly , as the greenmakers did , and their capacity for mischief could be instantly curtailed . To win , they mist delude the country into the belief that lie conditions attached to their proposition Aug() it from all taint of repudiation . Accepting the Cleveland resolution as the most adroit evasion of the real issue of the elver question , it becomes necessary to keep iefore the public the worthlessness of the ouditions prescribed as guarantees against lie violation of the nation 's faith . In a comnunication which we print elsewheaeo wellnformed correspondent discusses this phase d the subject with admirable clearness and orco . He exposes the absurdity of Clio preens that the Coinage act of 1878 was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and ho proves the impossibility of keeping gold . and silver in circulation side ly side . The truth is that the bi-metallic tandard had been practically abolished by the operation of natural business laws lone delete 1 line amount of silver dollars coined never hae been large , and . what there were of then had passed out of circulation . Coin contract : were invariably fulfilled with gold . All the talk about " tile dollar of our fathers " is , then , nonsense . We should never have hoard of it had not events changed the relative value of the two coins , and thus fur-nisheda dishonest motive for the reintro-duction of silver as a legal tender . But silver and gold are to be interchangeable , the Ohio wiseacres say , andtherefore noharn can be done to creditors . Our correspondent 's reply to the plea should shame its authors into silence . Left to the natural order of things , the silver coinage would soon be the only coinage known . Gold would be , as now , an article of merchandise , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currenca after silver resumption would fluctuate procisely as at present . Suppose , however ; that the law-making power undertake : by constant tinkering to keep the gold dollar and the silver dollar equal in value . Only in one way can it be done . The gold coinage will be subject to continual debasement . The gold dollar will have less and less intrinsic value . That is what the Ohio plea of equalization means . It would perpetuate a depreciated currency , in view of which fact Mr. SHERMAN might spare himself further trouble concerning specie resumption . The greenback as now quoted in the market is worth , say , ninety-five cents , and as a silver dollar of the old standard of fineness and weight is worth only about ninety-one and a half cents , measured by gold , we should be better off with our present currency than with the silver which it is proposed to legalize . To urge it as an aid to resumption is to ignore our own financial history , and to encourage a movement which points to business disaster and national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             