@@741888

txt Senator SHERMAN , in the speech which we print this morning , takes the position with reference to the Resumption act of 1875 which is the right one for the Repub. lican Party . Indeed , we can see no other possible position which that party can now assume without dishonor , or without incurring the danger of a defeat which would be richly deserved . The Senator opposes the repeal of the act , holds that the Secretary of the Treasury can and . ought to carry the act into effect without further legislation , and at the same time expresses his willingness to vote for the funding measure which the Secretary asks for : Nothing could be more just than Mr. SHERMAN 'S argument against the repeal of the act of 1875 . It does not rest on the tem. porai'y and passing relations of the act , nor solely upon the obligation of the Republican Party to sustain a law so peculiarly due to their action . It goes deeper than these considerations , and shows how the law is the highest expression of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creditors , and how its repeal now would he an act of naked , unqualified , inexcusable repudiation . The law has been ou the statute book but a liqle over a year . So far as its main purpose is concerned , it has HO yet begun to operate , for it was a law to fix a date for resumption and to prepare for it , and no portion of the power given for such prepara ; tion has been used . The law has , of course , entered . as a factor into all calculations and . engagements of the business world , for no law is presumably to be repealed until its object has been attained . Every presumption , on the contrary , is in favor of its retention . It is , therefore , practically as well as in theory , the duty of the Gov- ? ernment to carry out the law . This duty is the stranger . as Senator SHERMAN shows very clearly , for what has gone before . The legal-tender notes wore at first exchangeable for bonds . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Doles were then limited in amount , but ultimately that limitation was disregarded . Congress then declared that measures should be taken 1 o redeem the notes in coin at the earliest practicable moment . But , in the Taco of this pledge , the large surplus . revenues of the National government were used to pay off its long bonds , while nothing , absolutely nothing , was done to prepare for redeeming the notes . At last , under pressure of a strong public sentiment , with almost the unanimous concturence the representatives of the party in power , a day was fixed for the redemption of the notes . A long and shameful past was finally left behind , and the nation was turned toward a : better and brighter future . To repudiate the pledge of last year is to turn ' away from this future , to turn back again to the confusion , the error , the pitiful cowardice and weakness of the yeast . It would be worse than anything yet done in the same direction , because it would be putting beneath our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are told that Congress can repeal any law which Congress has passed . That is , in a sense , true . ' Congress may repeal a promise which , acting as the representatives of the nation , it has made . But is the promise any the less broken because there is no power Which can prevent it 7 Would Mr. BELKNAP be any the less a corrupt scoundrel if he should happen to have the power to escape punishment 7 It Is the fact that Congress can repudiate a pledge made by statute that makes such repudiation dangerous . As Mr. SHERMAN shows , Congress ' could just as easily repeal the laws which promise payment of the bonds in gold , or those which promise payment of any national obligation . The faith of the nation depends , not on the belief that Congress can not repudiate its promises , but that it will not . If that belief is destroyed , there can no longer be any such thing as a national credit . What has cost many years of toil and sacrifice to create can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Party is nearly unanimous in seeking to bring . about this humiliating catastrophe . There are a few Republicans who are willing to help them . Senator SHERMAN deserves the gratitude of the country for protesting , with all earnestness , and in , a manner to command the attention of the country , against an act which would be as disastrous as it would be disgraceful . The speech of Senator SHERMAN is peculiarly valuable at the present moment for its influence in chocking whatever tendency may exist in the Republican Party to help the Democrats repeal the Resumption act . Since 1869 Mr. SHERMAN has done everything m his power to lead his party toward'specie payments , and we . believe he has done nothing inconsistent with that object . At the same time ho has studiously endeavored to keep the party together , and has refused to go further or faster than he thought the party would follow. , He still observes that rule , and having secured the committal of the , party to . the act of 1875 , he feels that it will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement of the case , with any thorough canvass of the subject , it will be found that the Republican Party is ready to stand by the principle which its representatives have embodied in legislation and placed on the Statute Book . " It is the turning point , " says Senator SHERMAN , " in our financial history , which will greatly affect the life of individuals and the fate of parties , but , more than ' all , the honor and good faith of our country . " We do not believe that at such a turning-point the Republican Party will be found faithless to the great responsibility resting upon it                     