@@781904

txt Some of the Aldermen , notably the President of the board , seem to have been excited by Recorder HACKETT 'S late remarks to the GrErnd Jury concerning obstructions of the streets . The streets , it is agreed on all Banos , are constructed ' or rne free locomotion of the-citizens , and for the transit of passenge 1.3 andmerchandise . Anything that interferes with this purpose , without indirectly facilitating such transit , is an obstruction . It would be hardly fair to call an omnibus , carrying fourteen people , an obstruction , although it might hinder the progress of a light carriage immediately behind it . An oyster-stand on a sidewalk , causing the current of travel to be diverted at that point , would be an obstruction . A piebooth , even though it were only two feet by four feet , would obstruct travel , and , under most conditions , would be a nuisance . Manifestly , any stationary structure , in no way connected with the purposes of transit , is out of place on the ' sidewalks or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small dealers were able to occupy , rent free , such a large portion of the streets that they not only obstructed travel , but seriously.injured the business of honest men who paid rent for their promises . Vesey-street , from the Astor House to the North River , was in possession of those hucksters . Especially around Washington and Fulton markethouses did the squatters flourish , to the annoyance of passengers , and to the extreme mortification of reputable dealers who were undersold by them . After a long struggle , in which popular sympathy was artfully enlisted in behalf of the poor people whose gratuitous rentals wore thus rudely annulled , the booths were Swept away , and the streets were restored to their original uses . But the fight was long and bitter . Usage , possession , and the consideration due to honest poverty were all on the side of the squatters . Many poor people , or apparently poor people , were suddenly deprived of leaseholds which they had been used to consider permanent . It was vain to tell the aged female , who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , that her shop , two feet by four , was on the public domain , and that it was a hindrance to navigation . She only know that her free lease was taken from her , and that she must seek a new location on which to ply her doubtful trade . When the raid on the market booths and huckster stands was made , it was charged , and never denied , that permits for these erections had boon the perquisites of persons connected with the City Government . For example , Biddy McGovern , a lone widow , residing in the Second Ward , might want a pie-booth in some convenient locality . It might happen that her son , Terence McGovern , had been a faithful worker for Alderman O'Toole , who , grateful man that he is , would ask his brother Aldermen to vote with him ' for a permit to enable Bridget to set up her destructive piestand . As every other Alderman has his Terence or his Bridget , each man of them would come to the assistance of Alderman O'Toole , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seal of the City of New-York . Or , in default of Terence 's political activity , he might know some bosom friend of Alderman Flannigan , for example , and a ten-dollar bill put in the hand of that honest friend would insure Alderman Flannigan 's support . And Bridget , onto installed in her pie-booth , could not be dispossessed by anything short of a fifteen-inch cohimbiad . There is no law by which any power short of the Legislature of the State can grant an occupation of the streets for any purpose . Even the power of the Legislature is limited , as the cross-town railroads found when they set up that the act of Legislature giving them the use of certain streets practically gave them the right to . deleted 40 lines                     