@@743146

txt The Democrats are in a distressed state of mind over the financial condition of the country . In fact , a species of panic pervades their camp . All is lost , they declare , unless something happens to change the current of things . Not for many years past has there been such a feeling throughout business circles as now . No part of the Republic is exempt from this revulsion ; and , unless a speedy reaction takes place , the cause of the Democracy in Maine , Ohio , and California is forever blighted . The political observer will see at once that we do not now allude to financial misfortune and depression . That would be as welcome to the Democracy as the early rain to the farmer . It is financial prosperity throughout the country that the Democracy dread . Blight , mildew , murrain , freshets , tornadoes , drought , and general ruin would delight the Democrats . Disaster and bankruptcy would increase their party gains . They would thrive on short crops and dull times . A revival of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unlucky party . While they were solemnly resolving in their McClellan platform during the rebellion that the war was a failure and that peace could only be brought by negotiation , the final victories of the struggle were being won . And the guns that boomed over the nomination of a General who now led an army of Copperheads , mingled their salutes with those which celebrated the surrender of Atlanta and the dispersion of HOOD 'S army . While they were resolving that resumption could not be accomplished , the country resumed . Aud , while they were complaining that resumption would ' bring financial distress upon the country , business of all kinds is reviving , and a general return of prosperity gladdens and cheers everybody who is not personally concerned in . Democratic politics . The Democratic candidate for Governor of Ohio , it is said , looks disconsolately over the smiling face of nature , morning after morning , and groans to himself : " Another infernally fine day ! No signs of blight in the corn , no mildew or smut in the wheat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good crops and good weather ! Another month of such luck and we are lost ! " Nor is it to be supposed that Mr. EWING , who , as an Inflationist , must needs find national misfortune or give up his fight , is the only representative Democrat who deplores a revival of business . At the other end of the line , TILDEN regards the revival of trade with undisguised dismay . The illustrious SPRINGER , who lately went to Yonkers for consolation , reports TILDEN as saying that it was very necessary that the Democracy should ride into power on the rising wave of prosperity . Because , argued the Sage of Gramercy Park , " whichever party wins the next Presidency will get the credit of the betterment of the condition of affairs which is surely coming . " Wise old man . The Democracy will jump on the wave which they had no hand in raising , and which they have done their best to restrain , and will ride into power on false pretenses . It the Republicans secure the Presidency , urges the Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century . " And by the end of that time , even TILDEN will not be available as a candidate for a Democratic nomination . Then , again , the condition of the National Treasury is an outrage upon the Democracy . Resumption , redemption , and refunding have been carried on with a high hand , until even the admiration of foreign and unfriendly observers has been extorted . During the last three fiscal years , $343,000 , - 000 of internal revenue has been collected and paid into the Treasury , leaving only the small amount of $2,800 yet to be paid . This , too , is an outrage . It is a part of the Democratic stock-in-trade to declare that the Treasury agents and officers are thieves . Senator SAULSBURY is wont to describe them as " rolling in ill-gotten wealth , " though he never could put his finger on one ' who rolled hi any wealth to any great extent . And now these rascally fellows have actually accounted for every dollar of their vast collections ; and the Democracy are in doleful dumps because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Was ever a political party so illused. so thwarted . and so inconsiderately headed off in every direction Is it surprising that the Democrats are in a state of panic ? The Democratic Party stands no more chance against a revival of business and an honest administration of the Government than an Independent candidate in Yazoo County . In their exasperation , our Democratic friends have begun to call hard names . To their minds , the accomplished fact of resumption is " sham resumption . " We have not resumed , after all , it appears , but have only deluded each other into the belief that specie payments are resumed . Even the sharp men in Wall-street , who think that they know everything , have been hoodwinked by " sham resumption . " We should be grateful that there are honest and intelligent Democratic newspapers to undeceive us . As for the Treasury statements , it is notorious that they are Republican campaign documents . To be sure , they show a gratifying condition of the national finances , that is to say , gratifying to everybody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular confidence in a party which has opposed inflation and is responsible for the present financial policy of the Government . The monthly grain statements of the Chicago and Milwaukee ' Chambers of Commerce are also Republican campaign documents , and of the very worst kind : They show great crops . The Democracy prays for a short crop , no foreign demand , and hard times . There ought to be a way discovered to postpone the coming revival of trade . The depression has lasted almost long enough to enable the Democracy to slip into power . But now , nothing short of famine , pestilence , or earthquake can save it from defeat .                     