@@741445

txt The United States Circuit Court , presided over by Judges DAVIS , DRUMMOND , and HOPKENTS , and sitting at Madison , Wis. , has affirmed the constitutionality of the socalled Potter Railroad law . This statute was passed at the last session of the Legislature , elected under the impulse of the Granger movement in Wisconsin . For each of the companies doing business within the State it fixes a different tariff . For the Chicago and North-western Company , on whose complaint the present decision has been made , it prescribes a rate for . passengers of three cents a mile , and for freight of six cents for every 100 pounds carried twentyfive miles . The company appeared in court through its bondholders  --  one of them a resident of Amsterdam , in Holland , and the others residents of New-York  --  asking that the Railway Commissioners and the Attorney General of the State of Wisconsin , who are made defendants , be restrained from taking any steps to execute the act in question . This was pleaded for on the following , among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Potter law will reduce the revenues of the company 25 per cent . This reduction means 25 per cent . of the gross earnings , to be deducted from the net earnings of the company  --  i. e. , the cost of working the road will remain as before , and the loss of revenue must be deducted from profits . The gross earnings of the road for last year were about fifteen millions of dollars , 25 per cent . of this amount being three and three-fourths millions of dollars . The net earnings for last year amounted to four and a half millions , of which , after deducting three and threefourths millions , there remains but threequarters of a million as the probable net income of a year 's working under the new act . But the debt of the company amounts to forty-four millions of dollars and the interest thereon to three millions of dollars . Clearly , with a net income of only threequarters of a million , the interest on threefourths of the bonds would have to go unpaid , and there would be nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stockholders . These facts were adduced to prove that the statute was simply an instrument of confiscation , " in violation of the constitutional provision of Wisconsin , which declares that the property of no person shall be taken for public use without just compensation therefor , and also of that provision of the Constitution of the United States which declares that no State shall deprive any person of property without one process of law . " Here it should be explained that the Constitution of the State of Wisconsin provides for the exercise of a reserve power in regard to the charter of corporations which , we believe , is authorized by the Constitution of no other State . It was , in fact , under this section of the Constitution that the right to pass the Potter law was defended at the time of its enactment , and it does not therefore follow from the decision just given that the right to prescribe fixed rates of tariff may be a constitutional exercise of power by the Legislatures of other States , whose fundamental law does not provide a similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows , the part marked in italics being the point on which most of the arguments for and against the Potter law have turned : " Corporations without banking powers or privileges may be formed under general laws , but shall not be created by special act , except for municipal purposes , and in cases where , in the judgment of the Legislature , the objects of the corporation can not be attained under general laws . All general laws or special acts enacted under the provisions of this section may be altered or repealed by the Legislature at any time after their passage . " On behalf the bondholders the validity of this clause was not questioned , but it was claimed that it should be qualified in its interpretation by other provisions of the State and Federal Constitutions prohibiting the taking of property without compensation . Moreover , it was urged that the clause merely authorizes the modification or repeal of privileges conferred by the charter , but that it could not be used to enable the Legislature to take from the company " property which the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the owners had acquired . " Further , when various railroads in Wisconsin were united under the name of the Chicago and Northwestern , the compensation w hick common carriers were entitled to charge was a judicial and not a legislative question . The consolidated corporation obtained express authority from the State " to demand and to receive such sum or sums of money for the transportation of persons and . property as it should from time to time deem reasonable . " On behalf of the State it was argued that the Potter law merely determines what are reasonable rates of freight , but to this it is replied that the Legislature has reached the limit of its powers when it forbids the charge of unreasonable rates . What is a reasonable rate is a problem constantly changing , and one which can not be determined . by any hard and fast rule . The question whether in any case rates are unreasonable must , the company maintains , be tried like any other controversy , before a court and jury , with liberty to both parties to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ultimate decision of what are reasonable rates , but then the Constitution of Illinois has no such " reserved power " over charters as that quoted from the Constitution of Wisconsin . Curiously enough , however , the Legislature of the latter State passed , on the day after the Potter law , a bill prescribing penalties against railway companies for charging " more than a fair and reasonable rate of compensation , " but also providing that in all cases under this act " either party shall have the right of . trial by jury . " In the first enactment the Legislature determines the question of unreasonableness ; in the secondthe question is left to a jury . The first act makes a fixed legal rate without reference to its being reasonable or not , and the second gives to the company by implication the right to charge any rates which are just and reasonable . The two acts were , therefore , claimed to be entirely inconsistent with each other , and as the second of the two repeals all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the Potter law passed the day before . In fact , two of the inferior county courts of Wisconsin decided on Thursday last , in the eases of a railway conductor and ticket agent , brought before them for charging a rate of fare beyond that allowed by the Potter act , that the above view of the law is the true one . Nevertheless , very much to the surprise of all parties concerned , the United . States Circuit Court at Madison has denied the injunction asked for , and thus has affirmed the constitutionality of the Wisconsin Railroad law . Until the text of the decision is forthcoming , it would be premature to speculate upon the result of this decision upon the position of railroads in other States . In any case it will probably be well to await the result of the appeal to be taken to the Supreme Court of the United States .                     