@@743032

txt Gen. John A. Dix lies at the point of death at his residence , No. 3 West Twenty-first-street . His physicians , Dr. Metcalf and Dr. Van Buren , held a consultation yesterday afternoon , and reported that there was not the slightest hope of his recovery , although they thought that he might live until 12 o'clock to-day . His medical attendants report his present sinking not as the immediate result of the fracture ? of the collar-bone sustained a week ago , but as following the shock to the nervous system caused by the same fall which produced the fracture occurring at a time when his condition was somewhat critical . Gen. Dix was taken ill a month ago . When it was hoped that he had fully recovered from his indisnosition , which was occasioned by overwork , while getting out of bed he sustained a slight blow upon the neck , not serious had be been a younger man , but sufficient to break the collar-bone . He was got back to bed , much excited , and has not been up since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no serious or alarming symptoms presented themselves , but day before yesterday it began to be hinted abroad that Gen. Dix was sinking rapidly , and yesterday morning he was reported unconscious . He continued in hiscondition , muttering deliriouly at intervals until 3 o'clock in the afternoon , when he rallied a little , and was conscious for more than an hour , though incapable of speaking above a whisper . Later in the afternoon he sank again , and at 6 o'clock was nearly in the same condition as at noon . The Rev. Dr. Morgan Dix , his son , who remained with his father until 12 o'clock last night , reported at 10 o'clock that there were strong hopes that Gen. Dix would live until to-day , and a bulletin given out at the Union Club , next door , at midnight , says : " Gen. Dix is still living , his condition remaining substantially the same as it was six hours before . " The physicians report that he was taken ill about four weeks ago , the symptoms being those of general exhaustion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the great age of the patient , was not of a dangerous nature , and , with tonic treatment , he slowly recovered , and had already commenced to talk of driving out in the Park and taking up his interest in the affairs of Trinity Corporation , and had , indeed , actually taken short drives , when the comparatively slight accident prostrated him a second time . His physicians say that his constitutional power to resist disease was nearly exhausted during his active career , and that a very trifling attack at any time during the last year would have left faint hope of recovery . He has had symptoms similar to those of gout at various times during the last few years . 