@@742691

txt The Army bill was reported to the House to-day from Committee of the Whole , two additional sections having been previously added to the bill . The first of these sections provides for the transfer of the Indian Bureau to the War Department , which was adopted in committee by a majority of six , and the second provides that it shall not be lawful to use any portion of the Army as a posss cannabis or otherwise under the pretext or for the purpose of executing the laws , except in cased expressly provided for by act of Congress . This section was Offered by Proctor Knott , and is intended to prevent the use of the Army to quell disturbances at the polls during general elections , and to protect voters from violence and intimidation under United States election laws . It contains a penal clause imposing a fine of not exceeding $10,000 , and imprisonment not exceeding two years , or both , at , the discretion of the court .. When the bill was reported to the House , the first amendment made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was demanded was that fixing the maximum strength of the Army at 25,000 men . The yeas and nays were ordered , and resulted in defeating the amendment by four votes , the yeas being 116 , and the nays 120 . Considerable excitement prevailed during the roll-call , both sides working with great earnestness to secure success . When the last name on the roll was called , the vote stood yeas 116 , nays 118 . The names had been carefully read over , and the Democrats were congratulating themselves upon their success in having struck 5,000 enlisted men from the rolls of the Army . The Speaker was about announcing the result , when Mr. Welch , of Nebraska , entered the ball , and after explaining that he and Mr. Wigginton , of California , were absent during the roll-call attending the meeting of a committee of conference on a disagreeing vote of the two houses , demander that his name be called that he might vote on the amendment . The Speaker directed the Clerk to call Mr. Welch 's name when be responded yea . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yea , which made the vote a tie . Knowing that the Speaker would give the decisive vote against the amendment , Mr. Garfield arose and stated that he desired to change his vote in order that he might move a reconsideration . At the same time Mr. Acklin , of Louisiana , who had voted to concur in the amendment for some unaccountable reason , also changed his vote to the negative side , which , made the result 120 nays , to 116 yeas . When the result was announced Mr. Garfield claimed the attention of the Speaker t ' , move a reconsideration , in accordance with his notice . Thin is a customary proceeding in parliamenttry bodies , and where a member changes his vote and gives notice that the change is made in order that he may enter a motion to reconsider , the universal practice has been for the Speaker to recognize him for that purpose . Mr. Randall , however , instead of recognizing Mr. Garfield , gave the floor to Mr. Hewitt , who made the customary motion to reconsider and then moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is intended to piece the subject-matter beyond further controversy . Mr. Garfield called the Sieaker 's attention to the fact that be had changed his vote and given notice that he desired to move a reconsideration but the Speaker replied that he was bound to recognize Mr. Hewitt , that gentleman being in charge of the " bill , and if Mr. Garfield give an insincere vote , ho the Speaker was not to blame . To this gratuitous reflection Mr. Garfield replied with warmth that no Speaker had ever before so grossly violated the practice of parliamentary bodies in this particular , which observation on the partisan and unusual action of the Speaker drew applause from the Republican side . The yeas and nays were called on Mr. Hewitt 's motion , and it prevailed by a small majority . Mr. Garfield 's object in desiring a reconsideration was to gain time that certain Republican absentees might be brought to the House . Among those absent who are opposed to reduction were Butler of Massachusetts , Killinger of Pennsylvania , and Cain and Rainey of South Carolina , Republicans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cain and Rainey is unaccountable . They are both attentive members , and have not been known to miss an important vote before today . Butler and Killinger are seldom present , and their names are generally found among those marked not voting . " Lqttrell was detained from the House by sickness . Had Speaker Randall observed the usual practice in cases of this kind , opportunity would have been given to obtain the presence of the absentees , and thus a fair expression of sentiment would have been obtained on the amendment . No one knows better than Speaker Randall that a majority of the House is opposed to ? educing the numerical strength of the Army , and , while his partisan trickery to-day defeated the amendment by which the strength of . the Army was fixed at 25,000 men , the Republicans who were absent should be held mainly responsible .                     