@@742739

txt We presume that no one is now sufficiently infatuated to have faith in President HAYES as a civil service reformer . Those who at the outset believed that he had a mission to fulfill in this capacity confess their inability to find a pretext for continued confidence ; while those who scouted the reform as a humbug and Mr. HAYES as a pretender point exultingly to the record as a justification of their distrust . A want of sincerity and frankness is not now alleged against the President for the first time . The charge has been preferred again and again , on the authority of Senators and Representives whose intercourse with him in the matter of appointments has not ended satisfactorily . Recommendations have been invited after a choice . had been made , and in some instances qualifications have been discussed when offices were filled . The denials which followed some of these representations were too disingenuous to be effective , and the most plausible explanations have not extinguished a feeling adverse to the candor , if not the good faith , of the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by reiterated testimony suggestive of more bargaining than comports with his pretensions . Republicans will not blame him for ignoring Senator Htu 's suggestions respecting Federaloffices in Georgia ; but if , as Mr. HILL declares , the suggestions wore offered in compliance with the President 's request , the proper course would have been to notify that gentleman of the change of purpose which rendered his efforts ineffectual . The fair inference is that in the beginning the President 's policy of conciliation embraced appointments outside of the Republican ranks . Some of the nominations in Georgia and elsewhere were intelligible only on the supposition that patronage was , used to win Democratic favor . The effort was not sue cessful . Democrats were quite ready to accept offices at the hands of a Republican President , but they 1-. - ere not prepared to throw overboard allegiance to their party . Then it was that the President discarded the counsel he had invited , turned the cold shoulder to Democrats who had helped him , and availed himself of offices at his disposal to make peace with the least reputable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party has no reason to be ashamed . These Mr. HAYES has ignored . He has done nothing to help them or the cause with which they are honorably identified . He has , instead , linked himself with the corrupt , unprincipled element of the party , the ? element which brought shame and trouble upon the party , and which has uniformly derided the reforms he pledged himself to enforce . We will not speak of statesmanship in this connection . Mr. HAYES ' course has not oven the poor merit of political reg'pectability . The peculiarities of his methods are not yet exhausted . His exorcise of authority is not compatible with the responsibility or the self-respect of his recognized advisers , the members of his Cabinet , The circumstances under which Gen. Graham was ap- pointed to the Surveyorship of this port , as reported in yesterday 's TIMES , would be incredible if they were- not in keeping with previous incidents in relation to appointments of equal importance . The fitness of the appointee is not the question . The President 's action , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manner in which it involves the public service . The statement is , that without the knowledge of the Secretary of the Treasury , and without any mention of the subject at the Cabinet meeting held at the time , the President , of his own will , signed the appointment and sent it to the Treasury , whose chief had denied that the selection had been made . The duplicity which has been one of ? the worst features of the Custom-house business , and which compromises Mr. SHERMAN as well as the President , may have reappeared in the case of the Surveyorship . But until their joint responsibility . is established , we must accept Mr. SHERMAN 'S denial as evidence of his want of knowledge upon the subject . The Surveyorship , he said after the Cabinet meeting , had not been filled , nor had the appointee been chosen . The President , therefore , violated courtesy and propriety , passed over the head of the Treasury as a nobody , and used the appointing power as though it were one of the perquisites of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acted within his rights . ? He may supersede Mr. DUTCHER , or eject Mr. JAMES from the Post Office , without exceeding his authority . " Retention in office , " Mr. SHERMAN says truly , " rests entirely with the President . " " The President has the authority to make a change , " meekly echoes Mr. KEY . To this extent there is no difference of opinion . But is the President expected to know as much about the working of a department as the Secretary who presides over it ? Can ho be supposed to be as competent a judge of the requirements of an office , or of the qualifications of a person appointed to fill it , as the head of the dopartmont to which it belongs ? Mr. HAyEs has been in the habit of declaring that the departments should be managed on business principles . That has been the parrot-cry when changes in the Custom-house have been spoken of , and whoa the continuance of Mr. JAMES in the Post Office has been alluded to as an example of keeping an efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the rule he pretends to uphold.a To manage a department on business principles , the head of a department must be the judge of the qualifications of the persons serving under him . A removal without his concurrence is as fatal to discipline and as insultingto himself as an appointment without his knowldgo and consent . Mr. SHERMAN is so compromised by acts to which ho has been a party that ho is snot in a position to complain . But , speaking generally , wo are unable to see how a member of the Cabinet who cherishes his self-respect can retain his Seat if the President arbitrarily interferes with the working of his department . The removal of an efficient officer in spite of the remonstrances of his official chief is a wrong which that chief is bound to resent ; just as the appointment of an officer without the knowledge of the head of the department is a ' slight to which no man of spirit would submit . Mr. HArEs may not usurp authority , but his exercise of it in these matters tends to bring it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              