@@781615

txt M. ALFRED NAQUET is one of the five Deputies who represent the Department of Vaucluso in the French National Assembly . This gives him a certain political distinction , although , from the nature of things , it is uncertain how long he may retain it . Perhaps it is the recognition of this instability which has led M. NAQUET to seek to build up his fame on more solid foundations . He has , therefore , written a book , which , if the noise made by it prove as lasting as it is violent , will make the name of NAQUET as famous  --  or infamous  --  as its owner can desire . This amazing production may be briefly described as au attack on everything ; but the chief things assailed are suggested by its title of " Religion , Property , and Family . " The work of M. NAQUET is interesting as showing the extreme logical , limit of ideas long prevalent in France among a certain order of minds , or rather as indicating the extent of what is sought in putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not uncommon effect of extravagant advocacy that it defeats its own.objeet ; and , in point of fact , such is now the effect of the book of M. NAQUET . Its extravagance is pushed to the edge of burlesque ; and the consequences of realizing its propositions are more plainly soon through the vehemence and directness with which those propositions are set forth . The first hundred pages are devoted to proving the nonexistence of the Deity , the non-existence of the soul . and consequently that there ought to bo no such thing as religion or worship of any sort . After this choice exordium the author goes on to show that there ought to be no private property whatever ; that trade and its competitions are pure evils , and unnecessary ones at that ; and that no man should have a right to bequeath property . since all things whatever should belong to the State . Next , M. NAQUET declares that the institution of the family is more superfluous nonsense ; that marriage should be at once , and entirely . abolished ; and that no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights or claim to any particular child , since all children should be the wards of the State . All these precious statements are enunciated with furious violence , and in a way that suggests bitter enmity toward the institutions treated of . At the same time there is a certain eloquence and brilliancy of style about the work , and even , in parts . a degree of rhetorical splendor , that have drawn much attention , and led the views of the author to be greatly discussed . The general drift of the discussion ostablishes'what we have above assumed . The Paris newspapers , even those noted for freethinking tendencies , are all but unanimous in their condemnation of M. NAQUF.T . Just as the excesses of the Communists brought on a reaction against the Commune , so the passionate rancor of M. NAQUET , the extreme intemperance of his opinions , and their totally subversive and radical character , have aroused a vigorous public feeling against the whole class of ideas and theorists this writer represents . Thus he becomes in reality an apostle of all that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ converts , but it is to the ranks of those who would build up and defend religion . the family , and property  --  not those who would assail and pull them down . The lesson is an amusing and instructive one ; and there could hardly be a more effective illustration to introduce into an argument in favor of moderation . It has been presented , we may add , at a timely moment . Franpe has suffered so terribly from the havoc wrought by the skeptical , the reckless , and . the visionary , that all-things conducive to a reliance on established principles , sound faith , and regulated system , are welcome to everybody who wishes well to that country , and desires to see her reinstated in her just place among the nations .                     