@@740841

txt It strikes us , with all respect for these of the managers of the Third-avenue Savings Bank who suppose themselves in the right , that it is full time that the midnight scenes around the bank , as well as the day and evening run upon the bank , should be brought to an end . If these gentlemen can not see their duty as trustees for the provident savings of their depositors. without a summary lesson from the Court of Bankruptcy , ( in the absence of the State Superintendent of Banking , who may have given up the affair as a bad job , ) then the occasion would seem to have ripened for administering such a lesson in the most summary way . The present run on the concern  --  the third in its recent fitful history  --  has now been continuous for thirty odd days , and no voluntary publication has been made of the nature and immediate cash worth of the assets of the bank , in such detail and strict valuation as to satisfy the depositors , muoh less the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - - the last dollar . The official examination of last Summer , if not imperfect and unsatisfactory at the time , as one of the examiners pronounced it , has long ceased to be useful , in the existing emergency ; and the run will not stop so long as the trustees of the bank . in the vain hope of making it useful hereafter , refuse to employ the thirty days ' grace allowed by law , to makeup the accounts of all their depositors and to turn their assets into ready cash , so that the whole can be paid at the end of the time -- in full , if possible , or otherwise impartially , and only a pro rata dividend strictly and exactly ascertained . If this were done even now , and the trustees should deem it due to their officers and clerks to continue the bank in existence , then the depositors could elect , without the appearance of duress , to renew their accounts , or to withdraw them altogether . It is plain to be seen that the public usefulness of the bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a necessity to the accommodation of its own neighborhood . Other and older banks , near by , whose credit has never been in question , are no doubt willing to take the accounts of such of the depositors as are not yet tired of the whole system . The persistent disregard of public opinion characteristic of the present run , is only calculated to add to the recently awakened distrust in savings administration . For , once establish the precedent that , when , as in this instance , a bank has confessedly met with losses by indulging in loans both unsafe and unauthorized by law , the depositors are to be literally worried into silence , or compelled to submit to personal hardships as well as mental anxiety , in order to reach their hard-earned money ? popular respect for the system will be hopelessly impaired , and the popular confidence in its integrity so weakened that general liquidation , voluntary or otherwise , may become a necessity . In this view of what might prove a great calamity , it strikes us that the old and respectable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as to the provident people who commit their earnings to the system , to protest against the conduct of the Third-avenue Trustees as a public scandal , and to insist that they should - wind up the bank at once . Delay will only aggravate the excitement , and make the final mischief the greater if a single depositor should remain unpaid for want of adequate means to pay the whole , in full or impartially.                     