@@742913

txt A Nashville newspaper , referring to the growing tendency toward a virtual repudiation of the Tennessee debt , protests against the policy on the ground that it will react unfavorably to the neonle themselves . The rights and interests of the creditors are dismissed as unworthy of consideration . " Will a failure to meet outstanding obligations ultimately prove profitable to the people of the State I " is in effect the query propounded by the editor . He answers it negatively . There is no affectation of morality in ' the argument , no remonstrance against bad faith as one form of dishonesty , no advocacy of an honorable settlement as a matter of duty . Expediency is the only consideration deemed worthy of thought , or which is likely to affect the conduct of Tenuesseoans . Perhaps we should be thankful even for the admission that repudiation is undesirable because it would be unprofitable . When dealing with a community like that which makes laws in Tennessee , a scrutiny of motives is unnecessary . The appeal of our Nashville contemporary is decisive as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least in that part of the State . Nor is the appeal applicable only to Tennessee . With quite as much force , it may bo addressed to the readjusters of Virginia and the repudiators of Minnesota , to the municipal rulers of Charleston and NewOrleans , to the impatient tax-payers of bonded towns in New-York and Vermont , to the citizens of Rahway and Elizabeth in New-Jersey , and to the uncounted list of defaulting municipalities in Illinois , Missouri , and other Western States . The arguments and phrases current among honorable men are wasted when applied to people who insist that as between their creditors and themselves their own convenience shallalone be consulted . A State , a county , or a town which employs lawyers to pick holes in a contract under which the money wanted was obtained , is beyond the reach of right or of the reason which dictates justice . In business matters the man who avails himself of a technicality to rid himself of liability for the payment of goods which he bought and has Bold , earns the reputation of a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipality in the case supposed will not be more flattering . The case is not materially changed if the community forces upon its creditors a readjustment amounting to a repudiation of more or less of the debt , with no better excuse than an alleged oppressiveness of taxation . Debtors can not be allowed to plead inconvenience of payment as an answer to their creditors ' demands . If unable to pay , the insolvency laws open a way of escape , but the stigma of insolvency remains . Municipalities have neither so good an excuse nor so easy a method of deliverance . The property is there , and if the owners refuse to bear the burdens which they helped to put upon it , we can not form a favorable opinion their integrity . A municipality that would keep its name untainted will make any sacrifice rather than rob the creditors who furnished money for its improvement . The list we have partially enumerated proves that scruples of this sort are not allowed to stand in the way of the relief afforded by default and arbitrary readjustment . Churches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of talking of righteousness and judgment . What then ? The talk does not touch a defauiting and readjusting community , State or municipal . Right and wrong are terms ignored . The tax-payers avail themselves of the virtual helplessness of the creditors to rob them with impunity . The citizen who should got up among them and emphasize the injunctions of morality would be laughed at . Hero , then , the Nashville lesson comes in with a chance of being listened to . " Never mind morality ; do not trouble yourselves about justice or other abstractions ; consider only that in the long run bad faith does not nay . " Potent as this consideration may be , its efficacy when applied to States and municipalities is derived from the tact that the damage inflicted upon their credit in reality falls upon their citizens . It is of little moment , probably , that Minnesota or Tennessee could not now obtain a loan on any terms ; but it is of great importance that their towns and people , who have need of all the capital that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith of their State . Still more directly is injury done to the credit of citizens of defaulting and repudiating municipalities . Naturally , they are regarded with morn or less distrust . They can not obtain credit as freely as before . The slur cast upon the integrity of the citizens as a body attaches in some degree to each of them . From a selfish point of view , therefore , indifference to State or Municipal obligations is unwise . Relief obtained at the cost of creditors is delusive . It is soon exhausted , while the indirect losses consequent upon dishonor or dishonesty last a lifetime . If more specific evidence be needed of the manner in which tampering with public faith reacts iniuriouslv to individuals . it may be found Pt the futile endeavors of Western mortga  --  eors to obtain substantial concessions from the mortgagees . With the controversy in regard to Western farm mortgages our ; s3aders are familiar . R3-cently , however , it has developed a new feature . PartieE who have contended that these mortgages afford complete security to Eastern lenders Stow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interest from 10 to 8 or per cent . as a means of averting wide-spread ruin . It is alleged that the borrowers can not pay the high rate , and that the lenders should accept a lower rate , ever on outstanding mortgages , to avert worse consequences . Unfortunately for the Western people , any such proposition is prejudiced by their assaults upon the public credit in relation to the silver law , and by the dishonest motives avowed during the agitation in support of that measure . Had the West acted differently ? had it evinced a recent regard for the public faith and the stipulated rights of Eastern credi ; : ors generally  --  its people would have been able " to obtain money on mortgage on better terms . Of course , this opinion presupposes more trustworthy machinery in connection with mortgage loans than that at present in operation . But , apart from this reservation , no one can doubt that the position of Western mortgageors would now have been more hopeful , had not distrust been engendered by the tone and objects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . Before better terms car be possible , the Western people must give some pledge . of their respect for plighted faith , and of their readiness to undo some of the mischief for which the silver agitators are responsible .                     