@@743084

txt The Democratic point caucus convened at 3 o'clock this afternoon to receive and act upon the two appropriation bills as agreed to last night by the Advisory Committee . The report of this committee was Presented to the caucus by Senator Thurman , who made a brief speech explaining the action of the committee and advocating the adoption of the report . According to the programme adopted , the Legislative , Executive , and Judicial bill is to be framed upon the basis of the appropriations made for those departments for the current fiscal year , with such additions and modifications as may be rendered necessary by changes made in the laws since the current appropriations were made . The present Legislative Appropriation act , upon which the new bill is to bo based , contains no appropriation for the Department of Justice , that department being provided for in the Sundry Civil Appropriation act . ' Until the present session of Congress , the appropriation for the Department of Justice has always been made in the Sundry Civil bill , and it was placed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the regular appropriation bills , and because the Democrats believed the President would not veto it to save the laws which the majority designed to repeal . The salaries of United States Judges will bo provided for in the new Legislative bill , as has been the custom , but the appropriations for the necessary expenses of the United States courts , including the salaries of District Attorneys and Marshals , and the pay of jurors , which have hitherto been provided for in the Sundry Civil bill , and which amount to about $3.000,000 , will be reported In a separate bill . . The only difference iu the new Legislative bill and that by which the appropriations for the current year were made , is that a clause will be added providing that no money appropriated by the bill shall be applied to pay the salaries of officers created by title 26 of the Revised Statutes , the officers created by that title being Supervisors of Elections and Deputy , Marshals . The supplemental bill , in which it is proposed to appropriate for the necessary expenses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ providing that no liability shall be incurred for the payment of any salary or expense until money has been regularly appropriated therefor , and that no officer shall be appointed until money has been regularly . appropriated to pay for his services . The restrictive clauses of the two bills are doubtless intended to prevent money from being used to pay Supervisors and Deputy Marshals , but they will fail to reach Supervisors , because the pay of those officers is provided for in the permanent annual appropriations . The restrictions would , however , affect the appointment of special Deputy Marohs 's , and would , it is believed , practically repeal those sections of title 26 , Revised Statutes , which authorize their appointmept , for the reason that they declare that no officer shall be appointed until an appropriation has been made to pay his salary . The purpose of thus making two bills is to insure the appropriations for the Legislative , : Executive , and Judicial Departments . Should the supplemental bill be vetoed , the determination is to adjourn without making the necessary appropriations for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pay of jurors . The Army bill will be reported substantially as it was passed last month , with a clause providing that no money shall be expended for transportation or subsisting troops to be used at the  --  polls as a Police force , This clause is regarded by the Republicans as of little moment , and it is probable that no opposition will be made to it . No one ever contended for the services of the Army as Police at the polls , and as the Democrats are willing to crawl out of the jungle by permitting the Army to exist as soldiers , the Republicans will not throw obstacles in their way of a successful retreat . The work of the Advisory Committee , after some discussion , was adopted by the callous With perfect unanimity , and the bills will be taken at once by the House Committee on Ap-T ropriations and prepared for presentation . he Army bill , it is expected , will be reported during the present week , and it is likely to pass - without debate . The Legislative bill will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the last . During the discussion which followed the explanation of the bills , made by Senator Thurman , Mr. Bayard made an earnest speech in which he advocated the passage of appropriation bills free from extraneous matter of any description . He said he had from the beginring opposed riders upon the appropriation bills , and he was still opposed to it . He had counseled ? his party in the beginning to pass the regular appropriation bills and then pass these riders as separate measures , and he thought that experience had demonstrated that this would have been the wiser course . Ho regretted that the gentlemen charged with the work of preparing this legislation took a different view of the subject and still insisted upon placing this restrictive legislation upon the appropriation pills . He had heard it flippantly remarked that Hayes 's Army might disband , and he admonished those holding such opinions that it was not Hayes 's army , but the Army of the United States , and as such must be provided for , or the people would hold them responsible for failing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole country , And ought not to be considered and disposed of with the single purpose in views of securing party advantage . He believed that there was wisdom and patriotism enough in the Democratic Party to dispose of the appropriation bills without embarassing in any way the machinery of the Government . Mr. Blackburn followed Mr. Bayard in opposing the work of the caucus committee , but his opposition was of a different character and actuated by different motives . He objected to the report of the committee because it was in the nature of a concession . He was in favor of ' standing by the position originally taken upon these questions . He made a very bitter speech , and alluded to those who favored any modification of the original demand as weakkneed brothers , who should be forced to join the Republicans . Re moved that the bills which were vetoed be again taken up and passed , brit his motion was rejected by a decided vote . Mr. Reagan , of Texas , made a short speech , taking much the same position as Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without conditions . Gen. Joe Johnston made quite a notable speech , in which he opposed the restriction put upon the Army bill . He thought the Democrats might as well try to harness an ox with a cobweb as to restrain the President from using the Army at the polls by providing that no money shall be paid for transportation of troops to be used to preserve the peace at the polls or elsewhere . The Democrats to-night seem very much relieved over their deliverance , and are confident that theyhave at last vindicated themselves and secured bills which the President will approve .                     