@@781734

txt Every one except the amateur or professional drunkard admits that ardent spirits ought not to be used as a beverage in hot weather . They simply increase the heat of the system and thus give aid and comfort to the thermometer in its Summer assaults on the lives and collars of the human race . The English troops in the torrid zone were formerly addicted to the excessive use of brandy as a supposed , prophylactic against malarial diseases . Experience , however , demonstrated that the brandyLdrinkers did not withstand the climate nearly as well as did the men of more temperate habits . It is true that one English Temperance Society , which had undertaken to collect statistics on this subjecs , wis recently shocked by the official statement that of the " teetotalers " belonging to a regiment stationed at Sierra Leone , fifty per cent . had died and fifty per cent . had been invalided . Further inquiry , however , showed that the whole number of " teetotalers " in question was two , and that one had died of snakebite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statistics concerning the mortality of brandy-drinkers were such as to fill the " teetotal " mind with joy and triumph . It is an abuse of language to style a man temperate merely because he does not drink ardent spirits . The truth is that many socalled temperate people , who decline to look upon the wine not only when it is red , but ? also when it is yellow , as in the case of eggnogg , are ' extremely intemperate . While there is no doubt that intemperance in the use of ardent spirits is one of the most deadly evils incident to civilization , it is equally true that intemperance in the use of ice-water is rapidly undermining the constitution of American men and women . As a nation , we are fearfully addicted to cold drinks , and there is imperative need of an organized movement to fight the demon of ice-water . Strange as it may seem to the conscientious man who comprehends the deleterious effects of cold drinks , there are thousands of our best and noblest citizens who are victims to the cold-water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glasses of ice-water before breakfast . During that meal they frequently turn from the coffee which cheers but does not inebriate  --  in case it is sufficiently adulterated with the simple and healthful bean  --  and satisfy their depraved thirst for water . On their way to their business they stop at the numerous drug stores which shamelessly flaunt their soda-water fountains in the face of the public , and hastily pour down the deadly icewater which perverted ingenuity makes palatable with cream and syrups . Iu the office or the store , the water-cooler , filled with the stomach and tooth destroying beyrage is always at hand , and when the waterdrinkers return home after a day of constant drinking , they too often spend the greater part of the night in solitary and aquarial debauchery . The result of this pernicious practice has been to fill the country with a class of stomachs that are incapable of any earnest digestive efforts , and to crowd the chairs of busy dentists . American stomachs and American teeth are daily growing feebler , and the time is apparently at hand when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new-born infant at the same time that he receives his first ? india-rubber ring , and when all sorts of stomach bitters and digestive pills will invariably supplement his daily meals . For this state of things icewater , either in its undisguised form , or in its shape of soda-water is responsible . And the worst of it is that the victims of the water-habit , are the very men who form our temperance societies and who fancy themselves temperate because they never drink anything but water . The deadly effects of ice-water are particularly noticeable just at present ( When an overheated man desires an attack of congestion of the brain , there is no plan which he could devise which would be better adapted to secure the end desired than that of drinking water of , or below , the temperature of 320 . Yet this is precisely what scores of so-called temperate men are continually doing . It is sufficiently irrational and dangerous for men to drink brandy and whisky in hot weather , but it is a , question whether ardent spirits are really more immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most earnest " teetotalers " pour into their astonished and indignant stomachs . Water is undoubtedly the most wholesome beverage which we can this , but there is a vast difference between water at a safe and natural temperature and the ice-water which alone satisfies the abnormal cravings of the American throat . Let us by all means drink water , bat let us decline to endanger our health and degrade ourselves below the level of the beasts by drinking inordinate quantities of ice-water . There is not a single animal  --  except man  --  which ever dreams of contaminating wholesome water with ice . The ordinary water of the hydrant and the faucet satisfies the thirst of the wild elephant and the domestic cat . Poor fallen human nature , on the contrary , longs for ice , and gratifies its corrupt cravings at the cost of outraged stomachs , and ruined teeth .                     