@@742729

txt The possibility that the Democracy , controlled by the cotton State members , may come into power in both branches of the National Legislature naturally gives rise to the question , what action will they take regarding Southern claims ? The subject has already been discussed at some length in the North and West , but up to this time to but very little purpose . Indeed , the controversyhas simply resulted in calling out " the views " of variouo people who know next to nothing regarding the temper of those who may be called upon to decide the matter . For once , at least , their relative positions were changed , and the North talked while the South preserved a discreet , if not a somewhat suspicious , silence . Recently , however , in Georgia , South Carolina , and other parts of " the sunny land , " there has been a sudden waking up to the fact that the agitation of the claims question was alarming many Democrats and non-partisans , and at once the political leaders of that section were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their thoughts at this time than a desire to make any further claims upon the Government for damages growing out of the war . This they have declared with much vehemence and detail . Yet , in all their expressions on the subject , they have been careful to avoid any declaration as to what the course of their party would be in the event of their coming into control of both houses of Congress . Within a day or two , however , becoming bolder , perhaps from a growing sense of power , they have ventured more clearly to define their position , and in a recent issue the Atlanta Constitution , one of the most influential " last-ditch " organs in the country , throws off the mask entirely , and plainly intimates that , in the event of their gaining the absolute power for which they are striving , the Democrats  --  the Southern Democrats  --  will adjust the question of claims according to their own peculiar notions . Specifically , the journal in question declares " there are many just claims pending , and they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be wondered at , however , the Southern idea of what claims are " just " differs very materially from the opinions on the subject which are held in other parts of the country . Some time ago in a speech made in Ohio , it will be remembered that the Secretary of the Treasury stated that since 1865 the Republican Party had paid to the South-. ern States claims amounting to many millions of dollars , and , in the name of that party , demanded credit for the action which had been taken in this direction . Of course , the Secretary referred to the claims of loyal people South . It is just this class of claims , however , which the Democratic organs of Georgia now declare to be unjust , and , instead of being willing to give the Republicans any credit for having paid them , they denounce the course pursued as " fraudulent and corrupt . " Indeed , they go even further than this , and in plain words announce it as the determination of the Southern Democrats to use every . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uis her upon tl e class of Southern elainif that have heretofore been so popular with tie magnanhnot s majority in Congress . " Ant aP this we m e assured they will do , not uponlhe defeus - ble ground that many o the so-calle " legal " claims have lo ( on and are bein pressed by persons whose loyalty was new r discovered or made pub'is until after th 3 war , not on the ground that i , uch claim a are barefaced and too of ten sw.cessful at - tempts to swindle the Government , but b ( - cause the people who make such demand are actually entitled to b3 regarded as hav ing been loyal to the Union , and must , therefore , be looked upon . as enemies to thy , South . All sneh claims must be disallowed , de dares the Atlanta organ , and because th ( claimants " in making such demands , in claiming restitution for property destroyee by the . Federals , conies ; teat morally a least they were-traitors to their : section . am. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i. - ; is further declared that tie solid South will be engaged in a true reorin , will take f stop in the direction of t : ue economy , ani . " teach a lesson to those who , in the South , yet desired to se ( their section dismam ; led and overrun , and their neighbors impoverished and preyed upon . " These are certainly somewhat remarkable grounds upon which to refuse the payment of well-estrblislied claims made by loyal citizens , who may be able to prove their fidelity to the nation ; and to show the justness of the demands which they make against the Government . But the frankness with which the subject is treated in the South can not be objected to . The warning which these latest declarations contain is timely , and forcibly indicates what would be the fate of any measure which might come before a Democratic Congress , recommended only upon grounds of loyalty or patriotism . It is a pity that the Democrats are not equally frank and outspoken in declaring what class of Southern claims they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be paid for lost or destroyed property because they were " traitors to their section and their State , " it suggests itself to the ordinary mind that treason to the Union would be a still greater bar to such compensation . Should they succeed in gaining control of the next Congress , however , there is no reason to believe that this line of argument would be poyilar among the Democrats of the South .                     