@@743285

txt Much excitement has been caused in Episcopalian circles by the first official act of Bishop Pinkney , successor to the late Bishop Whittingham . The latter held somewhat High Church views , while the formet favors Low Church doctrines to an extent not hitherto suspected . The Rev. A. G. Mortimer was ordained in England by the Bishop of Bath and Wells . For six years he was senior curate of Froome Selwood , and came to this country three years ago , highly recommended by Lord Arthur Hervey and others . Re was received into regular standing by Bishop Stevens , of Pennsylvania , in whose diocese he has since worked , officiating at St. Clement 's Church , Philadelphia , which has gained notoriety because of its High Church schism . camelere in November at the request of the Rev. Dr. Rankin , After a comparison of theological views , he became Dr. Rankin 's assistant at St. Luke 's Church , Last evening , after the usual services , the Rev. Mr. Mortimer was to have given Bible instructions . Dr. Rankin went into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BRETHREN : It becomes my painful duty to inform you that the Right Rev. Dr. Pinkney , the Bishop of this diocese , has inhibited the Rev. Alfred G. Mortimer , and has forbidden hint to officiate within the limits of his jurisdiction . I will not trust myself at this time to say all that I think and feel at this strange action . I must , however , give expression to the profound grief I feel that a clergyman in good standing , of exalted character and unusual gifts , one , too , who came among us at my instance to relieve me somewhat . of my heavy labors , should have been subjected to such an indignity . An inhibition is a most serious act . It should never be resorted to except under the most stringent circumstances , and after the fullest investigation . In this instance I am entirely free to say I think it unwise , unkind , uncharitable , unjust . My grief is very great that a brother of unblemished character , one who , in the short time he has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should have this cruel stigma inflicted upon him . Let us humbly trust that it is the impress of the cross . I must say that I mourn with you , my children , that for a time only  --  for a short time , I trust  --  you are to be deprived of his loving and faithful ministrations . 1 will only ask you to observe these rules : Do not talk ; do not find fault ; do not indulge in censorious remarks upon any one . If you complain , complain ' to God . Be very earnest and faithful in your private prayers , and especially in your intercessions at the Holy Eucharist , that the dear Lord will overrule this , as He has always overruled the sorrows of His Church , for her greater good and His greater glory . These are my couusels . " There had been no suspicion of trouble , and this action fell like a thunderclap in a clear sky on the congregation . ' Many went at once to the sacristy to express sympathy with their Rector and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said to be very moderate , and in High Church circles Bishop Pinkney 's inhibition is scathingly denounced , while Low Church men deem the action just , and condemn Dr. Rankin 's language toward his superior as insubordinate and disgraceful . Tho matter has caused a breach in the Church which will take long to heal . The action of Bishop Pinkney in the case is final , as Mr. Mortimer has not been transferred to this from the Pennsylvania diocese . There can be " no trial and no appeal . Strenuous efforts are being made to induce the Bishop to rescind his order , but it can not be ascertained that he has any intention of doing so , he being out of the city . 