@@781760

txt In 1812 , toward the close of an exciting seaiien of the Legislature , Gov . TOMPIEM-S , upon evidence which satisfied him that the applicants for the charter of a bank in the City of New-York , with a capital of six millions of dollars , had resorted to bribery , arrested its progress , and startled the people of the whole State by a proclamation abraptly terinineting the session . That was the first and last exercise of the power of prorogation . The question , as a political issue , entered into the then approaching gubernatorial election . Gov . TOMPKINS was sustained . but the application by the same parties . fur the same bank , with a new name . ( Bank of America , ) was renewed , and ultimately with success , not , however , without subjecting distinguished members of the ' Legislature , along with one eminent Judge of the Supreme Court , to accusations of bribery and corruption . Some of the accused parties were indicted and tried , and altln:ugh not convicted by a jury , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were preferred against the Judge of the Supreme Court referred to . lines deleted It was in reference to these charges that Con . Itoor , in a hubsequent Legislature , pierced an opponent with a barbed arrow . ELLSIIA Wieetams , an eminent lawyer of Hudson , it was alleged , had received $20,000 from the Bank of America . to be divided equally between himself and three other gentlemen , one of whom denied having received his share . In the Legislature of 1820 Mr. WILLIAMS , then a member from Columbia County , in a sharp debate with Gen. ROOT , of Delaware , referred disparagingly to Root 's Arithmetic . The General , in reply , admitted that his arithmetic might not be the highest mathematical authority , but added that . if the gentleman from Columbia , in attempting to ascertain the fourth part of $20,000 , should use three instead of four for a divisor. he would not be able to prove his sum by Root 's Arithmetic . That investigation exerted a wholesome and restraining influence for several years . Indeed . the legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Chemical Bank corruptions provoked an investigation which resulted in the resignation of Senator WARD , of Westchester County . After that , until 1836 , there were no allegations of Legislative bribery . In 1836 . Joint C. ICEMBLE , a Senator from Rensselaer County , and Isaac W. BISHOP , a Senator from Washington County , were charged with holding back a bill amending the charter of the New-York and Harlem Railroad Company , until they and their friends had made large purchases of the stock of that company . The investigation which ensued did not elicit testimony which called for their expulsion ; but both the people and their representatives were satisfied that the allegations were true ; and near the close of the session the popular disapproval of their conduct was so strong that both Senators resigned their seats . Hon. " alvanieur VAN ScnAICK , a Senator from this City , was so much exasperated when BISHOP and KEIVIi3LE were allowed to resign instead of being expelled , that he refused to serve out his term . In 1852 articles a impeachment were preferred by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Assembly did not find Mr. MATHER guilty ; but , in the public estimation , irrespective of party , the accused Canal Commissioner stood impeached . That investigation , however , had a restraining influence upon canal officers for several years . In 1880 , what is too well remembered as the " Syracuse Canal Ring " saw the light . It embraced canal contractors . Superintendents , Appraisers and Commissioners . The " Ring " grew more and more bold and rapacious until 1867 , when the public sentiment demanded an investigation . A committee was appointed by the Senate . of which , fortunately , Hon. Mr. STANFORD was made Chairman . The Committee availed itself of the services as counsel of Mr. MrrcuELL , an able , fearless , and incorruptible lawyer , who. residing at Syracuse , knew how to unearth the canal robbers . That Committee obtained testimony which showed that the canals and the canal fund had been largely depleted , and that the canal officers from the lowest to the highest were implicated . But these Canal Superintendents , Commissioners , and Appraisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the appointees , supporters , and confidential friends of Gov . FENTos , under whose auspices fraud and corruption were rife and rampant for four discreditable and disastrous years . Two of his Canal Appraisers robbed the State as habitually and recklessly as the Tammany Ring robbed the City . In 1869 , legislative corruption assumed aspects and proportions so shameless and gigantic , that investigation could no longer be deferred . One MATrooN , the worst of a very bad set , was accused and arraigned , and while all that was alleged against him , and more , was proven , he was allowed to retain his seat in the Senate . Since that inglorious result . neither House has had the grace even to attempt to purify itself . Members have submitted resolutions for the appointment of committees of investigation , for the express purpose of compelling wealthy corporations to " step up to the captain 's office and settle . " Thomas C. FiEr.ns has been elected to the Assembly , and Ww.w.t M. TWEED to the Senate of 1872 . The former , when a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clause in the Tax Levy by means of which he defrauded the City of more than four hundred thousand dollars ; the latter , as a Senator . enacted a net-work of laws , by means of which he has robbed the City of many millions of dollars . It is not supposed that they will attempt to show their brazen faces at Albany , but if they should do so , will they be permitted to occupy seats in the Legislature longer than a decent regard for the rules and orders of business permits !                     