@@743063

txt deleted about 20 lines -- columns merged rest even the route has not been selected ; they show that further explorations in various directions are required ; and they emphasize the importance of efforts " to secure the co-operation of the Imperial Government " and to " obtain further aid by guarantee or otherwise . " Co-operation of the kind desired means an indorsement equivalent to cash , without limitation as to amount . Canadian Ministers no longer attempt to estimate a sum which is obviously contingent on explorations yet to be undertaken , and on the bribe to be tendered to British Columbia . As , however , the resolutions embody . a proposition to set aside a hundred millions of acres of the public domain , with the proviso that two dollars shall be their minimum price , a reasonable inference is that the aid to be solicited from the British Government will in the first instance not fall far short of eighty millions . This guess assumes that the cost will not be less than a hundred millions , including the twenty millions , or there- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sunk in the project . Having reached its borrowing limit , and having by the imposition of new taxes to cover a deficit proclaimed the financial difficulties of its position , the Dominion is compelled to choose between a blind jump into bankruptcy and a humble appeal to the magnanimity of the British people , whom but yesterday , by the enactment of a hostile tariff , it defied . Then , it insisted on its right to tax British industry at pleasure . Now , it pleads for British help to save it from embarrassment and its wild project froM destruction . Such is the poetical justice which has overtaken it under the ad- ministration of a Government whose chief members were driven from office by the exposure of jobbery in connection with this very work . It might have been supposed that a re membrance of the scandal occasioned by the Allan contract would impel the present Government of the Dominion to concede guarantees against the recurrence of transactions which by any possibility might be open to suspicion . Exactly opposite is the fact . The new scheme submitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portions of the route , to select the route , and to make contracts for the construction of the two sections of road , in one instance amounting to 125 miles , and in the other to the expenditure of a million  --  all without the further sanction of Parliament . The 125 miles represent the bribe to British Columbia , which gave the Premier a seat in the House of Commons after his rejection by his old constituency , and the motives to corruption are therefore doubly strong . Unless John Bull apply Christianity to finance and indorse to the extent of seventy or eighty millions to extricate from difficulty the Canadian politicians who have cruelly used him , the power to execute great jobs , whether Parliament abdicate its constitutional function or not , may not be forthcoming . MACDONALD may plant and TOPPER may water , but John Bull alone can supply the money . In his present mood he will probably say No . With Canada 's new tariff in full view , he must be fit for canonization before he can say aught else . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is too clumsy to effect its purpose . Nowadays , the imperial policy is largely influenced by sentiment . Whether in Eastern Europe , in Asia , or in Africa , sentiment has asserted its superiority to sense in the construction of the Beaconsfield programme . But even the Queen 's son-in-law will have difficulty in persuading her advisers that the Canadian Pacific Railway should be built at the cost of British tax-payers for philanthropic reasons . England has quite enough burdens on its shoulders without adding those which the hypo'c'ritical professions of the Canadian Government now present for its acceptance . The natural answer of the British manufacturers and workmen will be : " You have resolved to try to exclude our products from Canada 's markets , and now you impudently ask us to supply money and population for the road which you propose to construct through a wilderness as evidence of Canada 's greatness . Your tariff lessens our business opportunities and increases the depression of labor ; and yet you want us to give or loan you millions on the pretense that - our workmen should be kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for other purposes ; and when our workmen make up their minds to emigrate , they do n't want to go as paupers for the glory of the flag which Canada insults or applauds according to the condition of its pocket . " Since Canada must either obtain uncounted millions from England or defer indefinitely the construction of the Pacific Railway , a bold stand-and-deliver policy would be ? better than the sniveling pretenses which the resolutions offer as reasons for granting the aid desired . Practically , the one method might not be more efficacious than the other , but at least it would not be contemptible . Left to themselves , the four Provinces which originally formed the Dominion might have gone on tolerably well . Their interests were not in all thingsidentical , but they had certain ideas and interests in common , and these would have prevented serious trouble . Gradually imperial plans made themselves felt , and the Dominion became afflicted with an ambition to whose demands its resources are unequal . The Intereolonial Railway is one deleted lines due to merged columns    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        