@@742830

txt The Washington rumor , ascribing to the Administration a change of spirit and purpose in regard to the South , and citing the Attorney-General 's recent instructions to Federal officials as proof , sounds like a rather too heavy draft upon the partisan imagination . A vague remark some time ago attributed to the Secretary of State seemed to foreshadow the change in question as a result of certain probabilities ; but the comments elicited were not flattering , and the subject has not since been heard of from that quarter . Mr. DEVENS ' circular , however , is not open to any such construction . It was a notification of the duty that will devolve upon the officials addressed if in any State attempts be made to interfere with the liberty of the citizen in relation to the Congressional canvass and election . And the provision of the Federal law applicable to the ease is quoted as authority for the performance of the contemplated service . What 4ecial significance can be found . in this document The occasion of its appearance was the occurrence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a confidential capacity with Gov . HAMPTON figured as principals . Local authority had shown itself unable or unwilling to punish the violators of law or to insure ' the safe exorcise of undoubted rights . The Attorney-General 's letter simply provides for this condition of things . So far as political action relates to national affairs the national law guarantees its freedom ; and what the Governor and magistracy of South Carolina fail to.do the United States Marshal and District Attorney are enjoined to do . This is all . If Gov . HAmeTON 'S adherents dislike the prospect of interference , they have only to allow their political opponents to meet , talk , and vote unmolested , and the circular will be inoperative . If they provoke interference , they ought not to object to the consequences . It is difficult to see , indeed , how the socalled Southern policy of the Administration could be changed , even though the President and his advisors were desirous of changing it . One of the most obvious objections to the policy at the time when it was promulgated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground which can not be constitutionally retaken . Until then the Government acted on the presumption which formed the basis of the reconstruction measures . That presumption having been declared no longer tenable , the relation of the Government to the Southern States concerned became identical with its relation toward other parts of the Union . The Administration has as much to do with South Carolina as with Now-York , and no more . " Policy " has nothing to do with the matter . The enforcement of laws constitutionally enacted , in the manner prescribed by law , is all that can happen . Resistance to the law would be followed by an exercise of the power reserved for such an emergency ; but he must have marvelous vision who can discover in this remote possibility any danger to liberty or any opening for the development of another " policy " ' on the part of the President . We have not affected belief in the profundity of his wisdom , and we can easily understand the mortification which the non-fulfillment of some of his expectations has produced , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the folly which some of the Washington correspondents impute to him to dream of " martial law " as an electioneering device , in South Carolina or elsewhere . For good or evil , his Southern policy , in the only sense which really concerns the South , is ended . Something new may be attempted in the minor matter of patronage and in the affiliations of the President with Southern people . The " - gush which ushered in the 1:10110.37 has not yielded the advantages that were expected from it . The Administration had marked out a course for itself , not in the direction indicated by Republicans , and it assumed that the South would welcome it with open arms . The new departure of the President was to be responded to by a new departure on the side of Southern politicians . Bourbons and carpet-baggers were to be left in the lurch , and a distinct party , to be known as the Administration Party , was to spring into existence and absorb the the masses of the Southern people . On this hypothesis the dispensation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House ; Southern Republicans were proscribed . The arrangement has not worked well . Senator Illia , ' s epistle proves that the old Adam still predominates in his class of Southern politicians . Half measures do not satisfy them . They must have the Administration at their feet , 01 ' they will assail and insult ft . We think it not improbable that that outburst of Mr. HILL 'S malice is one of a series of like circumstances which have dispelled the President 's illusion , and taught him the ? expediency of recognizing the Southern Republicans in his future plans . Mr. Hfr , r , ' s wrath will be intensified , of course . The talked-of conciliation will take a now shape . But all this , and more , will not amount to a change of policy , properly so called , and will certainly not touch the essentials of the Southern situation . These are beyond the President 's reach . On the whole , however , there are good grounds for hope at the South , and no wise Republican will imperil them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democracy and add to the difficulties of his party . The brutal intolerance of South Carolina is , happily , not in favor in other Southern States . Oar correspondence from Virginia has shown that a marked advance has been effected there , and that , as a result of various causes , the color line is weakening and the limitations to electoral freedom are being broken down . Similar progress is reported from North Carolina , where Republicans may blame themselves if they lack success , and where the colored man is in. danger of being spoiled by the civilities of white Democrats . The force acquired by the Independents in Georgia and other States is another promising sign of the times . Altogether , we have fair reason for being satisfied . It would be absurd to look for any sudden and sweeping change at the South . The fact that a change is going on in the right direction should reconcile us to much that would otherwise be unbearable . Judicious and patient labor will help the forces already at work ; and for the rest we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              