@@781632

txt The heat with which we have been visited during the past few days is no doubt trying to weak constitutions , but it has not thus far caused any serious outbreak of disease , and the City has escaped the special scourges which the prophets foretold . The streets are very much cleaner than they were , and the increase of Mortality is chiefly among children , who suitor much from ' cholera infantam . Steady work and little drinking are the beet palliatives of extreme heat , and the less people think about the thermometer the better for them . Our compositors were setting type last night with the thermometer marking 96 ? , and if everybody worked as hard as they do , there ' would be less fuss made about the " heated term . " Mr. ROEBUCK 'S happy epithet of " the dumbfoundered Spandiard , " will be peculiarly applicable  --  to any Cabinet Minister who tries to govern Spain under the condition into which it appears to be sliding . The cable announces that the Spanish Republicans  --  a pretty numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every form of monarchical government , to acknowledge no monarchical authority , and to abstain from all elections while monarchy exists in the country . " The Conservative party , i. e. , the Carnets. the Isabellists and the Alfonsists , has also , it is said , " determined to withdraw from the political arena , " whatever that may mean . So long as these parties maintain an attitude of merely passive resistance , it may be possible for the Government to get along , but it is difficult to imagine how the Republicans , at least , can carry out their programme without coming to blows . The difficulties of Greece have in so large a degree arisen from a bad understanding with the Porte. that it is satisfactory to read on the authority of the correspondent of the Ind &; petidanee Beige , at Constantinople , that a very much more cordial state of feeling prevails between these powers . The lines of railway in progress between the countries , and the conviction in each of the necessity of giving attention to industrial enterprise , serve to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially happy results for Greece . If the authorities of the two countries ' will only unite in their anti-brigandist efforts , there will soon be an end of Greece 's principal pest . Hitherto , the difficulty has been that the brigand escaped to Turkish territory , and then got off seot , free . From the detailed information sent from Washington this morning concerning Indian affairs , it seems that there is ground for apprehension of some trouble along the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad , the building of which the Indians are reported to be ' resolved to resist . It is evident on the other hand , that many of the reports from the Indian country have been grossly exaggerated . All authorities are agreed that in case of a conflict the Government will be greatly aided by the tribes which its persistent and humane ( Alerts have succeeded in attaching to it . To what an extent political power still continues in the bands of the great historical houses of sbigland , is shown by the arrangements reported ' as having been made for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. H. RUSSELL , has become Doke of that ilk , and the vacancy thus occasioned must be filled ; but the Duke 's eldest son being only twenty , can not be returned for another year , therefore a local banker is put in as a warming-pan , with the understanding and agreement that he will get out as soon as the Marquis of May1E:woes. is ready to take his place . And this , be it remembered , happens not in a remote county , but within a ride of two hours ' from the Metropolis . In weather when most of us find it more than we can comfortably accomplish to walk from our houses to a oar , it surely seerots an ' act of inhumanity , worthy of Mr. BEUGH 'S attention  --  all the moro so that the victim , though not dumb , ca n't speak , for fear of dismissal  --  that the unhappy drivers of street-oars are compelled to stand up for eleven hours daily . In Philadelphia , Baltimore . and other cities , they are furnished with seats , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bore is that they would be unable , owing to the immense traffic , to keep an adequately good lookout . Admitting this to be so in the streets below Washington square , they might surely be permitted to sit for the remainder of the way , and , if supplied with a sufficiently high stool , would run no more risk of losing customers than their brethren in other cities . To keep a man standing from Fifty-ninth-street to the Battery and back again , when the thermometer ranges from 850 to 950. is taxing human endurance too severely in the present age . The alarm of some of our citizens was groundless . Fortunately , Mr. GatEELEIr has not been consulted as to the best way of producing a pavement on South Fifth-avenue , and none of his singular agricultural theories are to be experimented upon . Tne Commissioner of Public Works has , instead , concluded a contract for putting down a pavement in the old-fashioned way , and the work having been actually commenced , we may expect that in a few weeks that longneglected avenue will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now let the Commissioner attend to New Church-steeet , which , even longer than South Fifth-avenue , has been an unmitigated nuisance . Mr. GORDON GORDON is now fortunately not the only suitor in the field against JAY GOULD . It is just possible that Mr. BTRAHAN may be able to make the suit of the mysterious Scotch gentleman as clearly the first step in compelling restitution from the plunderers of Erie as he made the Foley suit the first victory against the Ring . Anyway the Gordon suit will assume fresh interest and public importance now that a still greater issue has been raised against GOULD , and in the interests of corporate honesty in the State , as well as in the nation at large , it is to be hoped that the ends of justice will toe fully attained in both oases .                     