@@781736

txt JOHN D. LEE , the Mormon who is to be executed to-day for participating in the massacre at Mountain Meadows twenty years ago , has made a confession . This horrible tale contains no now points ; but it confirms all that has been charged against him , and all that was brought out in the evidence for the prosecution . Moreover , this confession amply confirms tho popular belief in the complicity of BRIGHAM YOUNG and other Mormon dignitaries in that horrible butchery . The principal witness against LEGS was one KLINGENSMITH , a Mormon , who was once a member of the Mormon priesthood . This man participated in the murder of the emigrant party . Subsequently ho wont to San Bernardino , in the southern part of California , where a Mormon colony has settled . This colony is HOW made up of refugees from Mormondom , and KLINGENSMITH was cut off " front the Mormon communion . His evidence at the Lee trial created intense excitement . loo testified that a council was held near the trail of the emigrants just before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the emigrants should ho " put out of the way . " At that ell there were present several men who were then and afterward prominent in the all'airs of the Mormon Church and Slate . There was no direct evidence , however , in anything which KLINGENsmuni swore to fixing the guilt of complicity upon Bumf . HAM YOUNG . 110 testified that Bishop I InniEn declared that ho had orders front " toad-quarters " ( meaning the Mormon head-quarters at Salt Lake City ) to destroy ' the emigrants . Tho same authority ' informed the witness that LEE was to be sent to Salt Lake City with the report of the 1111ISHael:O . And KLINGENSNII I it fart her testified that when lie went to Salt Lake City after the bloody work was done , he met LEE at YOUNG 'S office , and that the tenor of the conversation showed that it was understood that the massacre was approved , if not ordered , by the Mormon hierarchy . LEE , in his confession , says that he went to Salt Lake City and made his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in the slaughter must be sustained by the Mormon power , and that YOUNG , after a pretended conference with the Almighty , assured him List ; that the deed Was divinely approved . After this , YouNii , as President and Prophet , visited the region near which the massacre took place , and openly told his followers that the slain people had been justly put to death . According to LEE , the Prophet told the people at Cedar City that the emigrants were relatives of the men " who killed the saints in Jackson County , Mo. , and afterward killed the Prophet SMITH in Carthage Jail . " Ile warned his hearers that any person who divulged the secret of the massacre should " die a dog 's death . " Lie says that he was promised a " celestial crown " for his services to the Church of the Latter llay Saints . Bat ho adds that lie found that he was only selected as a scapegoat . lie was to be sent into the Nv i - derne ss bearing the sins of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his trial swore falsely against him , shieldinethemselves by charging him with ermines in which they participated . It does not appear , however , from his own story that these witnesses wrongfully accused thouvh they may have lightly passed over their own share in the dark deed . The fact remains that he was one of the leaders of a party of Mormons who , in September , 1857 , murdered 103 emigrants  --  mon , women , and children  --  at Mountain Meadows , Utah . It ' there was over any doubt as to the complicity of YOUNG and his priestly band in this frightful affair , there can bo none any longer . At the time the deed was committed , the Mormons were strong in the belief that they wore to conquer and possess the world . They were confident that their faith was to be universally accepted , and that the slaying of unbelievers and enemies to the cause was a meritorious act . The band of Destroying Angels , or Danites , organized by the Mormon priesthood , did actually exist . And , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these emissaries did put to death many objectionable persons . No candid person who tarried. any length of time in Mormon territory , between 1850 and 1860 , over failed to be convinced that secret murders , in the Mormon interest , were common . In sonic instances these crimes wore committed to terrify the unwelcome emigrants , and to doter the rapidly increasing emigration across the plains . In other cases , " Gentiles " were murdered for their money and effects , or because they had indiscreetly interfered with the Mormon plans , or had , in some way , disturbed the Mormon peace . It was , probably , not unusual for Mormons who were likely to be dangerous to the community , in case of their escape , to be " cut off " on the order of some high dignitary . It is notorious that dark , swift , and sudden vengeance was wreaked upon those who " blabbed " to the passing emigrants , or complained of the oppressions of the Church . In those days , when Mormonism was strong , the rule of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mormonism in Utah is a strange and repulsive episode . The massacre at Mountain Meadows was only one incident  --  horribly conspicuous , it is true , but not unique , The object of the Mormons was three-fold . They wished to strike terror to the hearts of all intending emigrants ; they would revenge the murder of a Mormon Bishop , who was killed in Arkansas  --  from which State the doomed party came  --  while fleeing with another man 's wife ; and they would gain much booty . It was a common . trick of the Mormons , in early times , to spread lying stories of the number and bloodthirstiness of the Indians along the route . The massacre at Mountain Meadows was contrived to verify those tales and provide for the escape of the real offenders . This purpose was admirably subservod for a time . There gradually grow up , howeyor , a firm belief in the guilt of the Mormons . Mon familiar with the general theory and practice of the Mormon Church are not surprised by the dismal revelations of the Leo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing but a refuge of lies , a monstrous porve:siou of religion : Tho miserable man who has been condemned to die for his crones is only one of a groat many who are equally guilty . It is not certain that any of these will ever be brought to justice ; but it will bo a good thing for the whole country when not a vestige of this infamous organization is loft to corrupt the air .                     