@@742805

txt Almost all of the subjects which have engaged the attention of the Association for the Reform and Codification of the Law of Nations have been complicated by the fact that , in order to bring about desired reforms , chancres would have to be made , not only in the usages of different countries but in the local laws which have been from time to time formulated in consequence of these customs . It is usually easier to change laws than to alter popular usages ; but then , on the other hand , where the number of individuals directly interested in a change is relatively small , and the advantages of simplicity and unity are plainly apparent , the effort toward reform is brought to a halt only by the necessity of getting Governmental sanction . But among the topics which the association named above has had under consideration , there has been one at east which has not been incumbered by this double obstacle , and in this direction the progress toward a just and satisfactory settlement has been in the highest degree encouraging . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general average . Although the general average regulations of all civilized countries have been drawn from one common source , that is , the Digest and Institutes of JusTINIAN , the growth of maritime intercourse , the development of steam navigation , and , as a consequence of both , the presentation of now conditions and hazards , have had a tendency to introduce new and dissimilar features into the various national regulations governing this subject . If a vessel arrives at this port that has upon her voyage hither met with some mishap which required her either to throw overboard a part of her cargo , or to put into some port of refuge for repairs , the general average account is made up on what is known as the American plan , although , as is frequently the case , the owners both of ship and cargo may be Englishmen . The usages of the portof destination regulate the special form of adjustment that shall be used , and though every recognized system starts on the broad principle that in an emergency what is done or given for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contributions of a11 , yet in applying this precept widely different results have been reached by different nations . It often happens to an American ship-owner that it makes several thousands of dollars difference to him whether the general average adjustment upon his vessel is made in . AntWerli or Rotterdam , although in all other commercial respects the places are very much alike . It is undoubtedly true that in most instances , in these days of unlimited insurance , the losses , after their ' adjustment ; are settled by the underwriters , bat even if insurance companies are the only parties in interest , it would be none the less au advance in international negotiations if a common system of procedure could be established for their benefit . Now , this is what the Association for the Reform of International Law has endeavored to accomplish , andits success in bringing the matter into its . present condition is not a little duee to the circumstance that the ground had been , previously broken : for in 1864 , after several meetings of delegates from the various shipping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set of . rules was adopted known as the York rules , but , for some unexplained reason , they were never put in force . But since 1876 two more meetings have been held , one at Bremen and the other at Antwerp , and as the result of these , a slightly revised code has been promulgated , known by name as the York and Antwerp Rules of General Average , and these it is proposed to put into ewactieal operation on the let of January , 1879 . In order to do this , it will not be necessary to change any existing governmental law , for all that is required is a general agreement on the part of ship-owners , importers , and underwriters to insert in bills of lading , charter parties , and policies.of insurance the words " General average , if any , payable according to York and Antwerp rules . " That this will be generally done there seems to be good ground for believing , particularly as Lloyd 's Insurance . Company of England and the Atlantic Mutual Company of this City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The new system does not differ materially from the one we Americans have had for years , the only marked divergence from present practice being in Rule No. 5 , which cuts off allowance in general average for loss to vessel or cargo when the vessel is rim ashore because she is sinking or is driving upon the rocks ; and as the equity of such an allowance has always been , even in this country , a matter of dispute , its sacrifice can not be looked upon as a very seeious matter . The difference between the proposed rules and those now in use in England is , however , quite considerable , and one feature , the admission into general average of the wages and keep of the crew of a vessel during its stay in a port of refuge is of the highest importance to our shipowners , who have in the past suffered in this respect unjustly in tho numerous adjustments that have , during the present century , been ma le up in the various great seaports over which Great Britain exercises ; a direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown that the proposed code did away with quite a number of ex - isting opportunities for fraud , by which the barden of loss in a general average can be shifted from one participant to the other , but enough has been said to show that the reform is a desirable one , and it only remains for those who are interested to take the little trouble necessary to make the change effective .                     