@@741366

txt The arguments for the increase of the head-money presented on behalf of the Commissioners of Emigration to the Joint Committee on Commerce and Navigation on Thursday evening are not of any practical value . Indeed , in offering them , Mr. LtNen must have relied greatly on what he supposed to be the inexperience of some of his bearers . They are simply repetitions of the stereotyped statements , and , it may be added , the misstatements which the Commissioners periodically make whenever they want more money . The moment they find that they have spent more than their income justified , off they rush to Albany , and begin vociferously abusing the steam-ship companies . In addition to this artless expedient , which has not quite the freshness of the rose , M.r. LYNcrx 's argument may be summarized ? thus : The Commissioners of Emigration have not so much money as they want ; the steamship companies have more money than they need ; let us , therefore , go and take one or two hundred thousand dollars from " the steam-ship companies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If Mr. LYNCH is not careful he will be elected to a shining place in the councils of the Communes . The question must be looked at in the light of reason and justice . As between the Commissioners of Emigration and the steamship companies , considered as parties to the dispute , it does not concern us one iota whether the head-money is one dollar or ten dollars . But it does concern us greatly whether fresh obstacles are to be thrown in the way of the commerce of this port . Mr. LYNCH says the increase of the head-money will impose no such obstacle , and he poohpoohs the notion that the steam-ship companies will be driven by it to transfer their carrying trade to other ports .. Well , that is his opinion , and as the opinion of a person of experience , it is entitled to respect . But Mr. LYNCH supports it by no facts , except the misstatement that the Inman Company , originally running to Philadelphia , transferred its trade to New-York , although at the former city there was no head-money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only partly true , in fact , and in inference altogether wrong. ? The line which was the original of the Inman , did start by . running to Philadelphia , andyf course failed there ; as every similar venture , : except the last one , has failed . But Boston and Baltimore hAve , always been , in this respect , on a different footing from Philadelphia , although Philadelphia too , if the success of her latest steam-ship line be any evidence , . may one day be-.in a position to challenge New-York 's commercial supremacy : Mr. LYNCH forgot to state that branch lines started to Boston and Baltimore , have all along been thriving , and are being steadily increased . The Cunard Line , . for example , already owns six steamers to the former port , making Weekly trips , and will soon increase the number to twelve , making trips semi-weekly . The North German Lloyds runs several steamers to Baltimore , and within a year proposes to double the number . They would certainly not do this if their emigrantpassenger traffic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , justified the addition . Nor would emigrants go to other ports , abandoning the undoubted advantages of the emigration establishment here , unless the Boston and Baltimore lines were enabled to offer them superior inducements , either in reduced fares or in increased comforts . These deductions are self-evident to any practical mind , and the facts on which they rest are easily verified . It is advantageous for the steam-chip companies to come here . Nobody doubts it . If it were not , they would not come . And perhaps the facilities afforded by the Emigrant Commission are regarded as not the least among these advantages . Certainly , whatever obligations are due on this score our commercial community has never been slow to admit or to return . When , in /872 , it proposed to supersede the State Board by a Federal Bureau , one of the most efficient weapons used for its defeat was a protest by a ' committee of three of the Chamber of Commerce , at least one member of which was the representative of one of the largest and most influential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that bill , which fixed a capitation tax of one dollar , would have diminished their expenses on that item by one-third . It is , then , folly to say that opposition to the proposed measure arises only from avarice , or a spirit of factious hostility to the commission . It seems to us to be the natural and entirely justifiable resistance of business men to what they feel to be an Unjust and unnecessary burden imposed upon their business . The advantages of New-York are offset by numerous drawbacks . Expenses exclusive of the head-money , in itself a comparatively small item , are here nearly double what they are at any other American port . Facilities fur receiving and discharging cargo are notoriously inferior to those of either Boston or Baltimore . Anti yet , with these obstacles to contend against , they are told , at the beginning of a dull season that they must submit to a further exaction of somewhere between one and two hundred dollars , in order t hat the Commissioners of Emigration shall be spared the trouble of attending properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the companies for . objecting to this measure . But we shall blame the Legislature very much if they grant it without the most careful consideralion . The committee should not wait for or trust to representations from anybody , but examine the matter for themselves . Above all , they should do nothing until they have consulted the financial report of the present board , and sat ' stied themselves that they can give a good account of their stewardship . This is a matter of very much more moment than the hundred thousand dollars or so involved in it , for it involves also the fair dealing and the commercial interests of the people of this City and State .                     