@@741472

txt In the Convention of Insurance Commissioners to-day the North-western Board of Underwriters , through a committee headed by R. J. Smith , Chicago , late President of the board , presented their views on the subject of insurance taxation , in the form of a memorial . The document is quite lengthy , but its arguments are crystalized into suggestions favoring such reforms in legislation as shall give a State just and fair equivalent for permitting companies in other States to transact business in its borders . It declares that the rightful basis of taxation is founded on the net value to companies of the concessions granted  --  by the several States . and should be based on the profits , not the losses of the companies . It asserts that taxes levied on gross receipts are unjust , oppressive , and opposed to every consideration of justice . Complaint made by five insurers was supplemented by life insurance operators who were also present . Charlton T. Lewis , Secretary . Chamber Life Insurance Company , of New-York , maintained that taxation of life insurance companies , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it discourages the business and hazards the safety of companies . During the war the General Government imposed a tax of three-tenths of one per cent . upon the gross premiums of life insurance companies , but it was soon judged exceseiveand was removed . Now , however , he said , those companies are taxed far more heavily than then . Mr. Harvey , an actuary from St. Louis , expressed decided opposition to the system now followed by States taxing life insurance companies . He thought the tax imposed by the General Government was a war measure , and ought no longer to be followed . W. H. Hewitt , editor of the Insurance Chronicle , New-York , was of the same opinion . Life insurance business should , he said , bear a fair share of the cost of good government and no more , but to tax the gross receipts was certainly a mistake . The net premiums , after deducting losses and expenses , would , he sail , be a proper measure of taxation . Mr. Liggett. , Secretary of the Michigan Mutual Life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the States . Thus , they frequently extort money for issuing charters , and for other services in addition to the regular tax on receipts . He thought one tax should be imposed and nothing further be put on . Superintendent Row , of Michigan , thought the policy of some of the Eastern States in refusing to allow their insurance companies to invest money in the West , extremely unwise . Mr. Hewitt was in favor of the largest freedom in permitting Eastern capital to go West , but it must , he said , be remembered such general freedom will probably not be granted at present . The Western States will cut their own throats if they drive the Eastern insurance companies out of their limits by excessive ? taxation . When insurance companies withdraw their insurance business they will certainly withdraw their capital RA soon thereafter as possible . Above all , the rate of taxation should not be suddenly increased , as such a course was liable to result in ruin to life insurance companies which have entered into contracts with policy holders , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurers . The further consideration of the matter was informal and desultory , and the subiect was referred to the Committee on Taxation , after which the convention adjourned until to-morrow . 