@@741131

txt A tendency toward union is one of the characteristics of the age . The principle of " nationality " has led , within a very few years , to the consolidation of Italy and the revival of the German Empire . Ecclesiastical bodies have manifested an anxiety to obliterate the dividing lines of hostile communions. an our own country , we have seen two rival bodies jof Scotch Presbyterians unite to form the United Presbyterian Church ; and the once bitter schism that separated the Presbyterian Church into the Old School and New School communions is healed , and in a fair way to be forgotten . But , although the aspirations of centuries have borne fruit in the actual unification of nations , and though sanguine churchmen predict the ultimate union of the Anglican , Roman , and Greek communions , few have ventured to dream that the differences of doctors of medicine would ever come to an end , and . the " regular " physician lie down , so to speak , with the homeopathic lamb . The hostility between these two schools of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from causes which could not be removed save by the absolute surrender of the distinctive principles of one or the other school . The regular physician has so often and so plainly proved the homeopathist to be the worst of quacks , and the homeopathist has so conclusively shown his rival of the elder school to be a bigoted adherent of a system of exploded follies , that there has seemed to be no possible ground upon which the two might meet and be reconciled . Nevertheless , a movement toward that end . has actually been begun by certain prominent homeopathists of this City , who have established a review which supports the doctrine that " it is the right and . duty of every qualified member of the medical profession to use his own judgment as to the proper methods to be adopted for the cure of his patients . " Iu discussing the possibility of a treaty of peace between the hostile doctors , it must be borne in mind that the homeopathist of to-day differs widely from the original disciples of IlAurrpmAisc . When homeopathy first appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; adopted , without any reservation , the doctrine that similia simi.libus curantur ; and deduced from the Hahnemannic theory , that " the totality of the symptoms constitutes the disease , " the corollary that the physician need . never trouble himself to make a diagnosis , and that hence ho need know nothing of physiology . To enumerate the symptoms of a patient , and to consult the pages of JAHR for the corresponding remedies . was the whole duty of an original homeopathist . We can easily perceive why the " regular " school looked upon this sort of practice as quackery - pure and simple . But a great change has since passed upon the homeopathist . ? To-day he is , as a role . as thoroughly educated as is his rival . While a few purists still cling to the theory of the efficacy of high dilutions , the average , . homeopathist prescribes doses that are quite as powerful as those of the " regular " physician . He may give his nominal assent to the theory that the totality of the symptoms constitutes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and he bases his practice upon a thorough diagnosis , and prescribes such remedies as experience has taught him are suited to the disease in hand . Meanwhile , his rival has partially modified his own practice . He has to a great degree abandoned the use of venesection , and has grown less lavish in dispensing calomel . He has , moreover , learned that medicine need not necessarily be clumsy in bulk , and nauseous in taste . Though he does not call his remedies by the names used by the homeopathist , yet each uses precisely the same laateria medico . In short , the two schools , which originally were diametrically hostile in theory and practice , now differ in name rather than in fact , and in most important respects there is little real difference between the practice of an accomplished regular physician , and that of the intelligent homeopathist who has abandoned the use of infinitesimal remedies . It does not , therefore , seem entirely hopeless to look foithe day when the rival doctors will cease to edify the public by denouncing one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize the honest , capable physician , whatever may be the college from which he receives his diploma . At present this feud is not only unworthy of liberal-minded men , but it really works an injury in that it debars the physician of one school from using the valuable discoveries of his rival . The broad principle that the physician should " use his own judgment as to the proper methods to be adopted for the cure of his patients , " furnishes a ground of union for the intelligent adherents of either school . The effort now making toward medical union upon this principle is one which will commend itself to common sense , and may yet lead to the burying of the hostile scalpel , and . the smoking of properly-medicated pipes of peace .                     