@@741482

txt It will be remembered that among the charges which the Brooklyn Eagle recently brought against Gen. Dix , there was one to the effect that he had been invited to give evidence before the Credit Mobilier Committee , and that he refused to do so . In reply to this we asserted ? as a matter ot course , not without careful inquiry  --  that Gen. Dix had written a letter to the Chairman of the committee offering to come forward and testify , and that no answer was sent to him . The Eagle met this ' statement by the assertion , which it insinuated was supported by the Chairman or some member of the committee , that no such letter was ever written by Gen. Dix . We declined to continue the controversy beyond this point , because we believed the word of Gen. Drx , as we had a right to do , and because we saw that an argument between two newspapers could never settle the question . The Utica Herald , however , now publishes a letter from Hon. JEREMIAH M. WILSON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publish is full elsewhere , but which is so important that we also reproduce it here : CONNERSVILLE , Ind. , Sept. 14 , 1879 . Mr DEAR SIR : Your letter is at hand , inclosing a slip containing copy of a letter from Gov . Dix to me as Chairman , &c.; The letter was received by the committee . I recollect the substance , and I presume it is ? accurately copied . I have now no means of fixing the date that the Governor 's letter was received , other than this : Upon its receipt it was considered by the committee that owing to the nearness of the close of the session a subcommittee could not be sent to Albany to take the testimony , and , as he had informed us that it was impossible for him to come to Washington , the effort to procure his evidence ended there . From the editorial comments I infer that it is being charged that the Governor refused to appear before the committee . Speaking for myself , I will say that such is not my understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to testify . In answer to your question whether I have any opinion in regard to Gov . Dix 's connection with these matters , I have to say that there was not sufficient testimony taken by the committee upon any matter which had to do with Gov . Dix to ? warrant it in framing any opinion as to the real nature of the transactions . Very truly , &c.,; JEREMIAH M. WILSON . We must say that this letter places the Brooklyn Eagle in a very bad position . We replied to it on the supposition , which we should be sorry to relinquish , that it believed the charges against Gen. Dix , and was pressing them in good . faith . But its headlong assertions in regard to the above letter seem to be entirely inconsistent with this theory . Upon what authority did it deny our statement that Gen. Drx had . written the letter now quoted I It could not have been on the anthority'of the Chairman of the committee , who alone could speak decisively on the subject , the letter having been addressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reckless deteirmination to repeat unfounded charges ? It looks very like it . The Democrats threaten to keep these charges going throughout the campaign . They are very welcome to adopt that most imbecile course ? it will be quite of a piece with their general policy ; but we venture to say that there is no sane man in the whole State of New-York who will not despise the Democrats and their organs for deliberately and wantonly repeating calumnies which have already received an unanswerable refutation . The charges will not hurt Gen. Dix , but they may possibly do some harm to Mr. TILDEN . We have deprecated personal attacks on the heads of the two tickets throughout this canvass , and have certainly ' shown all possible courtesy toward the Democratic candidate ; and we now only beg our readers to observe that it is not the Republicans or Republican journals which insist on disregarding fair play and decency.                     