@@741651

txt The recent news from Cuba leaves but one impression on the minds of impartial people . The struggle , suclias it is , is to be indefinitely prolonged . From the Spanish side we have the usual reports of victories over the insurgents , and the effectual extermination of " all enemies of Spain and re-Al:joie " The stories told by the other side are quite as cheerful , and they have in them an element of interest that never fails to enlist the sympathies of the American reader . The latest Spanish bulletins are to the effect that the rich districts of Las Villas are practically free of insurgent raiding part ies , and that Gen. MAxmo GomEz has been forced to recross the Trocha , which he passed seine weeks since . If this is true , it leaves the zone of cultivation open to the farmers , who may return to their estates without fear of molestation ; as if in confirmation of this report , it is said that the owners of many of the devastated estates have begun to rebuild and repair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed on Spanish bulletins of victory , however , and these fiattering tales will be accepted with some reserve by American sympathizers with the Cuban patriots . We should be glad to believe that the . art of coloring dispatches from the interior of Cuba was confined to one side , at least . But it is not . It must be confessed that our friendly interest in the cause of the insurgents is sometimes strained by the statements put forth by those Cuban patriots who fight their battles for freedom at very long range , and publish their bulletins of victory from Manhattan Island . The most conspicuous Cuban Army is that which consumes its rations in the vicinity of Union square and through Wall street and Broadway . But the hopeless part of tills business is. that the insurgents are confined to the interior , where they receive supplies with great difficulty and in small quantities . Gradually every appearance of regular warfare has melted away from the insurgent lines ; indeed , they can hardly be said to have any established lines . They hold partly isolated districts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure on their occasional raids into the valleys below . Here and there , in the eastern division of the island , they hold small hamlets by a slight tenure ; but , for all practical purposes , their organization is only that of a guerrilla warfare . It is seldom that the Spanish , who certainly never underestimate the forces which they meet , report a larger body of men than two or three hundred . Nevertheless , these keep alive the embers of civil strife , and whether they are called patriots or brigands , their existence is so well assured that the foolish proclamation of peace , issued so many years ago by Spain , seems as farcical as ever . With varying success , but indecisive results , the contest goes on as regularly in the mountains of Cuba as the regular business of brigandage does in Mexico , the , Government being set at defiance in both instances . But , if this is a discouraging struggle for the Cuban patriots , who are now light ing for their lives , wo do not see much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is over the same ground once occupied by the Spaniards and natives , when OVANDO , OVIEDO , and other early conquerors sought to subjugate the hapless Indians of His , pamola . In the same dismal caverns and fastnesses of the mountains where the followers of the caciques took refuge and were hunted out , the insurgents defy their pursuers . If it took years for the wellseasoned soldiers of Spain to subdue and exterminate the armies of naked Indians , what odds are against their descendants who fight against men of their own blood , as familiar with their natural hiding-places as were the natives of the time of the Adehinted ? . We can not fail to notice how much alike are these two memorable struggles in Cuba . But we can not believe that the tragical history of the region will be repeated . Possibly some irresistible fate is urging on the deadly and wasteful drama , and Spanish blood is to be shed yet more freely on the island where , says IRVING , " the Europeans found a perfect paradise , but which , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Although our people take a strong and friendly interest in what is known as " the Cuban struggle , " it does not appear that their sympathy can take any practical shape . Speaker , just before the Legislature adjourned , thought it worth while to leave the chair , which he so conspicuously adorned , and take the floor in behalf of certain resolutions , designed to instruct the National Government iu the matter of recognizing the Cuban cause . But in all the florid rhetoric and tropical fervor of this gifted speaker , nothing but the merest assumptions of fact appeared . Aside from the delicacy of the question thus thrust forward , there is no new reason to be urged by those who favor an aggressive policy toward Spain by the United States . The grounds for such an interference in behalf of Cuba are less tenable now than formerly . The fact that the insurrectiouary disturbance continues , and that it shows no sign of coming to an end , may be taken as one great cause for intervention iu the interest of civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numberless instances where nobody thought of interfering . with our neighbors . . Just such a pretext ? would serve for a cause of war with Mexico or the Spanish-American republics almost any day .                     