@@743269

txt If the present French Cabinet is to be distinguished for nothing else , it may claim to be conspicuous for the number of so-called crises through which it passes unharmed . At short intervals , ever since it succeeded to the Ministry of M. DUFAURE on the morrow of MACMAHON 'S resignation in January last , it has been attacked by one section or another of the party on which it depends for support , and threatened with overthrow , and still it holds its ground . The fact seems to be that there is so much diversity of sentiment among the four groups of the Left that no possible Cabinet could satisfy them all , and consequently they are forced to tolerate the present from inability to , furnish a successor that could stand . It is possible that if M. GAMBETTA were prepared to take his place at the head of the Ministry , he might make a selection of colleagues that would command a wider confidence than M. WADDINGTON and his associates enjoy , but this ho is evidently unwilling to do , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any chance of success . The vote of confidence on Thursday does not indicate a settled satisfaction , but merely an apprehension of difficulty and embayrassment were M. WADDINGTON to be driven from office . The same cause has made other crises pass harmlessly by , and will prevent any radical change for the present . It is not unlikely that , when the serious work of the session is taken up , after the Christmas holidays , some modification of the Cabinet may take place . M. WADDINGTON has long been desirous of being relieved of the responsibility of the Presidency of the Council , while apparently willing to retain the portfolio of Foreign Affairs , and has been restrained by President GREW 'S anxiety to prevent any change that can be taken as indicative of weakness or instability . It may be that in January his wish to retire more into the background can be safely gratified , and in that case it is not unlikely that M. FREYCINET , who seems , of the present Ministers , to be the most acceptable to all the Republican groups , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearer to the position in which a change of Ministry can not be regarded as in any sense a menace to the Republic , and that is what the wisest of the Republicans are anxious for . If a Ministerial crisis signified only a withdrawal of confidence from the policy and methods of one party devoted to the integrity of existing institutions , and its transfer to another equally desirous of their perpetuity and success , there would be nothing alarming in it . Then a change could occur wit hout exciting serious apprehension , but while the Republicans are divided among themselves , they have to reckon with a permanent opposition in the three groups of the Right , and must carve out a majority from their own ranks to sustain whatever Administration they may take the responsibility of bringing in . It is alleged against the present Ministry that they are not wholly agreed among themselves , but that , so long as they can succeed in working harmoniously together , is an element of strength , for neither is the party on which they must rest for support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnish a working legislative majority in either of the ? chambers . Until it eau do so minor differences must be sunk , and some diversity of opinion must be tolerated even among those in office . The one great difficulty of the French Republic is to be found in the multiplicity of parties that exists . On the Right of the chambers is the general minority , consisting of three groups agreed in nothing but hostility to the Republic under any and all Ministries . The Legitimists have a consistent doctrine which forbids any concession . Their position can be easily understood , but time is their enemy , and each successive election is likely to weaken them . The Bonapartists , too , have a political faith that forbids them to support the Republic , unless to promote ulterior designs which would , if successful , be fatal to its existence . The Orleanists are in an anomalous position . Constitutional government is their principle , and if they have a thorough faith in it , they should prefer ft conservative Republic to the Empire or the absolute ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royal family which has once resigned its pretensions , but which hopes to be the is too principle , and the followers of Ds Baoous will not unite with those of DUPAURE , although they are so near together . But for the existence of an Orleanist pretender , who is also the next heir of the Legitimist pretender , the two centres might coalesce , but in existing circumstances they strenuously keep apart . On the Left , with its strong majority in the Chamber of Deputies , there are so many shades of Republicanism , ranging from the almost neutral tints of DuFAum and SIMON , of the Centre , through the Republican Left and Republican Union , from which the present Cabinet derives its chief strength , to the fiery red of CLEIIENCEALT and FLOQUET , that a harmonious blending is impossible . No specific measure of a political character can command the support of them all , and almost everything brought forward must be of a tentative character . Hence , the appearance of vacillation and uncertainty that the Cabinet is forced to display . The return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but , as it proved , few Republicans cared to oppose it . The Ferry bill is a Cabinet measure , but it is opposed by the mild Republicans of the Dufaure-Simon type , because it goes too far , and by the Radicals because it does not go far enough . The drift of sentiment appears to be in its favor , and it is likely to be carried , possibly with some inodificatiou.of the famous article 7 , and it will prepare the way for pressing the the more radical policy of wholly secularizing public education . So , as each crisis passes , the material is industriously gotten together for a new one , and the Ministry is constantly subjected to fresh tests of its strength . How far it can go without breaking down will depend on the progress of ? the sentiment of the country in the direction of the ? demands of the more earnest Republicans .                     