@@743159

txt This country is not without bitter experience of the evils of entangling the business of banking with politics , but it seems to have been forgotten by a large portion of the community . It is not to be denied that the tendency of the Democratic Party in most of the States  --  due , no doubt , to the efforts of its leaders to obtain the support of the inflation element , is toward a policy which would entail on the country the same kind of confusion and distress as that which attended the struggle with the United States Bank in national polities , and a similar struggle with State banks in various parts of the country . Au attempt is being made by the Democratic press to represent their party as fighting over again the battle with monopoly and corruption , but this is so far from being true that the party is really engaged in trying to overthrow a system in which there is no monopoly , and where political corruption is next to impossible . The resemblance between the present national banks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it may be said , accidental . The differences between them are radical . Should the present crusade of the Democrats succeed , 6 , s we can not believe that it will , it would be found that it had removed the safeguards which now prevent our banks from being either interfered with or controlled , by politicians , and had opened the field for the development of a system far more dangerous and mischievous than anything that the country has experienced in the past . The substance of the national banking system at present lies in two elements : First , in its close supervision and regulation by the Government , and , second , in the privilege of issuing notes , which , though guarded in such manner as to bo absolutely safe , constitutes the consideration and compensation for submission to the law . These two elements in the system are inseparable . National banks would not exist without the note issues . There might be some exceptions to this rule , as there are now national banks which do not issue notes , and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country is done by national banks , these exceptions may occur , because the general reputation and character of the banks make it desirable for bankers to be identified with them , even without the issue of notes . But that would not be true if the privilege were altogether withdrawn . The general ? tendency of the banks would then be to withdraw , and , by resorting to the varying and looser conditions of the various States , to evade the strict supervision to which they are now subjected and the very stringent regulations of law to which they are required to conform . When , therefore , the Democratic leaders seek to substitute legal-tender notes for national bank-notes , they practically seek to overthrow the entire national banking system . The pretense that this is done in the interest of the community and as against monopoly is a most unfounded one . By some who make it , it is doubtless believed ; , 1. ) y others , it is purely and knowingly a pretense . It is impossible that any intelligent man , familiar with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law under which they are conducted , can seriously believe that the national banks are in the nature of a monopoly . On the other hand , were these banks abolished , others would take their place . with vastly greater oppor- tunities for the abuse of their privileges , because they would have to deal , not with a uniform law , administered by a strict and invariable system , and thoroughly known and watched by 2,000 rivals , but with some State regulation , known but imperfectly and administered at hap-hazard by the chance possessors of power . Probably , public opinion is now too conservative and too well educated by experience to admit of the great abuses which existed in banking as late as 30 , or even 20 , years since ; but while the evils of miscellaneous and unregulated banking would not be so great , they would be very considerable , and they are now impossible . Apart from the question of the consequences to the banking system generally of the substitution of legal tenders for bank-notes , the business men of the country must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy . It would be bad enough to have the present banking system broken up , and all the safeguards destroyed which it throws around the ordinary operations of banking , but this would only be a trifle compared to what would ensue from the derangement of the currency . The substitution of legal tenders for national banks involves legal-tender paper money , practically irredeemable , issued at the discretion of Congress . There is no avoiding this conclusion . The form of the proposition is illusory . It pretends to stop at the replacement of the banknotes , and it does not distinctly include irredeemable notes . But as a matter of fact , the right to replace the banknotes means the right to issue notes at will , and once issued , these notes would never be redeemed , because the party which favors their issue is and always would be opposed to their redemption . There is no stopping-place in the descent from our present currency to a political paper money regulated by Congress . These are matters in which the business community ought to take an active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in quality a good one or not , whether or not it serves the purpose for which it was established effectively , whether or not its notes are at par throughout the country and equally safe everywhere , and whether those who have dealings with the ; banks lose by them . It is for business men , therefore , a very practical question whether the Democradle Party should succeed on a platform which , in almost every State , is the destruction of the national banking system , and it is a question which they not only may but ought to consider in deciding their own political action .                     