@@781485

txt The death of Bishop Cummins is a sudden Ind serious blow to the Reformed Episcopal Dhurch . He leaves the organization of which he was the projector and leader at a time when he was greatly needed in it . rhe fourth General Council of the Church , which is not yet three years old , will open at Ottawa July 12 . Important questions concerning Church polity are to be settled  --  for instance , whether the episcopacy shall be diocesan or general , and Bishop CUMMINS ' counsel would have been of great service . He was looked to , as head of the Church , to take the leading part in all its echemes ; he traveled as extensively as a Methodist Bishop , organizing new churches in Canada , in the North and . West , and among the freedmen of South Carolina . He was editor of the monthly organ of the Church , the Appeal , and his advice and . assistance were sought and given in every quarter and on all occasions . The circumstances which brought the Reformed Episcopal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The public will readily call to mind the meeting of the World 's Conference of the Evangelical Alliance in this City in October , 1873 , the celebration of a communion service during the session of the conference , in which Bishop Cumorixs participated with Presbyterians and . others ; the notification by Bishop TOZER to Bishop POTTER , of New-York , of the fact that Bishop CUMMINS had vio ? ? lated the canons of the Protestant Episcopal Church by taking part in a mixed . communion ; and . the storm of controversy which followed , resulting in the resignation ( Nov. 10 ) of Bishop Cininwries as Asssistant Bishop of Kentucky , and his withdrawal from the Protestant Episcopal Church . In his letter of resignation he said he was unwilling longer to appear by his official position to give countenance to the excesses practiced in ritualistic churches . Believing he had the right to sit at the Lord 's table with Christians of other denominations , and convinced . that ho could not do so in the Protestant Episcopal Church without disturbing ' the peace and harmony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from it and devote the rest of his days to the establishment of a Church which should have " a pure Scriptural liturgy , " and " a primitive episcopacy . " Five days after he wrote his letter of resignation Bishop CUMMINS issued a circular calling a meeting to form a new organi ? zation on the basis of the Bishop White Prayer-book . December 15 a number of clergythen and laymen formerly connected with the Protestant Episcopal Church met in this City and organized the Reformed Episcopal Church , with Bishop Cummins as its first Bishop . Rev. Dr. CHENEY , of Chicago , whose contest with Bishop WHITEHOUSE . Concerning baptismal regeneration is well remembered , was chosen Missionary Bishop of the North-west . Ths General Council of May , 1874 , adopted ' a constitution , canons , and a Book of Common Prayer , and the new Church was able to report in May , 1875 , after an existence of fourteen months , forty-two ministers and thirty- one churches . These figures are now increased to fifty churches and over fifty ministers , with probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present body , resembling more closely the Methodist Episcopal Church . The fact that Bishop CUMMINS was originally a Methodist explains this similarity . The two Churches agree in rejecting the divine right of the episcopacy and baptismal regeneration , and in recognizing bub two orders in the ministry . The chief point of difference is that the Reformed Episcopalians have a liturgy , while the Methodists have not . Following the broad views of Bishop CUMMINS , the Reformed Episcopal Cnureh holds friendly relations with all evangelical Christians and invites them to the communion table . There appears to be no doubt that Bishop CUMMINs ' Church will be permanently established . It gathers from the parent body those who are dissatisfied with the Prayer book and from the Methodist Church those who want a liturgical service . It has a strong foothold in Canada , and is gathering in many freedmen in the South . ' Two papers are published in its interest , and a university is one of the plans for the future . Next to Bishop CUMMINS , Bishop CUENEY is probably the ablest administrator in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bishop . Bishop Cummixs had only reached the age of fifty-four . He was a native of Delaware , a graduate of Dickinson College , and a Methodist minister two years . He was ordained deacon in the Protestant Episcopal Church iu 1845 , priest in 1847 , was consecrated Assistant Bishop of Kentucky in 1836 , and was deposed in 1874 . In the pulpit he was attractive and eloquent ; as a Bishop he was an excellent organizer and administrator .                     