@@743240

txt Peter Simmons , colored , who killed J. E. Gass , white , at the polls of the Third District of Anne Arundel County on Tues. day last , has been arrested and lodged in jail at An . napolis . He confesses that he killed Gass , but says it was accidental . An afternoon paper Sa s : " A gentleman woo arrived here this morning by steamer from St. Mary 's County , Md. , says that a shooting affray occurred at Leonardtown , on the night of the election , which will probably result fatally . There was a great deal of excitement in the town , and a fight between the lower elements of the two parties was momentarily ox . pected throughout the day . Nothing serious , however . took place until after dark , when the Democrats surrounded the Republican flag-pole and threatened to pull it down . It is said that Mr. A. A. Lawrence , who had been elected County Commissioner on the Republican ticket , made his way into the crowd and warned them to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the scramble which followed the sharp report of a pistol was heard . Lawrence staggered and fell wounded in the breast . It is not known who fired the shot . Many declare that it could not have been other than an accident , and refuse point blank to credit the wild rumors in. to which the affair has been shaped . Mr. Lawrence , it is said , is very seriously hurt , but may recover . " Mr. Lawrence , the gentleman alluded to above , is a native of Ohio , and settled in St. Mary 's County immediately after the late war . He soon became popular as a citizen and a business men , and is highly respected by both Democrats and Republicans . He is a Republican in politics , and was elected to the State Senate , was a member of that body in 1876 , and was elected a member of the House of Delegates in 1878 . It is said the flag pole about which the trouble occurred was erected during the last Presidential campaign by Mr. Lawrence , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper also says : " It is rumored on the street to-day that John Denton , an employe of one of the tobacco warehouses in this city , shot and seriously injured a negro in Prince Frederick , Calvert County , Md. , on election day . Denton is a citizen of the county , and went there to vote . The particulars of the affair are not known , efforts having been made to conceal it altogether . "                     