@@742918

txt For some months past it has been apparant to even the most casual observer that the much-lauded Democratic Government of Georgia falls far short of that excellence ' which , by its supporters , has been uniformly claimed for it . Closely following upon the exposure of the ( to speak mildly ) remarkable financial transactions of Messrs . Gordon and Colquitt , came the statement by Sena. tor Hill that the Governor of the State had accepted a money consideration for the use of his executive authority . And now , verified by Col. R. A. Alston , a brave Confederate soldier ands life-long Democrat , comes a story in regard to the pris on system of the Commonwealth which proves conclusively that the Democratic leaders of Georgia have been so much interested in securing their own financial welfare that they have utterly disregarded the commonest instincts of humanity . Col. Alston , the gentleman referred to , is a member of the Georgia Legislature and Chairman of the Committe ? on the Penitentiary , Acting in that capacity , he has had every opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout his State , and the statement respecting their terrible situation which he finds himself forced to make is at once a disgrace to every Georgian and a reproach to American citizenship . It seems that , under a ? law passed some 10 years ago , and which , by reason of an act approved in February , 1876 , is to be continued for 20 years from the 1st of April , 1879 , the State of Georgia , being unable or unwilling to properly provide for its criminals , has entered into a contract with certain parties by which such criminals are leased out to companies who make bids for their labor . At present there are in the State upward of 1,100 of these criminals who have been let out in lots to some of the most distinguished leaders of the Democratic Party . Among those gentlemen may be mentioned ex-Gov . Joe Brown , Benjamin G. Lockett , Senator John B. Gordon , and John W. Murphy . For the services of the convicts , according to the contract , the State is to receive $25,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid the expense of what is known as the ; Principal Keeper , a chaplain , and a physician . This latter clause of the contract , however , has been necessarily inoperative , because the so-called camps of convicts are so widely separated that it would be an absolute impossibility for either chaplain or physician to visit them . Indeed , according to the report of Col. Alston , recently made to the Legislature , it would require one month of steady traveling for the Principal Keeper to spend two hours in each camp . For these reasons the Governor has not found it practicable to appoint either a physcian or a chaplain , and , for the same reason , the Principal Keeper has been unable to comply with the provision of the law which requires him to make a monthly inspection of all the convicts . In short , it might as well be understood at the outset that the White League leaders who have thus contracted with the State for the labor of the convicts have done so with the single aim of making money . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but they have been from the first utterly disregarded , and to-day the murderers , thieves , and other law-breakers of " the Empire State of the South " are controlled entirely by a set of avaricious men , who care not for the welfare of society , but for their personal gain . Indeed , according to the testimony of good Democrats , it can be stated that no effort is made to observe the law which requires the convicts to be safely guarded and kept . In the Dade coal mines , of which ex-Gov . " Joe " Brown is the principal Director , an effort has been made to keep the 300 criminals employed there under some kind of discipline ; but in almost all the other " camps " where the men are employed upon railroads and in work for large contractors , no proper precautions are taken to prevent their escape . Indeed , the average of escapes from all the camps , except the Dade coal mines and excluding those killed in attempting to escape , has been from 20 to 45 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escaped convicts roaming at large through the State of Georgia . The law stipulates that a penalty of $200 shall be paid " by every lessee for each escape caused by his negligence unless the convict is recaptured and returned to work within 60 days . " The section which makes this provision , however , has had no terror for the prominent Democrats who profit by the prison system , and although , as has been already stated , there are now at large over 500 escaped criminals , not one dollar has been received by the State as compensation for their loss . The principal keeper , upon whom devolves the duty of making prosecution for such escapes , holds that it would be impossible to do so , as no testimony can be procured to prove that the escapes were the result of negligence . When it is remembered that it costs the State of Georgia an average of $35 for every conviction , besides the cost of jail and jury fees paid by the county , it will b3 seen that this operation of the convict system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneficial to the people and society as it might be , But regarded from another stand-point , the present Democratic prison system of Georgia is still more iniquitous . The rate of mortality which prevails among the convicts in many of the " camps " is so great that even Col. Alston and his fellow-committeemen have been obliged to admit that " the system which permits of such a startling death-roll Is a reproach to our humanity . " In the camp of W. D. Grant , a contractor in Jefferson County , 10 per cent . of the convicts have died within the last year ; and again , in-Grant 's camp , in Richmond County , the mortality has boon 40 per cent . in four months , or 10 per cent . a month . In the camp controlled by Mr. A. S. Barnwell , another wellknown Democrat , the average mortality for three years has been 10 per cent . a year . Excepting the Dade coal mines , in which the mortality amounts to but 4 per cent . a year , the average death-rate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Just how startling these figures are will be the better appreciated when it is stated tha t official reports from the principal prisons in the United States show in them an average mortality of only 1 per cent . a year . Indeed , it is a matter of record that , considering the number of convicts , more persons have died in one year in the camps of Barnwell and Grant , in Georgia . than in the Maryland Penitentiary in 15 years . Even in Texas , where the lease system also prevails and the majority of the convicts are negroes , the death. , rate is less than 312 per cent . a year . There , being no fines imposed for the loss of convicts ' by death , the Georgia contractors evidently do not feel themselves inlaid , to take anyprecau. ? tions to preserve the lives og the unfortunate prisoners committed to ' their care . In facts according to testimony which can not be disputed , the prisoners are in many instances kept without oven the nourishment which would suffice to sustain life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work in swamps and wildernesses in which malaria abounds and where itis impossible for medical aid to reach the sick . In such districts they die by scores , and in one or two instances haves been literally left to rot where they died unsaved for by the heartless men who are their legal masters . And , again , I must repeat that these crimes in the name of law are not caused by any lack of stringency in the statutes under which the convict system exists . They are due entirely to the fact that the Democratic contractors who lease the convicts have no regard for any law which interferes with their avarice . For instance , section 3 of the Lease act says that ? " there shall be such regulations , restrictions , and arrangements made by the Governor , to be enforced by law , as will associate only persons convicted of " crimes ' of moral turpitude , which shall regard the condition of the sexes and age of convicts and their ability to labo ? . " This portion of the statute is utterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women are chained together and promiscuously occupy the seine , huts and sleeping-bunks . As a result it can he stated upon the authority of Col. Alston , and other Democrats now in Washington , that there are at present in the Georgia Penitentiary 25 bastard children , whose ages range from 3 months to 5 years , and that most of the female convicts are about to become mothers . The law prescribes in another section that lessees shall not use as guards any of the convicts or place them in positions of trust and control over other convicts . This section is also entirely disregarded , and , in all the camps are to he found- a number of socalled ? ? trustees , " who are selected from among the convicts and placed as guards over their fellow-criminals . Still another section of the law provides that the principal lessees shall not be allowed to sub-let convicts to minor contractors . This provision is likewise ignored , and in many cases criminals who have well-to-do relatives have been leased to them , and are now living at home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be remembered that Rate Southard , a well-connected white woman of North Georgia , in a fit of jealous rage killed a young lady with whom she found her husband dancing . She was sentenced to be hanged , but the Governor.influenced by mistaken public . sentiment , commuted the . sentence to imprisonment for life . Shortly afterward the woman was leased to a contractor named T. J. Smith , of Washington County ; her husband was hired to guard her , and now they are living together , quite as happily as they did before the murder was committed . I am assured that various instances of a similar character could be cited . These and kindred revelations which are being brought out by the efforts of Col. Alston and other independent men , are doing much to open the eyes of the better class of Democrats to the iniquityof a party which permits the continuance of such a system . Senator John B. Gordon has already washed his hands of all connection with the lease system , and written to his partners desiring to be freed from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed that other humanemen will follow his example . Meanwhile , however , the principal lessees who are growing rich by the labor of the unfortunate convicts , are fighting tooth and nail to defeat the laudable efforts which are being made to break down the system . They have the leaders of the Democracy at their back , the White League sympathizes with them , is in their control , and , unfortunately for the cause of hanianity , there is only too much reason to believe that they will be successful , and that the present prison system of Georgia will continue to disgrace the American people .                     