@@740943

txt The Treasury Department has issued a circular to Collectors of Customs and others to carry into effect the provisions of the tenth section of the Tariff act of June 8 , which provides that from and after its passage all lumber , timber , hemp , manila and iron and steel roes , bars , spikes , nails and bolts , copper and composition metal which may be necessary for the construction and equipment or - vessels omit In the united States for the purpose of being employed in the foreign trade , including the trade between the Atlantic and.Pacific ports of the United States , and finished after the passage of this act , may be imported in bond under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe , and upon proof that such materials have been used for the purpose aforesaid , no duties shall be paid thereon , provided that vessels receiving the benefit of the section shall not be allowed to engage in the coastwise trade of the United States more than two months in any one year , except UD011 the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rebate is herein allowed provided , further , that all articles of foreign production needed for the repair of American vessels engaged exclusively in the foreign trade may be withdrawn from bonded warehouses free of duty , under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe . Under this section the following regulations are prescribed : SECTION 1 . All goods , wares and merchandise of the character mentioned therein , which are to be used in the construction and equipment of vessels built in the United States . shall be entered for warehouse and regular warehouse bonds taken . Upon the withdrawal of the goods a certificate or declaration of the person withdrawing shall be filed citing the fact that it is intended to so use the merchandise ; the name of the vessel will also be given , the place where she is being built , and an indorsement will be made on the bond of the amount so withdrawn . Bac. 2 . Upon the completion of the vessel a certificate or declaration shah be tiled with the Collector of Customs where such withdrawal shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the withdrawal which have been used in the construction of the vessel , and if the Collector is satisfied that . all the merchandise embraced in the withdrawal has been so used , he shall give a credit upon the bond accordingly . If only a portion has been so used , duties will be collected on the remainder . A similar provision will govern the action of Collectors of Customs in the withdrawal from warehouse of articles free of duty for the repair of American vessels engaged in foreignforeiigntrade .. The circular gives the forms of the . certificate and the bond . it , SEC. 3 . Vessels navigating the waters of the United States elsewhere than on the northern , north-eastern and north-western ' frontiers , whether newly built or repaired , will be entitled to its privileges only so long as they continue to sail under a register . Whenever that  --  document shall be changed for an enrollment and license , the Collector of the Port at which the exchange may take place will collect the duties on which a rebatehas been allowed . Rec. 4 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coasting trade more than two months in any year , the Collector of the first port at which she shall arrive thereafter , will collect the duties aforesaid ; cautioning any parties disputing the right of such . ollection to protest in due form and to appeal to the Dartment . Sac . S. The foregoing regulations are applicable to vessels enrolled and licensed to engage in the foreign and coasting trade on the northern and north eastern Portions of ins United States , except so far as t relate to the register of vessels . In the case of such enrolled and licensed vessels . the enrollment will be marked and Indorsed as herein prescribed . Upon the surrender of any register or enrollment marked as aforesaid , the . officers . of the Customs will similarly mark the document granted in its place , and copy thereon the indersementsfor the current year . Sec. 13 . Before granting marine documents , officers of Customs will require to be produced , If practicable , any document previously granted . and great care should be exercised that no vessel which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of documents not exhibiting that face . No vessel not of the United States will be allowed to engage in the coasting trade under the provisions of tenth section of the law .                     