@@742226

txt One of the most formidable obstacles to a revival of finaucial and business confidence is the almost universal distrust of the management of great companies and of a certain class of financial institutions . The distrust is the more serious because it is reasonable . A senseless panic will wear itself out . Sweeping accusations based upon exceptional wrong seldom do much mischief . But when , as hi this case , the doubts that prevail are the result of au experience too recent to be explained away , and too widely injurious to he attributed to accidental causes , their frank recognition is the first step toward Improvement . There can be no great increase of trust in corporate property as an investment until its management acquire conditions and characteristics now rarely found . icarcely a day passes in Wall street which does not illustrate the depth and force of the suspicions which exist . Thu comlition of the " street , " the deathless of its market , the paralysis of nearly all branches of its business , could not have been possible except in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operators because the market is essentially a brokers ' market . There is no disposition to invest funds which are only nominally product's-0 in undertakings which in ordinary circumstances would seem to be remunerative , because there no faith in the influences which control them . The old reliance upon the literal accuracy of published statements is gone . The old relations between directors and stockholders , between managers and the public , exist no longer . The managerial art consists chiefly iu hiding the facts of au unpleasant situation . The power incident to a directorship is used most frequently for the furtherance of interests in which the constituents , the shareholders , have no concern w ha te ve r ? which , indeed , are often antagonistic to the shareholders ' interests , and have been cultivated without reference to their judgment or their wishes . The last forty-eight hours have shown the working of this state of things in the case of the Now-Jersey Central Railroad . Its melancholy history we need not recapitulate . It has within a few mouths fallen from a condition of great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 110 to 21 would not have been possible had the main body of the stockholders , or a small percentage of the investing public , placed any reliance upon the reiterated assurances of those in authority . From au investment security , the stock has sunk until it has become the sport of " bulls " and " bears , " and is withal so beset with elements of uncertainty that any real value it retains is unknown . No report respecting it is too prejudicial to be believed . With something like fatuity , the Directors and officers pursue a course the least of all likely to produce improvement . They held a secret meeting with a limited number of shareholders , to whom , we must suppose , some explanation of affairs was given . The presumption is that the explanation was not favorable or it would not have been confined to a hole-andcorner meeting . What was done is only mutter of conjecture . Rose-colored stories were put into circulation ter the benefit of the " bulls ; " but already they are discredited , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whether wealthy shareholders agreed to take certificates of indebtedness to an amount sufficient to extric4te the company from immediate difficulties , or whether the aid rendered was no more than a loan to prevent default on the first mortgage bonds , is , for the general purposes of an argument , immaterial . The noteworthy fact is , that the former management of the company was fatal to trust , and that the new management , instead of taking the whole body of shareholders into its confidence , persists iu the same unwise policy . The natural consequence is Seen in the weakness of the company 's credit , and the readiness to accept the worst ruiners iu regard to its affairs . Similar in essence , though different in degree , is the position of the two other corporations which lost the public confidence simultaneously with the New-Jersey Central Road . It would be unjust to the Delaware , Lackawanna and Western and the Delaware and Hudson to classify them with the New-Jersey Central . Their embarrassments are lighter , their properties more valuable . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also , to a greater or less extent , their policy . Their stocks , months ago , ceased to be available for investment . Their condition is suspected ; their future is talked of with misgivings . If their managers are to be believed , so unfavorable an estimate is not warranted by facts . Their difficulties , we are told , are merely temporary , and are incident to a period of depression , while the inherent strength of the companies forbids aught worse than has already occurred . Had these assurances been accompanied with statements so full and clear that there could be no denying them , the progress of distrust might have been checked . But the published explanations themselves need to be explained . They reveal only part of a complicated story . Of course , the Directors and officers plead their personal standing as proof that nothing dishonorable or disastrous remains behind . There was a time when the plea would have been accepted as conclusive , but it is not now . Faith of that sort has vanished . And these enterprises will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holders of their securities , and the public generally , to a full knowledge of the truth . If we select the coal companies as examples of the mummer in which fiaancial difficulties are aggravated by the reticence or evasiveness of their managers , it is because they happen to lie the most conspicuous in the affairs of Wall street . But the moral they teach extends to other companies , as well those whose present condition is one of comparative prosperity as those which still lie half hidden amid the wrecks of 167:l . The concentration of stocks in few hands is to the management an element of immense power , but it is not necessarily a guarantee against the corroding effects of popular distrust . Prudent investors are shy of corporations in which they are practically voiceless . They are not quite sure of statements whose verification is beyond their reach . If this feeling applies to companies of unusual strength , its influence in relation to companies which now pay a diminished dividend , or 110 dividend at all , or which are still struggling with the holders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central as the typo of the first class and the Michigan Central as the type of the second , and we have evidence of a decline quite as notable , and quite as suggestive , as that of the Doleware and Hudson . As for the bankrupt roads , there can be no help for them until confidence is restored in the integrity of corporate authority . The want is as wide as this form of man ; igement . It extends to financial institutions not less than to railroads . In its effects upon business interests generally , the distrust is scarcely less injurious than are the abuses which account for its existence . The one thing needful for its cure is rethrtn corporate management . We inust go hack to seek sounder ideas of Managerial duty ; and , having found them , must insist upon their application in the direction of corporate affairs . The pride of a manager may be wounded when he is reminded that lie is the servant of the corporation , whether it be a railroad , an insurance company , or a trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not unlikely to misinterpret his functions and to pervert his power . Directors may shun as a lunatic a Man who rises at a meeting , or avails himself of a seat at a board , to remind them that they are simply trustees for others , that they have no right to lock up secrets or to do anything not consistent with a fiduciary position ; but unless they learn t he lesson from somebody , and act upon it , they will look in vain for the unstinted confidence which is essential to a renewal of corporate prosperity .                     