@@742949

txt The Anti-Chinese Immigration bill has been reported back to the Senate without recommendation from the Committee on Foreign Relations . It is placed on the calendar , and Mr. Sargent gave notice today that ho would call it up next Wednesday . The Pacific coast Republicans are actively at work with their associates seeking to obtain their votes for the measure or their promise not to oppose it . Mr. Hamlin and others of the New-England Senators will probably antagonize it , but as yet it is auito doubtful if this will be done actively . The bill will doubtless be amended so as to give notice of the abrogation of the protection and immigration sections of the Burlingame treaty . The Demoerotic Senators are likely to vote for it almost as a unit . The Senate to-day passed the bill to authorize women to practice before the United States Supreme Court . The bill , provides that " any woman who shall have been a member of the Bar of the highest court of any State or Territory or of the Supreme Court of the ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shall have maintained a good standing before such court , and who shall be a person of good moral character , shall , on motion and the production of such record , be admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States . " This bill was introduced in the House at the last session , at the instance of Belva Lockwood , a member of the Bar of this District , whose petition to practice in the Supreme Court and Court of Claims was denied . It was passed by the House Feb. 21 , 1878 , and now only requires the President 's approval to become a law . The bill passed tha Senate by a vote of 40 to 20 . Messrs . Edmunds and Chaffee were the only Republicans who voted against it . The sub-committee of the Senate Committee on Appropriations , to whom was referred the amendment of Senator Maxey to the Post Office Appropriation bill to grant a subsidy of $150,000 per annum to the Brazil lines of steamers , reported to-day to the full committee a substitute for Mr. Maxey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with any American-built steamers , of not less than 3,000 tons , to carry the mails between New-York and Rio Janeiro and New-Orleans and Rio Janeiro , at the rate of $30 per mile per annum . The question of establishing the service to Brazil is left to the discretion of the PostmasterGeneral , and the contract is open to all American-built steamers . It is not known what action the full committee will take on the amendment , but it is likely , judging from its action last year , that it will he adopted and incorporated in the Post Office Appropriation bill . The indifference now felt in financial legislation is illustrated by the fact that at the session of the House to-night a quorum of members could not be got together , notwithstanding it was known in advance that the session was to he devoted to receiving reports from the Committee on Coinage , and that that committee would present a bill embodying the features of the various bills introduced this session in relation to silver coinage . The bill reported by the committee tonight was very brief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States at the Sub-Treasury in New-York for United States notes . After some discussion a motion was made to recommit the bill , which was defeated by a vote of 67 to 61 . This vote showed the absence of a quorum , and the House immediately adjourned . This leaves the bill as the unfinished business , and it will be taken up to-morrow after the morning hour .                     