@@741967

txt The reformers in the Republican Party . can not do better than turn their attention to the nominations for the next House of Representatives . If they will examine the subject at all carefully , they will see that in this direction they can accomplish quite as much as by any influence they can bring to bear on the selection of a President , and possibly considerably more . Every member of Congress gained in the interest of genuine reform will count in a great many ways . If we understand the objects of the reform element in the party , they are the divorce of the civil service from machine politics and the adoption of a sound financial policy . These are the most important objective points which could 1 ) 0 set ' before any party at the present time , and whether they are to be gained or not depends far more upon the character of the House of Representatives than on any other one thing . Under the present system , the House of Reprosonbatives , when its majority is in sympathy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribution of official patronaze . Any one who sup- poses that the chief occupation of our Representatives in ordinary times is the preparation , discussion ,  --  and enactment of laws is egregiously in error . This work is done by the prominent members of ' a few committees , and seldom gives active employment to more than a score , or one in ton , of the Representatives . The remainder busy themselves with the " interests of their constituents , " which is a euphuism for the distribution of patronage in one form or another . This sometimes consists in the direct manipulation of appointments , and sometimes in an elaborate process of log-rolling , which embraces not only appointments but all expenditures of money , as for public buildings , harbor improvements , naval and military expenditures , &c.; If it were possible to state in figures the motive force which impels men to seek a Congressional nomination , and then to deduct from it the specific amount duo to hope of advantage from this sort of thing , the residue would be very small . The number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who give to them the time and labor and thought necessary to make themselves useful to the country , whose rulers they really are , and who are content with the esteem and gratitude of intelligent men , is not large . On the contrary , the number is great of those who exert a pressure upon the Executive in the matter of patronage , and whose selfish interests make any permanent and effective reform of the civil service practically impossible . Under these circumstances it is obvious that each civil service reformer who can be elected to Congress will be able to exert a double influence . He will relieve the Executive from any pressure ou his own account , and lie will devote his energies to the establishment of a system which will prevc , nt others from exerting such pressure . In all probability , also , it may be said , men who can and will be elected to Congress in the character of reformers at the present time will be likely to have more than ordinary ability . A comparatively small number of them - would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is to be hoped that they may be found present in force in the next House . It is unnecessary to say that men who were sound on the reform of the civil service would be also sound on the reform of the currency . The , two projects go naturally together . They appeal to much the same class of minds , and while a man may be a hearty advocate of resumption , and be uninformed or indifferent on the subject of civil service reform , the converse of this proposition would seldom be found to be true . The friends of reform can not move too soon in their respective districts . A month from now the politicians who may be opposed to reform will have their plans pretty thoroughly advanced , and opposition to them will be difficult . We believe that candid consultation will in many cases avoid all necessity of contest . All politicians are not opposed to reform . A large- proportion of those who take au active interest in politics make nothing from it , and wish to make nothing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able and popular men , who will stand by their ideas and do all they can to get them embodied in a practical system , this class of politicians can be generally won to support such nominations . But if the matter is left until it becomes a question of ' choice between the defeat of a fair party candidate and that of a reformer , the latter will stand a poor chance . We strongly urge , therefore , that all those who have the interests of reform at heart shall take early steps to secure nominations favorable to their views through the regular Republican organization . It will not be found so hopeless in ail cases as may be conceived , and wherever successful it will be of great advantage .                     