@@742829

txt Were DEMOCRITUS an observer of political affairs in our time , le would find a subject for his most extravagant laughter in the spectacle of Gen. BUTLER as a reformer . Nobody pretends to rogaid this unique production of Puritan soil as a being subject to moral restraints , or limited in his activity by the requirements of honor and uprightness . It is not expected . of him that he should be scrupulous . Ordinarily , when it is shown that a man in public life , who puts forward high claims to the confidence of his fellow-citizens , has been concerned in schemes to plunder the public Treasury , has used official station and opportunities for the enrichment of himself and his friends or clients , or has been guilty of proceedings generally accounted disreputable , his character and standing are supposed to be irretrievably damaged . It is often regarded as the ruin of his prospects , and ho is expected to be covered with shame and disgrace , and to retire into privacy and bewail his blighted hopes . Sometimes ho is pitied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always he is looked upon , to use the expressive language oil AliDREW JOHNSON ' , ? as a " dead duck . " Not so with Gen. BUTLER . It may be proved that ho is an arrant knave , and go far to be thought so , as Dogberry puts it , and yet it does not hurt him . Statements drawn from authentic records and fortified with figures or supported by affidavits may show that he successfully engineered a plan for drawing from the Government a million dollars for unfounded claims , and pocketed a cool hundred thousand for his pains ; but nobody is surprised at it , nor is he at all abashed at the revelation . Others may subside into obscurity whoa their share in salary-grabs and Credit Mobilier plunderings are exposed to public view , but he rather glories in such exploits . If his enemies expoet to injure him by raking up anything discreditable in his record and parading it before the public , they have studied their antagonist to Small purpose . Gen. BUTLER can not be injured by anything that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason that it will . change nobodrs opinion of his character . That he pursues selfish ends only , and is utterly unscrupulous as to the means employed for their attainment , is a fact known of all men to whom it is a matter of any concern . A flagrant ' , instance more or less does not signify . Such a phenomenon is , unfortunately , not so rare as to excite our special wonder , but the spectacle calculated to move the risibility , of men and gods is a person like this gravely assuming the part of a political and administrative reformer , mid asking support as such for the highest office in the gift of the people of an enlightoiled Commonwealth . It is often remarked 1 . that human nature delights in being gulled , ' and mankind sometimes appear to find a special happiness in a strange sort of selfdeception , which consists in allowing somebody to think he is cheating them , and in pretending that they are cheated , and that they like it , when in fact they see through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Birremit 's pretenses as a reformer with a gravity as solemn as that with which he makes them , and yet who know just as well as ho does that they are a ridiculous sham . But the exhibition is a vastly amusing one to the outside world , that is to the comparatively unimportant part of the world outside of Massachusetts . When Gen. BUTLER , at a St. Patrick 's Day banquet in Boston , claimed a share in the common Hibernian heritage of royal blood , derived from some one or more of the numerous monarchs that once gave home rule to Ireland , it was funny , but everybody knew that it was a bid for Irish votes . When he lays his hand upon his heart and thanks God that he never aided the Government of his country with the loan of a single dollar , but that he is the special friend of the poor laboring man , and has his investments where they can be most conveniently concealed , the ludicrous air of superior virtue and of humble sympathy with the sons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintains that value ' in money or behind money is a curse , and that what is needed to make people prosperous and happy is plenty of paper dollars with nothing behind them but the fiat of LGovernment , it is as good as a play . But this great actor in the human comedy never appeared to the fullest advantage until he came out as a reformer , and that just now is his only role . Like many another great performer , he has made a hit that induces him to drop all other parts , or to appear in them only occasionally , on off nights or in the provinces . It is as a reformer that BUTLER asks to be elected Governor of Massachusetts . And the fact that it is Massachusetts enhances the humor of the situation . That State has a history in which it glories and a galaxy of great names which it never tires of rehearsing to the astonished world . It lays claim to high intelligence and uncommon integrity . It has managed to conduct its public affairs with great decorum and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , coolly proposes to give it a course of reform , and expects it to submit to the process , not only with cheerfulness , but with gratitude . It is the " South Cove " taking Beacon-street in hand to correct its morals and teach it proper behavior . It is the slums rising up to wash corruption out of the upper circles . If the intelligence , the respectability , and the lofty character of Massachusetts shorld , of its own volition , that is to say by a vote of a majority of its citizens . accent BUTLER is a reformer and submit to the purificaion which he . proposes , it would be the most excruciating joke of modern times .                     