@@741395

txt His Excellency the Governor General , at 3 o'clock this afternoon , proceeded in state to the chamber of the Senate , and , having taken his seat upon the throne , commanded the attention of the House of Commons . The inernb &s; of that body , preceded by the Speaker , Hon. Timothy Warren Anglin , appeared at the bar of the Senate . Hon. Mr. Anglin informed his Excellency that the choice of the House of Commons had fallen upon him to be their Speaker. , and he prayed for the members thereof the customary parliamentary privileges , after which his Excellency was pleased todeliver the following speech : HONORA13LE GENTLEMEN OF TUE SENATE AND GENTLEMEN Or THE Housn OF COMMONS : I have convoked Parliament at the earliest moment consistent with the delay entailed by its recent dissolution . Your attention will be invited during the present session to measures having reference to the representation of the people in Parliament , embracing the system now prevailing in Great Britain and in most other countries enjoying constitutional government , of taking votes by ballot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal . Measures will also be submitted to you for the amendment of the laws relating to controverted elections , militia , and insolvency . The enactment of 1872 , respecting the Canadian Pacific Railway having failed to secure the prosecution of this great enterprise , ycu will be called upon to consider what plan will best and most speedily provide the means of trans-continental communication with British Columbia . A report of the Chief Engineer will be laid beiore you , showing what progress was made during the past year in surveys connected with the proposed line . The destruction of the railway offices by fire , involved a serious loss of maps , plans , and papers , the possession of which would have made the renort more complete . Canal and harbor improvements are being vigorously prosecuted , with a view to insure adequate accommodation for the rapidly growing trade of the country . The report of the Chief Engineer of the Denartment of Public Works ou the proposed canal between the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the Bay of Fundy will be submitted for your consideration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inter-Colonial Railway , another 3-ear will be required to complete it ; a report indicating its actual condition will be laid before Parliament , and a measure will be introduced to vest in the Department of Public Works the powers now exercised by the Board of Railway Commissioners . The question of compensation due the Dominion for fishery privileges conceded to the United States by the Treaty of Washington has given rise to a renewal of negotiations tending to widen the reciprocal trade relations with that country . At the instance of my Government the imperial authorities have given directions to the British Minister to discuss the whole subject with the Administration at Washington , and have associated with him for this purpose a Canadian Commissioner . Gentlemen of the House of Commons , the accounts of the last financial year will be laid before you , as well as a statement of receipts and expenditures of the present year , at the earliest practicable period . I regret to state that the receipts of the current year will not he sufficient to meet the expenditures . It will , therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be adopted for making good the anticipated deficiency . Estimates for the ensuing year will be laid before you . They have been prepared with as much regard to economy as consistent with the efficiency of the public service . Honorable Gentlemen of the Senate and Gentlemen of the House of Commons : The combined efforts of the Dominion and Provincial Governments to promote inanimation have met with a reasonable measure of success , thus adding a considerable number of desirable persons from other countries to our industrial population . Notwithstanding the commercial depression which , through exceptional causes , has prevailed to some extent during the past year , it is satisfactory to know that the general prosperity will not thereby be affected . I do not doubt but that , as the great natural resources of the Dominion become more widely appreciated , the results will be a healthy stimulus to the enterprise and energy of our people and a still larger accession to our members . I trust that your deliberations may be directed by wisdom and aided by Divine Providence . SIR JOHN A. MACDONALD RETIRES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ontario , March ** John A. Micdonald has formally resigned theleadership of the Opposition , and Dr. Tapper will probably be chosen to succeed him . OPENING OF NAVIGATION . ST . CATHARINES , March ** schooner Lone Star arrived at Port Dalhousie , from Toronto , to-day , being the first arrival of the season . QUICKER TRAVEL PROPOSED . HALIFAX , N. S. , March ** is contemplated to shorten the route between Halifax and the United States , by running an express train , to made the trip in four hours in connection with the line of steamers to Portland . THE FISHERIES . HALIFAX , N. S. , March ** 200 men will leave the Strait of Canso this or next week to join the American fishing fleet at Gloucester . 