@@781918

txt A well-informed correspondent in another column gives some interesting observations on the way in which the . nomination of HAYEs and WHEELER came about . He sets . at rest the numerous speculations which . have been started since the Convention as to the influence of one leader and another , and as to various " combinations " which have been reported . The fact is , that when the delegates met it became evident that none of the most conspicuous candidates could be named , unless it was Mr. BLAINE . That gentleman 's remarkable strength made it necessary , in order to defeat him , to unite on some one who was acceptable to the supporters of all his rivals . The more such a man was looked for the more Gen. ? 11Avtls became prominent . Not one of the other candidates had the same positive Lind negative elements of strength . So , when the situation became so simplified that . every one understood it , and when Gen. 1-1A1 IAN drew Mr. Buisrow out of the contest , Gen. HAYES ' nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that though he was nominated . by this opponents of Mr. BLAINE , he was the second choice of that gentleman 's supporters , and was indeed the only man who could hold the Blaine men in the New - York and . Pennsylvania delegations . If it is asked why Gen. HAYES could unite men whom Mr. MORTON or Mr. CoNKLiNo or Mr. BRISTOW could not unite , the answer will vary according as the question is addressed . to an advocate of either of these gentlemen . But one reason why he could do so is perfectly obvious , and it is an hpporthnt feature in Gen. HAYES ' position . It is that he had taken no active part in national politics , and was , as he now is , wholly free from either alliances or animosities . No one had any prejudice against Blip , for he had been in no position to awaken any . No one was jealous of his friends or favorites , for he had none outside of his own State , and hardly any hi it . No one dreaded or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry into the canvass or into his Administration , for he had formed none . On the other hand , he was by no means the obscurity the Democrats would like to deleted 10 lines With the highest elective office in the world almost within his grasp , he utterly ranged to do ui act or say a word to secure it . If it came to him , he would accept as an honor and a trust , but ho would not reach out his hand to lay hold of it . In the midst of the struggle , the manoeuvring and counter-manoeuvring , the schemes , combinations , bargains , no one could promise anything for Gen. HAYES , no one claim anything of him . The almost complete singularity of this attitude , which no candidate except Secretary BRISTOW could imitate , was of itself , a powerful element in Gen. HAYES ' strength . strength in the Convention : will give him The facts which gave Gen. HAYES so much equal advantage , if , as is now hardly doubtful , lie is called to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House , and . will be as free to perform its duties as ho deems wisest as he is to-day . There never was a candidate less under obligations to the machinery , of politics , and there could not be a President ' more at liberty than ' he , to servo his country first and last . That he should be expected to act without the advice of those , in whom he has confidence , is not reasonable ; but there , is every reason to believe that he will be guided by an intelligent interpretation of the desires of the whole country . And a man who has shown himself so unselfish can be relied . on not to subordinate the interests of the public to the selfish ambition of others , oven though they be party leaders .                     