@@742558

txt This is a gossiping world . Mr. C. LORD says so , and he ought to know . And when he . wrote a touching letter to his aged father 's bride expectant , he added a postscript in which he said that if the lady would " - pay back , " certain mysterious transactions should be kept a secret from the gossiping world . As everything in this case possible to entertain the world of gossip has been dragged forth and spread before it , we take ' it for granted that Mr. C. LORD 'S invitation was not accepted . Indeed , between the two LORDS , father and son , many things which entertain the vulgar , but make the judicious grieve , are made public property . It is the merest affectation now to pass over in silence an affair which has been brought into the courts , and which , by certain peculiar traits thereof , may be considered as touching very nearly the public morals . A gentleman and lady are married ; they remain hidden for nearly a month ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so jealously that the sons and heirs of the bridegroom can not reach him by legal process , they fill the air with their lamentations and advertise their griefs . Finally , the married couple emerge just in time to be prepared for the legal proceedings which have been instituted . With the wedded pair there appears an epistolary correspondence which throws a sort of calcium light on the character of the younger members of the Lord family . Heretof ore , we have been asked to believe that the expectant heirs of the senior LORD were actuated only by a filial respect for him in their opposition to his nuptials . It was represented that a siren of mature years was enticing the aged merchant into a series - of adventures which were calculated to bring him and his family into disrepute . And as soon as the old gentleman had fairly disappeared after his dive into the sea of matrimony , the heirs apparent discovered that they had been seriously considering the proprietyof taking steps to have him adjudged insane and incapable of managing his estate . In passing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man may be too mad to marry , but not too mad to make his will . They had prepared for him a last will and testament by which they were satisfied to abide . But when he did not sign it , and married straightway , he was wept over as a lunatic who was " as ' mad as a March hare . " The sordid question with . a pulmonary disease . Indeed , he : signs one of his letters " Yours in consumption , C. LORD . " To such a plight has . this step-son of the mature siren been reduced that he declares that his doctor has ordered him to " buy and ridgy ) in a carriage . " It will be observed that the learned physician 's advice includes the purchase 4eS a carriage . A hired carriage is not efficacious in severe cases of consumption like this . And the hapless invalid was all the time hastening to the grave with a galloping consumption because he could not ride in the carriage which had been prescribed for him , The matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. LORD , addressing his prospective step-mother , warns her that his parent " is a very old gentleman , and ought not to be called upon for a dollar by any one outside of his own children . " Certainly not it is notorious that in some cases of extreme mania the patient is ? made rapidly worse when he is called upon for a dollar outside of his own children . And it is also true that very old gentlemen . as a rule , do not like to be called upon for a dollar by any one outside of their own children , and there have been instances when demands for a dollar , more or less , from their own offspring even have made them very mad indeed , As the prospective step-son seems to have been aware that his warning would not be heeded , he projected an awful threat . If the lady in questions did not " pay back , " and release the old gentleman from the spell of the siren , he C. Loan would publish the fact to the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom he tragically remarks are his father 's only grandchildren , ) and terminate the gloomy drama by sacrificing himself and the rest of the family on the altar of filial affection . " And then , " ho adds , " my dear , good , kind old father will have some peace on earth . " This is sanguinary language from one who has described himself to a reporter as " a mild-mannered man who never intentionally injured " that industrious and irritating insect , " a fiea . " Of course , we must accept these propositions to engage in a wholesale murder business as purely Pickwickian . Possibly , however , ibis family letter-writer proposed to prove that he was himself insane , and that he had inherited insanity from his father . This would be a sort of inductive evidence backward . But yesterday , according to the statement of one of his sons , the senior LORD was " a poor , infirm , and imbecile old gentleman , " who was being hid away from his bereaved family , a portion of whom were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption , without so much as a private carriage to stay the fell destroyer . He was kept " under the influence of a narcotic drug " by the siren , who is lightly limned as " the most astounding thief the world ever produced , " and " capable of doing anything that is damnable . " To the surprise of everybody , this aged , imbecile , bewitched , and drugged millionaire suddenly shakes off the influence of the narcotic drug and shows fight . - He may bo senile , imbecile , drugged , and incapable of being called upon for a dollar outside of his own children , but the side of the story which he presents is uncommonly lively reading . The old gentleman refuses to get into his grave , and ho declines giving up his own property to his heirs expectant without making a struggle to maintain control over it . To this complexion , then , the case has come at last . It is agreed that a man may make a fool of himself , if he chooses , at any age and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on with complacency , even applause . But when he puts a lien on his own money , ( which somebody else hopes to inherit , ) he must be kept under restraint . Ho may be sane enough to make a will , provided he makes one of the right sort ; but lie may be too far gone to marry , if his marriage puts a lien on his property . In this particular case , the courts must decide upon the sanity of the bridegroom and prospective testator . But the heirs apparent and step-children are indubitably very mad . of money , which a gossiping world insisted on dragging into this business , now appears in the letters which one of the heirs apparent has written to his stepmother during her honeymoon . It seems that this particular heir apparent is afflicted second column of article was missing                     