@@743136

txt District societies ins connection With the New-York Life Insurance Company are in course of formation at various points in the New-England States . One has been some time in operation at Providence , under respectable local direction , and another has begun business at Lowell , with the advantages accruing from a substantial local directory . Among the purposes for which these societies are organized is the attainment of a due measure of influence in the affairs of the parent company . Thus the Providence society sets forth as an object the providing " a practical method of association for the Rhode Island policyholders " " which will guard their interests and secure for them a virtual representation and influential voice at the home office . " If this were the only , or the chief , object of the efforts which the existence of these societies indicates , they might be added to the catologue of means employed by companies to meet the exigencies of competition . But the societies have a more noteworthy purpose . The primary reason assigned by the Lowell board for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affords the means of . bringing the advantages of life insurance to the attention of our working people in a form which ought to secure their confidence and co-operation . " To give better effect to the intention , , the board invite from superintendents of factories , foremen , and others , " suggestions as to the best methods of interesting the working classes in the business . " The Providence Directors make a similar announcement . They say that the desire is " to provide means whereby sober , industrious working men may become members of an old and wealthy " company , and so secure benefits already ? possessed by others . It is to be regretted that the managers of the Providence society , in their report on the business of the year during which it has been in operation , do not specifically state the amount accruing from their industrial branch . The public would then be enabled to judge how far the society is succeeding in its ostensible purpose . As it tands , the report does not exhibit a clear appreciation of the considerations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the : aeasures to be employed to secure their co-:operation . Publications of the Lowell sock:ty evince greater sagacity upon both poini .. More care is employed in the attempt to win the confidence of working men , and by providing for the receipt of monthly premiums a disposition to consult 7 their convenience is manifested . Whether enough has been done in this direction , is a question beset with doubts . Something is needed to adapt the prevailing forms of life insurance to the circumstances of people whose means are limited , and in too many instances precarious ; and only the most judicious action can obviate the jealousy and distrust with which persons of . this class are prone to regard the approaches of others , not heartily in sympathy with them . Only the thrifty will think of insurance , and as thrift begets independence , it is evident that the efforts of these societies must be divested of everything resembling patronage . So serious ara the obstacles arising from this source , that only rare tact and good judgment , and au equally rare superiority to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course marked out for them by their promoters . Local machinery may be made a very useful auxiliary to the company , provided the pretensions which local boards are apt to urge with regard to investments be firmly resisted . But the ability of a great company to attract a class of insurance different from that on which its greatness has hitherto rested , without incumbering itself with machinery not in harmony with that whichit has got , remains to be determined . The New-York Life Insurance Company deserves credit for making the experiment ; but after all it is an experiment , so far as the acquisition of industrial policy-holders is concerned . " Co-operative insurance , " so called , has attained ; dimensions which attest the strength of the provident instinct among American working men . It is a delusive system and will end in disaster , but its magnitude indicates a disposition which can not be misunderstood . Odd-fellows ' societies , and all societies of a kindred character , appeal still more strongly to the prudence of working men , because providing for the exigencies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those dependent on the dead . All these orders , however admirable their motives , are open to the objection which applies to co-operative insurance . Their resources are so obviously unequal to their accumulating obligations that sooner or later there will be disappointment and suffering among their members . ? Hence the desirableness of a carefully-digested plan of industrial insurance ; and , hence , too , the value of affiliation with 's life insurance company whose experience and ' prosperity inspire a reasonable degree of faith in its future . For working men , however , and for small policy-holders generally , special features are necessary . Thoy have need of consideration in respect of matters which to those usually addressed by the companies are of comparatively little importance . They must think of their own prospective wants , as well as of the possible wants of wives and children . Endowment policies and tontine policies have their uses , but , for various reasons , they are adapted only to the circumstances and habits of classes other than those for whom individual insurance should be designed . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bearing a stipulated surrender value , and at a given age convertible into an annuity , would , more effectually than any other plan , cover the requirements of the wage-earner as regards both his family and himself .                     