@@740698

txt It has been said that the barbarians who threaten modern civilization are within its boundaries , not outside . It is no longer the savages from some distant and half-mythical Scythia , or the warlike barbarians of Scanriinavia , who threaten the Empires and States of modern times . The dangerous enemies of every modern State are in her large cities . Few , who are not conversant with " the dangerous classes . " can have a conception what a thin crust , in all countries , separates the elegant and comfortable world from the barbaric and savage forces , working among dense masses of ignorant human beings . Public writers and preachers are inclined to look at this social explosion in Paris as something abnormal and horrible . and peculiar to France alone . If , has indeed its peculiarly French horrors , but the dangerous and seething materials which gave it its power are to be found in every large capital . In London , today , there is an immense multitude of human beings , ignorant , degraded , struggling eternally only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , burrowing in all kinds of wretched dens and holes , full of envy toward the rich , easy to be inflamed by socialist agitators against the classes who for ages have had all the blessings of life , while to them were left its curses  --  a dark , boiling , explosive mass of population , which would only need an opportunity , finch as the siege gave the Paris proletaires , to - burst out with terrific violence against property , Government , and the Church itself . A similar , though less numerous class , exists in every capital of Europe . Are we in the New World free from it I Let any of our readers make a tour through the cellars and slums of a single Ward in this City  --  say the Fourth  --  or let him pass among the crowded tenement-houses of the Twelfth or Seventeenth Wards , and note the thousands of wretched creatures who hide in attics and cellars , poor , slovenly and hard-pressed ; the thousands who are more or less involved in criminal occupations ; the tens of thousands who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rich rewards of toil which hang in gilded display all around them . Let him talk with these people , and find how many believe that the poor and the laborers have never had a fair chance in the world , while capital has reaped all the blessings of existence ; and then recall what a vast multitude of persons there are in this City who either have no home at all , or who " camp " here and there for a few nights , or who depend on each day 's earnings for the day 's bread  --  and he will be convinced that New-York , like Paris , has beneath its brilliant and busy surface a volcano of deep passions and explosive social forces . Once only in the history of the City did this terrible proletaire class show its revolutionary head . For a few days in 1863 . New York seemed like Paris under the Reds in 1870 . Our mob , in place of sacking churches , burned orphan asylums , and plundered the houses of the benefactors of the white poor and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on the unhappy negroes quite equaled in atrocity anything that the French Reds perpetrated on their priests . Our " Communists " had already begun to move toward the houses of the rich , and the cry of war to property was already heard , when the spirited assistance of the United States soldiery enabled the better classes to put down the disturbance . But had the rioters been able to hold their own a week longer , had they plundered the banks , and begun to enjoy the luxuries of the rich , and been permitted to arm and organize themselves , we should have seen a communistic explosion in New-York which would probably have left this City in ashes and blood . Every great city has within it the communistic elements of a revolution . Our cities are in loss danger than European cities , because there is no pressure on this proletaire class beyond the necessary inequalities of life . The American " ouvrier " always hopes to be capitalist . Then our educational and reformatory movements are always reaching down , and gradually improving " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preventive of revolution . The industrial school and the children 's charities are transforming the youthful Communists into industrious , law-abiding , property-earning citizens . All the influences of American life are continually tending to give the proletains a permanent interest in the social order . These have only to be cherished and extended to gradually carry away the explosive forces beneath the surface of society , and make Now-York like our villages in one respect -- that every citizen may have a pride , and interest in its prosperity and its property .                     