@@742383

txt One of the most disastrous fires in respect to the kiss of life entailed that ever occurred in Cincinnati broke out at 7 o'clock this morning . The building consumed was a five-story brick , near the corner of Eighth-street and Broadway , and was used as a cigar-box manufactory . Nearly all the employes , mostly girls , and 15 or 18 in number , were at work in the third or fourth story when the alarm sounded , but so rapid was the spread of the flames in the dry , combustible material with which the place was stored , that instantly all means of escape to the lower floor was cut off . The terrified inmates rushed front one part of the building to the other , not daring to jump to the ground . Two of the girls , more prompt and courageous than the rest , ran to the burning stairway , dashed through the flames and fell exhausted and badly burned at the bottom . Their injuries were not fatal . The others ran from window to window , imploring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every effort failed , owing to the marvelous rapidity with which the flames spread through the building . One man succeeded in raising a ladder , but falling bricks and burning pieces of timber drove him away . Gradually the victims were driven upward toward the roof , where all possibility of escape was cut off . Three minutes later the whole building was on fire , and the cries of the inmates were drowned in the roaring flames . It was scarcely 10 minutes from the time the alarm was given until the fire was bursting out of every window and shooting upward from the roof . As soon as the flames were under sufficient control the firemen began to look for the bodies that were in the ruins . They soon discovered in the cellar a mass of smoking remains , which proved to he the bodies of four unfortunate victims . They were lying almost in a heap , as if death had overtaken them when huddling together in terror in a corner of the building . Three ef them were soon identified by scraps of clothing or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition . The search for bodies was continued during the afternoon , but no more were found . Others who were engaged in the factory are still unaccounted for , and it is supposed that they perished in the flames . Three men jumped front the second story and escaped unhurt . One other received such injuries that he died in three or four hours . It is stated by those who saw the beginning of the fire , that Frank St udier , one of the victims , was standing on the street when he saw the girls in the upper stories appealing for help . Ile called out that he would soon help them out , and darted up the stairway , but was soon suffocated and fell in the flames . Exaggerated stories have been afloat during the ( lay as to the loss of life . to far , however , the number of those known to have burned to death only reaches six . Considerable criticism has been expressed toward the Fire Department for not taking some means to resewe those in the burning building , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was paralyzed by the rapidity with whirls the flames spread . Almost before the firemen were aware that the inmates of the upper stories were cut off from the streets , the walls were frilling . Had there been time for deliberation the girls might have exchanged certain death for a few broken bones by jumping from the seemn1 and third stories . The building was a perfect flre-trap , being pierced from top to bottom by a narrow stairway and elevator ( Urine ! , stored with everything that was combustible , and furnished with no form of lire-escape . Several adjoining buildings , used as dwellinghouses and small workshops . were also burned . The total loss by the lire will he front $75,000 to $100,000 . The insurance is very light . Two firemen were overcome by the intense heat of the sun and of the burning building , and were carried to their homes in an unconscious condition . 