@@781752

txt The names given in these columns yesterday as the Mayor 's nominees for Rapid Transit Commissioners were correct with the exception of one . The nominations were formally made yesterday , and they are as follows : Messrs . JOSEPH SELIGMAN , LEWIS B. BROWN , CORNELIUS DELAMATER , JORDAN L. MoTr , and CHARLES J. CANDA . The name of Mr. CANDA has been substituted for that of Mr. DENNISON , and the substitution certainly does not weaken the combined strength of the nominations . Three of the Commissioners , Messrs . DELAMATER , CANDA , and Mow , are men practically acquainted with various departments of the iron industry , and all three are competent to decide intelligently upon questions of plan , construction , and material affecting a rapid-transit railroad . The other two , Messrs . JOSEPH SELIGMAN and LEWIS B. BROWN ' are financiers of a standing calculated to secure the confidence of capitalists in any scheme which they may agree to recommend . In fact , it is stated on perfectly trustworthy authority , that the Board . of Commissioners can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete the proposed railroad up to Fiftieth street . /t is no little satisfaction , after years of apparently fruitless labor in this cause , after all manner of disappointment , of treachery , and of abortive schemes , to be able to record that the beginning of the end of the rapidtransit problem has certainly been reached . Each of the Commissioners named will , before the end of next week , have qualified by taking the oath of office and by finding sureties in the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars . Thereafter they will organize under the act , " as a board , wish appropriate officers . " Before Sept. 1 the line of route will be decided on , and before the 1st of October the plans for the construction of the railroad will be . duly fixed , as well as the time within which the first section must be completed . We fully expect that the subscription-books - will not only be opened by Nov. 1 , but that within the statutory limit for preparing to receive tenders for stock , ' an amount of capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed by the Commissioners to be first constructed " will be subscribed , and the fixed percentage of cash paid in . Thereafter , the execution of the plan will be handed over to a Board of Directors chosen by the subscribers to:the stock , who will then be duly organized as a City railroad corporation . The Commissioners will , however , retain supervisory powers over the carrying out of the plans prescribed by them . ? On the whole , there appears to be no reason why , in the Fall of 1876 , the people of this City should not be provided with a very fair installment of the rapid-transit facilities which they so urgently need . Whilesit is probable that the Commissioners now appointed will endeavor to agree upon a railroad plan comprehensive enough to meet the wants of every section of the City , it is not probable that they will attempt to carry out such a plan save by installments . A great many delicate and difficult questions of detail must inevitably present themselves to their consideration , and they will require , and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indulgence . It is simply impossible that they should be able to please everybody , and in the present depressed condition of real estate values , they will have to . encounter unusual measure on the wore of deleted 8 lines                     