@@741708

txt A short time ago a vague in timation reached us that another atrocious outrage upon a foreign resident had boon perpetrated by the authorities at Panama , in the United States of Colombia . Acts of the kind in the Central and South American Governments are so common that the news created but little surprise ; yet the truth of the report was doubted by many on the ground that the lessons which have lately been taught by foreign powers to these Southern nations would not have been so soon forgotten . Now , however , full particulars of the affair have reached us , and a very unwarrantable proceeding on the part of the President of Panama it certainly is . It seems that the City of Panama is lighted with gas at the expense of the State Govermnent . But the State Government does not fulfill its obligations . It has run up a bill of some seven thousand dollars with the gas company , and now pleads total inability to pay , and even suggests repudiation . This is the final and only result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a settlement . Under the circumstances , the manager gave notice that lie could not continue to furnish the town with gas for nothing , and that therefore , after a given date , he should be-compelled to cut off the supply . To this no answer was made , and the threat was carried out . Panama was left in darkness . For this state of things the majority of the people held the Government responsible , and in reply to some expression of popular indignation , the President , one Signor Miu0 , sent . to Mr. TAYLOR , the manager of the gas company , requesting an interview on the subject . Mr. TAYLOR attended at Government House at the appointed time , bat the President , without seeing him , kept him waiting in an ante-room under a number of frivolous pretexts . After having waited a great part of the afternoon , dancing attendance in this man  --  ner on Signor limo , Mr. TAYLOR left and went back to the works , - where he had some important alterations to superintend . Hardly had he arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearance , and Mr. TAY-Lon was arrested and led away to confinement in a filthy cell in the common jail , iu company with a number of the lowest criminals . It happens , however , that Mr. TAYLOR is a British subject . The British Consul therefore immediately appeared upon the scene , and a vigorous protest on his part , together with the promise of more serious measures if necessary , caused the President to give Mr. TAYLOR his liberty . The Panama Star and Herald treats the matter as one which is certain to call down upon the Government of Colombia some action from the British Government , and thinks it will be fortunate if it can be . settled by diplomatic interference at Bogota . So far the Star and Herald is probably right . But the subject has another aspect . The United States id Colombia , in common with all the Central American States , the southern Republics , and Brazil , is anxious to encourage inunigration . Their prosperity , and certainly the . development of their wealth , are dependent upon it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to Europe but to this country . Much indeed of the enterprise that is now visible there is due to citizens . of this Republic . But acts of tyranny like this of President Mato are illcalculated to increase the confidence of foreigners in those semi-Spanish Governments . It is not pleasant to be placed at the mercy of an unscrupulous and reckless official , and to suffer the most degrading treatment at his hands for no offense whatever , even though there be a future prospect of international intervention , or of a bombardment of the town , iu one 's behalf . Such acts as this are a disgrace to the United States of Colombia , and especially to the intelligence of those who have been the means of placing a man like Mr. MIRO at the head of the State . But they are also a material injury to the place in which they happen . Few foreigners would care to place their liberty and that of their families at the mercy of a Government where all may at any moment be sacrificed at the whim of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people in these United States to settle on the Isthmus , where , it tells us , there is much scope for commercial and other enterprise . But until it can be shown that there is a little more equity and a great deal less tyranny in that part of the world , it seems to us that people will be wiser to find a settlement anywhere else . It might be possible to overcome other of the disadvantages attending a career at Panama , but it is little short of folly to expect a free man to migrate to sue% a place , and to live under such a Government as that of President Miro while the rest of the world is open to him .                     