@@742591

txt Notwithstanding the protests of the " diplomatic agents " of the Republic of Cuba , it is tolerably certain that the war is over and that peace is declared in Cuba . It is a long time since the revolution , as it has been called , manifested any vitality . For years past , we may say , the people of the United States have regarded the conflict with languid interest . This is not because our fellow-citizens did not sympathize with the Cuban struggle for liberty . On the contrary , all the moral support ever given to the Republic of CESPEDES and JORDAN came from the United States . It may be added that the solo material aid ministered to the rebels was derived from this country . It was in Now-York that expeditions were organized and preparations made for descents upon the coasts of a friendly power . Popular sentiment ran high in favor of the Cuban patriots ; and it was difficult to preserve a ' strict neutrality while the mass of the people were overwhelmingly in favor of the liberation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has degenerated into a guerrilla fight , and the war has become a series of petty reprisals , a larger sort of bushwhacking , our people have ceased to regard the affair with serious attention . And the war comes to an end without exciting special remark . Nevertheless , it is a good thing to be able to say that peace at last reigns in Cuba . Tho war began in 1808 , though the preparations for a rising were made during the previous year . During the first two or three years of the rebellion the fighting on the island was bloody and desperate . During those first years several important and deadly battles wore fought . In 1869 the Volunteers committed their worst excesses . In Havana they were guilty of the most violentexcesses , when men , women , and children were murdered at the Villanueva Theatre , the Louvre , and the sacking of ALDAMA 'S house . From that date until the accession of Gen. JOVELLAR , in the latter part of 1873 , the island was desolated by one of the most . cruel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to rebels ; their families were slain in cold blood , their property confiscated , women and children- found alone on farms were forcibly removed to points within the Spanish lines , houses and industrial depots not covered by flags of truce were destroyed , and a series of sanguinary ekdiets were issued against insurgents and all those who might be charged with aiding , abetting , or sympathizing with them . The bloody and brutal VALMESEDA seemed to exhaust ingenuity in the preparation of measures to strike terror to the souls of the rebels and to horrify an impartial world . When JoVELLAR succeeded PIELTAIN in November , 1873 , Spain had sent 80,000 soldiers to Cuba , of whom less than 10,000 then survived . No authentic statement of eXponditures had been made , but it was acknowledged that more than $80,000,000 had been spent in the endeavor to crush the rebellion . The struggle was unequal . It was only a question of time with the Spanish owners of the island when they should trample out the last of the expiring embers of the rebellion . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sell their lives as dearly as possible in their struggle for liberty . Unhappily , they were divided in their councils , and even the friendly territory of the United States was vexed with their tureemly quarrels . The increasing hopelessness of their cause did not unite them . Ma ntime the temper of the home Governmen I had materially changed . When the standard of revolt was first raised on the field of Yara , ISABELLA was justle : wing th e throne of Spain . Her downfall , the administrations of PRIM , CASTELLAR , and a long line of provisional rulers ,  --  the accession and fall . of AMADEUS , and the return of ALFONSO , have served to modify Spanish rule in tie Antilles . It must be acknowledged that Spain has , after all , made much progress in the science of government since the corrupt and abominable reign of ISABELLL was brought to a sudden end . The Cubans demanded independence ; while they have been fighting for independence , substantial reforms have been granted them without any special blowing of trumpets . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Home Government was willing to concede much , but independence could not be granted . The insurgents , who we  --  e determined to accept nothing short of independence , agree to lay down their arms and accept liberal amnesty and various desirable modifications in the Government of Cuba . Since:the beginning of the last teem of JOVELLAR , the war has not been carried on with much vigor on either side , although a state of war has nominally existed . Now and again a fitful flame of battle has flared up for a day , but it has speedily died down again . Tho most active belligerence has been displayed in the offices of the Spanish and Cuban envoys in New-York and Washington . A fierce cannonade of bulletins has been maintained by the opposing diplomatic agents , and there has been much sanguinary carnage  --  in the newspapers . It has been the custom of these peaceful combatants to slay their thousands in the telegraphic reports one day , while the other side promptly called the dead to life again on the morrow . Whether , like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other in private , . when the paper battle was over , we do not know , But it is alleged that the latter part of the war in Cuba was carried on " by mutual consent ; " that a ring in Havana , interested in war contracts , managed the so-called campaign , and that the so-called insurgents consented to keep up a show of resistance ? and divided the profits . This curious tale may have been founded on EmroND ABOUT 'S story of the Greek brigands who fraternized with the military Police , and . arranged . with them the time , place , and details of their next mock encounter with amusing gravity . But it can not be denied that the Cuban revolution in Cuba and in New-York has long since ceased to be serious . Very naturally , the end of the nominal contest in Cuba is made the occasion for fresh recrimination . The agents in this country , whose occupation is gone , contradicted with vehemence the first reports of a concluded peace . Next they will accuse each other of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It was to many a profitable contest as long as it lasted . And when it was least hopeful it paid best . At first , when the war was prosecuted in earnest , and earnest men were at the head of the insurgents , it was impossible to refuse sympathy to the cause for which they fought . Latterly , the management of affairs has fallen into the hands of adventurers and charlatans . We can not tell how many of these have conducted the final negotiations in Cuba . But it is certain that the struggle wi.s no longer heroic , that its shadowy existence was largely maintained by jobbery , and that Spaniards and Cubans profited by keeping up this phantom . Long ago , it was a fixed conclusion that Cuba could not be free and independent . Therefore , it is well tint an actual and formal peace replaces the feeble pretense of war .                     