@@742544

txt The proposition of Senator Edmunds that Congress should voluntarily abstain from soliciting appointments to office , as a measure of civil service reform , will not strike the average Congressman as a practical suggestion . Tho proposition is the same in substance as that which Mr. Trumbull , when in the Senate , embraced in the form of a bill , frequently urging its passage . This bill was absolutely prohibitory upon members of Congress , against whom penalties were provided for voluntarily soliciting or recommending the appointment of any person to the civil service . The civil service scheme of the George William Curtis commission was received by politicians with a vast amount of favor , compared with the proposition of Mr. Trumbull . His bill had less strength in the Senate than would probably be discovered for granting the right of suffrage to the members of the Women 's Suffrage Convention . The suggestion strikes at the very root of the present civil service system . If , voluntarily , members of Congress withdraw from the solicitation for appointments , the Executive would be absolutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might seek , the information which Congressmen could give with adVantage to the service and to the party . But them would be an end of purely partisan and personal manipulation of the civil service appointments , and the link between the civil service and party politics would be completely severed . The President 's civil service order of last Spring strikes at the same point , indirectly , by removing , if strictly enforced , the motive that Congressmen now have for seeking office in behalf of their . friends and supporters , because officers whose appointment they might secure would be disqualified from conducting their political affairs . If Mr. Trumbull was unable to secure any votes for his bill , it can be easily believed that not many voluntary subscribers are likely ' to be obtained for Senator Edmunds ' pledge of abstinence . The law would have this recommendation over the pledge , that it would exclude the successors of the present Congress from the enjoyment of privileges which the pledge requires them to deny to themselves . 