@@741758

txt The conduct of the British Admiralty , relative to the sinking of the Vanguard , reminds one of the attempt made by one of Mr. Pickwick 's followers to rescue him from the officers who were taking him before the Mayor of Ispwich . The zealous and intrepid Picknickian , indignant that his- revered leader should be a prisoner , but still unwilling to assault the officers of the law , made a terrific onslaught upon an inoffensive small boy . The Admiralty has decided that the Admiral in charge of the squadron to which the Vanguard belonged , mid the Captain of the Iron Duke , which sunk the Vanguard , are entirely free from blame , but it has also fallen with great indignation upon sundry Lieutenants , boatswains , and engineers , and told them that they ought to be ashamed of themselves for having permitted a valuable iron-clad to be sunk . To be sure , , the Admiralty had previously hazarded the conjecture that the Captain of the Vanguard was somewhat to blame , and had therefore ordered him to be dismissed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not deprive him of anything which he bad not already lost , since his ship lay at the bottom of the channel , where he could not very well resume command of her except in a diver 's uniform . The official minute , exonerating the Admiral who , by driving his squadron at high speed through a dense fog , made the accident possible , and censuring ' subordinate officers , who , so far as is shown , only obeyed orders , has naturally created a good deal of dissatisfaction iii England , and it is unfortunate that such a curious dealing out of naval justice should follow close upon the court-martial which exonerated the officers of the royal yacht who sunk the Mistletoe in the Solent . Nobody doubts that steam has upon the whole made ocean navigation much safer than it formerly was . It is , however , becoming equally evident that steam-ships are now frequently placed in charge of men who are wanting in seamanship , and who are incapable of properly handling the vessels committed to their care . A man does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " go ahead , " to " ease her , " " stop her , " or " back her . " If to the ability to issue these orders ho adds a knowledge of the method of determining a ship 's position at sea , he can make shift to take a steamer across the Atlantic in fair weather quite successfully . Of course , no man is given command of a steamer unless he is supposed to be a practical seaman of considerable experience ; but that incompetent steam-ship Captains are numerous we have abundant evidence . Not to refer again to the case of the Vanguard , there is the recent wreck of the Boyne , whose Captain stupidly ran her on the rocks near Ushaut in a fog ; and there are also the wrecks of the Schiller , the Atlantic , and the Ville du Havre , not one of which would have occurred had the steamers been in the charge of careful and competent officers . The additional safety which the provision of steam power gives can easily be counterbalanced by the increased danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command of steamers . A sailing vessel with good officers is far safer than the finest steam-ship with au ignorant and reckless Captain , and unless more care is taken in the selection of steam-ship officers , the traveling public will begin to look regretfully upon the slow but sate sailing-packets of twenty years ago .                     