@@743200

txt The war with the Utes brings us , once more , face to face with the Indian problem . This is a question which is invariably postponed . Rash and unthinking people blame the Army , the Indian Bureau , and the bad men who are sent out to act as agents . It may be admitted that all of these , at one time or another , are to blame for the frequent collisions which occur between the red . men and the settlers  --  collisions which begin with savage massacres and end with massacres of the savages . But behind all these lies the general and unsettled policy of the United States . This policy is determinable only by Congress . What has Congress ever done to define the course of conduct which should be pursued toward the Indians ' When did either branch of Congress ( which has occupied days and weeks in ' the discussion of abstract political questions ) ever consume one whole day in adebate directed to the settlement of the general policy which our Government should pursue to the wild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Secretary of the Interior , and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs , may each have his private opinion as to what shall be done with the non-civilized tribes of Indians . But where is the statute which embodies any Congressional opinion upon this subject 7 Take the case of the Utes as a fair example . They were granted an ample reservation within certain well-defined boundaries . The Senate confirmed the treaty by which this land was ceded to the tribe , and the House voted an appropriation to carry out that treaty , Thus both houses were committed , to a certain extent , to a policy which would confine the Utes to certain limits and furnish them with means of sustenance . Beyond . this , however , Congress did not go . How these Indians were to bo treated , whether as beings susceptible of motives which might influence their choice , or as creatures , who were to be handled like dumb , driven cattle , nowhere appears in any law or in any report of Congressional debate . Having voted money and . ratified the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interior , the responsibility of Congress is supposed . to be at an end . So far as the action of Congress is concerned , nobody knows whether it was , or is , or has been in favor of the wildest sort of freedom to the Indians or of civilization and agricultural pursuits for those longneglected tribes . Obviously , it would be impracticable for Congress to adopt a settled and " cast-iron " policy to be pursued toward all the tribes . LINCOLN 'S failure to approve of the reconstruction scheme as prepared by HENRY WINTER DAVIS and B. P. WADE was based on reasons which might well deter the National Legislature from adopting a plan to be similarly and indiscriminately applied to all Indian tribes . " This plan , " said the good . President , " is like the bed of PROCRUSTES . If a man was too short for it , he must be pulled out ; if he was too long , he must be chopped off to fit it . " In like manner , it might be said that the treatment which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . be utterly unfitted for the warlike Comanches . Nevertheless , Congress has failed to originate and formulate any policy which should be pursued by the Executive Department toward any one specified . tribe of Indians . It may be urged that the Executive Department is to be held responsible for the treatment of these wards of the nation . Indeed , this is the commonest Congressional disposition of the whole matter . Having meddled and muddled until the scheme of government of the Interior Department  --  if it has a scheme of government  --  is left in dire confusion , Congress calmly turns aside to its President-making and its contemptible party politics , and says : " Now take up this mangled matter at the best and see what you can make of it . " The system of appointing humanitarian agents ' for the Indians originated during Gawr 's Administration . It was purely an Executive invention , but was taken up and indorsed by Congress . It was not long , however , before Congress worked over that policy and voted and legislated. and manipulated the whole scheme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original policy remained . Congressmen voted in favor of apportioning the responsibilities of the Indian service among Episcopalians , Methodists , Presbyterians , and . so on , and . then went to the Interior Department and lobbied for the benefit of rednosed political bummers as agents . It is unprofitable to multiply words upon this subject . Congress will assemble in a few weeks . There are few subjects of more immediate and commanding importance which it can consider than the general policy to be pursued toward those Indian tribes who are neither semi-civilized , like the Delawares and Pottawattamies , nor wild and predatory like the Ogallalla Sioux . The wrongs of the Poncas and the rebellion of the Utes are proper and . cognate subjects for Congressional discussion . One of these tribes was dispossessed of its reservation and driven into active hostilities by what is alleged  --  to be a mere blunder in a survey . The other was exasperated by a persistent attempt to make an agricultural people of a tribe of Indians who refused to have their lands plowed , and who sulkily held themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . upon their reservation . Is it not possible and practicable for Congress to define some general principles , by the practice of which similar disasters may in future be avoided ?                     