@@743012

txt The Boston Board of Trade has appointed a committee to prepare the draft of a new National Bankrupt law , and has requested the Chamber of Commerce of this City , and similar organizations in other cities , to cooperate in securing the passage of such a law . The New-York Chamber of Commerce has decided to appoint a committee for this purpose , and , doubtless , other bodies will take action in the matter . If these influential organizations , representing the commercial interests of the country , take up the subject in earnest , the movement is likely to lead to results of far more importance to the mercantile community than will the elaborate Insolvent bill now pending in the Legislature of this State . A good Bankrupt law is universally recognized not only as desirable from a strictly business point of view , but also as necessary to commercial growth and prosperity . Such a law should relieve an honest debtor from the heavy burden which financial disaster has brought upon him , and , at the same time , by an economical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure the creditors in their just rights . But there has always been more or less prejudice against bankruptcy and insolvent laws , owing to the gross abuses which their defects have made possible  --  abuses which have had a demoralizing effect on business , and have threatened to destroy the credit which is essential to commercial activity . These evils , however , can be reduced to a minimum , if they can not be wholly avoided , by a law properly drawn . In the absence of a national system of bankruptcy , a State Insolvent law may serve a useful purpose . At the present time most of the States have such laws . But they are to be regarded as a temporary expedient rather than a permanent measure , and to be tolerated only until a satisfactory national law shall be secured . Commerce is in its nature national or international . The trade of a country knows no State lines . Hence , a law which essentially affects and regulates the business interests of the country at large should be national . What the commercial interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the United States , and this can . be secured only by an act of Congress . When that body refuses to provide such a law , Insolvent acts , may be passed by the several States . But these can have no extra-territorial force , and would become unconstitutional should their effect be to interfere with inter-State commerce . They may give rise to as many different systems of bankruptcy as there are States . This must necessarily prove unsatisfactory , and result in more or less confusion . State Insolvent laws are as objectionable as State Patent , Copyright , or Trade-mark laws would be . The importance of a national law of bankruptcy was recognized when ' Congress was expressly empowered by the Constitution to legislate for that purpose . It is remarkable , however , that of the ninety years that have passed since the formation of the Government there has been a Federal bankrupt law in force during less than twenty years . The Act of 1800 was repealed in 1S03 , and that of 1841 remained in , force only about two years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repealed in 1878 . The repeal of this last ? act received the hearty approval of the mercantile community . But the objection to that law ) vas , not that it was a national one , but that it ' had been so loosely drawn as to have become tho instrument of the grossest abuses and frauds . Going through bankruptcy under it was often but a road to wealth to the corrupt bankrupt , and even , when anything was surrendered by an honest insolvent , the greater part of it was generally swallowed up by the Registers and the lawyers . To the creditors such a law Was a mockery , and it , is not supriring that they clamored for its radical amendment . or repeal . It was wisely swept from the statute books , and there is naturally more or less aversion in commercial circles to repeating the experience . But because that was an objectionable law , it does not follow that a good one can not be framed . We have said that a national is far preferable to a State law . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community , there is no reason why as good , or a better , statute may not be devised by Congress . If there is statesmanship enough in the average Legislature to frame a good statute of this kind , there certainly ought to be in Congress . It is true that the past legislation of Congress on this subject has not been productive of encouraging results . But in this respect we may well follow the example of England , where a Bankrupt law has been kept in force since the reign of HENRY VIII . When experience has proved the law to be defective , it has been amended or supplanted by a new one . The English act of 1869 was doubtless as defective as the law repealed by . Congress last year . But , instead of abolishing the system of bankruptcy , Parliament is now devising a better law to take the place of the existing one .                     