@@742622

txt It is rare that a session of Congress passes without some project of improving the Militia , and the present session is no exception to the rule . It at first seems strange that while all other great powers  --  indeed , all other powers , great and small  --  maintain elaborate Militia establishments , founded and directed by central authority , our country has nothing to show save local organizations , on a very limited . scale and purely volunteer . Nevertheless , all attempts to alter this condition of the Militia , from the bills of Senator WiDsox and Gen. PAINE , a dozen years ago , down to those now pending , ' have failed . The difficulty we take to be this : It is impracticable to enforce the existing Militia statutes and next to impfacticablo to substitute acceptable new ones . Made in 1792 and . modernized in 1803 , the existing statutes contain wise and severe directions about flints , firelocks , shot-pouches , powder-horns , hangers , pontoons , fusoes , and mail-pillions , and they require every able-bodied male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18 and 45 , armed and accoutred with more or fewer of these ancient implements , to turn out on regular days of training . During the present session the Senate , impelled. by its annual desire to do some sort of Militia legislation , reciting this provision of universal enrollment , passed a resolution asking the Secretary of War what recommendations he had to offer for carrying out the existing statutes , and so on . In due time the information came ; and it must have fallen heavily on the hopes of the Senate , if the Senate had any hopes . The Quartermaster-General reported that the enrolled Militia under the statutes would number 7,500,000 men , according to the census of 1870 . Giving the most ample margin . for exemptions , Gen. MEIGS finds that 50 per cent . of the whole number will be the " limit of those actually called . out " for annual muster , that is , 3,750,000 men and officers . This is about the German percentage of exemption . Gen. MEIGS accordingly goes gravely through an estimate of the clothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men ; he adds the cost of transporting the supplies , the arms , and the men to and from camp , the rent of grounds , the fuel , forage and straw , the building of barracks , &c.,; and he finds the total to be $245,096,272 . There is no demonstration of an absurdity more convincing than that of authoritative figures . And when it is remembered that to this large sum must be added the pay , and a further cost for arms and equipments , it is , clear enough that enforcing the statutes a3 simplypreposterous . And the real question . is after all as yet untouched , namely , what do we want of three millions of Militia ? Leaving the existing statutes to remain d dead letter , as so many successive Congresses have left them , we next , sk whethec there is not some possible substitute . Such a question must not be answered off-hand. in the negative . At sonic day the organizing genius may come  --  the American CAR NOT  --  who , devoting his mind to the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Militia which will be at once so cheap and so effective as to take the place both of the State volunteer Militia and the Regular Army . In the meantime we may point out why it is , probably , that this CARNOT has not come hitherto , or has not been wanted if he has already come . In the first place , it may safely be set down as a principle that our American people are not in favor of a general , enforced military service , not oven of the very slight service now exacted of them by the deadletter statute . Had they been willing to endure this service , they would long since have had an effective National Militia law . But the existing statute was founded on a fundamental error . Its framers , the early statesmen of the country , had a general theory that standing armies were dangerous to the liberty of a republic . Hence they provided for a great body of militia and almost no army . But , as time passed , the little Army , at first less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by successive stages until in the year 1820 it reached an aggregate of 12 , - 431 ; and by that time the old theories of the danger of a standing army  --  based on a curious blindness to the probable difference between a little army regulated by Congress and a great army controlled by a despot  --  had gradually weakened until they had practically disappeared . While this was going on , a second change was occurring . The elaborate Militia system , instead of being looked upon with favor , was popularly regarded as a piece of folly . Exemptions were procured by money , physicians ' certificates , and so on , until trainings fell into absolute contempt . Under the test el ' experience , the whole fabric utterly broke down , and Congress did not oven take the trouble to repeal the law ; while , on the ruins , about half a century ago , was built nil our present system of volunteer State Militia . Our belief is that any attempt to organize a national Militia system will find itself troubled  --  though it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people . Considering the cost of a general national Militia , and the calling of the people away from their occupations at inconvenient moments , the popular feeling will for some time continue to be , we think , that volunteer service for the ordinary needs of the States , and a small regular Army , like the present , for the ordinary nee &; of the country , form not only the cheapest , but the most convenient system in a land situated like our own . Congress , however , may find a good work to do in encouraging local Militia , in developing the new zeal for rifle-practice , in more wisely expending the annual $200,000 Militia appropriation required by law , and in providing for some system of thorough Militia inspection , with reports and suggestions , by officers of the regular Army .                     