@@742688

txt It is promised that Mr. Potter 's committee will meet to-morrow for organization , and as the Democrats of the committee have had several private conferences , it is probable they will be able to preeent a programme , and thus enable the committee to start at once upon the work of investigation . The first meeting will no doubt be taken up in arranging preliminaries , but those who pretend to know what has been done in the way of collecting testimony say that the committee will at once proceed to the examination of witposses . It is plain to be seen that a great change has come over the Democrats touching this investigation . The boastings and demonstrations of last week have ceased , and very little is said about assailing the title of Mr. Hayes . The letters of remonstrance received from constituents , as well as the admonitions and deprecation conveyed by the newspapers , have induced a halt in the direction of revolution marked out by those who conducted the investigation and forced it through the House . For the most Dart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ title , or doing anything calculated to cause the slightest uneasiness to business interests . Mr. Potter declares that there is no purpose in the investigation that he is aware of except to learn the truth about the frauds alleged to have been committed at the late Presidential election , that the perpetrators may be exposed and punished . If the President shall be found to have been implicated - in frauds he would have to accept the consequences the same as any other person ; but there was no Intention to do anything to dispute the validity of his title . This he regards as irrefragable as though there had been no contest over it . The question to be investigated was not one of title , but was an alleged criminal offense . He says the inquiry will be conducted with perfect , fairness , and will be as thorough and exhaustive as it can be made . A leading Democratic Senator said , in speaking of the investigation , that Mr. Hayes ' title Is just as secure against attack as that of ChiefJustice Waite . This Senator further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he should be successfully impeached as a result of the investigation , his successor would be Mr. Wheeler . In no event could Mr. Tilden profit by such a termination of the investigation . If Mr. Hayes should be removed it would be for causes that would be sufficient to secure the removal of any President , even had his election to the office been unanimous . One or the most influential and active Democratic Congressmen from the State of New-York stated this evening that not more than half a dozen Democrats in. the House could be persuaded to vote for a joint resolution declaring Hayes and Wheeler not entitled to their respective offices . He said that even if the Senate was under Democratic control , and such a resolution could be adopted , to do so , he contended , would establish a precedent that might in the future , and under a similar condition of things , be followed with equal propriety by the Republicans , and applied against a Democratic President . He believed the investigation would resellt in a disappointment to its authors . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . He thought nothing would be elicited but , the facts already published , accompanied , possibly , by some slight embellishment . When asked why , if such were his convictions , he brought himself to vote for the resolution directing the investigation , he replied that he could not avoid doing so . In many Congressional districts , especially at the North and West , prior to the inauguration of Hayes , many local politicians , believing that Tilden had been elected and would be inaugurated , had set their hearts on the Post Office and other Federal positions in their respective sections . These men felt that they had been defrauded of the offices they expected and have brooded over their imaginary loss ever since . Somehow they have never been able to get into their heads that the title of Mr. Hayes to the Presidency was a finality , but on the contrary have been looking for some movement on the part of the Democratic House to oust ' Mr. Hayes and put Tilden in the White House . The speaker said that , improbable as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to-day , received a letter from a local politician in his district applying for the Post Office in his village when Tilden became President , It was in hope of pacifying this class that he and a large number of Democrats voted for the Potter investigation . He admitted that there was a revolutionary element in the House , men who would stop at nothing ' to accomplish their purpose , but it was so insignificant in numbers that it was utterly powerless to do any mischief . As to Tilden 's Nuneaton w.th the scheme , he said that there was not the remotest probability of his being benefited by the result of the investigation , no matter if it was proved that Hayes was implicated in the frauds , because , in the event of his impeachment by the House and conviction by the Senate , the Presidency would devolve upon Mr. Wheeler . Carter Harrison has made a pretty thorough canvass of the Democratic side of the House , sad said the result of his inquiries shows that there are 102 Democrats who are earnestly opposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other proposition having for its object an attack upon the title of Mr. Hayes . He thinks the fact that no one Is pushing the Blair scheme , which is. now before the Judiciary Committee , is evidence that the Democrats are doing nothing and intend to do nothing to assail the President 's title . These sentiments are echoed by most of the Democratic members . They respond freely to questions touching the purpose of the investigation , and are quite anxious that the public shall be assured that they discountenance anything calculated to disturb the peace and business of the country . Many of them can not conceal the belief that a mistake was made in ordering the investigation . They were led to believe , by such men as Finley , of Ohio , and Springer , of Illinois , filet they possessed the most clear and direct evidence to convict Secretary Sherman and Minister Noyes , and perhaps the President himself , with complicity in alleged frauds . But this illusion has been dispelled , and the investigation is now egardecr on the Democratic side with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , adopted to day upon the question of assailing the Presi dent 's title , has added to the discomforts of till Democrats in C , pngress , and it is quite probable that a resolution similar to that adopted by tie Democrats in the State Convention will be pre sented shortly in the  --  House . , The fact is that the Democrats are beginning to realize the dangerously awkward position it which they have placed ' themselves . Starting out with a concealed purpose to assail the Presi dent 's title , they have been obliged to abandot their intention by the force of public sentiment , and are compelled to go forward on a voyage of discovery that is liable to shipwreck all net ; political hopes for the near future . The growing disgust of the Democrats witl this whole business is explained by a remarli made this evening by a prominent member or that side of the House . " We have beer dragooned into this investigation , " said he , " and I fear the result will be disaster to the Democratic Party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered in cam sus . Had it been so considered it would not have received 40 votes , and would never have been permitted to show itself in the House . " The work left undone by the Democratic National Committee , who adjourned sine die to , day , was more important than that accom. plishod . The members are very reticent about the details of their proceedings , but it ha : leaked out that a resolution declaring against any assault upon the title of President Hayes was formally rejected . The discussion oyez this resolution was long and bitter , running through the entire evening session . The following resolution was adopted : Resolved , That the action of the House ' of Repre ? sentatives in apnointiug a committee fully ampowered to investigate and report upon the frauds alleged to have been committed in the late Presidential election , to the end that the truth may he made known to the people and the repetition of such frauds be prevented in the future , meets the approval of this committee . The committee did not take any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A committee was appointed to co-operate with the Congressional Committee in regard to the Autumn Congressional elections , as follows : Senators Barnum , ( Chairman ) of Connecticut , and Ransom , of North Carolina ; Representatives Ross , of New-Jersey , and John G. Thompson , of Ohio .                     