@@740755

txt The case of JOSEPH MESSNER has excited considerable interest and excitement in the State during the past two or three years . From the time that the condemned man struck the blow that killed his wife in the town of Penfield over three years ago last April , his career has been an extraordinary one . Three different times he has been sentenced to die , and three months ago he was dressed for the gallows when the Governor 's respite arrived . His fate seems sealed , for unless unexpected offielal interference prevents , he will be hung in Rochester next Friday morning . The Democrat and Chronicle contained the following iutenesting account of ins present condition : The prisoner sent a letter , a few days since , to some ladies who were his neighbor6 while he lived in that part of the city called Frankfort , prior to his removal to Penfield , requesting them to call upon him . Yesterday those friends made the call . MESSNER was asleep at the time they arrived , but on being awakened by Jailer BECKwrrit he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a most hearty manner . He did not seem to have any special reason for desiring their presence . While they remained he talked in a rambling manner and jested with them as he may have done when his situation was vastly different from what it is now . His visitors seemed painfully conscious of the awful fate which awaits him , but his language was such as one would expect to hear from a man who eat by his own fireside enjoying the greatest domestic tranquility . He picked up his German Bible , which has in it illustrations of scriptural scenes , and appeared to interest himself In pointing them out and telling what they were , &c.; To a remark made by one of the ladies , be said " All will be well with me by and by . " One of the waiters at the jail brought in his supper while his neighbors were present , and on her departure ** made some ordinary remarks in French to her which under any other circumstances the spectators would consider playful . On the departure of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first time to appreciate his condition . When passing through the front yard from the jail , he passed his band through the iron bars covering his cell window , and called to the little girl accompanying his friends , bidding her good-bye . He then sat down to his meal , which consisted of corn beet , vegetables , bread and butter , tea , &c.,; and partook of it heartily and with evident relish . We were informed by the constable eho watches him that he generally sits up every night until 12 o'clock talking and reading the Bible . He then goes to bed and sleeps soundly until about 6 o'clock in the morning . He generally takes a Bleep in the forenoon unless his calls are so numerous as to prevent it . He does not have much to say about his approaching fate ; but if he makes any remarks in reference to it , it is to the effect that he is ready and willing to die . On his attention being called to the paragraph w bleb appeared in the city papers a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death . lie replied that he did feel bad after his second trial , and for a few days lost his appetite . Three years ago last April this man was lodged in jail , and today he looks stronger , more healthy and eats better . probably than at any period during that time . The haggard and pale appearance , and the depressed expression of countenance which he had once , have entirely disappeared , and JOSEPH MESSNER looks outwardly as well as when arrested for the awful crime of which he has been found guilty . It is rumored that his counsel have not yet relinquished all hope of saving their client 's life ; that papers asking for a commutation of his sentence are now in the hands of the Governor . It is difficult to determine from MESSN ER 'S manner whether he entertains any hopes or not . 