@@741939

txt CHARLES LAMB in their preference of a prospect composed of bricks and paving stones , all of us , who can do so endeavor to provide ourselves with a garden , or with such a small semblance of one as is possible in apatelf of ground behind a villa , or even within the fences of a City building lot . Happy those whose little Edens are so circumscribed that they can emulate our first parents , and till it themselves . Not that such occupation ie very profitable . Quite the contrary . But as in fox-hunting , it is not the fox , but the chase that the hunter longs for ; so in amateur gardening , it is not the flowers and the fruit which the amateur coaxes out of the reluctant mold , but the process of coaxing , the scraping , the digging , the planting , the weeding , the pruning , and the solicitous watching that reward him for his expenditure of time and of money . To those , however , who have a " place " in the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and perhaps a hothouse and a shrubbery , as parts of their establishment , Spring is a season of ever-recurring perplexity . For such unfortunate persons are in the hands of the new tyrants of the modern ? world ? we mean the professional gardener . This personage has become one of the most absolute and oppressive of the ministers to the comfort and the pleasure of rural proprietors . Housekeepers who live in a certain style are at the mercy of their cooks , who feed them with such meat as is convenient for them , and gentlemen who , have horses and carriages are permitted by grooms and coachmen to use them only at stated seasons , and then with becoming meekness and a , sense that they are intruders in their own vehicles . But the arrogance of the modern gardener surpasses that even of the modern cook and the modern coachman . It might reasonably be supposed that the business of a gardener was so to lay out the  --  ground iu his charge that it would please the eye of his employer 's family , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his function was discharged by bringing the ground under cultivation , and raising it to the highest productiveness ; and . that , this done , the family for - whom the labor was performed might enjoy it and profit by it according to their own pleasure . Such a supposition , however natural , betrays a lamentable ignorance of the real position assumed by the niodern gardenei. it is hp , not his employer , who decides what shall be planted and what shall be gathered . He determines the quantity and the succession of vegetables and small fruits which shall be provided for the family ; he chooses the shrubs , and , above all , lie fills the conservatory . In many a grand-looking country place it is hard for the master to get from his costly beds enough green peas and lettuce to supply his own table , if his family is large or he has many guests ; and as to the cost of what he does get , ho inight.more cheaply have it sent by express from the nearest city market . The gardener permits no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his object is not to supply his employ- er 's table and to decorate his grounds or his rooms , but to magnify- his own office . He lays himself out , not to produce a succession of crops , but to produce something wonderfuly early or wonderfully flue . To have . tt pint of peas or a saucerful of strawberries to show twenty-four hours before the gardener of the next place is the object of his ambition . That attained , the family , for aught he cares , may go pea-less and strawberry-less the rest of the season . Nor will this mighty personage , after his first triumph , descend to the vulgarly useful work of gathering fruits and vegetables that he has raised . It is his business to grow them , not to pick them . And yet , if the maid-servants go into the strawberry-beds , he complains of the destructive effect of their trailing skirts , and asks how lie is to keep a garden in order if women trample his plants under foot and draggle them with their petticoats . Your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flowers than of his fruits . He ' lays himself out not to have a profusion to give , but to have something very fine to show . The common beauties of the earth he despises , and he prefers ; to point at one rose of peculiar fullness in its " doubling , " or some other rarity , . than to adorn the grounds or the tables of his employer. , He loves the artificial , and gives ; his days and nights to making things grow as nature intended they should not . If , as the Spanish nobleman wished , he could have given some hints at the creation , he would have suppressed wild flowers and primroses  --  and have ordered the growing of plants in architectural forms and in beds of geometrical shapes and proportions . And woe be to the master or the mistress who ventures to pluck a flower . in the development of which he has condescended to take . an interest . He at once intimates that he supposes he had better seek another engagement . It is related of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rueful smile that he dare not pluck one of his own flowers without permission of his gardener . The reason of all this is that the employers , by their ignorance and their neglect , are at the mercy of their gardeners : They know nothing of gardening , and they know that their gardeners know . their ignorance . Therefore , if they will . have gardens on a large scale , and conservatories , ? they must submit to the dictation of those whom they ' employ to make them , or they must do without them . A would seem that a change . in this respect Might be easily and pleasantly effected . The study of plants and their deleted about 20 lines merged columns                     