@@741764

txt The dispatches that we receive from Belgrade and Vienna relative to the Herzegovina insurrection are so manifestly exaggerated that no sort of dependence can be placed upon them , and on more than one occasion we have had proof that the reported victories of the insurgents are purely imaginary . A young French attache was sent over to Trebigne with dispatches , and was in the camp of Osmanli when news came that the insurgents were preparing for an attack . The Turkish commander took a force of 5,000 men to meet them . and the attach ? obtained permission to follow the expedition . After an hour 's march they came upon the insurgent outpost , which fled at once , and the force in the rear immediately took to the mountains , firing their guns from so long a distance that not a single ball reached the Turks . The smoke of firing was seen in ninny directions , but so far away that the reports could be only faintly beard . The Turks did not get a chalice to fire a shot , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next morning , and on reaching Vienna read an account of a terrific engagement that had taken place on the 13th instant , in which the insurgents gained an important victory , inflicting a loss of 500 men upon the Turks . A quantity of arms and munitions of war were captured by the valiant insurgents , who drove the Turks back into their intreuchments . This was the very ' engagement " witnessed by the French attach ? , or the insurgent account of that bloodless and ridiculous affair . Now and then , however , a Turkish outpost is surprised by the insurgents , and every man is killed for the sake of his nose , which is the Eastern trophy of prowess in battle , as the scalp is to the American Indian . A majority of the victories reported by telegraph are of the same character , and the Marquis de Melva was right in saying that they are fabricated in Belgrade by parties - who wish to influence the Paris Bourse . Rightly or wrongly Baron Hirsch is accused of having a hand in this matter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ottoman Government about his railway concessions , and thinks that he has been hardly used . Out of revenge , therefore , lie uses his influence against the Turkish thuds , and ou more than sine occasion ho has been able to inflict considerable damage upon . the Ottoman Treasury . I mention the matter merely to show one of the reasons for the complete unreliability of the dispatches that come from Belgrade and Vienna respecting the insurrection . Those from Constantinople are naturally of a partisan character and decidedly partial , but thus far they have been as moderate as one could expect . CHANGE IN THE SERVIAN MINISTRY . The important news from the East is the sudden change iu the Servian Ministry . The causes for it have not been officially stated , bat they are not difficult to divine . It was immediately atter the declaration made by Prince Milan in the Skupochtijna that the Cabinet resigned , and the Prince then declared that he was ready to make any sacrifices in order to avoid a war that could not fail to bring the direst . calamities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it bad nothing to fear from bun , and could count upon the neutrality of Servia . At the same time the Ottoman Government resolved to remove Hussein Avui-Pasha from his command , he being hostile to Servia and in favor of marching at once across the Serviau frontier . These two acts seemed to guarantee peace , and the Ministry was not unanimous in favor of a peace policy , a very large party in Belgrade being in favor of war at all hazards . Prince Milan has triumphed , therefore , and bas shown great wisdom and prudence in his struggle with the dangerous WM sentiment that seemed to pervade the entire country . It seems to me that this settles the Herzegovina insurrection , since very little can be done without the cooperation of Servia ; but it is possible that many bands may resist in the mountains for some time to come , and furnish the groundwork for such telegrams as those received from Belgrade and Vienna , and designed solely to affect the Paris Bourse or the financial markets of Europe . Our news agencies are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not , as they should he , in the hands of an associated press . THE PROPOSED gTATITE OF LIBER1Y AND LEON MOREL . I should like to ask if there is any one in America who knows one Leon Morel , an " artist-naturalist " by profession , who claims to " have long practiced in the United States , and to have traveled over them from the Hudson to the Mississippi , and from the plains of Illinois to the placers of California . " If this assertion should happen to be correct I fear that the people met by Leon Morel showed a cold and vulgar appreciation of his genius , for lie has taken pains to show that be does not like us . It is to be regretted that we have offended Morel , but as I never heard of him before I do not know whether or not this should be regarded as a public calamity . It has been already announced on your side of - the ocean that some of our French friends want to erect a gigantic statue of liberty in New-York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister at Washington , is the artist , and the scheme met the hearty approval of M. Las boultive , M. Simonm , the Marquis de Noailles , and other gentlemen of note , who proposed to open a subscription for the purpose . M. Laboulaye says : " It is a patriotic work which has the honoring of the glorious memory of our fathers for its object , and also to tighten the liens which unite us to a friendly nation ; it attracts the interest of all those who wish that France shall hold the first place in the affections of the United States . " Leon Morel , " artist-naturalist , " replies to M. Laboulaye . " It would have been better , " be says , " had the organizers of this fine scheme , before submitting it to the public , taken the trouble to read the American journals , among others the ? , " and Morel names several " for they could then have penetrated the true sentiments of the American people with respect to the French , particularly since the misfortunes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the benefit of our sufferers by the inundations 1 " This appealed in the Figaro , and very naturally distressed a number of thin-skinned ? Americans , who were very anxious to write replies . Besides , all our French friends came running . to us with excuses , begging us not to afflict ourselves - with this , since we must know the character of the paper in which it appeared . ' It was very-difficult to convince them that we did not distress ourselves at all , and that only a limited number of Amercans would notice the thing at all . Albert Delpit published a letter in the Evenement saying that the Americana had subscribed , in proof of which he could cite the list of M. Limet. of New-Orleans , which already amounted to more than thirty thousand francs . The Figaro replies to-day that M. Limet is a Frenchman , and that America is a very big country for one little list of the sort . It must be confessed that this is rather hard upon the Courrier des Etats Unis , which does not seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Figaro . Since Leon Morel has shown himself so much of an ignoramus respecting the subscriptions in the United . States , it is manifestly impossible to place much dependence upon his other observations . As for the Figaro , it would be quite too much to expect that it should be ate courant with things transpiring ' so far away from its new , elegant , artistic , and costly hotel in the rue Drouot , but for once the Courier might send it a marked cop.v containing its lists . The person really wounded here is M. Felix Limpet , editor of L'Abeille , of New-Orleans , who has taken ' so legitimate a pride in the growth of his subscription , and whose generous and patriotic efforts are thus ignored by his own countrymen . DEATH OF A FRENCH JOURNALIST . Francois Ducuing , Deputy for the ' Ilautes Pyrenees , who died the other day , was a journalist of fair reputation in this country . He was fifty-five years of age , baying been born in 1820 . Some years ago he entered the field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Opinion Nationale . In 1867 he was made a member of the jury for the International Exposition , and conceived the idea of starting an illustrated paper , devoted to the Exhibition . A paper of this kind is now in existence , and appears periodically with the various Expositions held here . It was in the Universe ! , in 1367 , that M. Ducuing began the series of letters signed " Aleeste , " for which he is chiefly famous . The journal was noted for a mild , milk-and-water sort of opposition to the Empire , that being the proper thing at that time for all who looked forward to a seat iu the Academy . As time went on 31 . Ducuing accentuated a little his opposition , following in the wake of such men as Prevost-Paradol. and began to talk about the beauties of a republican form of government , but without saying directly that it would apply to France ; then rallied with Paradol and Emile 011ivier to the liberal Empire . But the talents of M. Ducuing were not regarded as being of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of favor when Clement Duvernois , 011ivier , and Paradol were liberally rewarded . This achieved his conversion to the Republic , and when the war ended he was elected by the Republicans to the Chamber , taking his seat upon the Left and voting with that faction . As a Deputy he was the author of a number of propositions , chiefly relating to industrial and agricultural matters , without having the good fortune to attach his name to any one of them . By the leaders of the railway interests in France he was regarded as meddlesome , for he tried hard to get into something connected with the railways by proposing laws that might lead to compromises with him , but he did not appear to have the mental calibre required for such attempts , and never succeeded in developing a system . About all that remains of M. Dunning is the following passage from a speech delivered in 1872 : " The Republic , such as we wish it and as we shall make it , does not menace any legitimate interest . It is conservative . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by rendering the power inaccessible to coups de force , and by not permitting a violent minority to substitute itself for the will of the majority of the people legally expressed . What it wants also is to bring light and control into the administration of public affairs . The reign of good pleasure and of favor has passed ; now let us have the reign of good right and the law . The Republic can be defined in a word  --  respect ? for the law . " Even this is not remarkable , it will be observed , nor is it expressed with any great amount of originality . In fact it is feeble , and for the reason that Montesquieu said pretty much the same thing in more forcible terms . The letters of " Alceste " make a certain impression , but one looks in vain for passages of striking originality .                     