@@741765

txt Our citizens insure themselves against losses by fire , shipwreck , lightning , and accidents . They insure their lives for the benefit  --  of creditors and relatives . The required premiums are cheerfully paid in hard : ash , and , being so paid , they live or sleep in calm security . But there is another insurance which can be more cheaply obtained . All the premiums required are time and vigilance . Time to go and register ; vigi- lance on election day . And these will insure the citizen against injuries to his business , his property , and his person . In Ohio the premiums paid by the voters in attending mass meetings at which the Allen heresies and the Cary hypocrisies were exposed , and in bringing out the earnest vote of the Buckeye State , resulted in the electors obtaining a two years ' insurance against misrule and chattering humbug . We all appreciate in a national sense how invaluable was4he insurance money spent for the Union during the war . For all time to come , our existence as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , our Empire State voters possess opportunity to obtain new assurance against the Tilden shams and the Kelly effronteries . This is the last day upon which the first and necessary installment for this premium of time and vigilance can be paid . He who would insure his political honor and his security of limb and pocket must register his vote today . Next Tuesday week he can pay his last installment of premium by voting for the tickets headed by SEWARD and HACKETT . Indeed , this insurance becomes more important to millionaire or tenement lodger than insurance of furniture or merchandise . Because if Sim TILDEN can own our Legislature , our Attorney General , and our Controller , as he asserts he will ; and if JOHN KELLY can own our Judges and possess himself of the machinery of the Police , the criminal courts , the Fire Department , and the jury box , then insurances of property are weakened if not destroyed . Under the old regime this kind of ownership was distributed . One contributed supervisorship of brains , another of ornate guardianship , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so on through the personnel of the Ring . But all the probable ownership of OUT criminal courts and . Police is ROW sought to be concentrated in one man and . he a man of the most unscrupulous kind . When the culprits of the Ring fell out under the jealousies inspired by THE TIMES , honest men got some due ( little enough as it has turned out , yet something , ) of good government . They obtained a vigilant and plucky Controller , an experienced and faithful manager of the narks , and a fair Fire Department . But there will be no danger of JOUN KELLY quarreling with himself ; so that reform can come in such method again . He is a vain , conceited blusterer . For years he was in politics what Fra Diavolo became in the Mountains of Terracina . Already has he accomplished a task that the old Ring sometimes failed in . He has captured the World newspaper , and wears the brains of its editor at his Sachem belt , just uslhe wears there the soul of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to-day , and voting upon Nov. 2 , we can all insure ourselves against Tammany fire and insurrections . Votes for lincia  --  r and , ? ' ' PlIELPS will be better premiums to pay for household and business security than cash given to insurance companies . Every man who has forgetfully permitted his fire or life premiums to lie over even a night beyond the quarter day can remember his regret . How much greater must be that of the honest elector who , on Sunday , may unfortunately remember that by not registering to-day , he has imperiled his life and property for years to come .                     