@@740914

txt Mr. GREELEY is determined to do his best to win the vote of the American farmer . Of all the various characters which he assumes . he prefers just at present to play that of the honest , simple , hard-working rustic . No sooner did he receive the news of his nomination than he fled to Chappaqua , and there addicted himself with unusual violence to those destructive practices which he has so long commended to ignorant agriculturists . He knew that he would receive letters , messages , and visitors , but he declined to receive them in his editorial office , or in the public privacy of his club . He could not expect the rural voter to grow enthusiastic over the mental picture of GREELEY writing on both sides of the tariff question , or mingling in the society of those gentlemen at the Union League Club House , whom he once courteously characterized as blockheads . Snowing that his movements just at present would be sure to be made public in the Tammany journals that now pretend to support him , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country-seat , and there pose as a tiller of the soil . Two or three Tammany correspondents received hints as to his intentions , and went with him to describe the ex-partner of TWEED in his rural home . Arrived at Chappaqua , he immediately threw aside his coat , and shouldering his ax , proceeded to the woods . Here he chopped a few pieces of wood , and received numbers of visitors . It is reported that the exultant but ill-judged manner in which the simple candidate handled his ax seriously endangered the safety of the bystanders . Of this , however , he took but little heed , and only interrupted his athletic sport to open and read his numerous letters . There is a wonderful wealth of pretty sentiments and beautiful rhetoric in those letters . A Pittsburg man writes : " I ratify to the end " ? which sentiment is perhaps a trifle obscure in expression , though it really leaves no doubt of the writer 's conviction that the end of Mr. GREELEY is rapidly approaching . Another person proclaims that he may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus pleasantly recalls to Mr. GREELEY 'S memory the final end of the noisy boastings of his rebel friends . Why Mr. Niles should wish to be looked for in a  --  ditch is a mystery known only to himself . Has he a constitutional or acquired tendency to roll in ditches ? From Albany , a Liberal Republican who signs his message only with his initials , repeats the prayer , " Now let thy servant depart in peace " ? adding , however , " but not till after the election , " thereby showing his conviction that the only thing which will be left to GREELEY 'S supporters after next November will be to retire from this unappreciative world . A business firm in Memphis assert that Mr. GREELEY will be the next President , but the mystio words , " Tennessee 0 . IC. , " with which the message ends , induces the reader to believe that the particular brand of whisky , thus mentioned , has had some share in inspiring their hopes of Mr. GREELEY 'S success . Whether the wild Virginian who telegraphs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never will again , " means to hint at an intention to commit suicide at once is not clear , and neither , for that matter , is the assertion of another writer , that he " can not contain himself . " A high degree of intelligence can , however , be hardly expected from the person who deliberately writes to congratulate Mr. GREELEY upon having been made the laughingstock of the nation . But there is no doubt that the great wood-chopper enjoyed his letters . He is now to play the parts of simple farmer and unsophisticated politician for some months to come . He paused . in his toil to read his letters  --  doubtless with an aftectation of slowness and an occuienal audible spelling of a word , in order to more perfectly represent the agricultural Dart which he wag playing . No more messages reaching him , he finally ceased his work of woodland destruction , and after drinking deeply Mull a neighboring spring , returned home and feasted . gaily on the cheering chicken pot-pie , both chickens and dough having been raised by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this truly beautiful picture of rural simplicity . and there can be no doubt that it will have an immense effect in adding to the enormous vote upon which Mr. GREELEY so confidently counts .                     