@@781618

txt It is not likely that any one believes Mr. Cointwidt to be afraid of avowing his views to all who care to know them . When , therefore , a number of Democratic writers repeated the story that the Senator had suppressed his speech on the Caldwell case , and caused its omission from the Congressional Record , there was some pretty definite falsification . The last number of the Record was published on Saturday . and it emir tins Mr. CortsuNG 'S speech in full . That large class of our traveled and travelintending countrymen , who have uttered anathemas over the debased and bewildering coinage of Germany , will doubtless rejoice to learn that the Chancellor has laid before the Federal Council the bill regulating the new Imperial coinage . The Council has to give its arproval to the bill , which then goes before the Reichstag , and , if passed , the time is to be fixed by Bismarck at which the currency shall be established , and then the Emperor wilt give six months ' notice to call hi the present " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kreutzers , with an infinite variety of other coins . all are to cease . and the mark , equal to the English shilling will be the coin in which sums will be counted . Proceeding upward , there will bo Old coins of 20 and 10 mark pieces , and of silver , 5 , 1 , and 3i marks . Of nickel corneae , 10 pfennigs and 5 , and of copper , 2 ptennigs and 1 . The pfeunig is the hundredth part of a mark . As to the amount of metal in the new coins , it is proposed that the pound of alloyed silver shall be coined into 100 marks , being mixed with one in ten of copper , so that 90 marks shall weigh a pound . The limit of the issue is to be of silver , 10 marks , and of nickel and copper , 23 marks , per head of the population . Tne census of 1871 gave to Germany a population of over 41,000,000 . The savage critics who had just got their pens sharpened for au attack on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It bad been freely prophesied , Ithat in a case , Just closed there , of a negro murderer on trial before a jury , one-half of which were negroes , a disagreement was certain . But on the first ballot there was a unanimous verdict of " guilty . " and no recommendation to mercy , or other qualification . The result will be a source of gratification to all the citizens of Washington , where there has lately been much violence , and much of it caused by negroes . Another alba is being made to get a cop : vention of the Governors of the Southern and Western States , in furtherance of the scheme to connect the Tennessee River by canal with the ocean at Savannah , Ga . It will be remembered that an attempt was made last year to have , such a convention , but it did not succeed , and now Gov . SiI2TH has issued invitations to the Governors to meet him at Atlanta , on the 20th of May next , to discuss the project . The Governor is very sanguine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that it is demanded by the needs of Western commerce . As yet we have not heard of any response ' to his Oa% and , as it has been once before neglected , the project mast take a more tangible shave than it has at present before it will attract much public attention . The idea has long been entertained at the West . but the apparent ? filoulties In the way of carrying it into practice have been so great that it has not yet made much stir , even as a topic for discussion . It would , perhaps , be charitable to say that there is something in the atmosphere of Hoboken , New-Jersey , which his a tendency to force iusticea of the peace to commitserlmtnal acts ; The latest case affording an opportunity for an application of this theory , according to a report published in our news columns yesterday , concerns " Justice ' NATHAN T. IdAnDBX , who is accused of having fraudulently obtained from a Miss SiLvERBIATT 353 50 , upon the representation that he was collector of the township , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes . A. warrant was issued by another " Justice " for MADDEN 'S arrest , but before the arrival of the constable he contrived to get out of the way . It would be scarcely fair not to admit that " justices of the peace " in other parts of New-Jersey have been subject to an atmospheric trouble of the same nature as that which has been found so difficult to resist in Hoboken . The new district civil courts at Newark will save the " justices " there from further struggles with temptation , and it is to be regretted that the Legislature has not enacted a civil court law of a character general enough to operate with equal kindness toward the " justices " ail over the-State . Yet another European statesman proposes to resign , provided he 18 not satisfied with the conduct of his associates . Seiler CesTELAB thinks that his co-Ministers do not act with sot ' Octant energy , and assures them that they must either adopt a more decisive policy , or be deprived of his valuable services . Of course . decisive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a difficult sort of policy for unarmed men to carry out against armed revolutionists . The Spanish Government ought immediately to suppress the Cariist insurrections. to restore brder in Barcelona . and to suppress the Commune , which has been proclaimed in the province of Salamanca . But bow it is to accomplish these tasks , if the Carlists and Communists remain obstinate , and the Government troops decline to march against them , is not clear . It is not improbable that Senor assmait will soon follow the example of AS1A.DBBS , and . Hive up the thaukless task of trying to rule an unruly nation .                     