@@741052

txt Only two more working days remain for Republicans and friends of honest government to marshal their forces , and . make their final preparations for the coming battle . These two days should be devoted to constant , unremitting vigilance and hard work . The time for argument has passed ; the time for action has arrived . Every Republican should spend the remaining hours in securing a full vote of his party on election day  --  in seeing that every other Republican is supplied with the right tickets , and is induced to go to the polls and deposit them in the right box . No Republican whose name is on the registry should fail to vote on Tuesday next . There has not been an election for years when the party in this State bad so much at stake as now . On the result in New-York may possibly depend the control of the General Government for the next four years , and the continuation of the policy that has brought peace and prosperity , order and security , to the country for four years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine whether our own State and City are to take their stand on the side of Reform and honest government , or whether they are to be given over to corruption and misrule , like that which has so long made the Metropolis and the Empire State a by-word among her sister States . It will determine whether New-York is to be represented for six years to come in the United States Senate by one able and honest statesman , or by two tricky and corrupt politicians . It will determine whether we are to have a Governor and a Legislature who will be in sympathy with Reform , and who will enact laws in the interest of the people , or whether Albany , for the coming year is to be the theatre of political scheming and trading and trafficking between Tammany Democrats and . renegade Republicans . It will determine whether " Ring " rule is to be perpetuated in this City under the specious fraud of a " Reformed " Tammany , or whether the political strikers and thieves who have so Jong preyed upon our property and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be finally cast out root and branch . Surely there ought to be enough in these issues to induce every Republican and every honest citizen to devote two days at least of earnest , active work for the public welfare . By a law of Om last Legislature , election day is hereafter to be a holiday . and we trust our merchants , business men and mechanics will suspend their usual avocations ou'Tuesday , and attend to the business of saving their City and State from the further rule of corrupt politicians and thieves . As the polls will close this year at 4 o'clock P. M. , their labor will come very nearly within the Eight-hour law , and we assure them that if they do-their duty on Tuesday next , it will be the most profitable day 's work for thedidelves and their families that they ever did .                     