@@741453

txt The manner iu which emigrants are imposed upon by persons who style themselves agents , generally of some foreign Government , is again brought under notice by the complaint of a large number of persons who allege that , by false representations , they were several months ago induced to go to Venezuela . Experience has long taught us that tricks of this kind are so prevalent as to have become a part ' of the ordinary business of a too numerous class of people . For , although emigrants individually have , as a rule , little enough money to spare , they are sufficiently numerous to form an attractive prey for designing men . There are many persons , not only here but in Europe , who are doing a very lucrative business in this way , and it is most desirable that some means should be found of putting an end to their occupation . Our . remarks do not , of course , apply to emigration agents generally . Many engaged in the business are highly respectable and honorable men , and these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in it . But among them there are others who systematically prey upon the unwary poor who go to them for information and advice . The injury done to the emigrant himself is a heartless and cruel one , independently of the criminal nature of it in a legal sense . As such it should . be severely dealt with . But it is also a crime against the nation . A few weeks ago a notice was circulated in various parts of Europe , especially in England , Ireland , and France , purporting to emanate from the Centennial Commission at Philadelphia , and announcing that ten thousand workmen were wanted immediately for the centennial building . The notice was not only unauthorized , but the statement it contained was untnie . The agents who published it must have known as much at the time , but if they secured their share of the plunder from the ten thousand . emigrants whom they would . have deceived by glowing pictures of the wealth awaiting them in Philadelphia , they would have cated very , little indeed for the consequences , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But , supposing that the trick bad been successful , the evil of throwing a large.bodY of immigrants into Philadelphia under snob oir- cumstances would have been highly dangerous . They would have come here under false pretenses , and , expecting to find occupation , they would instead have discovered that all the places which they thought to be open were filled . Without money or the means of living , they must , for a time at least , have been more or less a burden upon the public ; and however generous might be the treatment they received , they must still have suffered much misery and disappointment . But the mischief would not end here . The experiences of these people would be told in Europe . To a greater or less degree they would unjustly prejudice the popular mind there against emigration to this country ; and thus injustice would be done not only to America , but also to many persons who might otherwise have come among us with advantage to themselves . Irish emigration during the first six months of this year fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It has been frequently noticed in the European papers also , during the past twelve months , that great numbers of working men have returned to Europe from here , disappointed at not finding the good work and comfortable homes which they had expected . We do not charge these evils specifically to the dishonesty of emigration agents , simply because we have not facts before us that alone would justify us . But there can be no moral - doubt that the majority of the emigrants who have returned came out originally under false representations ; and then , be it remembered , every one of those , when he returns home , becomes a zealous and , as the people justly think , a trustworthy advocate against emigration . Throughout the whole process , then , everybody suffers except the agent . He . having pocketed his fees , can afford to laugh at his victims ; but the emigrant has lost time , money , and , perhaps , the opportunity ho was before enjoying , while the whole cause of emigration is prejudiced accordingly . Throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for years to come the effect of having brought out emigrants under false pretenses ; and if the practices of dishonest agents are not stopped , the same remark will soon begin to apply to this part of the continent also . We want all the population we can get , but we must have it by fair means . Good , honorable agents are essential , both to the intending emigrant and to the country he is going to ; but stringent measures are needed on both sides of the Atlantic to crush out the swindlers who make emigration the excuse for robbing the poor of any little money they may happen to possess :                     