@@741811

txt Attempts at black-mailing are often heard of , but probably there are many successful schemes of this sort of which the public is never told . Boston has - lust been disturbed by one of the former class . It is , as one may say , " as good as a play . " In ' deed , the principal performers in it seem to have managed their parts in such a way as to secure a striking dramatic effect . It appears that one of those industrious spies known as " private detectives " thought he could scare an honest tradesman into pay , lug money to keep a charge of incendiarism from being brought against him . Five years ago the tradesman 's factory , near Boston , was destroyed by fire , and the insurance companies adjusted the losses by paying thirty-two thousand dollars to time owner . Now comes the " detective , " as he calls himself , and with a sharp and knowing air , something after the style of Inspector Bucket , informs the tradesman that he has secured evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his own property for the sake of securing the insurance ; that he has been " working up the case , " after the manner of the professional detective , and that the insurance companies are now ready to compromise , take back their money , and say no more about it . A. guilty man would have been glad to get out of such a scrape by paying over whatever the " detective " demanded . Mr. GELDOWSKY , the subject of this peculiar conspiracy , invited the self-appointed insurance agent to his house , having first secured the . assistance of several policemen , who were stationed within reach of the domestic stage ou which this little drama was to be enacted . A lady , who was expert enough to take full notes of a conversation , was placed where she could hear and write without being seen . Then the play went on . The * " detective " announced that the insurance companies , whom he professed to represent , had paid GELDOWSKY thirty-two thousand dollars ; that the accumulated interest on that sum amounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to settle ou the best possible terms . He would take forty-two thousand dollars , and " call it square . " This GooDwiN , the confidential agent , detective , and general commissioner , thought a fair proposition . Singularly enough , GELDOWSKY did not regard it in that light . ? Then the gentlemanly detective urged that he had spent a great deal of money in " working this thing up . " It is a habit which the model detective has , this spending money iu a mad pursuit of clues . Besides , this was not one of the common sort of detectives . lie said that he stopped at the best hotels wherever ho went . Ile had been brought up expensively . He lived at Willard 's Hotel in Washington , and he casually mentioned , in his light and airy way , that he dined with time Postmaster General on Sunday . That . was the kind of man he was , and , to clinch the business , he said , " I 'm a gentleman and a white man ; not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , please . Pm no hog . " GP:Loon-sky still demurred , and the confidential agent and detective began to abate his demands . What would the gentleman give to have the case settled forever ? Of course , the gentleman wanted to know how much would satisfy the insurance companies . " Oh , well , " said this model detective , " the insurance companies can go to "  --  a place where insurance is not available . Then he confessed , " I 'm in this thing for myself . " Ho had got nine million dollars out of JAY GOULD for one " party , " and one million for " another party , " but ho did not want to be hard on GELDOWSKY he would let him off for ten thousand dollars . He admired the tradesman 's coolness ; it struck him as being so thoroughly admirable that he would like " something to remember him by . " His gold chain , for example , was just what this gentlemanly detective fancied . Securing the promise of a chain just like it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five thousand dollars and a certain house in the vicinity . Gradually the two men came to terms , and the tradesman was once more complimented by the detective on being " a cool hand . " Seeing wine on the table , the honest and convivial GOODWIN proposed a parting drink , but the tradesman said that the ladies were near by and perhaps his visitor would . proler a song . This remark was a precon ' celled signal for a grand transformation scene . Doors aliened iu various directions . Policemen appeared as if by magic , and from every side . A party of ladies who had been invited in to see the play funned a backgrouud . The astonished " detective " drew . his pistol , but was disarmed . Tableau by all the characters . Where one such ingenious rascal as this is exposed , there are doubtless many more who succeed in scaring timid people into paying their demands . The art of blackmailing is a very different thing from what it was when seine coarse regime , knowing something of the easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mysterious story of intrigue , and with a threat to " expose " him to the derision of society . The new plan , apparently , is to injure a man in his business and credit by making public charges against him . The Boston amateur detective had a confederate who had prepared bogus affidavits to substantiate GoonWIN 'S charges . He also was arrested , and time precious pair are likely to have ample leisure to meditate , behind iron bars , upon the unaccountable Unwillingness of some people to submit to black-mail . The truth is , however , that scamps of this sort may be easily put down if they are met with a little courage .                     