@@743152

txt After all his high-flown hopes and rosy promises , M. DE LESSEPS has been forced to withdraw his great Panama Canal project from tho market for the present , because the shares have not been taken up with the alacrity that he expecte &; Those who ventured upon the first step of subscription are at liberty to take back their deposits and await further developments , while M. DE LESSEPS makes that investigation which ought to have preceded , instead of following , the beginning of the enterprise . Ho is coining over to this country to inquire into the foundation of that opposition which he persisted so long in declaring did not exist . If ho finds the truth , as it is to be hoped he will , he will ascertain that the chief ' reason why our people will not " take stock , " either literally or figuratively , ill his scheme , is that its origin and organization have given them no confidence in its success . There may have been some'slight national jealousy excited by the bold and somewhat arrogant manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an enterprise , which had long been studied and discussed as an American ? affair , and in which this country must inevitably have a predominating interest . There certainly was some apprehension of future complications arising out of the certainty of ultimate interference by European Governments , to insure that neutrality and protection for a great work in which their citizens won concerned , which the Colombian authority would not be strong enough to maintain precisely when it was most needed . But if the undertaking had in itself commanded the confidence ? of our people , as the result of a careful examination of the elements of the problem to be solved and of a selection of the best route and the most practicable methods , we could have regarded with complacency the beginning and prosecution of the work with foreign capital and foreign skill , trust-. ing that if it should prove successful , moans could be found for acquiring a degree of control such as American interests involved . But M. DE LESSEPS undertook to swoop all others out of the field , to disregard the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to build on assumptions or imperfect information , and to organize a predestined failure , to the embarrassment and . postponement of all other plans . Present indications point to a speedy collapse of the whole scheme , and it is better that failure should be accepted now than compelled after milieus had been expended on an impracticable task , to the ruin and discouragement of those who had ventured into it . The lesson which M. DE LESSEPS will then have learned is that a vast enterprise , depending for its support upon the co-opertion of many capitalists of different nationalities , must rest upon general confidence , and can not be carried to success by personal scheming and intrigue . He made a sad mistake , after his brilliant career in the East , in allowing himself to be used as at once the cover and the instrument for the reckless and half-considered devices of a clique of speculators . It is pretty well understood that this whole project originated with , and was kept in the hands of , a little knot of Bonapartists out of business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the isthmus was an old Napoleonic idea , and the Civil International Interoceanic Society , with which this scheme started , was made up of a small number of these restless friends of the fallen dynasty . It is said to have consisted of 100 shares of 500 francs each . Gen. Tuna , the President , was a soldier of fortune , once an officer of GARIBALDI , and later connected with the French imperial family by service and by marriage . A Commission Internationale d'Exploration was sent out under Lieut . BONAPARTE WYSE , another of the clique , and a brother-in-law of Gon . Tuna . Its explorations were made chiefly among the records of old surveys and the official methods of the Government of Bogota . No complete survey was made of any route , and no critical examination of the difficulties to be overcome . Tho main thing accomplished was to secure a concession for Gen. T HIM 'S company of the exclusive privilege of constructing a canal from ocean to ocean anywhere within the Colombian dominion . This , it was understood , should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the franchise provided , for the sum of 255,000 , - 000 francs , or 500 times the whole stock capital of the Turr company . This was certainly a good thing for the select few that formed that organization , oven though the great project failed in the hands of the now corporation . When affairs had proceeded so far , what was needed to launch the project with brilliant prospects wits the indorsement of an international congress of presumed experts iu engineering , and the name and co-operation of M. DE LESSEPS . The latter was obtained too easily , but then the genial Vicomte was in sympathy with his Bonapartist friends , and not proof against the diplomatic wiles of the brilliant circle of which Mine . RAT AllI and the BonaparteWyses were the shining lights . He was won , and so was old Admiral LA RONCIERE LE NOURY , President of the Geographical Society . Then came the congress , nominally international , but with a safe majority of French members , invited by DE LESSEPS and the Geographical Society . These were selected for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Officers were named and committees appointed in the direct interest of the particular project already determined upon by the controlling spirits , and , of course , the result , in spite of *adverse reports and arguments , was in favor of the great Bonapartist scheme that had boon so long and anxiously incubated . It was conceived in intrigue and hatched in intrigue , and not the great name of DE LESSEPS nor the brilliant promises . of prospectuses and circulars could make it command the confidence of keen-eyed capitalists , least of all in this country , where something is known of the isthmus and of plans for cutting it with canals , and where an intelligent interest is taken in the subject . If M. DE LESSEPS wishes to know the ground of American opposition , he may find it rather in the history of his enterprise than in the Monroe doctrine .                     