@@741407

txt A bill is at present before the State Senate , having passed the House , which deserves encouragement from our citizens . It arose from a petition of many residents in the Eleventh and Seventeenth Wards asking for more public baths . The proposed law provides for the erection of four additional free bathing-houses . To be of any use this season , the building might to be commenced soon , and we trust that the passage of the act will not be long delayed . For our poorer classes , who can not leave the City during the hot Summer months , nothing is more conducive to health than frequent bathing . Our present facilities for this save thousands of lives every year . But we should like to see these facilities increased ; not every poor man or his children can venture to take . a bath from rafts and old vessels , or in nooks of the docks when the Police are not watching . Besides , there is scarcely any place for girls or women to bathe , who certainly need it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be upon us , with its long train of diseases , pursuing the unfortunates in the tenement-houses ; typhoid fever , dysentery , and cholera infantum will soon make their dreaded appearance in the crowded quarters of the poor . There are no better preventives of these than plenty of fresh air and . salt-water bathing , cleanliness , and a breath of ozone -- if ozone itbe , which renders the air over water or meadows or through parks so much healthier for the human system . Bathing facilities , in the peculiar construction of our City , can be easily and . cheaply given .. is one mode of benefiting the poorer classes which we hope to see adopted generally in this City . But there are other modes which Ought not to be neglected . Our readers must have noticed , during the recent mild Winter , how much our small City parks were used and enjoyed by the poor . Large numbers of persons out of employment seem to have spent their days on the sunny seats of these little plots . Washington square , Tompkins square , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ youth , merely enjoying the sunlight , and waiting for something to do . They might , to be sure , have been much better employed ; but they might have been worse . Without such resorts they would have been driven to the taverns and liquor shops ; and . we should have had an even greater increase of petty crimes and drunkenness than that which has been reported . These same squares , with the Battery and other plots , are now crowded . in the bright Spring days with working women and babes , or with the children of the poor . When we reflect that there is no sanitary agent so beneficial as sunlight on the human system , and that many dreaded childish diseases are driven away solely by pure air , we can imagine how many lives among children are saved by these little " breathing holes " in our crowded City . It is easy for the children of the rich to go to the sea-side.or the mountains , where they can . get the needed ozone in abundance , and avoid the torrid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in moderate circumstances have the opportunity of taking excursions for a day to our sea-side resorts , or of spending it in the beautiful nooks of the Central Park . But there is a large class of persons so destitute and ' hard-pressed as not to be able even to afford the money for a sail to Coney Island , or a trip to the park . These worn and weary-looking people , with their ragged . children , may be seen clustered around the bit of ground in the Five Points , or sitting on the steps of their houses , or in crowds on the docks , or in Tompkins square , or at the Battery , on a hot Summer evening .. Many portions of the City have not even an open plot of ground for the poor as large as a good-sized house-yard . Fifty thousand people are grouped around a " park " iu the Five Points which is not large enough for a small school play-ground . One hundred and fifty thousand working people find their only breathing place in the eastern quarter ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ square . On the west side , the breezy and tree-shaded old Hudson square  --  such a luxury to the poor ? is filled with a freight station , and from there , for three miles above , there is nothing but two or three infinitesimal bits of green ground , which the poor can gaze at , but not walk in . It does seem to us that the " Department of Parks " is giving by far too much attention to Riverside and . other parks , which will especially belong to the rich , and too little to the open grounds in the poor quarters . Nothing , so far as we know , has been done on the Five Points ground , and Tompkins square remains in the ugliness which delighted the taste of the Ring . The experience of all large cities is that beds of flowers in a public ground , a patch of green , a few trees , some pleasant seats where a purer breeze blows , have a moral effect on the lowest class . They are not merely preventive of disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough of these things in New-York . One of the great benefactions of the future in this City will be made by some benevolent and far-seeing man , who will provide by sufficient endowment for the amusement and health of the poorest classes . The Central and Brooklyn Parks are instances of what can be done by a city for the elevation and enjoyment of the working people . But more is needed from individuals within the working men 's quarters . Baths ; museums , like the Bethnal Green collection ; reading rooms , play-grounds , and public squares ; industrial and art collections , like the South Kensington Museum  --  all these , in a distant future , will be supplied by the fortunate to the masses in great cities , both as benefactions and as educational and sanitary safeguards , to protect society against the dangers from a multitude of the poor .                     