@@741130

txt Longevity is a boon desired by most . though granted to comparatively few , and persons of a foreboding turn might derive much dismal satisfaction from comparing the mortality statistics of the present with the past . In spite of the cheerful evidences to the contrary , laboriously gathered by the rural press  --  in spite of that venerable but preposterous patriot who has voted for every President since Washington , and commonly walks thirty miles through a driving snowstorm to deposit his latest ballot  --  it is to be feared that the average of human life has been gradually decreasing as the world grows older . This , too , in face of the fact that all the conditions of modern society are vastly more in favor of health and long life than in the days when the world was really one broad field of battle , and he was an exceptionally lucky man whom the doctors killed and not the sword . Nowadays if wars are rarer , they are , generally speaking , more deadly , and in the absence of wars the higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilized communities live , largely discounts vitality . Perhaps that is one of nature 's artful compensations , a sort of clever Malthusian device to adjust the average of population , and cunningly changed to suit the weaknesses of different ages . Among the lesser causes which at present operate against longevity there is one which is none the less important because so few take it into account . That is the insidious . derangement of the system resulting from the late hours affected by polite society . The reparatory powers of sleep are seldom recognized any more than the truth that to yield its fullest benefits this most potent of remedies should be taken at the proper season . What that season is , nature unmistakably indicates . Most adults , in a normal condition , are conscious , about 11 o'clock at night , of a tendency to drowsiness , sometimes called fcbris nocturna  --  nature 's hint that it is time to go to bed . Once banished , however , slumber is a shy mistress not easily wooed back , and after midnight a corresponding difficulty in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , almost like stating an axiom to say that if all whose occupations in life permit it would make it a practice to go to bed before midnight , and sleep as long as their respective constitutions required , avoiding . if possible , involuntary waking , their health would be the gainer . But , as now regulated , how many people . in what is called society , ever get to bed before midnight , at least during the season ? There is a ball or a party or a reception to go to nearly every night , which begins , on an average , about 10 , and ends , let us say , at 2 . A young woman who makes it a practice to go to bed at that hour of the morning , for three months of the year together , need not be surprised to find the roses rapidly fading from her cheeks . With young men , the result is quite as bad , since the exigencies of business often deprive them of the proper amount of most necessary rest . Youth is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to draw against it as lavishly as though age and disease were not . But the older heads , to whose pillows sleep is a rarer visitor , can tell them its value . The remedy for all this is very simple . Let our balls and parties only begin a couple of hours earlier . Everybody will have precisely the same amount of enjoyment , get to bed in good time , and get up next morning feeling infinitely better than after one of these midnight routs . For some time past , among sensible entertainers , there has been a movement in this direction . But it should be systematic to be effective . Let it one be understood that it is as unfashionable to come late to an evening party as it is now supposed to be to come early , and a reform . whose value is not to be measured by its seeming triviality , would be accomplished at once .                     