@@740931

txt Excess of zeal is sometimes as injurious to the true interests of religion as indifference . The Committee on SinfulAmusements of the Methodist Conference . seems/to have erred in the former direction . In their report they state that " the general rules of the Church prohibit conversations not in the name of the Lord Jesus , and the singing of songs and . reading of books that do not tend to the glory of God . " This would seem to leave sufficiently little margin for the recreations , in which a great part of civilized mankind fmd it possible to indulge . But the Committee think the regulation very far from strict enough , and recommend that the " Rule of the Discipline on Imprudent Conduct be so amended as to include the buying , selling , or using of intoxicating liquors as a beverage ; dancing . playing games of chance , attending theatres , horse races , circuses , or dancing-schools. or taking part in other amusements of an immoral tendency . " Some of these restrictions are commendable enough , especially the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sinful , is not usually followed as an amusement . But the majority of the practices denounced had much better , as one of the delegates suggested , be left to the good sense and the individual conscience of the members of the Church . What Church , for example , is strong enough to put down dancing under the present constitution and the prevailing tastes of society ? The Archbishop of Montreal tried it last Winter with very indifferent success . The custom may be improper and spiritually hurtful  --  that we believe is a moot point  --  but it is a custom inwoven with the very life of society , which is a power as strong as the Church itself . To make a non-essential question like this a matter of Church discipline is not to beneflt.the Church , but only to bar out and to banish many from its fold . Reform in this direction , if needed , is to be attained not by general laws , which , in matters so dependent on individual constitution , must almost inevitably be imperative and scandalous , but by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a most narrowminded Christianity surely would wish to shut them up . If bad plays do harm , good plays well acted as surely exert a refining and elevating influence . Another is the influence that with ns , at least , a judicious criticism and a healthy taste are daily encouraging and developing in the drama . SHAKESPEARE is not to be condemned in the same sentence with Dumss , file , any more than ROSSINI or MEYERBEER is to be confounded ' with OFFENBACH in a common denunciation . And who but the sourest of ascetics could . deny to the eager eyes of childhood the manifold innocent delights of the circus I It must be a very corrupt and vitiated mind that could extract spiritual venom from the gorgeonemeswof the grand entry , the wonderful tricks of the trained horse , or the giddy evolutions of the acrobatic brothers . Herod could hardly devise a crueler penance than ' to banish the little folks from the fairy land of the tented sawdust . This appears to be another instance of the ease with which good men may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too far . Recreation of some sort young people must have , and of a more human sort , too , than is to be found An unceasing religious conversation ; ; or endless singing and reading of hymns and . tracts . BAXTER 'S Saints ' Rest and The ' ' Whole Duty of Mtn , however wholesome in ? hemsellres , will not satisfy every craving of a , healthy human soul , turning naturally to , joy and mirth and sportiveness , as a flower turns to the sunlight . This is a truth so amply proved by experience that it seems strange it should be ignored by any professing to be teachers of their fellows .. Amusement is a necessity of youth , and if that which is proper and . legitimate be denied it , it will seek that which is neither . What age sometimes forgets is that injudicious repression may be as immoral in its tendency as license itself .                     