@@743270

txt One of the favorite aphorisms with those who study our political problems is that " government will not rise higher than its source " ; that we can not on the whole expect better men in the governing bodies than the average of the constituencies . The thinking persons who influence politics throughout the country have lost the old Jeffersonian superstition which had come from the French philosophers of the eighteenth century , of awe for the popular will , as if " the people " embodied some abstract and mysterious power which was almost infallible . On the contrary , the drift of all speculation on politics in the United States and of practical reforms , is rather in the other direction . Our great object in all amendments of the organic law of the different States , and of improvements in municipal Constitutions , is to guard against a too sudden execution of " the will of the people . " The State Constitutions endeavor to create officers or intermediate bodies who shall , for a time , represent something higher than the ideas or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are made more independent of the masses ; such important institutions as prisons are placed under officers not chosen by the people ; amendments to the Constitutions are made difficult ; increasing powers are given to the Governors and State Senates , and , in some States , even the rights of minorities are protected . There is no doubt that the ideal of municipal Constitutions is a body where popular interests are represented on one side , and the more conservative interests , such as property or intelligence , could be represented on another . In this City , however , there has been no successful experiment which could carry our Government " higher than its source . " The only features which . could possibly bring this about are the increased responsibility thrown on the Mayor and the election of a certain number of the Aldermen " at large . " Were the best elements of the City population to unite on these officers , and at the same time on candidates in the more intelligent districts , it would become possible to meet the tide of ignorance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year after year , our City administration . There should , however , come first certain changes in the different " commissions " of the City , which can only be effected by legislation . Here is the Commission of Charities , for instance  --  the Almshouse , Pilsen , and Hospital Board  --  controlling a population of many thousands , where expensive supplies must be purchased , the most delicate interests must be watched , the future of multitudes of human beings be determined , and where firstclass administration is indispensable . Whom has the Mayor ever put in this board that ever had the smallest experience in charities or in any important administration , or was even known generally by the public ? Why should this administration always be a sink of abuses , and carried on without economy or principle 7 ' Why should it be so different from all our large private charities 7 There is no question that the best private citizens of New York would be glad to serve in it , and without salaries , provided they could select their own executive officer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iniquities on Blackwell 's Island could be thoroughly cleansed , and a charity administration be established in this City worthy of its name and character . So with the Park Commission . No one can pass through Central Park , or walk around the forlorn waste of Tompkinssquare , without seeing that the most beautiful things in New-York are given up to the management of men who have no more ap- of a picture gallery . They have gone into that board either for the one salaried position or the patronage , without the smallest fitness for this vesthetie administration , and under them the pride of New-York has become a by-word and a shame to all loveen of beauty . Now , there would not be the smallest difficulty in securing in this commission the very foremost citizens , who understand how to make their own grounds objects of beauty , and who would devote time and the fruits of long cultivation and experience to keeping up in their pristine beauty these " pictures on the ground , " which should be the pride and delight of coming generations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such experts as Messrs . OLMSTED and VAUX , who would make and keep the parks what they ought to be . Why can not all this be 7 Why must New York be the Worst governed city on the continent ? Is it because we can not get " higher than the source " ? Has Mayor COOPER , instead of looking to the intelligent and moral classes of the city , always been regarding , in his appointments , the hundreds of thousands of ignorant and poor voters who crowd the poorest wards 7 Have the Aldermen opposed every good nomination by the Mayor because they care more for Maekerelville and the Five Points than for the avenues and up-town wards ' ? If it be so , both sides have made a gross blunder , even in a partisan point a view . A good and honest administrator of this City who totally neglected partisanship would gain a name and fame which might push him into any place or office , municipal or national . Still , if the Government can not go higher than its source , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to raise the sources , and , second , to force up by artificial means the character of the Government  --  that is , to throw checks in the way of the lower influence and to give freer play to the higher . In this direction there is much to accomplish , which we commend to such persons as tho Independent Republicans , the Municipal Society , and other reformers . Great improvements are practicable in this field .                     