@@741593

txt The Republican campaign was opened in this city this evening , Ron . Julius C. Burrows , member of the Forty-third Conereas from Michigan , making the address . It was expected that the ' meeting would in a great measure indicate the extent to which the awakened feeling is the Republican Party in Eastern Connecticut has gone , bat no one anticipated such a gathering as assembled . Breed Hall was crowded with the leading men in the city , and there were a large number of those who , for a year or two . have taken no active interest in politics , and of those who have voted the Prohibition ticket . Very many were unable to get into the hall , and the immense audience was kept by Mr. Barrows for nearly two hours in perfect silence , except at each times as he was interrupted by applause . The meeting is taken here as indicating that the Republicans of this section are really stirred up as they have not been since the election of 1872 . On the platform were James Lloyd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Starkweather. member of Congress ; lion . Amos W. Prentice , Cob Joseph Selden , Willis R. Austin . and other prominent citizens . Ebenezer Learned , Esq. , in a short speech , introduced Mr. Burroivs , who began by stating that this year either a Republican or Democrat will be elected in this State ; either a Republican or Democrat will be elected President in 1876 . Those who take part in any outside issue ; those who ally themselves to the Temperance Party , to the Woman 's Suffrage Party , or to any other , however sincere they may be , or however good their principles , may defeat principles which they hold as dear as those they now advocate . This point was dwelt upon at some length by Mr. Barrows , who then repeated that the canvass of 1876 had begun . The importanco of the campaign is therefore not confined to Connecticut . Its influence will be felt everywhere . If Connecticut shall now speak for the Democracy , it will send terror to the heart of every loyal man in the South and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sneaker went on to take up the issues of the canvass , and the line of his argument took him back to 1860 . The action of the Democratic Party then . in permitting those acts which culminated in the firing on Sumter , its opposition to resistance , its discouragement of enlistment , its demand that the ' war be fought constitutionally , its declaration in 1864 that the war was a failure , its plan of reconstruction , the plan expreesed in the sentiment of " shaking hands over the bloody chasm , " and its demand that the Southern States be received back without any security that it submitted to the results of the war ; all these points were vividly brought to Lame . as well as the opposite position taken by the Republicans . The Republicans in the reconstruction policy had insisted simply on security , and therefore had added the thirteenth amendment to the Constitution , which wiped out slavery ; the fourteenth , which gave an earnest citizenship ; and the fifteenth , which gave bal. lot to these freedmen . These acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " unconstitutional , revolutionary . and void , " a declaration which shows what tho reconstruction acts of the party would have been had they been successful in 1868 . The speaker then referred to the remarkable change of the Democracy in 1872 in admitting that the Republicans had been right . before . and the Democracy wrong ; but the people had no confidence in their pledges . The Republican Party had kept its pledges mad in 1872. all of them , and - what reason can there be , therefore , for taking from it the control of the Government . But the Democratic Party insists that the Republican Party ought to be overthrown because it was corrupt . This the speaker denied . There were corrupt men . These the party has sought out and repudiated again because it passed the salary grab . This was a mistake , but the party in response to public demand bad at the first opportunity repealed the acti and , lastly , because of the third term . But they can point to no act of the Republican Party indicating such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for President and no other . can be . The Democratic Party was sketched . It bas two wings  --  the Southern , which took an active part in the rebellion , and the Northern wing , which sympathized with them . They had driven out the Liberals , as is shown by their treatment of Schurz , Trumbull , Blair , and others , and their choice of such men as Cockrell and Eaton . The purposes of this party were thus portrayed . It opposes civil rights as shown by its opposition to the Civil Rights bill , and it has repudiated its platform of 18-. ' 2. % These , briefly sketched , are the main points of Mr. Burrows ' speech . hone has ever been made here which has made a more profound impression .                     