@@743087

txt A movement headed by two Catholic Bishops from ? the West has begun in this City , to remove the Roman Catholic poor , by emigration and colonization , to unoccupied lands in the Western States . This scheme is the more remarkable , as the Roman Catholic clergy of this City have . during the last twenty-five years , been the bitter and consistent . opponents of all plans for removing their poor to the rural districts . The asylums of- that Church have been and are still crowded with youth who would be a thousand times better off on Western farms or in rural families . The Vicar-General , " Father " PRESTON , and other ecclesiastical authorities have almost exhausted the language of vituperation toward Protestant charities who were generously relieving the Catholic authorities of the burden of supporting hundreds of unfortunate children by placing them in rural homes , or on farms in the West . Even the sacred altar has been the scene of public denunciations against these benevolent Protestant efforts to relieve the City . It has often seemed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should grow up here to vagabondage , and possible crime , rather than be beyond their influence in the free life of the West . At length , however , some of the modern ideas of political economy have penetrated even the sacerdotal ranks , and , seeing the overcrowding of this City and the consequent poverty and crime which have flourished rankly here , the clergy have rightly concluded that the only true remedy is the transference of labor to where it is more needed , and where the influences are sholesOme and reforming . A Roman Catholic colonization society has accordingly been formed , which is to have $100,000 capital , in shares of $1 each . Bishops SPAULDING , of Illinois , and IRELAND , of Minnesota , give the plan their approval , and some $7,500 have already been subscribed . ? R is proposed to purchase a tract of land in the West , divide it into farms and erect houses , and then sell these places on easy terms to thrifty Irish Catholics . A priest familiar with agriculture is to be in each colony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be . erected . All Protestants will rejoice that Catholics are at length feeling some obligation in looking after their own poor , and that they are beginning the work of assistance in so sensible a fashion . Roman Catholic colonies among rude people have not been without success . Their influence in South America and on the Pacific coast has borne good fruit . Will they succeed equally in this country ? We much doubt it . An Irish Catholic population is not the best for pioneer work or for founding institutions . They make a capital working population , where Yankee brain and Protestant character lead them . But by themselves we should apprehend many difficulties . The great advantage of the West is in the continual mingling of barions races , creeds , and habits , thus sharpening every faculty and rubbing away ancient prejudices . An isolated colony of Irishmen and Romanists would learn nothing new and keep all that was bad in the old ; the priestly influence would . be excessive , and education very limited . There would not be the variety of occupations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habits would be intensified . If the promoters have in view to help the lowest poor of the City , they must remember that these are not fit for colonies . They have neither independence , industry , nor character . They would drag each other down and make Western Botany Bays . Their only chance is in being placed individually under the guidance of some vigorous Protestant Anglo-Saxon farmer , who would teach them to take care of themselves . If it be expected by this association to found Catholic farm reformatories in the West for our poor children , it must be remembered that this is very expensive , and is unnecessary . Every farm is ready to take them . Should the plan be to reach a higher class of operatives , the objection at once arises that this class of men can take care of themselves , and would prefer to work their way alone . It is . true that sometimes a colony can supply at once what the pioneer so much needs  --  a kind of social life , school , church , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety of trades can be thus introduced at once , and some of the pleasures and benefits of civilization retained on the frontier . But such a people must be of a superior class , and united by some bond of enthusiasm . Even then , experience shows that the difficulties are endless , and the personal friction and dissatisfaction intense . The founders of ? such colonies roan anything but gratitude . Even the Russian religious colonies in Dakota have held together with great difficulty . It is among the possibilities yet that a Socialistic colony may be founded in the far West . as a short cut to civilization . But for a religious colony , and , above all , an Irish Catholic one , the prospects are dubious .                     