@@741360

txt President Orton , who has been before the Senate Post Office Committee several times  --  the Hubbard Telegraph bill being before them  --  conoluded his argument to-day . maintaining the followmg propOsitions : Firstly  --  Congress has no right to pass the bill , because i would indirectly take private property for telegraph purposes , ' without just compensation , and furthermore the passage of the bill would by a violation of a contract established between the Government and the telegraph companies now existing under the provision of the law of 1866 . Secondly ? If there were no constitutional objections , or any violation of contract , it would be impolitic to adopt the Hubbard scheme contemplated by the bill because it constitutes a partnership between the Government and a private corporation , to be conducted by both official and private agencies , operating at the same time , under which there is to be a division of the expenses between the Government and the company , while all the profits are to accrue exclusively to the latter . Thirdly  --  That , whatever may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the scheme proposed affords no adequate remedy for them . In this connection , the fact was established by abundant evidence from official documents that the present average rate for messages in the United States is lower than in Europe for like dispatches , and that in this country the business is conducted without any expense to the Government , while in Europe the annual deficiency raised by taxation upon the people amounts to several millions . Mr. Orton , in reply to Mr. Hubbard 's arguments , referred to the relations of the Western Union Telegraph Company with the New-York Associated Press , and showed that there is no combination between them ; that the Associated Press depends upon the Western Union Telegraph Company in no respect for its own monopoly , and that all other press combinations are offered the same terms as the Associated Press obtains . Also , that the Associated Press is a ? independent agency for the procurement and distribution of news , and the Western Union Telegraph Company is an equally independent common carrier for its transmission on call for all who require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telegraph could affect the Associated Press monopoly in any way .                     