@@781634

txt Responses to the pall for the Soldiers ' and Sailors ' Convention , at Pittsburg , are coming in upon the Secretary of the Committee in very great number . The ' Convention will be much larger than the one previously held at that Place , and its influence will be very powerful . One of the prospective attendants on the Convention gives a letter from Mai. - Gen . George H. Thomas , Written in 1869 , which Is well worth pondering . The General said : " I sometimes think we , as a people , are specially glivrded by an all wise Providence , else our recklessness would have long since involved t e nation in hopeless confusion . his sooner are public affairs rescued from discord , and the offices filled with men who , to all appearances , are the undoubted choice of the people , than new combinations are formed to destroy the incumbents , if not in character , at least in usefulness , and set up a new set almost unknown , and certainly of doubtful experience . " How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism , every one can see . Tourists are again raising the chorus of complaint over the desecration of the most beautiful scenery in America by the glaring advertisements of " enterprising " dealers . One has only to take a sail from New-York to West Point to see this nuisance , in every variety and in its moat annoying extent . What is aeon in this way . however . may and must be seen and endured , from Niagara to the Florida Springs , and from the White Mountains to the valley of the Yosemite . At every picturesque point , on some jutting rock , across the trunk of a stately tree , or along an otherwise unobtrusive fence , the traveler will see , in staring yellow or brilliant scarlet and white . the absurd Latinized name of a quack medicine , or the full title ' of a would-be famous tea-pot , or of a patented stoveblacking , or of a brand of whisky , soliciting patronage under the assumption that is is n harmless kind of " bitters . " So far as we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It scores will be persuaded by it to purchase the advertised articles , thousands may impotently curse the advertisers . Tne only way to avoid the infliction is to stay at home , and seek recreation only in our well-protected parks . Has gerrymandering lost all its horrors for the virtuous and Democratic Tribune ft Yesterday it allowed its North Carolina correspondent to tell how the Conservative Legislature of that State had carved up a Congressional District , formerly strongly Democratic , and given three counties to a neighboring and more radical district . Not a word of condemnation of this procedure is ventured by the converted " organ . " Perhaps the fact that the trick is not going to succeed , and that the " Conservatives . " ( alias Democrats , alias Confederates , ) will lose both districts , is considered punishment enough , without the aggravation of the Professor 's indignation . Commodore VANDERBILT is reputed to be ambitious of making money . We can tell how he could make a great deal of it in an entirely new field , besides experiencing the novel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his roads . Let him organize a series of good refreshment houses along the line of the Hudson River and Central Railroads , so arranged that clean and palatable lunches , , put up in baskets . and accompanied by cups and bottles of cold tea and coffee , or milk , or light wines , can be taken from any refreshmentroom , eaten on the cars , and the basket and dishes returned to an agent on the oars or at another refreshment-room further on . This is ? a scheme of the simplest sort , perfectly feasible , and one that would be popular and profitable . French newspapers have a " specialty for cramming a large number of blunders +into a very small space . For example . a correspondent at Paris states : " The papers here announce that Sir COLIN CAMPBELL , the conqueror of the Indian insurrec- ' Lion , who was created Lord and Count of Sohwesbury , on account of his services , is going out as Viceroy to the Government of Caveats . The writer , adds that Lord Schwesbury was one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1858 , and is now only fitty-fonr , and that , as his name indicates , he is a Switchman , and belongs to the clan of Campbell mao Campbell . " That the appointment of Lord DUFFERIN as Governor-General of Canada should have caused the writing of a farrago of nonsenoe about Lord CLYDE , who died nine years ago , is somewhat inexplicable to the ordinary mind . In 1858 . Sir . COLIN CAMPBELL was sixty-seven years old , and had he been spared till now to enjoy the honor of being sent as Viceroy to a Province . which has no such official , he would have been eighty-one years Of age . We trust that no descendant of the MacCallummore will feel disposed to take a bloody vengeance for the Frenchman 's travesty of " Campbell mac Campbell . " There is something in Irish discontent after all . Here , for example , is a statement made in the British House of Commons about the distribution of voting power in Ireland . The franchise is enjoyed by 220,000 males , and 1,280,000 men are deprived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seventh man is perfectly capable of representing at the Polls the views of another six who are disfranchised , it appears that the distribution of votes is still very unequal . Thftre are thirty-one Irish members of the House of Commons who represent but 16,000 electors , and there are twentyeight members who represent 120.000 ; eight constituencies with 2.000 electors return the same number of members as four constituencies with 44,000 , and so on . It may , therefore , be fairly admitted that the present representation of Ireland does not represent the opinions of Ireland .                     