@@741255

txt As might have been anticipated , the captivating example of inexpensive heroism set by the warriors of Rouse 's Point has been very plentifully followed . All over the country , bellicose young gentlemen with more honor than brains are rushing madly to the field of innocuous strife , or being withheld with great difficulty , and an infinite deal of correspondence , from the solemn farce of a hostile meeting , - where , as in the Irish duel that Sir BOYLE ROCIIE commemorates , " one of the contestants fires in the air , and the other is wounded in the breast . " One eccentric humorist from South Carolina has even gone so far as to publish a set of rules for the guidance of persons who desire to appear before the public in the genteel comedy of " Murder Travestied ; or , the Satisfaction of a Gentleman . " Therein he distinguishes with much gravity between insults that gentlemen may give or receive - when they are sober , or when they are drunk . He discourses profoundly on . the nature of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind may sometimes derive by telling his antagonist that he 's another . He informs gentlemen who have been thrashed by other gentlemen when they must put themselves in the hands of their friends , and when they may be contented with the minor consolations of brown paper and vinegar . He settles the number of reams of note paper that may with propriety be spoiled before the principals may be called on formally to decide whether they shall fight or run away , and , in short , furnishes the amateur duelist with full directions for making a fool of himself according to the most approved fashion . The combined force of this noble example and judicious precept has not been wasted on our young men . The ladies , it is well known , adore courage ; and what better way to acquire a tremendous reputation for that virtue at little risk than by a morning trip , to Rouse 's Point let us say , and a vague discharge of magnanimous pistols , loaded or not , according to taste , into the cireumambient air ? Nevertheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the greatness of its returns in reputation from so meagre au investment of actual ferocity , we are inclined to prefer the variation offered in the last duel , which took place , if we are rightly informed , iu the classic vicinity of Coney Island . Two young gentlemen , formerly of this City , where their affability and accomplishments endeared them to a large and aristocratic circle , had the misfortune to differ on the quokion of physical superiority . Their dispute waxed hot , and finally resulted in such animosity as each felt only blood would satisfy . So , with a noble disregard . of consequences , they slapped each other 's faces , these noble young wine-merchants , and promptly put tbmnselves in the hands of their friends . Now , what did these friends do ? They might have written a great many notes , begnining " Sir , " breathing only the deadliest defiance under the most stately courtesy , and ending with the grim politeness of " Your most obedient servant . " Then , after many days spent in this cheerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fired pistols in the air , as before suggested ; whereupon one friend would take off his hat and inquire , with fascinating frankness , if it was thought desirable to fire more pistols in the air , and the other friend , also taking off his hat , with winning affability would respond that he thought not . And then our two gallant wide-merchants might have gone home , feeling that honor was satisfied , and that each of them had been shown to be in the right . This our two wine-merchants might- hare done , but they did not . On the contrary , they went quietly off with their friends and a select party of spectators , to a sequestered spot near Coney Island , and there pummeled each other with nature 's weapons until the young gentleman from Williamsburg found that he had overestimated his physical powers , and gracefully acknowledged his defeat . ' What could be ' more simple , more earnest , more conclusive , than this real . duel , . more praiseworthy even by contrast with the sham article V - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contest that our two young wine-merchants have been in the habit of engaging in these little conflicts for a pecuniary prize . This time they fought for glory and satisfaction , and their encounter , compared with the burlesque at Rouse 's Point , is as much more worthy of respect as ( being after all against the law ) it is not less deserving of punishment . But until we have punished the duelists who wear kid gloves , and pretend to fight with pistols , with - what semblance of justice shall we punish the duelists who know only boxing-gloves and fight in earnest With their fists ? Of the two , we are ' free to say the former seem to us much the guiltier culprits . Shall they be rewarded according to their deserts ?                     