@@741365

txt Some interest - will naturally be felt in the sessions of the National Convention of the . Patrons of Husbandry , in St. Louis , from the fact that it is the first meeting of this body since the order has attracted general attention . The Convention is , moreover , of consegence not only to the order itself ; but to the country , for far the patrons , who are , however , better known by the name of grangers , ? have not in a national capacity taken any other character than that given them at the foundation of their order . It remains to be seen whether the order is prepared to abandon its original purposes , and embark upon an active and distinctive political career . If this question is not fully determined by the convention now in session , it is at least probable that some indications will be given of the future policy of the order in this respect , and the result will be awaited with some anxiety by those Democrats who insist for selfish reasons that the grangers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extent that they propose to attain their objects through distinct political action , or by affiliations with one or the other of the existing parties . At the moment when it is probable this important order has reached a decisive point in its career , all matters connected with it are of interest . It be now remembered that , whatever may be its future , it has not in the past been a political organization . Quite recently the founder of the order has said that it was not established to fight monopolies and control political action , but was designed for the social and material improvement of the farmers , to instruct them in agriculture and to promote economy and efficiency in their private affairs . There can be no doubt that these were originally the objects of the granges , and it was not until they had become powerful in numbers that any other objects were contemplated . It was natural and proper that the organization should be used outside of political action , to lighten the burdens of farmers by cheapening transportation , ' and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Much has already been done in this way , and much more is certain-to be accomplished if the order is not destroyed by evil counsels . It is one of the more recent , and . the strangest of Democratic delu.sionsthat the Republican Party is in deadly fear of the grangers in their political character . They have not yet had any such character ; but if they had from the start declared that they intended in their organized capacity to seek their objects through the machinery of Government , the Republican Party would- have cause to encourage rather than dishearten them . The objects they seek are . such ? as the party has always been devoted to . The great majority of the grangers have always been earnest Republicans , and . still have a hearty sympathy - with the party to which they have been so long attached . This truth is . made plain enough for even Democratic comprehension by the fact that in Iowa , where the grangers are strongest , the Republican Party suffered least in the Fall elections . It may be assumed , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the machinery of either party to advance their special interests , they will use the Republican . If they decide upon independent political action , it is evident that the Democratic Party will not be helped . Whatever , then , may be the future policy of the grangers , the Democratic Party has much more cause to fear them than the Republican . When the grangers come to consider whether they shall seek to establish themselves as a national political organization , there are various matters which We do not doubt will be taken into careful consideration . The isolated experiments in political action whichshave thus far been made do not seem to give much encouragement to a national venture . A national party must rest upon all classes , but the grangers ' party could rest only upon one class . The grangers ' order is a secret one , arid as such it would enter polities , if at all . The experience of Know Nothingism is enough to prove that the American people will not long tolerate a secret political organization . To attempt to administer the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest would speedily end iu the destruction of those trying the foolish experiment . These are only a few of the many reasons which lead . to the conclusion that the grangers will not oblige their enemies and discourage their friends ' by entering into our politics us a distinctive body . There are many indications that the more influential of the grangers are aware of the dangers before their order in the course into which it has been drifting , and are seeking to lead it back to its original purpose . Whatever the grangers may do , it is not probable that they will have any very extended , and least of all any permanent , effect upon our politics . They may , in the future , as they have in the past , disturb laity lines in some of the States , and frighten some politicians by asking questions they are not prepared to answer . But in doing all this the grangers do not become a party . The demagogues who have crept into the order will never be convinced that powerful parties are created only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the great body of the grangers are sensible men , who must know that to serve these demagogues is to ruin their organization . Thus 11w the controlling spirit of the order , as a whole , has sought to leave each member free from grange in2uence in his political action , and it is likely to be fostered rather than weakened by the National Convention now in session .                     