@@781702

txt Soon after the close of the Franco-Prussian War a French writer , M. Fnericaosqun SARCEY , published a somewhat noteworthy essay , tracing the misfortunes of the French Army and the excesses of the Commune to the prevalence of insanity throughout France . This frequency of mental uneoundnese he attributed to a variety of causes , prominent ' among them the excessive indulgence in absinthe which has undoubtedly of late years wrought frightful havoc among military men and townspeople in France . M. SARCEY 'S views are now curiously supplemented by an in teresting report made to Dr. FORBES WINSLOW by Dr. CHRISTOPHER Swim , an English Physician ; Air many years cstablished. in Paris , " on the past and present psychological state of Parisian Society . " Dr.SMITH prefaces his observation by a glance , at . the general character of the French in prosperity , which he finds to be marked by excessive ' pride and vanity , not only in military matters or on national questions , hut in individual action as well . In these attributes , : be thinks there lurks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to confirm this view  --  one , made familiar to us by all the French Press throughout the war , of the readiness with which soldiers and people alike sought to explain defeat by treachery in their own ranks , rather than admit the incontestable superiority of their victors . Nous sommes trahis was the universal cry after every battle . Dr. SMITH 'S second illustration is that of a man of high mental capacity and . attainments Who seriously justified the circulation of calumnies concerning German atrocities on the ground of patriotic expediency , as they would serve to stimulate the ardor of his countrymen . A more striking example might have been found in the action of the French jury which since the war acquitted a man prated to have natfitiOnnateult Genhan sentinel , for no other reason than that he had made a bet to do so : The jury thought the act injudicious , but excused , the murderer on the Score that the deed . was prompted by patriotism , ill regulated , perhaps , but sincere . Ignorance . and the want of practical instruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in the judgment of this critic , additional sources of mental weakness . Last , but by no means least of their predisposing causes . comes the general , almost universal dissipation , prevalent in in the large cities , more particularly . in . Paris , where the good doctor hints debauchery has reached a height which would not be credited if it were revealed , and whose parallel could , be found only in the most corrupt civilization cf antiquity . So enfeebled in mind and body , blinded by vanity and ignorance , the French mind was unable to stand the strain of the stupendous misfortunes which comp ressed years of ordinary history into days , and the result was seen not only in multiplied cases of pronounced insanity , but in the startling transitions from frenzy to imbecility which seem to have marked the entire nation throughout the war . Even more interesting , however , because less doubtful . are Dr. SMITH 'S remarks upon the Commune . The excesses of that brief andbloody revolution are difficult to comprehend on any other theory than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out many curious details going to confirm this assumption . Many of the Communists , he says , had . symptoms of general paralysis , indicated in exalted ideas of their individual consequence , or that they were kings , emperors , generals and the like . A case is quoted from a French psycholotist of a General under the Commune , who , in a transport of exaltation , would exclaim deleted 5 lines Another , a foremost men under the Cora-mime , and the Mayor of an arroiadisement , had been in the lunatic asylum over and over again . Still another , elected by over ten thousand votes . was a , mystic . He would write letters beginning ' : " Paris  --  Jerusalem , 23d Fusionie era . To the venerated family x landed proprietor of Paris , for the realisation of the reign of God on earth and in heaven . Salutations and love " * * and terminating with " Amen for my family , B a s , child of the reign of God ? and performer I " In short , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become diseased in body and mind . It was as if a sirocco of madness had swept over Paris . " Yet curiously enough Dr. SMITH thinks the Commune determined very few oases of actual insanity.and he explains this by the assumption that the " functional derangement was kept in abeyance " by the furious excitement of the time : In that atmosphere of madness one 's particular mania was forgotten . But the abnormal stimulus once removed , the disease re-asserted itself , and naturally , directly on the downfall of the Commune , " numerous cases of insanity were admitted to the asyluins . " For the first three months of the current year . these admittances averaged about two hundred a month , not counting the private asylums . " The present mental tendency , " as might be expected , is malaise and despondency , verging on melancolia , " with many suicides . As an attempt to furnish an intelligent hypothesis for the most sudden collapse of a mighty nation ever recorded in history , this report , of which we have been able to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great events are noted more intimately in the commonplace trivialities of daily life than most imagine , and it will be a wholesome lesson , not less needed now perhaps than before the war , which brings home to the mind of every Frenchman the conviction that his individual follies and excesses . have bad their share in effecting the ruin of his country .                     