@@741737

txt There is a story , embodied in a now forgotten comedy , of a French Sergeant of the Imperial Guard who denied with much warmth that on a certain occasion the Guard retreated rapidly , declaring that the Guard never retreated ; but he ' admitted that it effected a retrograde movement with great success . ? Such is the power of words to soothe the feelings and , possibly , even to blind . the perceptions of those who regard sounds rather than things , show rather than substance . The weakness which thus manifests itself is the result of a mental cowardice which leads to a sort of intellectual dishonesty ; and this in turn leads to dishonesty in act . Next to the confusion of names comes the confusion of things ; and . wrong begins to look less forbidding to the eyes of the morally weak when it is called , not wrong , but a modification of right Such paltering with words is at once a sign and a cause of a weakening of the moral sense and a perversion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man who says , I have done wrong ; I repent of it , and mean hereafter to do right . There is little hope of one who shirks the acknowledgment of his fault and tries to hide its true seeming with a gloss of smooth words A like weakness to this is shown in regard . to misfortunes , particularly when they are of a kind which may carry - with them some reproach or loss of standing , and also in regard to conditions of life which may imply that there never was a standing to be lost . How many persons , for example , shriuk from saying , or having it said , that they are poor , who yet will speak of themselves as being in reduced circumstances ; when the fact is that they never were in any circumstances from which they could be reduced without absolute'disappearance below the surface of all visible things . Compared - with that misuse of words which confounds right and wrong , this may be called an amiable weakness . anti , may touch the sympathy of some ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and might well be changed ; on all accounts , for a robust recognition of fact , and the giving it its right name . Something of this'weak euphemism appears in the fashion , in recent years , of calling all failures in business suspensions . Time was in the memory of all who now are men , that when a merchant could not pay his creditors he failed . Now he suspends payment . There is a vicious effect in the change of phrase . Suspension is more soothing . to the feelings ( of those who shrink from facing the truth ) than failure , because there is in it an implication that the stoppage of payment is but temporary , that the business affairs of the suspending concern are really sound , and that after a brief interval they will resume payment and go on without loss , at least to  --  their creditors . The fate of that which is held . in suspense is not decided , unless it should happen to be the body of the debtor himself , and therefore suspension has come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word than blunt , plain-spoken failure . And , indeed , it had its origin as a mercantile phrase in the cases of some firms who , some twenty years and more ago , did merely suspend . payment to protect ' themselves and their creditors against needless loss , and who resumed . payment , met all their engagements , and went on as before . But now , when men fail absolutely and . even shamefully , not having assets to pay more than twenty-five cents on the dollar , and being unable to shoW good reason for the disappearance of the other seventy-five , they are said to have suspended . payment . Such suspense has the peculiar quality of never coming to an end . The phrase is in such cases a direct misrepresentation of the truth . It has come to carry with it , ho wever , a certain distinction  --  an eminence in disaster  --  and we do not despair of hearing some particularly enormous performance of this kind called one of the most brilliant suspensions that ever took place in this commercial community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true distinction between suspension and failure is not altogether lost sight of , and that men who effect a retrograde movement from their creditors with great success are not to be allowed to retreat with honor from their liabilities under cover of fine phraseology . The Shoe and Leather Reporter , which , under its new management , is one of the ablest of the spechilist class of business journals , considers this timely subject in its last issue , and , we are glad to see , heads its article " Failures in Business . " This might be expected from the organ of those very solid and . steady-gcing business men , the leather dealers , and . the doctrine set forth under this heading is one which in these times needs enforcement  --  an enforcement which it is reassuring to see come from men who are themselves iu trade . It is briefly this : that there are two sorts of failures in business ; one in which inevitable misfortune overwhelms honest men who have managed their affairs discreetly on sound business principles ; and another in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to establish a great credit upon an insufficient foundation , and then a failure which'is " the result of a deliberate intention to make good all losses by closing and compromising with creditors at the lowest possible figure . " It is declared that the latter kind of failure is the case " in too many instances . " This admission has - value in coming from a special trade authority of high standing , and we are not surprised that it is added that " a change is necessary if business would be placed upon a firm foundation . " The method proposed . of effecting this change so much to be desired is simply to stop the present vicious system of too ready compromise . It is maintained that it is safe to claim fraud where the books of the house do not show absolute and legitimate losses ; and that in all cases in which the books fail to show legitimate losses , such as might occur to any business man , compromise should be positively refused , and also all subsequent accommodation to debtors who have effected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those whose relaxed moral fibre feels little shock from the suspensions and the ready compromises which have become too much the fashion ; but there can be little doubt that , if rigidly acted upon , such a code of business morality would prove thoroughly effective , and that the consequence would be not only many fewer suspensions , but very many fewer real failures .                     