@@743043

txt The Radical Republicans of Bordeaux have returned Louis AUGUSTE BLANQUI to the French Chamber of Deputies as the chosen representative of their political will . They were well aware that ho was ineligible , being a prisoner at Clairvaux and under civil butthey assumed that their suffrages would be taken as absolving him from all bonds , penal or political , and they expect the Government to grant him a pardon for past offenses and the Chamber to validate his election , when it meets two weeks hence . There is little ground for persisting in his exclusion , except his known character and record as a habitual and incorrigible conspirator . There is no reason for supposing that he would harbor revolutionary designs against the present Republic , except that he has shown such an incapacity to accept peace on any terms with any established order of things . And who is this terrible conspirator who has been an object of dread to every French regime for half a century ? He is a whitehaired man of 74 , with clear-cut features and a gentle look . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though he has endured the hardships of so many prisons . He was educated for the law , and is a scholar , deeply read in science and philosophy , and a master of classic literature with hardly a peer . PLATO and TACITUS are the recreation of his solitary hours , and HORACE and . JUVENAL the antidote of the dungeon 's canker . His work on astronomy , " Eternity in the.Stars , " is admired by men of science , and he has written on military matters with the accuracy of an expert . His style is vigorous , and his thought clear and coherent . His manner is gentle and courteous , and in prison he distinguishes himself by a meek submission to all requirements . He is fond of children , of flowers , and of birds . And yet this mild , intellectual old man is a born conspirator , and has been the terror alike of King , Emperor , and Republican President . Of his fifty odd years of mature life , he has spent thirty-five in prison and ton in exile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been no chance for a plot and he out of doors , that he has not been in it . Abstemious as an anchorite , living wholly on vegetables and milk , faithful to the one love whose object died of grief at his misfortunes and imprisonment , true to his convictions as tempered steel , kind and gentle to every living thing that came in personal contact with him , this strangest even of Frenchmen , has been the sworn enemy of the society in which he was born , and determined on its subversion , even to the cutting of throats and the overwhelming of the innocent in blood and ruin . Firm as adamant , no punishment has ever made him blench or swerve from his course , no inquisition could extort from him exposure of his accomplices or the secrets of any plan , though he avowed his general purposes with daring candor , and no blandishment could soften for an instant his unyielding spirit . It were too long to attempt a review of his strange career , but a mere catalogue of his exploits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Born in 1305 , he no sooner reached maturity than he began to participate in plots . In 1826 , while yet a law student , he was sentenced to six months ' confinement for brawling and sedition . The next year he took part in the insurrection of the Rue St. Denis , and was wounded by one of the King 's Guards . Then he received his first death sentence , but finally got off with two years ' imprisonment . He fought in the revolution of 1830 , and was again wounded . He was in favor with the new Government , but soon lost it , and in 1832 was sent to jail for a year for participation in the " Conspiracy of the Nineteen . " He was in trouble again in 1835 for plotting , anti was sentenced for five years , but the amnesty of 1837 let him loose again . Two years later ho took a hand in the insurrection of the Montagnards , was wounded , and again sentenced to death . This sentence was commuted to imprisonment at Mont St. Michel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republic of 1848 set him free . This same year he took part in three insurrections , and came near being killed as one of the invaders of the Palais Bourbon on the 15th May . He was sentenced to ten years at Belleisle , escaped , was recaptured and transferred to Corte , and later to Lambase . The imperial amnesty of 1859 cut only six weeks from his ten years ' durance , and within a month of his release he was sent into exile for dabbling in plots . Returning , in 1861 , he was soon arrested for conspiracy , and was in jail six months awaiting trial , and in prison four months as its result , and then he was ordered to leave the country . The next eight years were spent in exile . When . the Empire fell he reappeared in Paris , but really took small part in the Communard rebellion . He was arrested by TRIERS , apparently more as an old and hardened offender than for , any specific crime of the moment ; an exchange for the Archbishop of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by court-martial and sentenced to transportation for life for supposed complicity in the insurrection of Jan. 1 , 1871 . This sentence was coinmuted to imprisonment on account of bad health and old age . Such is the man and such his career , and the French Republic is called upon to say whether it is afraid to have him sit as a Deputy , when Bordeaux has expressed its desire to be represented by him . Perhaps the Government might find him more harmless in his old age , if at liberty to . talk and to write , or even to plot , than if made the hero and the martyr of two Kingdoms , an Empire , and two Repub lics.                     