@@741108

txt By force a habit , if for no other reason , those persons whose purses are filled . with dollars made by lobbying bills through the Legislature , are now packing their trunks preparatory to taking up their residence in Albany for the remainder of the Winter . The idea of a Legislature getting along without their help is to them scarcely less absurd than the notion that they can thrive without the Legislature . To their speculative minds there is a job in every bill ; or , if a job be lacking , it can easily be put there ; and jobs usually prove such excellent things for both Assemblymen and lobbyists that the latter , at least , will not admit the possibility that either can exist without them . It is owing to the energy , industry , and impudence in rascality of the lobbyists that legislative enactments in New York and some of the other States have come to be merchantable commodities . The prices of the different grades are as well established as the rates of produce in our markets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statute . law to within a very small fraction of what it will cost to put his little bill through . The lobbyist has different ways of reaching the same end . When the job is a small one , he usually uses - the argument of " give and . take ; " he plays off one scheme against another , and thus succeeds with all his minor projects . When large ? pecuniary interests are involved in his bill , lie comes down to what , in his elegant language , is called " hard pan , " ? by which he means that his proceedings in such a case are based upon hard cash , and that in his view every legislator has a price in the currency of the nation . But it is not until he comes to selling out a State or city , to defrauding a whole people of rights they have won at the polls , that the lobbyist really shows his genius . Whichever party may have won the victory finds in him a most vociferous advocate . This Winter almost all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxious as they that the Republicans shall reap the full benefit of their victory . Their solicitude will be extreme lest somebody may get an office , who , at some remote period of his career , may not have been a good working Republican . They will button-hole members with amazing assiduity in the interest of Republicanism . They will paint in glowing colors the enormity of leaving anything to chance . " Fast:bind , fast find , " is their motto , and they will insist that the only sure way is to name all the office-holders in the bills , lest somebody who has been elected to an appointing office " should go back on us . " Naturally , some of the members will be deceived by these arguments . They will be unable to see that the lobbyists are anxious because they are paid for their anxiety . The new members , especially , can not see behind the lobbyists the hungry hordes of professional politicians whose names are to be in the bills , and who are firmly convinced that everything is to go t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is to this ja , ct we desire to call the attention of tiikOnibers of the Legislature about to assemble . The professions of the lobbyists are4l*ays plausible ; their practices are invariably corrupt . When they pretend to be concerned about public interests , it is their own pockets they are serving ; when they are anxious for some local improvement , they are doing the same thing . Whatever the Legislature may do , let it shun the lobbyists . It would hardly invite a delegation from Sing Sing Prison to come up and help it make laws for the State ; if it would not do its business upon principles very much like those which got the convicts where they are , let it keep entirely clear of that pest and disgrace to our legislation to which we have referred in terms much less severe than it deserves .                     