@@742831

txt The letter of our special correspondent from Indiana , which we publish in another column , is instructive reading . It gives the impressions of a careful and well-informed observer in regard to the causes which led up to the recent Republican defeat in that State , and describes plainly and without any attempt at covering it up , the exact nature of the ( meat , aim its consequences . Those amount to this : The Republicans have lost four Congressional districts  --  the Fourth , Sixth , Seventh , and Eighth  --  and gained the First ; they have lost the Legislature , and with it the opportunity of filling the late Mr. liouToN 's place in the United States Senate , now held by Senator VooltHEES ; and the Democrats , besides confirming their gain of a United States Senator and gainthree Congressmen , have carried the State , in spite of the Greenback defection , by a plurality larger than they had two years since . We have already done full justice to the courage and sagacity with which , during the later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made an aggressive and determined fight for sound money . Under the lead of Gem HARRISON , the State was fairly and resolutely canvassed , so far as it was possible to do so , for the doctrines which the Republicans of the nation have upheld , and by which they must stand . But the effort came too late . The party had been demoralized by the hesitating and compromising course which has unluckily always been taken in Indiana polities heretofore . As our correspondent points out . the entire Republican delegation in Congress had not only voted for the Silver bill iu its worst form , but had voted for the repeal of the Resumption law , thus committing the party , as far as was in their power , to the most extreme measures upheld by the Democrats and the Greenbackers . This action on the part of the Congressional delegation was only too fully backed by that of the Republican local organizations throughout the State . When it was determined to make the canvass on the right side of the money issue , it was found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to force the fighting on merely local matters . The result was what might have been expected . As between the Republicans , . who were divided on the money question , and could only make qualified promises in either direction , and the Democrats , who were squarely on the wrong side , the latter had much the strongest hold . They commanded nearly all the soft-money vote of the State , except that which went to the Nationals , while the Republicans could awaken no corresponding sentiment among the hard-money men , because they began too late , and because they were embarrassed by their previous uncertain position . Our correspondent is of the opinion , in which he is doubtless justified by the facts , that if the Republicans could have had thirty days longer in which to make their present policy clearly understood , and in which to arouse the really conservative and intelligent elements in the State , they would have made a very different showing . But though the immediate result in the State is to the apparent disadvantage of the Republicans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the contest consolidated , united , and established in a position from which it can make a steady advance . If it has the sense and the firmness to remain , as it now is , the hard-money party of the State , in full sympathy with the Republican Party of the nation , it will naturally and inevitably gather to its ranks all those who accept its principles , and as these principles are the only ones on which the affairs of the nation can be safely administered . they are sure to become more and more popular . The Democrats , on the contrary , if the Republicans stand firm , will be weakened by their very successes . The more conservative members of the party , convinced that they oannot restrain it from going the entire length to which it is urged by the Inflationists and Repudiationists , and no longer without a camp to which they can resort to enroll under the bannbr of hard money , will not cling to their party allegiance . Either , as the issue becomes clearer and . more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or they will fail to sustain them , while the more intelligent among those who cast the floating vote , and belong to neither party wholly , will be attracted toward the Republicans , precisely in proportion as these maiatain consistently the position which they now occupy .                     