@@781738

txt With unfeigned regret we ate obliged to chronicle a sanguinary onslaught upon the liberty of the American press . The victim in this case is a herald commissioner dispatched to Utah to declare war . This person was sent out iu pursuance of a policy adopted by the journal above mentioned . It was proposed that the non-Mormon population of the United States , or at least that portion of it which immediately surrounds the City of the Saints , should capture the Mormon establishment , loot the storehouses , and divide among the captors the fat lands and chicken-coops of the hierarchy . There was about this scheme an easy , off-hand freedom which commended it to the superficial and unthinking . It was a sort of holy war with the holiness loft out , the results being the same , namely , an equitable division of the spoils . The herald commissioner was accordingly sent with Positive instructions to declare war within ten days , failing in which he was to be recalled and sent ou an exploring expedition to New-Jersey and adjacent foreign lands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his instructions to the very letter . He first secured an interview with the Mormon Pantarch , disguised in the humble garb of a corn-doctor . While the prophet submitted his apostolic feet to the skillful scalpel of the commissioner , under the impression that he was being treated by a Polish Count in reduced circumstances , the diplomatic correspondent succeeded in extracting not only his corns , but much valuable information . The principal point in this fraudulently-obtained confidence was that the Prophet wanted peace . " Lot us have , " said the Pantarch , writhing with the agonies of au excised bunion , " peace . " This , however , was Dot what the Herald commissioner was sent for . War to the knife was the boon ho craved ; and the Prophet having failed  --  in sporting language  --  to conic to time , it became necessary for the correspoudent to invent a series of bloodthirsty interviews . It need not be said that iu this he entirely succeeded . BRIGHAM YOUNG , unctuous and suave though ho is , appeared in the character of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastward the burning words which he uttered as he blasphemed all the orthodox saints , and quaffed his cheerful cup of alcohol and gunpowder . He swore that lie would make Rome howl and cause the grass to grow in the streets of Washington . He defied the combined talent of the Herald , and invited the Army of the United States to seek hint in his mountain home , and court death and destruction in the fastnesses of Utah hay-fields and orchards . This suited the mysterious purpose of the Herald , and war was announced as already declared . The consequences were harrowing . Says the commissioner in his latest report to head-quarter : " Last Saturday evening , between 10 and 11 o'clock , I , who am acting hero as your correspondent , was returning to ray hotel alone in a buggy from a drive . " There is a reminiscence of the late G. P. R. JAMES in this which is quite touching . He was alone , it was late , and the shades of night were falling fast . " When four blocks cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with scrupulous topographical exactness , " I was fired upon by a miscreant who had posted himself beliind a tree , about fifty feet away , on a cross street . " A miscreant who would post himself fifty feet away and fire anything less titan a rifled cannon at a Herald reporter must be indeed a fiend of the deepest dye . Who ever heard of a reporter being killed at that distance ? Even in the celebrated Maryland duel , fought when the snow was on the ground , sixty feet was all that was allowed between the trembling chief and the man who had previously set him up on his head in front of tile Union Club-house . It is unnecessary to say that the Mormon miscreant missed his aim , as he deserved . The additional statement that the war correspondent was saved by the speed of his horses is a gratuitous tribute to the excellence of the livery stables of Salt Lake City which should be deducted from the expense account of the correspondent . But this dastardly attempt at assassination was renewed . On Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the door of his house , and , after some light compliments had passed , lunged at him with " a short knife , " ( caseknife , ) striking him in the loft breast , just about where a newspaper correspondent is known to carry his note-book and brier-wood pipe . The miscreant had not miscalculated his aim . According to his intended victim 's account , the fatal blade passed , through a porte-monnaie containing a free pass over the Union Pacific road , a laundry bill , and a pass to TONY PAsroit 's theatre . No blood was shed , but the agitated commissioner sat down and wrote to his paper a double-leaded dispatch which was calculated to fire the heart of the Gentile population of the United States and cause B. YOUNG to wish that he had never been interviewed by a Herald commissioner . It is barely possible that in the pressure of the cares of State , Secretary McCuAnY will not soo here a jut cause of war . Utah is notoricusly and admittedly a foreign State . Wo have been looking for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hen-coops . Will the Secretary of War note the fact that the correspondent of the greatest journal in all creation has not only been . fired at in the dark , at a distance of fifty feet , but has had his suspender-buckle bent by a murderous caseknife stroke I In the name of imperiled liberty and au untrammeled press , wo trust not . So long as that miscreant is at largo in Utah , and roams at will through the streets of Salt Lake City , missing newspaper correspondents at fifty feet , so long is the palladium of our liberties in danger . So long , , too , in the eloquent language of the Herald , does " the blood of this latest victim to a lustful priesthood cry out in vain from his bent suspender-buckle. "                     