@@741021

txt The advent of September admonishes the poor who congregate in such numbers in all our large cities , that the interval dividing Summer front Winter is but a brief period at the best , and that following close upon the enfeebling beat of Bummer , come the cold storms or Autumn and the dry breath of Winter . Our charitable societies have already had many premonitions of the heavy draughts that will be made upon them as theaseason advances . This is especially apparent now that the system of relief organized and put in operation by the TIMES has been suspended , and its beneficiaries notified that any further aid is not to be expected from that source . The results of the investigations authorized and planned by ourselves during the Summer months have been of such a nature as to convince those engaged in the work that there is an amount of suffering constantly experienced in our midst such as those not fam1-iar with the facts would scarcely be willing to admit . The sickness and distress incident to the heated term , particularly among children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appalling , as our readers were informed at the time ; but we are convinced that the same total of suffering during the warm mouths is really insignificant when compared with the wretchedness and despair that broods over the homes of thousands during the biting Treats of Winter . To alleviate this misery , and relieve the more pressing wants of the worthy poor , our citizens long ago organized . and have ever since generously sustained , the New York Society for the Relief of the Poor . The methods adopted by this charity for extending aid have been of such a character as to inspire confidence in its able and always influential Board of Managers . But the field of active benevolence is so extensive , and the necessities of the poor of a great city like New-York. so varied , that more than one organization is required to meet the demands that are constantly urged upon the charitably disposed . This fact is so evident that one needs to spend but a few hours in the tenement districts to be convinced of its truth . The saddest sight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who throng the sidewalks and al:eyways , and by their ofd and precocious manners manifest their familiarity with vice and sin in its multiform phrases . The need of some particular charity for the moral education , reformation and training of such . children is so transparent that argument is wasted in seeking to demonstrate the truth of the proposition . In that well known and widely-esteemed organization , the Children 's Aid Society , we have lust such a. charity as the developments of the past season have taught as is imperatively needed . To educate aid and reform these waifs of the City has been the work of this Society for the past eighteen years . Through their lodging-houses for homeless boys and girls , their industrial schools for the training of the youth of both sexes and their emigration department , the Children 's Aid Society have been enabled to achieve results entitling those who have labored in its ranks to the thanks of all friends of law and order and sound public morality . Besides maintaining these five lodging-houses and twenty industrial day schools , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or twelve evening schools designed especially for poor working boys and girls , and for such others as , from their peculiar callings , are precluded from attending other schools . In addition to the extensive sphere of labor caltrnerated above , the Society keep up a system of visitation among the poor and the destitute in alt those school districts , affording such relief as they are competent to give . In view of the many thousands of children and youth who require the ministrations which this Society stands ready to afford , and who , we well know , without Buie ) assistance must inevitably drift into the swift currents of criminal life , we can not too earnestly urge the claims of this and kindred charities upon the early attention of our benevolent citizens , and we can not but believe , after our recent experience , that through their open-h and ed liberality their present and prospectivewants will be fully supplied .                     