@@742985

txt Of the two annual appropriations whose failure in the Forty-Fifth Congress alone caused the premature session of the FortySixth , one can bo disposed of with little trouble . The Army bill must , of course , be introduced do novo ; but if proposed and handled with the slightest hoed to the teachings of recent experience , it might pass both houses and be signed by the President within the limits of a single week . The history of the last Army bill is most suggestive and instructive for the new Congress . It ought to be incredible that the follies and blunders of the past Winter can be soon repeated , but such a repetition is not even improbable . In a modern Army Appropriation bill there are two constituent parts  --  what ought to be there and what ought not to be there ; the latter is usually the larger , and invariably the part that makes all the trouble . An Army Support bill proper contains one section , exclusive of its technical or enacting clauses . In the last session 's bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , to say the truth , was stuffed with something besides . As it reached the House from the Appropriations Committee , on the 23d of January last , it had become an affair of eleven sections . The first contained the routine items of support for the military es-1 tablishment , with a little extraneous legislation touching commutation for officers ' quarters and allowance for servants ' quarters ; the other ten contained a moderate system of Army organization , whose worst fault was that it opened the whole question of organization , which belonged to a different bill . As the bill left the House on the 8th of February it had been swollen to fifty-four sections . Even the first , or appropriation ? section proper , had been padded with additional legislation totally out of place , such , ' for example , as Gen. BUTLER 'S amendment regarding the railroad telegraph system . The fifty-three riders crowded upon this bill included not only a revolutionary system of army reorganization , but provisions forpublishing Army Regulations , for college instruction in the military art , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Army , for Indian education , and even for amending the laws in regard to the use of troops to keep the peace at the polls . It was only by a small majority that the House refrained from also dumping into this bill an entire transformation of the Indian service . When the bill reached the Senate , Mr. COCKRELL proposed one amendment , Mr. FERRY , a second ; Mr. WALLACE , a third ; Mr. PLUMB , a fourth and a fifth ; ? Mr. ANTHONY , a sixth ; Mr. ' BURNSIDE , a seventh ; Mr. THuRMAN , ? an eighth ; Mr. DORSEY , a ninth , and , Mr. SPENCER , a tenth . Those amendments contemplated adding such subjects as the payment of railroad companies for transportation services , with the method of bringing suits therefor ; the introduction of the German practice in composing courts-martial for trying enlisted men ; a revolution in the system of cadetships at West Point ; the method of delivering commissary supplies and no fewer than three schemes entirely remodeling the plan of Army organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to report until Feb. 20 , and , to make a long story short , the House bill of fifty-four sections left the Senate reduced to five and part of a sixth . The support bill proper was all there , with slight modifications ; and to it were appended a few minor provisions concerning the issue of Army Regulations , an increase of pay to one officer , college and Indian education , and the sites of military head-quarters . The last stage of that bill was worse than the first , for it fell to the ground on a disagreement between the two houses over the question whether it ought to contain a prohibition of the use of troops to keep the peace at the polls . When it is noted how much time and labor had been utterly thrown away simply by making an appropriation bill something different from what it ought to be , the lesson should impress the Forty-sixth Congress . For we are to reckon in not only the weeks of debate in both houses and the months of work in committee , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill of 724 sections was first chopped down to about forty , and then thrown out altogether . Yet that bill was reported Dee . 12 , and could properly have been considered at once , whereas a mangled patch-work of it came before the Senate for action hitched to an appropriation bill , only on Feb. 20 , twelve days before the end of the session . The Forty-sixth Congress can make a very simple or a very difficult and blundering job of its Army legislation . It can easily , like its predecessor , wreck itself in trying to reorganize the military establishment in au appropriation bill . The Senate , a few ee he since , by a decisive , non-partisan vote of 45 to 18 , refused to do this . Undoubtedly , the palpable want of time for considering so large a subject increased this majority ; but there was also much said by both parties against the wisdom of such a course under any circumstances . Besides , an appropriation bill is easily defeated through loading it with extraneous details , each one of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section prohibiting troops from keeping the peace at the polls can easily be passed now by both Senate and House , even as a separate measure ; that a purely political matter should again expose the Army campaigning on the frontier to such needless suffering as , in spite of the ' money advanced outside of law , it experienced from the wanton defeat of its Appropriation bill two years ago , would be a disgrace to the Government and the country .                     