@@743287

txt The salutary check to the speculative activities of Wall-street does not imply any abatement of the energy with which in all parts of the West , from Lake Superior to the Mexican boundary , railroad projects are now pushed forward . There is a too common tendency to make the Stock Exchange a financial barometer . Its expansion is confounded with prosperity ; its collapse is the equivalent of general disaster . Nothing could be more absurd , or more mischievous . As a rule , wild speculation in stocks betokens either an accumulation of idle capital , which is a bad sign , or the operation of an unsound ' financial system . Both causes contributed to the recent ballooning of stocks , which might be followed by as great a fall without injury to legitimate enterprise . While , then , Wall-street finds its prospect of , spending a glorious Christmas somewhat dimmed by reverses , the work of railroad development goes on unchecked . In some directions it may be going on at a little faster rate than prudence would prescribe . Here and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We may safely assume , moreover , that in some instances familiar experience will be reproduced : money invested will be literally sunk ; original subscribers will burn their fingers ; misfortune will be followed by reorganization and new life . The general result , however , will be beneficial . Roads that seem to run into a wilderness will create for themselves profitable traffic . Settlements will keep pace with the locomotive . What now looks like another era of reckless railroad-building will yield enough of substantial results to compensate for incidental errors and losses , and to facilitate the general progress of the country . Putting together the building of railroads , the buying of railroads , and the consolidation of interests with the view of controlling railroads in order that monopolies may be strengthened and enlarged , it is evident that in certain directions forces are at work which will ultimately render inevitable the interference of the National Government . The Thurman settlement practically makes the Union and Central Pacific Roads for the time independent of the power that created them . They have but to sot aside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the rest of their enormous net receipts  --  the product of indefensible exactions  --  they may separately pursue their policy of aggrandizement . The Central will use its means to extend the Southern Pacific to El Paso , and in this manner to establislrin a southern latitude a monopoly that shall in itself be profitable , and shall at the same time protect the present transcontinental road . Similar measures characterize the Union Pacific . Its surplus revenues , acquired by the exaction of excessive charges , enable it to spread an iron network in all directions . Northward and southward ; it extends its centre ' . To make control doubly sure , a Jay Gould combination has virtually taken possession of the Texas Pacific . Mr. THOMAS A. SCOTT is one of the six men who have entered into the contract for extending the road to the Rio Grande , but JAY GOULD is the master of the ' party , and will have no difficulty in executing his plans . A San Francisco journal , speaking apparently after communication with officers of the Central Pacific , declares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have no interest whatever in JAY GOULD 'S acquisitions , " and that they will be ready to deal fairly with the Atchison , Topeka and Santa F6 , when , availing itself of the old Atlantic and Pacific charter , it taps the traffic of the Southern Road . Still further to emphasize , the separation of interests , as between Messrs . HUNTINGTON and GOULD , the Bulletin , states that the Southern Pacific " will seek an early connection with the Texas system of railways reaching Galveston , New-Orleans , and other Southern points . " Assurances of this nature must be received with some qualifications . Something more than promises are needed to induce a belief that the Southern Pacific , so far as the Central controls it , will be administered with a more scrupulous regard for public rights and interests than distinguishes the present route . It is scarcely probable that the Central would expend its money in building the Southern Pacific if the latter were really to be one of its competitors . As a means of guarding the existing monopoly , and multiplying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From any other point of view , it is so totally at variance with all that is known of the Central and Union Pacific , that the motive is inconceivable . The state of the case would be more easily ascertained if the passing attacks upon the ' Atchison , Topeka and Santa F6 and its projected extension to the Pacific were made under circumstances loss suggestive of the joint influence of Messrs . HUNTINGTON and GOULD . So infamous are the attacks ? so evidently the result of sinister influences , exercised at the bidding of a monopoly ? that if Mr. HUNTINGTON has nothing to do with them he should let the fact be known . Everybody would then understand that the attempts to discredit the Atchison Road and its ally , which are appearing simultaneously in this City and in Boston , are inspired by the Union Pacific alone . Of course , they are in accordance with JAY GOULD 'S usual tactics . Not satisfied with extending his hold wherever extension is feasible , he is intent upon breaking down everything that stands in his way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too rich to be bought , too powerful to be crushed , and the junction with the St. Louis and San Francisco renders it yet more antagonistic to his schemes . Hence the newspaper assaults upon its managers and purposes . Whether the projected road along the thirty-fifth parallel is a wise undertaking , considered with reference to , the resources of the projectors , is a question that concerns themselves . But because they choose to act independently of JAY GOULD , and to continue an undertaking which has been rewarded with remarkable success , they are assailed in his interest and in the interest of the monopoly he directs . Their financial capacity is sneered at , and the forfeiture of their land grant proclaimed . This may be JAY GOULD 'S method of damaging a dreaded rival , but it is not a method that will decide the action of Congress , or influence unfavorably the judgment of the public .                     