@@741960

txt In these days one of the most remarkable signs of the regeneration of Italy is the increasing number of ships annually built by her skillful sous . Like everything else that was useful and healthy , the art of shipbuilding seemed to have come to.a complete stop along the shores of the Tyrrhenian and Adriatic . Divided up into jarring kingdoms and principalities , a land wonderfully favored by nature allowed its maritime interests to be oppressed by a system of narrow politics only to be paralleled in the worst times of the Middle Ages . Incredible as it may appear , yet , owners of farms who resided in one State were not allowed to cross the border into the district where their land lay , and had either to get it worked by a resident - or see it lie waste . Vexatious enactments , whose only reason for being appeared to consist in giving employment to a horde of lazy officials , blighted agriculture and commerce ' more effectually than drought or Storm , and men are still alive who have seen grapes rotting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step across au imaginary border to harvest them . To such oppressed men the present state of freedom must appear little short of miraflialons . But after a little they have begun to bestir themselves , with results by no means to be despised . It is said that the whole grain-carrying trade between England and the Black Sea is now pursued in Italian bottoms , and the Indian trade via the Suez Canal is falling every year more and more into Italian hands . When we consider that this has been attempted in competition with so formidable a rival as England , it becomes worth while to examine into the way it is being done . Like most affairs of trade , it resolves itself into a question of cheapness . To get a trade , the ' owners of ships must be able to underbid other owners so much and so persistently that their reputation for cheapness gets thoroughly established ; then , if their service is performed with ordinary accuracy , their rivals disappear . But how could owners of Italian vessels afford to underbid Englishmen , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital at their command ? The answer to that question opens a curious chapter of the history of ' labor and supply , and is not without significance to the New-England and Middle States , where very similar conditions once existed . Iu the Italian sea-ports , where the families are very much intermarried and everybody is cousin to everybody else , a sailor begins to ask himself why he should be shipping on foreign vessels at seaman 's wages , when it would be so much pleasanter and more profitable to be a Captain . So ho goes to his cousin the boat builder , and talks to him , and to his cousin the hotel-keeper and talks to him , and gradually gets together a knot of persons who build the ship , each supplying money or material or work . The ship is their officered and manned by the Captain and his relatives , who got so much of the profits , instead of wages . This naturally works in a twofold way . In the first place , the running expenses of the ship are at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as much interested in caring for the ship , keeping expenses ' low , and securing profitable trips as the Captain . No one will take such good care of a property as its owner , and each mate , each sailor very often , is part owner in such an Italian vessel . On ? the other hand , how is it with the English ship or steamer ' I The Captain has a salary , and is often without interest in the cargo . The sailors are shipped for the voyage on wages , and the , ? Captain does not know their characters or history . It is lucky if the greater number of them do not belong to the tribe , of ishmaelites of the sea , , men whose hand is against every Captain and every owner , whether Captain or owner cares for them or not . Both ship and cargo are likely to suffer from their indifference , if not from their dishonesty . The same order of things obtaining in sea-ports of Italy once existed in Canada , the New-England States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jersey coast . Farmers and others related to each other by blood or long acquaintance made a en-operative speculation of a ship , and officered and manned it with persons whom they knew and trusted . In such beginnings we must look for the astonishing increase of trade which took place after our Revolution and continued into the middle of this century . It has not entirely ceased , although it will probably be found that Canada retains the system - morn completer m accordance with the old state of things than the States of the Union , for the reason that Canada has been less affected by change . Of course there have been many causes for the decrease of our commerce and the cessation of work in small ship-yards all along our coast , but this factor seems to have been overlooked , namely , that cooperative venturiis are now so rare . With the increase in population , the opening up of enormous areas of Western States , the easy travel from one place to another furnished by railways and steamboats , families in American sea-ports are broken up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thousand different directions , and money is eagerly sought for a number of projects which promise greater and more rapid returns than coasters for Pennsylvania coal or barks for the whale-oil of Arctic seas . The best way of disposing of those short-sighted patriots who still lament the decay of shipbuilding is to ask them if they will invest their spare cash in that form . There is nothing to prevent them if they will ; and , indeed , if they can apply the co-operative system , there is no doubt that the speculation will prove an excellent one .                     