@@743035

txt Senator Davis does not appear to have been more successful in his effort to maintain an attitude of judicial impartiality , yesterday , than on other occasions . He has the manner without the spirit of the dispassionate Judge . And even the mannerls so evidently assumed that it fails to conceal either the method or the purposes of the partisan . Indeed , it is not easy to perceive where the Senator 's speech on the Army bill differs from that of any other Democrat . Mr. BAYARD might have delivered himself of all that the Illinois Senator said yesterday with perfect consistency and with equal effect . The presumption which invests with interest Mr. DAVIS 'S appearance in the debate vanishes before the echoes of his speech . It is neither independent nor impartial . A speaker possessed of these attributes could hardly desire a better opportunity for their exercise than has been afforded by the discussion yet unfinished . Rarely has a discussion so important in its bearings been conducted with less general skill or with a less adequate appreciation of the logical results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. DAVIS applied himself to this view of the subject , judicial dignity would have been in order . He might have lifted the points in dispute out of the mire of partisanship , and done good service by presenting them in a shape that would command attention . As it is , he succeeds only in showing how thin is the disguise which separates his conception of independence from full-blown partisanship . There is good reason , undoubtedly , for deprecating the too common tendency to magnify partisan issues into causes of national alarm . The country has outlived so many real perils that it is not likely to be endangered by a bill forbidding the presence of troops at the polls or by the practice of tacking political measures to appropriation bills . Neither the measure nor the practice can be properly denounced as revolutionary . So far as Mr. DAVIS 'S remarks refer to this sort of exaggeration , the rebuke they convey is justified . But a Senator who would dignify the politician by making him judicially fair would not be content with a mere fragment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointed out that while injudicious zeal has cried " revolution " in circumstances that rendered the cry ridiculous , the sober judgment of the Republican Party has reserved the epithet for use in a connection which renders it literally correct . The truth is that the attempt to excite popular feeling by depicting as dangerous measures that are but mischievous , and as revolutionary tactics that are simply disreputable , is a mere incident in the contest . The real object of attack has been and is that phase of the Democratic policy which involves an unconstitutional exercise of power by a bare legislative majority with the view of overcoming a constitutional exercise of authority on the part of the Executive . Since the discomfiture of Mr. BECK by Mr. HOAR , this policy has been less insolently proclaimed . The Democrats have kept it out of sight as much as possible . But no man who with even moderate fairness essays a review of the debates can ignore it as a controlling feature , and especially as the feature to which the more weighty Republican speakers have addressed themselves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a word to say in regard to it . He finds ample room for display in the exaggerated tone of a few Republicans , while he ignores the threats of coercion which the Democratic Party , as a party , has employed in anticipation of a Presidential veto . These threats foreshadow a procedure that would be revolutionary , and Republicans do their duty when they show whither it leads . Mr. DAVIS takes no more notice of the possible contingency which has governed much of the argument on both sides than of the usurpation involved in the pre-determined plan of the Democrats . On the bench , we must suppose , Mr. DAVIs het ( ' the scales With closed eyes . In the Senate , he closes one eye , only . The Senator 's partisanship iS still further shown by his attempt to hold Republicans responsible for whatever sectional irritation now exists . He adopts bodily the Democratic fiction , according to which the Republican Party has wantonly revived the outcry against the South ; and with rounded sentences and judicial style he delivers a homily on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store for the Republican Party as the chief sinner . Never was accusation more unjust . To the great majority of Republicans the renewal of sectional issues is distasteful . They considered the Souther n question settled . Of the manner in which it bad been settled they did not approve , but the fact they accepted in good faith . If Mr. DAVIS were in search of evidence upon this point , he would find plenty in the campaign of last autumn . The Southern question was rarely heard of then . Wholly different issues were in the ascendant . Events changed the aspect of affairs . Sectionalism once more asserts itself , and there are multitudes of Republicans who regret the circumstance quite as sincerely as Mr. DAVIS . If his sincerity be doubted , it will be because his partisan bias is apparent in his erroneous : and one-sided judgment . For whatever sectionalism now exists the Southern Democrats are responsible . Their pretensions rest on it- . Their demands are an expression of its arrogance and greed . Their tactics are designed to give it effect . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the special session . Their influence has shaped the policy of the Democratic Party and given it the direction it now takes . All the sectionalism there now is in our politics has been thrust there by the South , with the concurrence of its Northern Democratic allies . The Republican Party resists these influences and tendencies . It is national in its principles and purposes . And it is eminently national in regard to the questions which Mr. Davisdesires to see settled according to the Democratic programme . Considering his pretensions , therefore , it is unfortunate that he ventured to assign reasons for his vote . His silent vote would have been unchallenged . When , however , he discusses as a partisan questions which he proposes to dispose of as a judge , he forfeits the claim to consideration which alone would separate him from the ordinary Democrat .                     