@@741955

txt Most of the distinguished persons who participated iu the opening ceremonies of the International Exposition yesterday still remain in the city , but their movements during the day have been of a private character . President Grant and Secretary Fish . who are the guests of Mr. George W. Childs , received calls during the morning and then went out to visit several friends . This even ? tug , at 7 o'clock , the President and members of the Cabinet remaining in the city dined with Sir Edward ' Thornton , at St. George 's Hail . The President will leave to-morrow morn . ' up , : for Washington . Secretary Bristow and wife and Postmaster General . Jewell left for Wash ? ington this morning . Secretary Taft will remain until to-morrow . Lieut . Gen. P. H. Sheridan loft for the West on the 7:20 train this morning . Secretaries Chandler and Robeson and Attorney General Pierrepont still remain as the guests of lion . A. E. Boris . One of the principal points of interest about the city just now is Old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original commission of Washington as Commander in Chief of the American armies , which are in a lire  --  proof sate fully exposed to view , attract great attention from all visitors . The National Museum , in the same building , is also largely visited . Ono of the first visitors to the Exhibition grounds this morning was the Emperor of Brazil . Ilia visit was more especially to Machinery Hall , where ho carefully inspected the great engine . His stay was brief , and after a short stroll through the grounds , ho left the city , accompanied by the Brazilian Minis ? ter and three or four attendants , for Wilmington , Dol . After going through the car-works there he visited several other large manufacturing establish . meats , including the ship-yards , morocco factories , &c.; Ho was privately entertained by Mr. W. S. Auchincloss , and , after expressing himself very much pleased with the trip , returned to this city . The Emperor will leave for New-Orleans in a day or two , whore he will remain for several weeks , and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Empress will remain in this city . Gov . Ingersoll , of Connecticut ; Gov . Rico , of Massachusetts ; Senator Ferry ; Chief Justice Waite ; Justices Davie and Bradley , of the United States Supreme Court ; ex-Speaker Blaine ; Mayor Wickham . of New-rork , and a number of Congressmen also visited the grounds early this morning . The entire number of exhibits received at Agricultural Hall ' up to 3 o'clock on Tuesday were 774 . Fifty cars on the Pennsylvania Railroad tracks and three vessels at the wharves on the Delaware are filled with exhibits for the Exhibition . A large number of foreign paintings by the most celebrated masters were received today at the Art Gallery . Work upon the French pavilion , which unfortunately collapsed a short time ago , has been resumed , and it will be completed In a few weeks . The opening ot the Ainerichn State and foreign buildings will in most cases be unattifinled by any formalities . The Boston Cadets will leave hero for home tomorrow morning at 7 o'clock . The official figures for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 3 o'clock this afternoon and hold au executive session for the discussion of a programme for a Fourth of July celebration . No conclusion was reached . The Woman 's Centennial Music Hall , at the Forrest mansion , on the corner of Broad and Master streets , was opened to-night with the grandest musical performance ever given in a music hall in Philadelphia . Theodore Thomas repeated the magnificent programme of the Centennial opening ceremonies with his orchestra of one hundred and fifty artiste and the full chorus of nearly one thousand voices . The Grand March , by Richard Wagner , the violin parts of which were scarcely audible in the open air , had a splendid effect In the hall . Mr. Myron D. Whitney , In addition to his solo in the cantata , which had the unprecedented honor of being encored yesterday , sang the grand bass air from the " Magic Flute . " 