@@741749

txt It is as nearly as possible four years ago since a deputation from the Committee of Seventy proceeded to Albany and obtained Gov . HOFFMAN 'S sanction to the instituting of civil suits in the name of the people of the State against the Ring thieves of New York City . That was hailed as a great triumph of public justice , and Mr. O'CoNox and the other eminent counsel associated with him began , amid the brightest auguries of success , the task of recovering some of the six millions stolen under cover of the proceedings of the Board of Audit of infamous memory . The fact that the task is no further advanced than it was in October , 1871 , and that but for the passage of certain special legislation last Winter , it would by this time have have been abandoned altogether , suggests some obvious reflections . One is , that our legal machinery for the punish- ment of official peculators has , until quite recently , been int ' a lamentably defective character . Another is that under a political judiciary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefit of all the technical'weapons in the , armory of common law procedure , while the people are allowed to plead in vain for the protection of the great principles of equity . A third . is that the difficulty of bringing a. thief to justice grows pretty much in proportion with the amount which he steals . After all the vicissitudes and disappointments which have marked the course of these civil suits against the Ring , it will be very difficult to get the public to believe that they are now in a fair way of being pressed to a successful issue . Whatever fresh disappointments may be in store , it may safely be said that they never were in a more favorable stage of progress . Had . Judge DONOHUE 'S decision held . good , there would , of course , have been an end of them . The main point of that decision was that TWEED 'S counsel had the right to demand from the legal representatives of the people a statement setting forth with great fullness of detail the number and character of the items @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purpose of abstracting money from the public Treasury . As TWEED and his co-conspirators had taken care to have all evidence of this character destroyed , it was clearly impossible to comply With any such order . Had . the ruling of Judge DONOHUE been sustained as good . law , not only would TWEED have been able to defy all demands for the restitution of his plunder , but all succeeding imitators of the Boss thief would have been able to snap their fingers at the people they had robbed . Fortunately , by the concurring voice of Justices DAVIS and BRADY , sitting in General Term , the decision of the court below is declared to be as contrary to sound law as it is to sound sense . The " despoiler of evidence " is not to be allowed to have the benefit of his work . The people are not to be asked to stultify their own case by discriminating between the fictitious and the just elements of claims which their complaint has stamped as altogether false and fraudulent . The decision of Judge DAVIS touches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the conspiracy to build up claims of many thousands upon items of as many hundreds , and those fraudulently obtained , taints the whole transaction with fraud . " Items which might have been justly demanded and honestly paid , cease to have any legal claim to recognition when they are used to give a color of truth to a monstrous aggregate of false and fictitious demands upon the public Treasury . These are principles of law which might with advantage be more extensively followed by the courts in dealing with the outstanding mass'of old and . corrupt claims against the City . Along with these , the golden rule laid down by Judge DAVIS should have the most extensive recognition : " The true object of technical rules is to promote justice or prevent injustice . When they fail in this , and come to eat like rust into substance , courts should neither encourage nor enforce them . "                     