@@741226

txt One of the things most frequently brought to the attention of a traveler over routes not familiar to him , is the general aversion of ticket-agents , conductors , and other railroad . officials to communicate information . There are , we know , some exceptions , and we wish to give them lull credit . Men who , in the cause of humanity and benevolence , have the courage to render themselves singular in the eyes of others in then business , have always a high claim upon the respect of society , and that claim should be distinctly acknowledged . This dislike on the part of railway ofacials.to giving passengers needed information appears to be an intrinsic part of our great system of railway travel . Perhaps a reason for it may be found in the conscious ? ness of dignity imparted by a connection with so extended a power . A little circumstance  --  such as a plain farmer unaccustomed to traveling. who is going to see his son " oat West , " getting a hundred miles or so out of his road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travel with three or four little children , missing nei train , and being forced to incur the expense of staying with her children oyez night at a hotel ? is a very small matter foi some of our great corporations to concern themselves about . They find time , it is . true , to take the said plain farmer 's or pooz woman 's fare ; but that is entirely another thing . But however we may account fox the deficiency , upon almost all our lines , of suitable means of giving passengers information , it is perfectly obvious that such a deficiency exists , and . that it is ? ? ? a very serious inconiiiiiience to the public . Even the most experienced travelers , men who perhaps in their business have occasion to pass over some thousands of miles every year , are often in no slight degree embarrassed In this way . Time-tables and railroad guides , it is true , generally furnish to such a man most of the knowledge he requires ; but even to him . these are by no means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are often comparatively unintelligible . There are large numbers of people for whom a time-table might as well be printed in Sanscrit for all the information they can get out of it . Nor are these always exceed ' ngly ignorant persons . To understand the timing of trains , and the technical terms used , does not , indeed , demand a very high order of intelligence ; but at the same time , it requires a certain familiarity with the subject which it can not be expected that every one will possess . There are . perhaps . some persons now living , who may see the day when . at the principal stations of our great railroads there will be men whose business it shall be to impart to travelers needed information in regard to the trains . The idea may , indeed . seem wild and visionary , but such a change would be scarcely greater than men not yet fifty years old have witnessed in regard to some other things connected with traveling . And possibly , also , there will be hung up somewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are speaking can easily point to places upon them . large and accurately-drawn maps of the routes in regard to which information is most likely to be needed . We do not mean merely placards with maps upon them , but genu- ' fine maps , designed not mainly to call attention to a particular line , but to give information about localities and . distances . And in addition to all this , it may be that in the far-off future to whichlwe are alluding , it will be not only an occasional thing , but the usual practice , to have on the principal trains some individual who can tell a passenger something about branch roads and connecting lines .                     