@@743153

txt It is not easy to retain a sober countenance while studying the solemn acknowledgements that come from Washington with regard to the non-fulfillment of the expectations excited by the issue of $40,000,000 of refunding certificates . The natural inference from the lachrymose statements that have appeared would be that a great scheme of Governmental benevolence has been frustrated by the greed and cunning of speculators . These statements , in their spirit , are in perfect keeping with the pretenses put forward while the scheme was under the consideration of Congress . Mr. GILFILLAN , we doubt not in good faith , denies that the refunding certificates ? ever took the place of savings btinks ; and in proof thereof he is , reported to have adduced the non-existence of a demand for the certificates in small amounts . But the circumstance he cites  --  which , as we prefer to state it , indicates the difficulty of satisfying a demand for ; small amounts , rather than the non-existence of the demand itself  --  does not touch the essence of the question raised by the information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joint parties to the transparently absurd scheme which , as a Washington dispatch puts it , " looked to the establishment of a Government savings institution , " is a matter not worth discussing . What we do know is that the good intentions of Congress were sustained , if they were not prompted , by the Treasury , and that the two must share the discredit attaching to the encouragement of hopes which wore obviously foreordained to failure . Two reasons were assigned in support of the project , and the responsibility for them belongs quite as much to the Treasury as to the Congress . One was , that an opportunity should be afforded to the people of exemplifying their interest in the national credit and of realizing their proportion of benefit accruing from its improved condition . Another , that facilities should be furnished for investing small sums with a degree of security which was declared to be unattainable in connection with savings banks . The patriotic part of the business was unmitigated gammon . During the war , when everything was contingent upon the chances in battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They were made freely and were as nobly responded to . But patriotism , properly considered , has nothing to do with the question whether the rate of interest on the public debt shall be 4 or 5 per cent. ; and the attempt to use patriotic feeling in behalf of a refunding operation in whose success speculators Were iminedia tely interested , was unwarranted and unwise . Not much better was the attempt to float $40,000,000 of refunding certificates under the pretense that the mass of those who sustain savings banks would be benefited by affording them some safer form of deposit . The implied attack upon savings banks was inexcusable . It was inexcusable as a matter of fact , because it reflected unfavorably on a class of institutions which , as a whole , is eminently worthy of public confidence ; and inexcusable as a matter of justice , because it invested the project with attributes to which it had no claim . Whatover might be said in favor of the tell-dollar certificate project , there was something not unlike falsehood and Cruelty in any representation conveying the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Government of the responsibilities incident to a provident institution . Nothing can take the place of a well-eonducted savings bank . which does not provide for the smooth performance of all the ordinary functions of such an institution , with a degree of security added that can only come from the direct responsibility of the Government to the depositor . Tho ten-dollar certificate could not possibly moot these requirements . It did not represent a cash deposit , available at pleasure : it was merely convertible into a bond whose marketable value fluctuates , and whose sale entailed some charges and might entail some loss . Subsequent experience showed that in other respects the certificate was a delusion , so far as the average depositor was concerned , Thus the certificates , which were convertible only when presented in amounts of $50 , must needs be sent to Washington to allow of the operation being completed . The only conclusion admissible in the circumstances is , that if the Treasury and the Congress ever had " good intentions " ? that is , exceptionally good , and of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stupid method of carrying such intentions into effect . It is , then , absurd to bewail the failure of the project , as a means of benefiting provident individuals , ? when all its characteristics point to the results now reportdd . As a speculative operation , it has been excellent for an aggregate of somebodies , As a patriotic or a provident project , it has been a farce .                     