@@742738

txt Not the least interesting or important phase of the International Exhibition at Paris is to ho found in the numerous conferences and congresses attending it , which bring together representative men of various countries to consult upon matters of mutual or general concern . In such an exchange of opinions as these bring forth is to bo found one of the - most powerful means of promoting political , commercial , and social progress . Among the conferences yet to come at Paris is one to be held under the Presidency of M. JULES SIMON , having for its object the promotion of a general adoption by civilized nations of the metric system of weights and measures , and in connection therewith of some international basis of coinage . The latter object is likely to figure prominently in the discussions , as the movement in favor of holding the conference originated with the International Association for Obtaining a Uniform Dacimal System of Weights , Measures , and Coins , of which Earl FORTESCUE , in England , is the President , and Prof. LEONE LEVI , the Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress is the assimilation of the currency systems of those nations which have intimate commercial relations . The a dvantages to bo gained by having uniform methods of measurement , and the same units and denominations for designating quantity in merchandise , and in the medium employed for effecting exchanges and keeping accounts among nations that have constant and extensive dealings with each other , are sufficiently obvious to any one who gives the matter interne ; ent study . Vast progress has been made in the last few years in breaking down the barriers that formerly separated nations . Everybody recognizes the gain that comes from a more rapid and complete communication from country to country . Numerous lines of swift-sailing steamers bring the nations nearer together and enable them to trade with greater facility and greater mutual profit . Railroads tr9 , verse continents and carry merchandise from country to country with scarcely any interruption at the borders . The network of the telegraph almost covers the two hemispheres and has bands of connection beneath the ocean , and the electric current feels no check at the boundary lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conquering of time and distance by these appliances , is felt to be a great advance , and no one pretends to gainsay the advantage . These vast strides in the progress of mankind have been the result of the growing wants of civilization and the increasing efforts of the race to satisfy them . Other barriers remain , which will ultimately have to go down , in the tendency toward a practical federation of na ? tions . Among those are the relics of that old time when countries were isolated and the policy of keeping in and keeping out was regarded as a means of growing rich and powerful , such as independent systems of measurement and cur- currencies that are confined within national boundaries . And ' these systems themselves have been the incongruous gro ? th of an uncivilized age , adopted without design and continued from custom . With closer commercial relations and enormously - increased international trade , and with the growth of the idea that mutual advantages accrue from freedom of communication , it becomes clearer and clearer that weights , me isures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the uniformity should be based on some intelligent system , deliberately and wisely adapted to the purposes in view . Admitting this , there is no room for doubt as to the advantage of the decimal order of denominations , and in the French metric plan we have ready to hand an admirable system for all measures of extension , ' capacity ; and weight . Its general adoption can only be a question of time , for it is only necessary to make it everywhere familiar to render its advantages obvious . Efforts to secure interne , tional coinage should not fail to connect it directly with the metric system , and make it absolutely uniform in denomination and nomenclature . Assimilation and approximation will prove to be half-way work. ? The current discussion on the subject , so far as it has gone , has had in view the adoption of a 25 franc gold piece , which should be approximately equivalent to the English sovereign and the American half-eagle , but what is needed is not approximate equivalence but absolute sameness . If a gramme of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations , and all coins bo made decimal multiples , or decimal fractious thereof , with names that carried with them absolute significance of what they were , we could have a system of international measurement for value as well as quantity , which would be at once rational , convenient , and productive of general benefit . Unquestionably , there would be serious difficulty in bringing this into universal practice , but , nevertheless , it should be the ideal object to be aimed at and striven for , with a view to ultimate results , however far off . Especially should this bo the case with an international conference ' dealing with principles and aiming to promote the very best and most desirable ends . By starting with this clear idea , and , carrying on the agitation in a straight and consistent course , instead of accepting some half-way compromise , much may be done toward inculcating true notions of the nature and purposes of money , as well as advancing toward an intelligent method of using it in commercial calculations and dealings .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       