@@741935

txt The Cincinnati Gazette says that the meeting of four gentlemen in that city in regard to certain charges made privately against Mr. Blaine , about which much has been said within the last few days , was not , as has been asserted , in the interests of any particular candidate , nor against any particular candidate , and it continues : " It had come to the knowledge of those parties that there were charges against Mr. Blaine in the possession of Democrats , that would be sprung if that gentleman should be nominated for the Presidency by the Cincinnati Convention , and it was to look into these that the conference was held in this city . There were tour persons present , all Republicans . There had been correspondence previously with Mr. Blaine with reference to the matter , and he was subsequently advised of all that transpired at that meeting , and ho was also furnished the names of the gentlemen present . The letter written to Mr. Blaine with reference to tho meeting in question , and all previous correspondence , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The conference had but one object , and that was to discover whether the charges were such as to injure Mr. Blame in the event of his nomination , and to ascertain , if possible , what truth there was in those charges . The gentlemen referred to could not affirm . that the charges were true , nor could they say they were false in all their parts . They felt it their duty , therefore , in the interests of It Blaine and the Republican Party , to make that gentleman acquainted with all the details in their possession , in order that be might meet and explain the charges , and this was done as early us the month of March , in order that there might be abundant time before the meeting-of the Cincinnati Convention to dispose of the case one way or the other . Tne publication in the Indianapolis Sentinel barely referred to one of the charges . It did not state the case fully nor clearly , and , as we understand the matter , the cards of Mr. Rollin , and Morton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a view to meeting the charges contained in the Sentinel article . fall entirely short of the mark . amide wo consider a further explanation necessary . In fact , a full investigation will bo required to place Mr. Blaine in a proper position before the country . If innocent , that must be established by something more than mere general denials . If Mr. Blaine should be nominated for the Presidency , the Democratic House would be sure to investigate . With these charges pending , the Cincinnati Convention would not be likely to risk the nomination of Mr. Blaine . The investigation should , therefore , bo demanded by Mr. Blaine at once and pushed to a conclusion . In one of the cases , Mr. Harrison , is Government Director in the Union Pacific Railroad , would be a witness . He says he knows all about the $64,000 transaction , and is ready to go before a Congressional committee and tell the whole story . This would not take more than a few days , and If , from whs. ' we have beard , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be could not be convicted at all . It will not suffice to say that Mr. Harrison is a friend of Senator Morton , and that this is a Mop ton scheme to kill off Blaine. hir . Harrison , we are informed , is an honorable man , and one not likely to enter into any questionable scheme to help or injure any person . Neither will it be se ? clout to say this is ' a Bristow conspiracy . a Hayes plot , or a Conkling iniquity . It is nothing of the Kind , so fares we have any knowledge on the sub . led . The charges are bound to be made in full , and the sooner they appear and are met specifically and squarely the better for Mr. Blaine and the party and the country . " 