@@781749

txt deleted paragraph of those who were present yesterday , all discussion not relevant to this object was promptly ruled out . People who want to ventilate fancy schemes and . submit drafts of new bills , can doubtless be gratified by appearing before the Aldermanic committee , which meets to-morrow . If that body can do no positive good , it can , at least , furnish a convenient outlet for the " gas " of which the slightest public reference to rapid transit seems to generate very large quantities . A fair beginning was made with a subscription list yesterday . Twenty-five thousand dollars were subscribed by thirteen of the gentlemen present , which , with the subscriptions already offered through Ms Toms and not duplicated on the above list , make a total subscription to start with of about forty thousand dollars . Then one gentleman present declared his readiness to subscribe ten thousand dollars provided that other nine could be found to do the same , and nine gentlemen of good standing subscribed an obligation " to use their best efforts in obtaining subscriptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There certainly has been no rapid-transit scheme started hi New-York under conditions so favorable as those which mark the beginning of the present one . Confidence grows with every fresh movement made toward the realization of Mr. Da.uces idea , and the prompt , business-like energy which marks every step taken by the promoters of the plan is calculated to excite the most sanguine anticipations . The conditions of subscription agreed upon yesterday were simple but comprehensive . They define the object of the " deferred capital fund " to be " investment in the capital stock of a railway to be constructed from the southerly end of Manhattan Island to such points northerly as may be determined on , " and they state the transportation of passengers and freight to be the purpose of the railway . Two-thirds of the subscribers , - who must represent a majority of the subscribed stock , are to determine the conditions of its investment , but one of these conditions must be the w aiving of any claim for interest or dividends till the enterprise has acquired surplus earnings which are not needed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minimum amount to be subscribed is fixed at three millions of dollars . Everything now depends upon the merchants , capitalists , and real estate owners of New-York . If they have as much faith in the future as is being exhibited by those who are making large pecuniary sacrifices to build . up the commercial rivals of New-York , the scheme is certain to be a success . If they lack that , both the present movement and . all the other enterprises necessary to utilize the unequaled natural advantages of this City are doomed to failure . A confessed inability to achieve rapid transit on the basis now proposed , would be a very bad omen for the maintenance of the commercial supremacy of this city .                     