@@741192

txt The continued decline in Pacific Mail has attracted much attention in financial circles . there being various reasons advanced for its severe depression . Soon after the " corner " in the stook , which transpired last Autumn , the inside clique averred their intention of maintaining the price at par . In spite , however . of prognostications . based noon a belief in their ability to hold Pacific Mail at par , the price of the stock declined liquidity . Hundreds of people who went " short , " when caught in the " corner , " professed a confidence in the value of the stock which proved very lucrative to the former bulla. who wished to unload all the way down . Pacific Mail did not stay above par , nor at it , but it steadily declined ; and the lower it fell the faster buyerscrowded in to put up their margins , in the expectation of making immense fortunes in a subsequent rise . But the rise never came . To be sure there would occasionally be an advance of four or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this would soon be lost in a fall of seven or eight per cent. , occasioned , as the clique gave out , by the loss or crippling or some steamer owned by the company . Many men in the Street bought at 85 , on " points , " as they are called . Some of them have held on ever since ; others , and by far the greater number of them , alarmed by the tremendous decline . covered at figures far below those at which they bought . One broker in the Street bought 4.000 shares at 85 , and has lived on hope ever since , still being confident of a rise . The real reason for the decline , however , grew out of the fact that the budden rise was brought about by speculations of the wildest nature , which forced up the price to a point at which it could not be held long by any combination in Wall-street . The clique which manipulated the bull movement knew this , and so set about to let the stook down gradually . Some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved faithless to their friends and unloaded to them at the highest prices . It 18 needless to say that they made the most money . Then some of the heavy speculators , who had only dabbled in Pacific Mail , hitherto , without any settled purpose , found out the trouble in the camp of the clique and went in to make matters worse . Next is the inside members of the clique , who had remained true to their agreements up to this , became aware that the most powerful operators on the Street were opposed to them . Of course they became demoralized , and one after the other adopted the unloading " game . When there were but one or two left in the clique , and the price of the stock was steadily going down , they seized the opportunity to make the company stand their individual losses . They had the power and accomplished their purpose . The funds to pay for this " wild-eat " speculation came out of the treasury of the company . The collateral was of such a description that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were frequent meetings of the directors , and a profound secrecy was attempted to be maintained . In spite of all the secrecy . however , it transpired that the notes which the President of the company gave to it , to seoare his indebtedness for losses in speculations , were not paid , and so far as could be learned were not likely to be for a considerable time . A doubt ensued as to whether the Howe Sewing-machine Company , upon the property of which a mortgage net been given to secure the payment of the notes , could be bound by the act of its President . In the face of all this trouble the company contracted for four new steamers . and it was said , yesterday , that two of the $100,000 notes of Mr. Stockwell 's bad been turned over to the ship-builder as advance payment , and that these will come due on the 1st of June . and that there is no money in the safe or the company to take them up . One of the steamers . the Colon , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will soon be flaished , as they are needed to take the places of lost and disabled vessels . In the present state of the finances of the company grave doubts are expressed as to whether the unfinished vessels will be turned over for use until enough money is fort hcomiug to make the builder safe on his contracts . All kinds of rumors prevailed on the Street yesterday in regard to the company and its condition , one of them being that a certain stockholder is about to make an appfication for the appointment of a receiver , on the ground that the funds of the company are being recklessly squandered in etock speculations , and that the only way to stop these operations is to throw the company into bankruptcy . The stook was very weak , fluctuating between 45 and 46 , under the influence of these reports . which were not denied by parties who are supposed to be well posted .                     