@@741721

txt The developments of the past three days go to show that he band of cut-throats known as ? ? Mollie Mazuires , " which infests this region , has entered ipon a systematic work of blood . It stoops to nothing less than murder , and that is its pun-. ishment for all imagined offenses . Since the shooting of Sanger and Urin , at Raven Run on Wednesday morning , a large number of colliery " bosses " have received coffin notices , not less than six , it is said , in the MahoneyValley allone , and one more of the doomed men met his fate to-day . As at Raven Run the time chosen for the murder was a little before 7 o'clock , just as the miners were going to work , the most conspicuous time in the day . Tho victim was John P. Jones , a man about fifty years of age , who was inside superintendent of two collieries belonging , to the Lehigh and Wilketharre Coal Company at Langston , a small town in Columbia County , about four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Michael J. Doyle , both of Mount Laffee , a town about twenty miles from the scene of the murder . Evidently the branch of the Molly Maguire organization to which they belonged was called in to do this work , and these two men drew the fatal straws which showed that the lot fell on them . They went to Langston , and as Mr. Jones was going to work walking alone , but within sight of a number of persons , they overtook him , at once drew their revolvers , and fired at him . Ho ran a little way , but they followed still firing , and did not leave him until theywere sure that their work was finished . The victim lived about fifteen minutes , and said he did not know his assassins , but gave a description of their appearance . The murdered man was a Mason , the father of a large family , and a mail highly respected in the community , and the news of his murder created the most intense excitement . Scouts instantly went out in pursuit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as their work was done , and about noon the two men above mentioned were brought in . They were captured in company with James Kerrigan , of Tamaqua , who probably acted as their pilot . They were with difficulty protected from an angry mob , which was bent on lynching them , and were temporarily placed in the Tamaqua lockup under strong guard until they could be taken to Mauch Chunk , where they are now in prison awaiting trial . This outrage , coming so soon after that at Raven Ulm , has worked up the people of the northern end of the county to a frenzy of excitement . and if another murder occurs before the excitement has died away it will be impossible to prevent the formation of a Vigilance Committee . The special Police force of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Company is on duty in that region , with headquarters at Shenandoah , but it is utterly unable to cope with the emergency , while the county officers are powerless against an enemy who strikes without warning and . worst of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the inhabitants of the vicinity , who are most depended on to bring him to justice . One of the policemen was the involuntary cause of another tragedy to-day at Shenandoah . He and a companion were on duty watching a road in that vicinity , when a couple of young Germans , named Yahn and Kirby , approached . The policemen challenged them , and Yahn , frightened , drew a pistol and fired , hitting the policeman in the hand . The latter instantly returned the fire , shooting Yahn through the heart , while Kirby ran away . It was a fatal error , but due only to the high excitement in that region , which makes every man suspicious of every other . The Raven Run murderers have not yet been captured , though an arrest was made in Shenandoah to-day which may give a clue to them . An unknown man called at a doctor 's office to have a bullet extracted from his arm . He was unable to give a satisfactory account of himself , or how he came to be in need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nothing , however , has been learned from him . The Coroner 's jury in the cases of Sanger and Wrin , murdered at Raven Run on Wednesday , found a verdict to-day that deceased came to their death from gun-shot wounds at the hands of parties unknown , and censured the Sheriff and District Attorney for inactivity in the matter . It is now said that the murder of these men was an act of vengeance for the conduct of the Messrs . Heaton , the owners of the colliery , who ejected one of their tenants last Winter under circumstances which , though legal , were deemed . unmerciful . The man , it is said , was a " Mollie Maguire . "                     