@@741513

txt The operation of universal suffrage iu France is naturally attended with the same difficulties which beset it elsewhere ; and the recent elections furnish many conspicuous instances of the fact . The lack of independence and the want a intelligent judgment which M .. PREVOST PARADOL long ago pointed out to his countrymen in an able chapter on the " right of suffrage , " as the great primary evils of the system which allows every adult male citizen a vote , are constantly the causes of much corruption and disorder . The mass of ignorant voters in 4. many of the French departments mean to do what is best for the interest of the whole country . They have a dimly defined idea that on their individual votes depend to a certain extent the safety and prosperity of the nation . But their knowledge of political affairs is so slight , and their independence so absolutely nominal , that they are constantly doing more harm than good . They are at the mercy of clever demagogues , who deceive them with specious promises , and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a traditional fear of republicanism as something tending toward license and future anarchy , and , consequently , they are anxious to throw themselves into the hands of advisers upon whom they fancy that they can rely . And thus it happens that from time to time they turn against themselves the weapon which they might use as their surest means of defense . This is notably exemplified by the ease with which an Administration that is certainly devoid of any very lively sympathy for an advancedrepublicanism in France has latterly revived the odious system of " official candidates . " This system , so successful under NAPOLEON III. , has been instrumental ever since its invention in preventing the increase of au independent feeling among voters ; and its definite revival throughout the country would be a heavy blow to the prospects of the young Republic . It is not strange , therefore , g , that - journals which pretend . to the possession of some degree of conscience and foresight , such as the Sidcle , the Opinion Nationale , and others whose editors have the dexterity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or suppression , should have made spirited attacks upon a continuance of the tactics which the Prefects under NAPOLEON adopted . After the late elections for the Councils-General , the complaints on the part of intelligent Republicans , in nearly every department , of the manner in which voters were intimidated and deluded , were so general and bitter as to attract much attention . The present Administration , which appears to regard itself , even in the absence of any very decided confirmation of its powers , as a " government , " boldly announced , on a recent occasion , by the month of one of its Prefects , the following sentiments : " Every Government that wishes to defend itself , that desires to live , has the right to indicate its preferences . The Administration has the right to appeal to a functionary , saying : such a candidate is agreeable to us  --  such another one is hostile ; you are free to make your choice , but we have indicated to you our choice . " In other words , the Administration in France informs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence votes for the man directly designated by the Government , he - will probably lose his office . i And it is proved beyond dispute that the central -I Government fulfilled its threat in the case of functionaries who disregarded the expressed preferences of the Administration , by vigorously and speedily chopping off their official heads . Hosts of petty officials , who depended upon ( =their offices for their daily bread , were suminarily displaced to make room for monarchical and Bonapartist supporters. - . All who had dared , in any manner whatever , to urge the masses to vote for earnest Republicans in opposition to the men specially chosen by the Marshalate , felt the official displeasure of the Minister of the Interior . i Of course there were many republican successes despite this procedure . But the amazement which doubtless overtook , officials who daily signed documents bearing the seal and imprint of the " French Republic " when they found themselves removed for having voted for the maintenance of that Republic , . must ha=ve been profound . It appears that a goockiinmber of the Mayors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But most of them , succeeded pretty well in imposing upon the rural voters the official Candidatures ; and it is ' worth remembering that in every case where - the interven- tion of the Government was perceptible , th ( Republican cause received a check . view of this fact , it is quite evident that un ? less the Republic be definitely constitutes within the next few months , the adroit in. triguis ' ts who are always active will mak ( much progress in facilitating the return t ( monarchical or imperial control .                     