@@781776

txt Gail Hamilton , in her fourteenth and fifteenth articles , has at last brought down her profound researches into civil service reform from the days of PITT and BURKE to comparatively modern times . With the aid of an English Guide to the Civil Service , of the extremely recent date of 1867 , and of " informal " conversations with Customs officers on the docks at Liverpool , she has discovered that the pretended opening of the British civil service to free competition is a " pure delusion , " and that " patronage " and " influence " are quite as potent as ever . This is a remarkable discovery , and one which would be extremely comforting to Mr. BLAINE and the other enemies of civil service reform in this country did it not , unfortunately , lack the essential element of truth . There is the amplest evidence , not only in the reports of the British Civil Service Commission and of various Parliamentary committees , but in contemporaneous magazine literature , that the principle of open competition has been extended in good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire civil service of Great Britain , with the single exception of the Foreign Office and the diplomatic service . Had the fair critic but read to the end the article iu Scribner 's Monthly for June , 1S77 , from the earlier portions of which she quotes with such freedom , she would have found the facts set forth with fullness and accuracy . The mistake into which she has fallen is that of supposing that the competitive system was introduced in 1855 , and all of her conclusions are based on this error . Now , the fact is that no one except herself has over pretended or supposed that the system of 1855 was a competitive system . Every person who has made the slightest inquiry into the subject knows that the order in Council of 1855 provided simply for pass-examinations , and that no effort was made at that time to put any further restraint upon patronage . Although limited competition among candidates nominated by patronage was voluntarily introduced . to a considerable extent under the order of 1S55 , the system of open competition which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order in Coun ? ell of June 4 in that year directed that , with certain exceptions , all original appointments in any department of the civil service Made after Aug. 31 , 1870 , should be made by moans of open competitive examinations . This was an entire change from the system before in force , and marks the beginning of a new era in. the British civil service . ? The new ' system was Soon put in force , and has continued in operation ever since , standing successfully the test of repeated Parliamentary investigation . The statements concerning the potency of patronage and the necessity of influence to the candidates for appointment , which Miss DODGE quotes with such gusto from the guides and hand-books of 1867 , refer , of coarse , to the system of pass-examinations introduced in 1855 , and not to the competitive system , which was not introduced till 1870 , and which made s , radical change in the methods of selection . The statement that " what was true in 1860 and 1867 is true to-day , " is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astonishing that so intelligent a writer should have stumbled into such a very quagmire of errors in dealing with a subject to which she has professedly given so much attention , when the means of correct information were so easily obtainable . We fear that the information picked up on the Liverpool docks . is quite as antiquated and untrustworthy as that derived from these obsolete hand-books . The Customs officers at that port are represented as saying that . a recommendation from some member of the Government is requisite to secure an opportunity to enter the competitive examinations . If this be true , Dr. LYON PLAYPAIR , and the other members of the Civil Service Inquiry Commission must have been grievously imposed upon . Their third report , presented to Parliament July 23 , 1875 , was devoted exclusively to the " Out-door Establishments of the Inland Revenue and Custom 's Departments , " and the " Clerical Establishments of the Outports . " They presented a full and exact statement of the methods of appointment in.vogue , from which it appears that admission to these ithportant branches of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condueted.under the direction of the Civil Service Commission : The only exceptions are the watermen and boatmen , who are appointed on nomination , after passing a test examination in reading and writing . Probably , it was one of these humble officials-of whom Miss DODGE made her " informal but careful inquiry " on the Liverpool docks . At any rate , this plan of investigating the methods of selecting the civil servants of . agreat country like Great Britain possesses the merit of originality however much itmay be lacking in accuracy . The reason given for not selecting the watermen and boatmen by competition is the perfectly simple and conclusive one that " bodily and not mental qualifications are mainly required . " All appointments to the higher grades in these departments are , moreover , made by promotion from the lower grades , either by competition or Selection , ' every officer , of Whatever grade , being required to work his way up from the lowest grade . That the designations for examination are not governed by " influence " or favoritism , is evidenced ' by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the examinations " shall be open to all persons of the requisite age , health , character , and other qualifications prescribed in the regulations " and of the regulations of the Civil Service Commissioners , which announce that " these examinations will be open , with such exceptions and under such conditions as may be laid down , to all natural-born subjects of her Majesty being of good health and chara cter , " and by the further fact that prior to Miss DODGE 'S explorations there had never been heard a whisper of complaint that these provisions had not been fully and fairly enforced . Plainly , the enemies of civil service reform will have to seek for consolation and support elsewhere than in Great Britain .                     