@@742776

txt Dispatches received by Dr. Woodworth , Surgeon-General of the Marine Hospital Service , for the week ending to-night , show the marked increase in the ravages of the yellow fever in the Mississippi Valley . In Vicksburg the United States Marine Hospital officials are ill with the fever , and surgeons from New-Orleans have been sent to their assistance . The service is much embarrassed for want of physicians , and to-day three new assistant surgeons , the maximum now allowed by law , were appointed . They will be sent to take the place of more experienced surgeons stationed at the hospitals , who in turn will be sent to the inf. cted districts . There are no reports of additional cases in Cincinnati . The case furthest north is one near Wheeling , a sporadic case . Along the south-eastern coast there are no reports of any fever , except of a few , cases in quarantine , which are customary oven in seasons when there is no epidemic . At Key West , Pensacola , and Mobile no fever has yet been reported , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Savannah , Norfolk , or Baltimore . The report yesterday that a case had appeared at Norfolk has not been confirmed , but it is pretty certain that a person seized with fever passed through here from the South for New York vest-rday , as a Pullman car passenger . Dr. Woodworth having telegraphed to Dr. Murray , in charge of the hospital at Key West , to know if he was himself well enough to go to the relief of New-Orleans , received the following reply : KEY WEST , Aug. 23 , 1878 . Will start to-morrow and arrive there in four days . Send me relief hore . City healthy . ROBERT B. MURRAY . Dr. Murray himself has only just arisen from a sick bed after a severe surgical operation . The following dispatch was received by Dr. Woodworth from Dr. Keyes at Vicksburg this evening : " At least 400 cases of yellow fever to-day ; 20 deaths in less than 31 hours . Both physicians in charge of Marine Hospital service very low . Physicians scarce . " Reports having been circulated that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it can be stated that there is not now one case there . A clean bill of health was reported from the quarantine yesterday . The only cases that have been there came from two barks , which were immediately placed in the strictest quarantine . The regulations of quarantine at Baltimore are exceptionally stringent , no communication whatever being allowed with any vessel suspected of having the fever on board . The business men interested in the cargo , even are forbidden to send messages . The Baltimore authorities are confident . of their ability to confine any sporadic cases which may come strictly to quarantine . 