@@742366

txt The glories of Summer have been sung by poets , and grandiloquently described by romancers from time immemorial . It has been represented as the queen of the seasons , as the perfection of weather , as three entirely delightful months cut out of an ideal calendar . ' It has served as a simile for everything and anything beautiful , luxurious , and desirable , until our imagination , conquered by the highly-colored presentment , has accepted Summer at a greatly exaggerated and really fallacious estimate . Tho season always seems charming while it is absent . We long for its warmth when December blasts shako our windows and make , our teeth chatter . We hunger for its brightness , seeing the November skies overcast with lowering clouds . We sigh for its return while the rawness of March removes every particle of natural caloric from our blood . We say to qurselves in early Spring , late Autumn , and mid-Winter , " How happy wo shall be when the golden Summer comes . " And when it comes , its gold does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after submitting it to every test , we can not persuade ourselves that it is genuine . We are forced to confess ourselves disappointed . But the fault is not in us ; it never is when we are balked of our expectation . The Summer has derived us ; it is not what it has been ; it has put on new aspects , increased its temperature , its sultriness , and assumed many disagreeable novelties . Summers , we declare , are not as they used to be . We can all remember when they were exactly in accord with our mental and physical feelings ; when they gave us unalloyed plasure from first to last . Our memory plays tricks with us by stimulating our fancy . in respect to the past . We forget one thing also , that when the Summer seemed fairer , and we were fonder of it , wo were much younger , and youth beholds all things in attractive lines . It is we that have changed , not the Summer , which , with certain variations from year to year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its sunshine , and forecast its future by its twinkling stars . Is not the Summer we all think of , dream over , love so tenderly , rather the ideal than the actual Summer ? Summer in the abstract appeals to the imagination ; visits every corner of our being with splendor and comfort ; suggests the affluence and excellence of Nature . Divided from it by a few months , we are-glad to paint it grandly and gorgeously . Even in the city it appears little less than enchanting ; street , dome , spire , bathed in warm yellow light ; the parks rejoicing in their emerald greenness ; the birds caroling in the trees  --  to the violet sky ; the rivers and the sea refli ' cting day and night the glory of the heavens . And in the country , what a feast for the senses ! Landscape upon landscape stretching into pictorial loveliness ; freshness and verdure everywhere ; the earth a silent hymn to the spirit of the Beautiful . Softness , grace , and glow combine with color , forin , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CLAunr .. All scenes are ravishing , all suggestions are of abundance , inspiration , peace . Such is Summer to the eye of the mind ; such is the Summer about which we grow enthusiastic before its advent . After the Summer has actually arrived , we discover only too readily its innumerable defects . We feel its discomforts in every fibre . The grateful warmth which we believed we should welcome rises to intolerable heat . The emerald greenness is overladen with dust ; the birds are too exhausted to pipe ; the rivers and the sea reflect the blaze of the copper sky . Town is unbearable . We fly for full respiration and a surcease of face-mopping to the country , only to find our desires cruelly baffled . We think to lie under the shade of the groves ; but it is hotter there than in Broadway or the Avenue . If we have resolution enough to stretch ourselves on the grass , insects of every kind and degree hold conventions on our body and struggle with one another for the post of honor , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affection of all the entomic tribes for man , especially when he happens to be city-bred and hies to the country for a pleasant change , is unappeasable , incalculable , and , it may be added , unendurable . They invade , him at every pore , and make him acquainted with their I peculiar ways and walks ill a manner that a passion for comparative entomology alone could abide . The landscape is divided between dust and heat , and so glints in the baking sun that one 's eyes ache to look at it . Freshness and verdure have departed with the Spring ; the earth is a dry protest against the upward tendency of the mercury . There is a deal of glow , but softness and grace are lard to descry ; the pervading color is leaden , and the atmosphere is stifling . All scenes are burning , and all suggestions are of ice , which can not be had , and of a divorce from one 's flesh , which can not be effected . You comfort yourself with the thought that by and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always cool in the . country . You can bear up till then , and you do heroically . At last the slash goes down , and exhausted with your day of torment , you seek your close , narrow chamber , and . wait for the delicious evening breeze . It conies , it comes , you sigh , and it is heralded by trumps of elfland gently blowing . As the sound grows more distinct , you recognize the familiar note of the mosquito , and you cry out that you have been duped . You were assured that in the neighborhood to which you have journeyed mosquitoes were unknown , and the falsity of the assurance is speedily demonstrated by Countless stings on every part of your exposed anatomy . As the night drags on , and as your sufferings increase , you soliloquize bitterly , " No mosquitoes in the country ! " with repetitions and variations , and at the first flush of dawn you leap out of bed , feverish , and shake your fist fiercely at the beguiling rusticity and the detested Summer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described . It is usually a season when the mercury marks 90% and upward ; when men perish of sunstroke ; when town is hateful and country intolerable ; when comfort is to be dreamed of , but not realized ; when promises are kept to the ear , and broken to the hope . There are delightful Summers 0 , yes , everywhere except where we happen to be . In Utopia , in Oceana , in Isfedamoth , in Gela , sen , for example . There have been enjoyable Summers , and there will be again , no doubt ; but the particular Summer in whose midst we are is very rarely the Summer that pleases us . We are apt to love the Summer that has gone or is to come ; but the sultry , perspiring Summer actually at hand is usually more than we have bargained for or can patiently endure .                     