@@740968

txt Hon. Henry W. Barry , of Mississippi , has been nominated for re-election La Congress . Judge Lough-ridge has be ? n nominated for Congress by the Republicans of the new Fourth District of Iowa . J. M. S. Williams , of Cambiidge , and Judge Richardson , are candidates tor Congress in me new district of Massachusetts . In most towns Liberal Republicans think themselves fortunate when they can discover enough Liberal Republicans to make the necessary officers of a Greeley Club . Judge Merriman. the Democratic candidate for Governor of North Carolina , has announced in a published card his intention to sue Senator Pool for libel on account of a circular alleged to have been circulated by him . The Worcester ( Mass . ) Spy thinks that if the Baltimore Convention had nominated Charles Francis Adams , with or even without a Cincinnati indorsement. they would have made the result of this Presidential election doubtful . It is asserted that William N. Saunders , the colored man who tins declined to serve as an elector in Maryland . was dishonorably discharged from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise will not bear close scrutiny . Naturally such men as he flee to Greeley 's " reformers . " Gov . Perham , of Maine , has accepted his nomination for re-election in a brief letter in which he promises , if elected , to devote . in the future as in the past , his best and most earnest efforts to the interests of the State . and to endeavor to merit the approval and confidence the Convention so generously expressed . The band was engaged in New-Haven , but Gratz Brown could not tie serenaded on Wednesday night because he was occupied by the festivities of his college class reunion . It is explained that several ofA his class-mates objected to having him " divested in any way from the social purpose of the hour . " The Baltimore correspondent of the Chicago Times complains that the Democratic Convention committed a great blunder " in not doing anything to conciliate the material and financial interests of the country , which inter est are more than distrustful of Greeley . In this , " it says , " as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be perfectly insane . " It was not a very great sacrifice for Ex-Collector Rockwell to give up his position . or Greeley . By the wise consolidation of districts he would have gone out of office in October , ann the Buffalo Com  --  zercica Advertiser says that he is one of those zealous party men who are always steadfast to principle so long as they hold office , but become very unreliable as soon as they are relieved of ic . Regarding Gen. Butler as not a fool , the Boston Advertiser does ' Dot believe that us is scheming for the Governorship and the Senatorship as Mr. Wilson 's successor . It says ? ? Nothing has happened this year to bring Gov . Washburn 's Administration into discussion , but the opinion is universal that it has been an emi nently wise and satisfactory one , and there will be very few persons to make an assault upon it on account of any man 's private greed . or for the mere sake of a row . " 