@@743125

txt Referring to the statement that a prominent member of the Administration will , during his absence from Washington , deliver two speeches , a dispatch to the Evening Post informs us that " in one of these speeches he will maintain that the representation of the South is greatly disproportionate to the amount of money contributed by that section to the Government . " The information may not be correct . It may impute to the Secretary of the Treasury a purpose at variance with his intention . But , at any rate , the announcement shows that among the straws which indicate the course of the wind at the national capital is the acceptance for partisan use of this new thing in sectionalism . It is entertained by somebody , whether it find a lodgment in the Treasury or not , or the announcement we quote would not have got into circulation . Mr. CONKLING has the doubtful honor of having first applied to passing controversies the test which we are told will be effectively used in the Autumn elections . He was not actually its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Southern extremists and Northern extremists the disposition to drag in the relative proportions of revenue contributed by the two sections , as a means of determining the relative strength of their claims upon the Treasury , has been manifested . In the days when the founder of the Tribune was accustomed to speak glibly of Southern secession , as an event that might not be unprofitable to the North , a well-known Washington correspondent of that journal attempted to prove that a Southern call for increased mail service was undeserving of attention . And his argument was that the Southern expenditures on account of the mails were disproportionate to the Southern contribution to the postal revenue . Mr. CONKLING , in his recent speech , appropriated and adapted the idea that was in vogue when FILLMORE was President . As he presents it , the idea now is that the South has more Congressional representation than it should have , that its pretensions to influence in the Government are exaggerated and untenable ; and in support of the proposition , he cites certain revenue statistics with the view of proving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the North and South , respectively , the South should be satisfied with an inferior position in the Union . Thus stated , the proposition is as gratuitously offensive and as unreasonable as that which was designed to justify the application of a relatively inferior standard of efficiency to the postal arrangements in the South . It is , in fact , the affirmation of a principle which not only has no warrant in the Constitution but is directly at variance with that instrument ; a principle , moreover , utterly indefensible in its application to the government of this country , ' and as utterly unknown in the political controversies of any other . Whether the South makes a righteous use of the increased rep .. resentative power consequent upon the enfranchisement of the freedmen , is a question about which much might be said . But whether the . South shall be assailed because its Congressional representation is determined by the same rule of apportionment that governs ' the representation of all other parts of the Union , is a question that does not admit of discussion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in pursuance of If the current report is true , the Republican Party is to be asked to adopt as one of the features of its policy a declaration that the South shall not have that which is assured to it by the Constitution . For the assertion " that the representation of the South in Congress is greatly disproportionate , " is meaningless unless the point indicated is to be regarded as preliminary to an effort to correct the alleged inequality . Now and then , some demagogue has complained that a great wrong is : committed by the system which makes Rhode Island the equal in Senatorial representation of New York , and Delaware the equal of Ohio ; but no one has seriously proposed to engraft upon a party platform the rectification of the seeming anomaly . So it is with reference to the Southern vote in the House . We find abundant material for criticism in the partisan methods that have made the vote , practically , a unit , and in the mischievous uses to which it has been put . But what sensible Republican proposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacking a ratio of representation fixed according to the letter of the . Constitution , and for establishing a new rule , unknown to the Constitution , and irreconcilable with the continuance of the Federal Union ? It is hard to believe that a man in Mr. CormLINIa 'S position would begin an attack without being prepared to accept its logical responsibilities . Above all things , however , the New-York Senator is a politician ; and as a politician is he to be understood as ready to contend for the abrogation of the constitutional principle whic'a makes population the basis of representation , and for the substitution of a principle that makes contributions to revenue the basis of the votingpower in Congress 7 If not ready , why should he or any other Republican leader lend the weight of his speech to a cry which foolish partisans propose to utilize in the canvass.                     