@@742545

txt It is reported from Washington that the majority of the members of the Ways and Means Committee . favor the renewal of an income tax , and that a measure enacting it will be reported with some chance of success in the House . One statement is that Mr. WooD , the Chairman of the Committee , stands almost alone in opposition to the project . Another , that the support relied noon in the House is largely sectional in its character , and is , in fact , one of the results of the irritating controversy growing out of pending financial schemes . An income tax has always been regarded as a war tax , justified only by stern necessity , and to be abolished when the exigency which called it into existence has passed away . The tax levied by the British Parliament , at the instance of Mr. PITT , Was urged as " an aid for the prosecution of the war " with Prance , and was kept up , with various modifications , from 1798 to 181G . It was restored by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuance in England till now , in spite of its inequitable operation and unpopularity , has been made possible by a succession of pretexts connected with the defense of the country and by its occasional wars . Its maintenance in a period of peace was the weak point in Mr. GLADSTONE 'S administration of the finances . In the United States we have known an income tax as one of ? the fiscal incidents of the civil war . The wants of the Treasury were the only excuse for a tax , which , being always inquisitorial , was odious in its nature , and being of necessity unequal in its pressure , was everywhere regarded as too unjust to be tolerated after the rebellion had been put down . It expired in 1872 , and no Secretary of the Treasury has since ventured to suggest its revival . - Theoretically , no tax is more equitable . Practically , none could be more obnoxious , more provocative of fraud and perjury , or more inequitable in its bearing upon the classes subject to its burdens . This tax it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a retaliatory measure directed against the East generally , and in an especial manner against the bond . holders . The plea is , that in no other way can the money invested in the national bonds be made to yield tribute to the Treasury . The purpose , therefore , is dishonest , inasmuch ' as it is an attempt to tax indirectly what the law has exempted from taxation . According to Mr. SHERMAN , either the estimates submitted to Congress must be reduced eleven millions , or that amount must be provided to avert a deficiency in the next fiscal year . He has put on record the opinion that in the present condition of the country an increase of taxation ought not to be thought of , and that none is required , since the estimates may bo without difficulty cut down to the desired point . The opinion is so obviously sound that it is difficult to imagine any man in Congress with . effrontery enough to advocate an addition to the burdens of the people . They are now more than trade and industry can carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an argument for whatever relief Congress can afford by an abolition of taxes or by such a reform of the revenue system as shall diminish its cost while increasing its productiveness . It has been understood that the Ways and Means Committee is co-operating with its Chairman in an effort to render the latter - result feasible , and we have been led to hope that , the session would witness -- not indeed the enactment of tariff reform , but ? such a tangible and well-considered approach to it as would render ' success all but certain another year . The restoration of the duties on tea and coffee would , as Mr. SHERMAN shows , more than balance the coming year 's account , without affecting in the slightest degree the pockets of eonsumers . That is a remedial measure so sure as regards results , so Unobjectionable in its working , and so clearly justified by the experience of the grocery trade , that its adoption would be the easiest mode of escaping the dilemma in which the Treasury ; unaided , will be placed . If Mr. WooD and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their duty is to adapt their plans to the emergency , and instead of trying to construct a complete scheme of . reform , with no chance of immediate passage , they owe to Congress and the country a measure affording relief , and which shall serve as a preliminary to the larger and more difficult work . If in no other way , it should be within the power of the committee so to revise portions of the tariff as to curtail considerably the expenses of collection . Proper energy in reducing the general estimates is still more ready and effectual . We have Mr : SnEnmitx 's assurance that they may be cut down to the extent called for by the emergency without detriment to the public service . The question is , will a Democratic House carry out an intelligent process of retrenchment which the head of the Treasury declares possible , or will it belie the professions of its party and sanction the expenditure of millions unnecessarily 7 We have not concealed the Republican responsibility in this matter . We have insisted that the members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economies of Congress by reducing their estimates to the lowest point compatible with law and efficiency . But the House can not evade the obligations devolving upon it . Eleven millions are to be saved somewhere , and . we should like to be able to announce a beginning . Of schemes for drawing money out of the Treasury , and increasing the deficiency which must be in some manner met , we hear much . Of earnest , thorough revision of the estimates , as a means of obviating the deficiency , nothing has yet been heard .                     