@@742923

txt deleted about 5 lines - merged columns previous call had been made upon the Knickerbocker Company for information as to its affairs , with special reference to its mortgages and other assets . On that occasion the proceeding of the Assembly was justified by current reports in regard . both to the condition of the company and the relations of its executive to the head of the Insurance . Department . Perhaps as a , result of this relationship , the company treated the resolution with contempt . It has withheld the information , which would never have been required in this exceptional form had the department done its duty . Yesterday 's vote , then , inpliodly censures the department , whose remissness renders direct action necessary , while it leaves no loophole for escape on the part of the Knickerbocker 's managers . Literal compliance with Mr. FISH 'S resolution will give us a glimpse of a state of things which the Superintendent allows to go on unchecked ; and the exhibit will help members of the Legislature to judge of the motives and merit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them ? . have furnished in response to the Superintendent 's circular . ? But the division in theAssembly-83 to 27 ? convoys more than in rebuke to game by which that body has played into the hands of a corrupt department and mismanaged companies will not be tolerated this session . In the ordinary course of business , the Fish resolution might have been referred to the committee , if only as a matter of courtesy . Experience has shown , however , that the controlling purpose of the committee is either to interpose delays that are fatal to . objects proposed , or . so to change the nature of measures as to make them worthless . Two years ago , this was the case under the Chairmanship of Mr. GRAHAM . No more honest man could have been appointed , nor one who worked more assiduously . The committee emasculated his bills in the interest of the lobby , and the little life that was left was extinguished in the Senate . Mr. HEPBURN , the Chairman last year , could tell an equally disheartening tale . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with measures which , in the main , deserved support . But the rest of the committee was worse than a dead weight . It dared not resist reform openly , and it fell back on the old tactics . Good bills were mutilated or killed outright . The labors of the Chairman were wasted . The committee did the work of the companies and played into the hands of the department . The composition of the present committee does not essentially differ from that of its predecessors . Gen. SHARPE has the good intentions of Messrs . ' GRAHAM and HEPBURN ; and he has a reputation for force of character which forbids the supposition that he will submit quietly to the dilatory and dishonest tactics which have again and again destroyed confidence in the committee . Personally , he may well feel mortified at the result of his injudicious motion yesterday . If he interpret that result aright , however , he will find in it presumptive proof that a sufficient number of members are resolved to take insurance legislation into theig hands , instead of allowing it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in league with the companies opposed to reform . The committee , in fact , has the full average of badness , and if its preten- deleted about 5 lines - merged columns sions be acquiesced in we must abandon the hope of securing for the policy-holders and the public the protection they are entitled to . Gen. SHARPE will do his duty , ? of that we have no doubt . We predict , however , that he will not have long to wait for the discovery that the committee has been appointed with a view to the furtherance of interests inimical to the policy-holders ; and should he really desire to remove the evils of the existing system , he will avail himself of the spirit which yesterday voted down his proposition . There is hope for an earnest . reformer when . he can appeal from an untrustworty committee to the intelligence and independence of " the Assembly . So good a beginning on the part of 83 meinbers seems , to indicate that , in spite of the general composition of the committee , this session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the insurance question . Mr. FISH 'S resolution is leveled at the Knickerbocker Company . The information it demands will probably illustrate the importance of exact* from all the life companies the minute statements as to assets and expenditures which this journal has insisted upon as essential to safety . A Superintendent who diseha rgod his duty would be in a position to unveil some of the mysteries which the companies ' managers guard with suspicious jealousy . The primary mistake , however , is in the law , which does not adequately provide for the exaction of particulars that would enable any intelligent man to judge of a company 's management and condition . Having dealt promptly with the Knickerbocker , now let the Assembly take up " life insurance generally , and provide for a more thorough reckoning with the companies than is possible under the law as it stands . Tho information to be wrung from the Knickerbocker should be obtained regularlyfrom all companies . As regards the Insurance Department , it is satisfactory to know that a.bill abolishing it will be introduced into the Assembly by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolition by obtaining testimony from the officials of companies to whom the pretense of supervision affords convenient shelter , is too ludicrous to produce any appreciable impression . Quite enough of these testimonials has been communicated to the press to show how well the department and a certain class of companies understand the value of the service rendered by each to the other . Companies of this sort find Mr. SMYTH 'S aecom=dating vigilance a convenient thing , and one which they are willing to pay for as well as puff ; and he , in turn , parades their praise with a charming unconsciousness of its absurdity . We advise him not to seek a                     