@@781597

txt The sinister attacks upon the life insurance investigation now in progress at Albany are not likely to mislead any one possessed of ordinary intelligence . Thu aversion to scrutiny which steals tho form of an anxious regard for a great provident interest Li too suspicious to be effectual . Where there is nothing inexcusable to be concealed there is rarely any special dread of publicity . And when one journal characterizes as a " raid " a legitimate inquiry into facts , and another attempts to : milegize for extravagance on the ground that the managers of a company are the solo judges of what they ought to spend , we may be certain that tho governing motives are not of the kind which commends itself to public confidence . Life insurance companies derive their existence as corporations 1 ' 1.0111 legislative enactments ; their prosperity ii contingent upon the acquisition and retention of ' while faith ; they are under as stringent obligations to reveal their condition and methods of umiak:meta to the public whose support they solicit , as to the policy-holders whose money they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for information without lustering the distrust which they , of all institutions , should be most anxious to remove . The Assembly Committee has shown itself sufficieutly firm in the enforcelnent of its call for certain speeitic information . Tho undetermined question is whether it has sufficient discrimination to disregard tho 1110135 of irrelevant matter which is foisted upon . it as testimony , and to see through the falkicics under which au attempt is mode to conceal the significance ofessential facts . Tho object of the committee , as defined by the resolution under which reluctant witnesses are compelled to testify , is to elicit the truth with reference to particular branches of the COMpIlDies ' expenditure . Though the terms of the original resolution were less explicit than they should have been , its purpose was evident . It NVIIS intended to bring to the light detailed infonnation respecting salaries and fees paid by the companies to their officers and others  --  intermation which the Insurance Department , properly administered , would exact year after year , and which no company eau keep back without subjecting itself to unfavorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within which the present investigation Omuta be entitled . The committee desires simply to ascertain what particulars enter into certain enormous items of expenditure as returned by the companies . The question is simple , and so should bo the allSWCI% What salaries are paid to this officer or that ? Aro percentages on business or supplies allowed ? iu addition to fin:lanes ? These are the heads of the ' inquiry as defined by the resolution of the Assembly . There are certain other hoods which the resolution did not specifically indicate , but which cover much of the data desired for guidance in any contemplated legislation . What , for example , is the commission paid to agents on new business , and what on renewal premiums ? What is the cost to the company of getting new business , and what of conducting that which has already been acquired An answer to these queries would go far toward enabling the public to judge of the relative economy in the management of different companies , and would , wo suspect , open the eyes of some thousands of policy-holders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squandered . The Albany committee , instead of exacting explicit facts upon these points , and confining attention to them , has allowed the witnesses to raise questions which , for the purposes of the Legislature , are irrelevant . The committee is in search of information for its guidance in the construction of a comprehensive law . It further desires information relating to the condition and management of companies . With that tendency to irrelevancy and verbosity which is too often a feature of legislative investigations , it permits witnesses to run oil in all possible directions ; and its members follow the witnesses in the pursuit of an insurance will-o ' - the- wisp . Wo read of elaborate definitions of different forms of life insurauce  --  some of the definitions being of the nature that might be gathered from any prospectus furnished by an agent , and others so muddy and evasive as to be inadmissible among experts . The witnesses who thus contrive to divert the committee from its proper sphere of inquiry , and to drag its members into channels which , practically considered , lead nowhere , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject from their point of view , but they can not so easily succeed in efforts to withdraw the attention of the policy-holders and the public from the Questions which really concern their common interests . In keeping with the attempt to hide details of management under a mass of words which , for present purposes , are meaningless is the pretense that no legislative interference is needed for the protection of the policy-holder , These unwilling witnesses are unconscious illustrations of the expediency of the demand which the Graham bill , with all its defects , is intended to supply . The particulars extorted from them in relation to certain branches of expenditure should have been supplied voluntarily to the Assembly . The particulars wo have suggested , and which are not yet supplied , are equally essential to an understanding of the merits of management . There is need of immediate legislation , if for no other purpose than to compel the rendering of periodical returns embracing : these details . In connection with the attainment of this object is the establishment of more equitable relations betwom the Insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department could not be better demonstrated than by the present condition et ' various companies . And the inefficiency is to a largo extent attributable to the fact that the law leaves too much to the discretion of the Superintordent , and that all the influences surrounding the department tend more to make him the supple servant of the companies than the faithful guardian of the public . There are other phases of the subject which the Legislature can not afford to overlook . Ono refers to the processes of amalgamation and winding up , both of which , as now condnetcd , are a cover for rascality and a ti011ECU of Wrong . Another requires the enactment ( Amore stringent punishment in eases of suppression , perversion , or false representation on the part of officers and Directors , and with the enactment should come better guarantees for the caforcement of ( lie ' law than can be had under a system which leaves everything to the diseretiou of the Attorney-General . It ' it be not possible to obtain the passage of the Graham bill , with amendments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we my expect the adoption of so much of the measure as relotus to these features of the life insurance business .                     