@@741082

txt Some days ago we endeavored to show that the appointment of Mr. E. DELAFIELD SMITH as Corporation Counsel was objectionable , on the ground that Mayor HALL was not the proper person to fill any office that might happen to fall vacant . The circumstances attending O'GonMAN 's resignation were very suspicious , and . it appears now that there is a preconcerted scheme for several Tammany men to resign their positions in favor of Republicans , who are to be " promoted " by Mayor HALL , in order that HALL may ingratiate himself with the public . We have even heard a rumor  --  which we confess we find it hard to believe  --  that no further proceedings will be taken against HALL , in consideration of his appointing Republicans to certain places which he has the power to fill . It is not incredible that Republicans may be found willing to assent to this arrangement ; but it is quite incredible that the pubic will look upon any such disgraceful bargain with favor . In the Tribune , of yesterday , the following paragraph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was stated yesterday , on the authority of a prominent official , that Superintendent MACGREGOR , of the Department of Buildings , had resigned . or was about to resign , and that Mayor HALL would appoint his successor to hold five years . as the present charter provides . " . It is clear , from this announcement , that the bargain made with HALL is deemed to be a very proper one in some quarters usually described as " Republican . " The newlyelected Mayor is to have no voice in the appointment of officers by whose action his general proceedings must be largely influenced . HALL could not prevent Mr. HAvgMEYER 'S election , but he can , it appears , compel him to work with A. OAKEY HALL 'S tools . It is useless to dwell on the fact that ITAT.T , has proved himself utterly unfit to perform the duties of his own office , much less to choose honest and capable men for other positions . He allowed enormous frauds upon the public to be carried on under his very eyes , but for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by playing into the hands of certain Republicans . His old . political associates could be of no furtheruse to him . He had nothing to gain by throwing the handkerchief to the supporters of the Tammany Ring . His opponents were to be found in the ranks of the Republican Party , and his aim was to conciliate these by giving them all the spoils , and . in that way he hoped to silence the Republican Press , and possibly to save himself from further prosecution . We need . not refer to the prominent part he contrived to play in the public events of the past week . To shelter himself behind the popularity of a distinguished man was a trick quite worthy of Mr. HALL . But is he to be allowed to render Mayor HAVEMEYER 'S position merely a nominal one ? Will the people be contented to have their servants for the next few years nominated by HALL ? If yon discharge the chief of your household for dishonesty , would you allow him to nominate successors to all the subordinate positions I This does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly not the line of conduct which a mercantile firm or the head . of a large household would . pursue  --  and the affairs of the public ought to be conducted with a similar regard to the welfare of the persons interested . If the public have confidence in Mr. HAVEMEYER , surely they would rather trust to his appointments than to those made by Mayor HALL . If you put a man in a responsible position , you must give him power equal to his responsibilities , and not tie his bands behind his back . Mayor HALL is treating Mr. H.AVEMEYER with great discourtesy . but that was to be expected . The thing fur Republicans to consider is that , if they take offiees from Mayor HALL , their motives will be justly suspected , and they will enter upon their duties under a cloud . Mr. VAN NORT suffered in public estimation for some time , because he was nominated by TWEED . But HALL 'S case is much worse even than this . He is putting the screw on Tammany men to resign , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the sole purpose of gagging the Republican Press and shielding himself from prosecution . It is an insolent attempt to hoodwink the public ; and , after this , it will be the duty of honest Republican papers to condemn ev- ery appointment which HALL makes . We trust , therefore , that Republicans who accept office from HALL will not come to us fc indorsement or recommendation .                     