@@742994

txt The present attitude of the Democratic Party toward the veto power is very different from that which the same party held twenty years ago . According to its present position , the Democracy regards the veto power as a useless appendage to the Presitlential office , and its exercise as an impertinence . Even Mr. THURMAN , Who likes to keep up au appearance of moderation , declared in substance toward the close of the last session that for the President to veto a bill was to seek to force the Representatives of the people to adopt his views . He further illustrated his ideas by some grandiloquent references to the conflict between King and Parliament in England . In the House , Mr. SOUTHARD , of Ohio , protested against the right of the President to " coerce " Congress by the employment of the veto , and intimated that his party would resist any such attempt by all the means in their power , To make their purpose still more obvious , the Demo Brats propose to resort to very extraordinary measures . They intend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Constitution has placed in his hands . They propose  --  and so far there is no sign of any substantial change in their determination  --  to threaten the President with the refusal of supplies for the Government , if he dares to send back without his approval measures which have no legitimate connection with the appropriation bills . They will take one of two courses . They will pass their pet measures by themselves , with a direct declaration that if they are not approved they will be put in the Appropriation bills . Or they will put these measures into the bills at the start , as they did last session . In either case , the assumption is that the President has no real discretion in regard to legislation . The two houses of Congress are independent of him . It is for them to judge what shouldbe made law . It is for them to say what the people wish and what they ought to have . They are the final arbiters as to the constitutionality , as to the policy , as to the expediency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may choose to do . If they say that a measure should be passed , that is conclusive . If ' they say that a law should be repealed , it is a " grievance " for the President to interpose his veto . So far as the Executive is concerned in legislation , he is ' a mere ministerial officer . His signature is only a formal technicality which ho has no right to withhold . His function is like that of the Clerk of the House of . Representatives , whose name is attached to all bills passing that body . His discretion is practically.no higher , his power no greater , his duty no more independent . Nothing could make this view Of their powers plainer than the course of the Democratic majority . They are so convinced of the rightful supremacy of Congress in legislation that they support it by the extraMest possible Incastalcs , ' It must be conceded , or the Government shall stop . If Congress , without let or hindrance from the President , Calniot do What it likes as to general legisooffon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be closed , the Treasury Must be deserted , the executive Salaries must be erit , 161f , and oven the funds for the maint ' - 434amaa of 0 ) 6 LealSlaturo itself must bo withheld . No . claim could be more stoutly defended or more sweepingly as , sated . It is with Congress all or nothing . There is no compromise , no qualification , no hesitation . ' And it may be added that this will remain true , even if an amicable arrangement should be made between the majority and the minority . No matter how little is exacted , the principle is the same . It is the principle of coercion . Whether it is the repeal of the Election laws , or only their amendment , or the repeal . of the jurors oath , or the prohibition of the use of the Army to preserve order at the polls , however slight the exaction , it is still exaction , and under threat . The Democrats have ' backed their demands with the menace of withholding appropriations , They may lessen their demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The menace remains . They say to the President , " Do what we want or we shall cripple the Government . " Be that which they insist upon little or much , be the injury to the Government held over the President 's head more or less , the essence of the proposition is the same . It is a denial of the right of veto . As we have said , this is a very different position to that held by the Democrats twenty years ago . Then the Executive office was theirs .. When FRANKLIN PIERCE and JAMES BUCHANAN sat in the President 's chair , the Democrats firmly and . explicitly defended the veto power . They recognized its constitutional authority ; they understood the uses for which it was granted ; they perceived exactly the consequences which it was intended to bring about . In 1856 theyplaced in their national platform a very clear and comprehensive statement . of their position on this point . They repeated that statement four years later . And if that had been ? the principal matter in issue at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustained , for they were as completely right then as they are entirely wrong now . The following is the declaration adopted at Cincinnati June 6 , 1856 , by the National Democratic Convention , and readopted. in 1860 by both the Douglas and the Breckinridgo conventions , its authority being thus completely established : " That we are decidedly opposed to taking from the President the qualifiedveto power by which lie is enabled , under restrictions and responsibilities amply sufficient to guard the public interests , to suspend the passage of a bill whose merits can not secure the approval of two-thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives , until the judgment of the people can be obtained thereon . " This is sound doctrine . It is clearly and accurately stated . The limitations of the veto , the responsibili , ties of the President , the exact scope of the operation of his ' veto , and the , result which it is calculated to bring about are admirably and tersely expressed . The resolution is an overwhelming answer to the charge that the use of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an encroachment on the powers of Congress , or that it endangers public interests . It is , moreover , a crushing criticism on the attempt of the majority in Congress to strip the President of his veto by threatening to stop the wheels of Government if he ventures to exercise it .                     