@@743246

txt Congressional attention is again directed to the necessity for Legislative action on the subject of lands conditionally granted to railroads whose construction has not begun within the stipulated period or from any cause has been suspended beyond that period . The General Land Office bases its recommendation on the fact that large bodies of land embraced within the grants , though yet unearned by the corporations , are withheld from sale and are not available for entry under the Homestead or other laws . In other words , the public are dented access to lands that were withdrawn from settlement for purposes that have not been fulfilled ; and the evil will continue until Congress formally declares the forfeiture of the grants . The neglect of Congress in regard to this subject is susceptible of an unfavorable construction . It may have been the result of improper influences , exercised in behalf of chartered claims possessing merely a speculative value ; or it may have proceeded from a calculation of the uses to which the forfeiture or renewal of particular grants might be put by the log-rolling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inaction can not have been caused by difficulties inherent in the determination of the questions raised by the call for legislation . There are million s upon millions of acres of desirable land closed against settlers because nominally belonging to railroad companies which have failed to comply with the conditions essential to the grants . Is the failure absolute , or is it the result of a stoppage in the work of construction occasioned by causes that imply no lack of good faith on the part of the companies concerned ? The rule which the query indicates covers the merits of each case . If the corporations for whose benefit the grants were made have done nothing toward earning the lands during the long periods that have elapsed since the grants were authorized , immediate forfeiture can not work injustice . Companies which have only a nominal existence , and retain even that in the interest of speculators , have no rights in the premises , and they ought not to be allowed to block the pathway of settlement . On the other hand , companies whose only fault is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stopped by the general crash , and whose positive strength i ; proved by the renewal of work under the influence of better times , ? are entitled to all needful consideration . They may reasonably ask for an extension of time , upon terms not less favorable than those which originally governed the grants . This equitable rule has been disregarded in the treatment of the subject . Chances of entering into bargains have been afforded to the owners of charters that have neither legal nor moral right to forbearance . At the same time , railroads already in course of construction at a rate that should insure the most generous consideration are obliged to plead for the privilege of completing great enterprises , are compelled to submit to unjust restrictions dictated by decisive action in order that their promoters , who are spending their own money , may be coerced into an alliance with schemers who propose to spend only the money of the tax-pavers . The authorities of the General Land Office may not avail themselves of these circumstances in support of the recommendation addressed to Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most effective commentary on the manner in which questions bearing directly on the work of material development are treated at Washington . In these matters the Senate is the chief offender . The House is not governed by a very nice sense of the right or even of the expedient ; but the principal obstacles to legislation which the commonest fairness would prescribe , have been found among the Senators .                     