@@742986

txt The present season ought to be characterized by a hopeful revival of the prospects of American art . In consequence of the long depression in trade and a general sense of poverty , a prevailing lack of testhetic appreciation , a perverted preference for foreign products , the tricks and wiles of dealers , want of concentration of effort and co-operation among the artists ' themselves , and a disparaging and injudicious style of criticism , it has been for some time in the languishing and despondent condition that must inevitably come from discouragement and neglect . There are indications of reviving interest and activity that should be fostered into vigorous life . Perhaps the most depressing incubus that has weighed upon it has been the lack of popular cultivation in art matters , and a consequent want of taste and judgment . Few people make a study of art , or take the pains to inform themselves and become competent to pass judgment upon any work that is placed before them . They go to occasional exhibitions as an amusement , to pass an idle hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ casual well-informed listener . People sho aspire to knowledge and taste in this direction need to devote serious study to the subject , to learn something of its principles , its history , and its criticism , . to see pictures in galleries and studios , and in seeing , endeavor to comprehend and form an intelligent judgment upon them . Art cultivation is a necessary basis for prosperity and progress in art production , and is at the same time largely dependent upon it for facilities . Another drawback has been an almost total want of a national spirit and a false notion that to obtain excellent pictures we must go abroad . This country has produced artists , some of them with native genius for their work , with the severe training of foreign schools , and all the advantages of study and discipline abroad , with fertility of invention and fidelity in execution , with everything in fact that is necessary to produce high results , and they have produced high results , but they have ! seen their works slightingly regarded , while the prevalent fancy has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , much of it so conventional and meretricious , so manifestly inferior in conception and workmanship , as not to deceive any person of real discrimination . The few whose vanity and wealth have led them to aspire to the credit of being connoisseurs and collectors have lavished their money through agents and dealers on the very rubbish and leavings of - European markets , and as a consequence they have failed in their object , and have no credit as patrons and promoters of art . Dealers and agents are , of course , animated by self-interest . Their business is essentially commercial , and their desire is for individual gain . If they have stooped to unworthy tricks , it is the way of their craft . They have obtained poor trash at cheap rates , and represented it as the best the foreign market affords . They have accepted inferior work that was ? unsalable abroad , and claimed to have secured it at heavy cost . ' . hey have palmed off copies as originals without stint . They have assiduously. disparaged native artists and undermined their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away their patrons and influence opinion against them .. Instances have been known of pictures passed at the Custom-house at a valuation of a few dollars , and put up as worth hundreds , and even sold at hundreds , while our most talented and conscientious artists have been ' left to struggle along without encouragement . It is useless to blame dealers . They merely take the course that they find most profitable , and gull the public only because it is gullible and consents to be gulled . The fault is that customers allow themselves to be deceived through their own ignorance and lack of judgment , and a weak fancy for what is foreign . They suffer the penalty in the actual lack of value and of interest in the collections they make , and their failure to acquire the credit they seek . The artists themselves are not wholly free from blame . They do not work to-. gether , and ' sustain each other . They are too much given to petty jealousies , and that narrow spirit of rivalry that regards all success as comparative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept down . Those who are wedded to a style or a " school " are apt to be intolerant of anything else , and unwilling to admit merit in a method that is not their own . And there is far too much of this devotion to conventional methods and the peculiarities of schools , whether of Munich or of Paris . Some who are fresh from their lessons assume that they know all , and that everything has gone wrong that did not originate where they borrowed their ideas . Study and training in European schools are well , if used as a matter of discipline and preparation , but American artists should try to be Americans , to glorify home subjects , to be inventive , to be original and strong , to have a character of their own , and by it to win recognition and support . Finally , our art has suffered much from priggish criticism , which , with shallow conceit , has assumed to dispense omniscient judgment and a final doom . Men of native genius and the severe training of half a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have not mastered the first principles of their art , by callow upstarts , . fresh from the perusal of the elements of criticism . Works of decided merit , with perhaps a casual weakness , are consigned to their fate with a slur or a sneer , and well-won reputations stabbed with a malignant epigram . Faults are sought out and gloated over , and beauties disregarded or treated with disparagement . Here . again , subserviency to foreign schools or devotion to special theories dwarf and warp minds that should aid in developing and fostering American art . Depth , breadth , and generosity , in place of narrowness , shallowness , and spiteful malignancy in criticism , would do much to help on a work that has been so sorely hindered and baffled in recent years . much of text is missing                     