@@743042

txt The disgraceful condition of affairs that has existed at the Athens Insane Asylum has not been remedied , although the Superintendent and a largo number of the attendants have either resigned or been discharged . The evils complained of are not confined to the drunkenness of the Superintendent and debauchery on the part of the employes , but , as intimated in THE TIMES 'S dispatches a few days ago , the evil will not be weeded out until every one , from the attendants up to and including the Trustees themselves , has been removed . In casting a suspicion on the Trustees , the utmost discretion was used , in order that no man 's reputation might ho compromised , and that hints and allusions should not be thrown out unless the facts could be substantiated . It has now been developed that certain Trustees of the institution have , by their influence , secured subordinate positions for women of questionable character in the asylum . This fact was known to the Superintendent , and , although his desire was to rid the asylum of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move in that direction would bring down upon his head the maledictions of the board , most of whom , it is alleged , were personally interested in the retention of these women . On the other h'and , while the Trustees were fully aware of the Superintendent 's tippling and opium-eating proclivities , they feared any action they might take toward dismissing him would endanger their own reputations . As a consequence , this great charity of the State was given up to lewdness and licentiousness . The scandal went from mouth to mouth until the evidence was made public and besmirched nearly all connected with the management of the asylum . The steward , Robert Bell , is alleged to have had a woman of doubtful character in his employ at the asylum for seven weeks . Since the exposure he denounces the woman as a black-mailer , his motive being to sacrifice the woman that he may escape ; a trial or investigation would find him guity of gross immorality . The Evening Dispatch has advised all the Trustees to resign at once , that the State may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 650 patients in the asylum , and their friends throughout the State are appalled by the developments of the past few mouths , and the citizens of Athens , are continually appealed to by letter to make inquiry as to their condition . Dr. Ball , one of the Trustees , has tendered his resignation to the Governor , and it seems probable that others will follow his example before further exposures are made . A well-informed Democrat said to-day that the Athens Asylum disgrace would cost his party thousands of votes this Fall . Added to the Longview and the Soldiers ' Orphans ' Home scandals , it will be construed as the result of Democratic mismanagement and will have a great effect on the vote . The Democratic committee at Athens having demanded an investigation by the Legislature . without success , now washes its hands of the evil results which will-naturally arise and be felt during the campaign .                     