@@743253

txt The demonstration to-day in connection with the unveiling of Ward 's equestrian statue of Gen. Thomas was , in all respects , the most imposing witnessed in Washington since the grand review of the victorious Union armies in 1865 , The procession was fully two miles in length , and most of it was composed of uniformed troops . In addition to about 2,000 United States troops , sailors , and marines , there was a number of military organizations from Virginia and Maryland , whose marching and general soldierly appearance compared favorably with the regulars . Several military corps from New-York and Pennsylvania were expected , but failed to come . Large delegations , however , of the Grand Army of the Republic and other veteran organizations from those States were present . The procession moved promptly at the hour designated , and while passing the Executive Mansion was reviewed by the President and members of the Cabinet from a stand erected in front of the White House , on Pennsylvania-avenue . Probably no locality could be devised better adapted for the accommodation of a crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in all this city of statues and squares and triangles there is none more beautiful than the circle at the intersection of Fourteenth-street and Massachusetts-avenue , where the Thomas statue was unveiled to-day , With the streets that intersect each other at right angles , and the avenues which bisect them diagonally , the result is a great open space , capable of holding thousands of people . It is like an immense amphitheatre , with the stage in the centre , and with facilities for observation around the entire horizon . The crowd was not at the circle in full force until the procession arrived between 1 and 2 o'clock , butlong before that time thousands of people had assembled in anticipation of the opening of the ceremonies . Those who bad tickets passed into the circle which inclosed the grand stand and the stands for the orator of the day and the bands . Into this inclosure came the President and Cabinet , the Diplomatic Corps , the Army of the Cumberland , the Grand Army of the Republic , members of the press , and such people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found standing-room beyond the line drawn by the Police to reserve space for the passage of the procession . The crowd hung dense and heavy about the circle , drawn by the strong centripetal forces of interest and curiosity toward that common centre where , behind sheltering flags , the statue was enshrined . Outlying detachments of the crowd rested on all the radiating streets and avenues . The sidewalks were packed , doorsteps were crowded , groups of people hung out of the open windows , and people went up on the roofs of houses and clustered about the chimneys , in apparent indifference of the danger they risked to satisfy their curiosity , Massachusetts-avenue , which was included in the route of the procession , was especially thronged , and the double-terraced spaces in front of the residences on the north side were packed with human beings rising in tiers as on the sloping floor of a theatre . The Signal Service had co-operated with the Committee of Arrangements for a fair day . There was sunshine to add brilliancy to the pageant on Pennsylvania-avenue , but it did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand were conducted in an atmosphere which chilled the spectators , and under a gray , cold sky , which gave the crimson of the flags a grateful warmth . The decorations were elaborate and tasteful , and have been already described in THE TIMES . The effect of the flag decorations was exceedingly beautiful . The color was massed in the four great flags which hung in a square around the veiled statue , and repeated in the circle of color which inclosed all , and it was caught up and repeated again in the flags which fluttered from the houses which surround the circle and flank the streets and avenues which diverge from it . At the righthand corner of the speaker 's stand , during the exercises , stood a standard borne by the Army of the Cumberland in all its campaigns  --  a relic of Gen. Thomas  --  a battle-flag , tattered and faded , which was regarded with affection and veneration by the veterans , who followed it igain to-day . THE UNVEILING CEREMONIES . As the time for the arrival of the procession drew near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legation arrived as an avant courrier of the Diplomatic Corps , and the members were shown to the space reserved for them . Specially invited guests filled the intervening seats between the Legations and the two rows of seats reserved for the President and Cabinet , All these wore seated to the left of the speaker 's stand , directly in front of which was the space reserved for the Army of the Cumberland . As the President and the orator of the day , as well as the Diplomatic Corps and the Justices of the Supreme Court . did not appear in the procession , on account of the coldness of the weather , they reached the circle some time before the head of the column came in sight . When the Hon. Stanley Matthews appeared on the platform he was greeted with cheers . So also were President Hayes and Gene . Sherman and Hancock . The approach of the procession down Massachusetts-avenue was very imposing . As far as the eye could reach the line of mounted and marching men stretched out , with their flanks heavily fringed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Passing round the south side of the circle , the Army a the Cumberland marched in and filled the seats reserved for them . It was an array of earnest , manly faces which gazed , upon the veiled statue . Some of them were still young , but most of them reminded one , in a touch of silver on hair or beard , that the war in which they had borne an honorable part ended nearly 15 years ago . The flags only partially concealed the satue . All that lay behind the red and white stripes was effectually hidden . but through the thin blue ground studded with stars , the statue was plainly visible , presenting an artistic effect which was evidently not premeditated , and the more pleasing on that account . During the time spent in waiting for the remainder of the procession , the President , Cabinet officers , Generals , and soldiers mingled together , exchanging greetings and reminiscences . Finally , Gen. McCook began to grow impatient . " Where is that band ? " he called out . " Get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is all we are waiting for . " The band was in position presently , and about to play , " No , no , " said Gen. McCook , in the cheerful , colloquial fashion in which he issues his orders , " a prayer first . " It was Gen. Garfield first and the prayer afterward . Gen. Garfield briefly and fittingly opened the exercises , and asked for silence . Down the avenue the drums beat . the bugles blared , and the restless crowd cheered ; but in the circle was silence , while the prayer was offered by the Rev. Dr. Paxton. of the New-York-Avenue Church . The band played " Hail to the Chief , " and as the " Star Spangled Banner " rose on the air , the 100 voices of the male chorus were heard , accompanied by the full Marine Band , drum corps , and artillery . Battery A , of the Second Artillery , under command of Capt . Pennington , from Fort , and Battery C , of the Third Artillery , commanded by Gen. Bragg during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were stationed on Massachusetts-avenue and M-street , the i tins facing eastward , and they were fired the music was a novel feature , and was successfully carried out . The unveiling of the statue by Gen. Buell followed . It was the work of a second . At the pulling of a rope , the four largo flags which inclosed the statue in a hollow square dropped simultaneously and instantly , and amid cheers and a Major-General 's salute from the troops , the Thomas statue stood out in bold relief . The first impression in looking at the work is a feeling of gratitude that the horse  --  for it is the horse , after all , that gets the first glance in an equestrian statue ? is a possible horse . When the sting and theatrical-looking animals that pose and posture in various parts of the national capital are recalled , it is a satisfaction to note that the latest corner stands comfortably and honestly on his four feet . There is no lack of life and motion . Eager and alert , with every muscle tense from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist has placed him , the horse is a superb piece of anatomy . His fore feet are firmly planted on the brink of what may be a precipice , his head is held high in air above a magnificent breadth of chest , and he carries the least nossible amount of trappings . The figure of ( - len . Thomas is firm , dignified , and easy . He sits in the saddle , leaning slightly backward , and with a long , level glance , sweeping the horizon . The dress is simple . A doublebreasted military frock coat is buttoned to the chin , plain riding boots , belt with sword ; his left hand grasps the bridle rein ; the right hand falling easily to the saddle , holds an army slouch hat and gloves . One of the clever details which contributes to the total good effect is the management of the right arm . Falling , as it does , at full length , it gives height and dignity to the figure and variety to a position which is necessarily somewhat formal , and being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adds not a little to the simple and manly bearing which is the prevailing characteristic of the figure . The artist seems to have worked in the same spirit which prompted Stanley Matthews to say in his address that " Gen. Thomas was not a mere soldier . " In this statue the spectator is reminded more of the man than of the warrior . The hymnus which followed the salute was the musical feature of the day , and was given under the direction ' of Prof. Max Willer , who composed the music , the orchestral parts being arranged by Prof. Louis Schneider , leader of the Marine Band . The hymnus began with a salvo of artillery and roll of drums , The bright and sparkling music of the introductory passages , which were a greeting to the Army of the Cumberland , was followed by sadder strains dedicated to the memory of the honored dead , and these in turn were merged into the grand march of final victory . The well-trained chorus did its work in a manner that won applause . The hon. Stanley Matthews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Gen. Garfield . The following is an abstract of his address , STANLEY MATTHEWS 'S ORATION . Mr. Matthews referred in the first instance to the attributes of human art , which , he said , was , in all its varied forms  --  poetry , eloquence , music , painting , architecture  --  but the interpreter and expounder of the divine art , and which fixed in its express and admirable forms whatsoever was divine which it discovered in nature or in man , And art , if a prophecy , was nevertheless only so because it was a memorial , for it was on the prepared and receptive background of the past that it painted or carved the visions of glory which it foretold . Passing then o the subject matter of his oration , he said that the name of George Henry Thomas  --  soldier and patriot  --  had already been inscribed on that stroll of honorable fame which posterity would reverently guard in the archives of our national history . That day , art , summoned to its proper work , lifted aloft the dignity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army of the Cumberland , by these public acts and solemn ceremonials , dedicated to the people of the United States the form and prseence of its beloved commander . Surely this was a noble subject for the modeler 's plastic hand ! What dignity and power , what firmness and self-possession , what immobility , and yet what quiet graciousness , what gravity and what benignity were set together in the manly proportions of his physical frame . The proportions of his physical frame were in harmony with those of the spiritual body which inhabited and animated it . The internal as well as the external man was statuesque , massive , monumental . Vigor and endurance were qualities alike of his material and his mental constitution . Strength was the base on which was grounded and built up the lofty structure of his character , capped and crowned with simplicity  --  whole in himself  --  a shaft and column of Doric style and beauty . " Rich in saving common sense And , as the greatest only are , In his simplicity , sublime . " The orator further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ode on the death of the Duke of Wellington : " 0 . good gray head which all men knew , 0 , iron nerve to true occasion true , 0 , fallen at leneth That tower of strength Which stood four-souare to all the winds that blew . " There was nothing in him , he continued , fluctuating , mercurial , or eccentric . He was resolute , unyielding , with a fortitude incapable of intimidation or dismay , and yet without pretension , boasting , or self-assertion . He was not coarse , vulgar , or impassive  --  careless of the good opinion of good men  --  but , on the contrary , was quick in his sensibilities , keen to detect the selfishness of others , and apt to smart under a sense of injustice when initiated upon himself . Yet no personal consideration ever ? warped his judgment or clouded his sense of justice . It was not too much to say of Gen. Thomas that he was a model soldier . In each stage of his military history he saw active service appropriate to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that every success rested upon the rational basis of a thorough organization of the means necessary to insure it : that valor was nothing better than blind and bloody persistence , unless supported on either flank by knowledge and prudence . This was the secret of one of the chief characteristics of his work  --  its thoroughness . Referring to Gen. Thomas 's success in the war , the orator said that he was more and better than merely a soldier . He was a patriot . He had a country and a cause , and in their defense he drew his sword . The principles and interests for which ho periled his life and staked his fame , more even than the.gallant service he performed in their behalf , great and distinguished as it was , justified the celebration of that day . Under the circumstances , the occasion seemed to him appropriate for a statement and vindication of the , grounds on which they were established and upon which they now securely rest . Mr. Matthews accordingly entered into a definition of the words " treason " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dealt with State and Federal rights . The rebellion , he said , was not a war of factions , supporting rival claimants to an official succession , both acknowledging the legitimacy of the institutions of government ; nor was it an attempted revolution of right against power . It was , on the contrary , a determined and desperate struggle , not merely to overthrow a Government , but to destroy the nationality represented by it . In this unnatural contest , said the orator , George IL Thomas adhered to the Government to which he had sworn allegiance , and not to its enemies in arms . He was born , it is was true , in Virginia , but his home and country was the United States of America . His reason told him where his duty lay ; his conscience bade him follow it . in the uniform of an officer of the United States he followed its flag across the Potomac at the head of its troops , and , in obediencli to its lawful commands , upon the soil of his native State , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution and the Union . Arid if his conduct and career were in contrast with those of others of her sons whom on that account she had preferred to honor , nevertheless a generation in Virginia would yet arise who would learn and confess the truth that George H. Thomas , when he lifted his sword to bar the pathway of her secession , loved her as well as these and served her better . Turning to the President of the United States , the orator of the day thus concluded : " And now , Mr. President , it only remains for me , in the name and on behalf of the Society of the Army of the Cumberland , to present and deliver through you to the people of the United States , whose chosen representative you are , this statue of George H. Thomas . Protected and preserved by their care in this seat and capital of their national power , ' it long stand am a token of the honor which a grateful people bestow upot conspicuous and unselfish devotion to public duty . Aud when marble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been corroded be the rust of Time , may the liberties of the peo ple , which he defended , still survive , illustrate ( and supported by successive generations , in spired to deeds of virtue and heroic duty by On memory of his example , " Upon the conclusion of Mr. Matthews 's ad dress , President Hayes accepted the statue inf few appropriate remarks . This concluded till exercises . The military were marched away and the vast crowd dispersed . 