@@743195

txt In answer to inquiries made regarding the many conflicting stories of his so-called " third term interview , " Judge Settle , recently of North Carolina , now of Florida , has furnished a representative of THE TIMES with the following authorized statement : Some months before the meeting of the last Republican National Convention I called upon President Grant , and said to him that I had seen a good deal in the papers about his being a candidate for re-election , and that I d eaired to know if he intended to permit his friends to bring his name before the convention . I assured him that idle curiosity did not prompt my question , but that I was anxious to know his purpeses in order to shape my own course . was at that time ? on the Supreme Conrt Bench of North Carolina . I told President Grant that I had never participated in a political meeting while judicial robes were around ) 33e , but that I had occupied a seat on the Bench as long as I desired to do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to resign the Judgeship , and that if lie would permit his name to be brought before the convention , I would immediately resign , and , with other friends , from different Southern States , with whom I was already iu confidence , would organize a movement which I thought would give him every Southern vote in the convention . I urged him to be a candidate . He heard Me through without interrupting ' me once , and then replied : " I would not have you think of doing so . For 16 years I have been under a strain which 1 do not see how 1 , or any other man , could endure , and I am determined at the end of my term to have some rest and recreation . " He said be did not feel called upon to notice the reports in the papers . I did not feel at liberty to announce his purposes to the country , but quietly said to the friends who were co-operating with me that we would drop the matter , as I was satisfied the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropped . I was not a member of the convention . But , continued Judge Settle , Gen. Grant has now had his rest and recreation , and every citizen of the Republic . whatever may be his political sentiments , ought to be proud of the honors that have been conferred upon him by all the great powers of the earth . The reasons which might have been urged against his candidature for a third term no longer exist . He can not use the patronage of the Government to further his own purposes . In fact ; the patronage of the Government has been used since the inauguration of the present Administration , and is now being used , against him and ground-swell in his favor , and you might as well attempt to stay the rush of a tidat wave as to prevent his nomination  --  unless he does it himself .                     