@@741829

txt Secretary BRistow has effectually traced the responsibility for the fraud committed on the Government in the prosecution of the claims of Four and WITKOWSKI . These were finally passed and accepted by certain officials in the Treasury Department , Third Auditor ROTHEnFonD and Second Controller BRODHEAD being specially responsible . They were prepared , presented , and pressed by Congressmen ? Mr. R. R. BUTLER , of Tennessee , being chiefly active in this branch of the business . The law may reach BUTLER and his accomplices ; the officials in the ? Treasury who failed to scrutinize the fraudulent claims have been obliged to . resign . WITKOWSKI professed to have furnished logs to the Government to the value of $20,700 , and FORT claimed to have supplied the Army in Tennessee with $23,000 worth of pork . The WirKowsm claim was preposterous , but it was rushed through the Treasury and paid . FORT 'S demand had on its face a more plausible appearance , and was presented to Congress with a mass of documentary evidence . But there does not appear to have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owed Four one dollar . After Congress had rejected this , claim , and when its fraudulent character was yet a matter of common notoriety , BUTLER , then a Congressmaa from Tennessee , secured from the HOLM archives , enough of the documents ill . the case to prepare a new statement . Armed with these , he went to the department in the last days of that fiscal year , and actually pushed his claim through before he left the building . The attention of Secretary Biusrow being directed to the matter , he caused an investigation to be made into the affair . The inquiry was conducted by a committee , at the head of which was ex-Senator Plum , Commissioner of Internal Revenue . The result of this examination , which was conducted on business principles , was given iu THE TIMES on Friday . It Lae caused the retirement of two heads ( 4* bureaus , one deputy , and three clerks . So far as the Auditor and Controller are concerned , nobody lays at their door any accusation of dishonesty . Culpable negligence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are found guilty . Nobody pretends , so far as we know , that these officials have shared in any possible way in the spoils which the claimants secured . They were negligent while on duty , and , in one case , they permitted a pertinacious claimant , on the last day of the fiscal year , to force through his case after office hours . The methodical usages of the Treasury Department would have required two or three weeks for the examination and auditing of SUGG FORT 'S claim . On the assurance of Burmat that it was " all right , " the officers " put it through " in one afternoon , and the Congressional Attorney went away with the money . So far as Controller BRODHEAD is concerned , it seems deplorable . He is over seventy years of age , and has been in the employment of the Government nearly forty years . But here is a plausible and pushing Congressman , who , because ho is a ' Congressman , is supposed to be an honorable and intelligent man , and who insists that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . all right , he " will be responsible . " Congressmen have influence in the departments , because they control machinery which seriously affects the officers of those departments is the discharge of their legitimate duties . Controllers , Auditors , and their subordinates do not like to refuse anything reasonable When a Senator or Representative asks it . In that way great errors are sometimes committed . Fraudulent claims on the Government , amounting to more than forty thousand dollars , were in this instance paid by the Third Auditor and Second Controller . It is to be hoped that the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia may be able to roach and punish the prime movers in this conspiracy . The shameful exposure should make accounting and disbursing officers wary of claim agents who come in the guise of Congressmen with influence . "                     