@@743291

txt Mr. Edison 's inventions and discoveries , in the way of electric illumination , whatever they may be , are the property of the Edison Electric Light Company , a corporation which supplies him with the money for conducting his experiments . Mr. Calvin Goddard , the Secretary of the company , told a TIMES reporter yesterday that the company had no doubt of Mr. Edison 's having perfected his light to such an extent that it can be supplied equal to gas , be as easily managed as gas , and be furnished at a cost not greater than that of gas . The company , ho said , was not yet quite ready , mechanically , to show the public the full and complete machinery and the manner of preparing the light . and the statement that a day had already been sot apart to exhibit the completed light was incorrect . The first perfect demonstration of the success of the invention will be made at Menlo Park , but just when this will be done can not yet bo told . Time is needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of lamps are still to be made . The company does not wish to invite the public to . inspect the light until everything can bo shown , and it is intended to exhibit the full capacity of the 80-horse-power engine to supply electricity to about 700 lamps . The objection which has been raised to the effect that one great difficulty in the way of the success of the light was in the large amount of copper necessary to carry the electricity , had been entirely avoided by Edison , according to Mr. Goddard . The objection was raised in Berlin , he said , in the experiments with the dablechltoff candle , where the cost of the copper was very great . But this difficulty had been overcome , and the company had no fears on that score . When the light is introduced it is intended to generate the electricity by engines of comparatively small horse-power distributed over the City . Each engine will supply the lights for an area of a quarter to a half knife around it , the distance of the engines from each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to supply . This arrangement will be made both for the sake of convenience and economy . To be ready for any emergency , as an accident to the generator , duplicate engines will be placed at each of the stations . it is understood that the Electric Light Company does not intend to take charge of the placing of the light , but will simply license others to do so .                     