@@741414

txt Affairs in Arkansas seem to be rapidly approaching a crisis . The laws in Arkansas , both State and national , have been set at defiance , society has been disorganized , the Government has been destroyed . In fact . anarchy prevails . There is reason to believe that the mere word of the President will be sufficient to close the squabble which has so long dissr , raccd the State . His recognition of one or the other of the contestants for the Governorship will be an intimation that the power of the United States will be employed to sustain the recognition , and will render any use of physical force wholly unnecessary . Both sides will submit to a decision which both have invoked , not because they have invoked it , but because they know resistance will be fruitless . The conclusion of the President iu this matter is therefore one of great national importance . Both factions have laid their case fully before him , and he is informed of the law and the filets which are involved . Happily , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the State , and there eau be no doubt as to what the decision should be . The whirligig of time and polities has brought about strange changes in Arkansas , and BnooKs now stands where BAXTER did a few months ago , while the latter is now in the position formerly held by his antagonist . But this matter is not to be decided upon political considerations . It should not be asked whether BAXTER has become a Democrat and BROOKS a Republican since the campaign of 1872 . The sole issue to be decided is , who is the lawful Governor of the State It seems to us there will be little difficulty in arriving at a correct conclusion on this point . The case , of course , must be judged by the laws of Arkansas . The Constitution of the State makes the Legislature the sole judge of the election of the Governor , and the Legislature decided in favor of BAXTER . This one fact makes his legal title indisputable . But it is still further strengthened by subsequent legal proceedings . BROOKS applied to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and . in the proceedings had upon the application , that tribunal twice decided that no court had any jurisdiction in the matter , for the reason that the Constitution left it exclusively to the Legislature . A man less determined than BROOKS to overturn society in order that he might be the temporary shadow of a Governor , would have let the affair rest here , or would , at least , have done nothing more than appeal to the Legislature to reverse its former decision , Bnt BROOKS resorted to revolution . He took his case into the Circuit Court of a county which . , certainly had no jurisdiction when the Supreme Court of the State had decided that no tribunal had any , and . he there obtained an order against BAXTER by a " snap " judgment , which is the least creditable part of all these performances . While his opponent was yet ignorant of his doings , he stole upon him with twenty-five armed men and ejected him from his office . Thereupon BROOKS declared himself to be Governor of Arkansas , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . According to BROOKS ' theory , it is some petty cross-roads Magistrate , and . not the people , by whom the Governor is chosen . We do not take into consideration ' whether frauds were committed at the election , and that BAXTER may have been awarded an office which possibly did not belong to him , for it is not pertinent to the present quarrel . BAXTER was declared , under the law , to be Governor , and BROOKS , in defiance of the law , has attempted to force himself into the office . In. this State there was not a Republican who was not convinced that JOHN T. HOFFMAX was made Governor in 1868 by gross frauds upon the ballot , but having no legal means of redress , they submitted:to the result of the election as declared by due form of law . Such was the duty of BROOKS and . his partisans . If the defeated party is always to resort to extrajudicial methods of determins ing the result of an election , the farce of allowingthe people to deposit their votes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election is declared , may as well be ended . The interests of the whole country require that this squabble in Arkansas Shall be brought to a speedy close , and the announcement that the President is likely to come to some conclusion during the present week will be received with general satisfaction .                     