@@741374

txt Money is now abundant . Even the South is no exception to the rule , despite the extreme stringency experienced there long after the Eastern banks were in easy condition . The cotton crop , which can hardly fail to prove a large one . has been moved more rapidly than last year , and a much larger supply has consequently reached the distributing ports , to the relief of both planter and merchant . although prices have not been as satisfactory as was hoped . Turning to the West , we find that banks in the small Western cities have good balances , at a low rate of interest , in New-York and Chicago ; and this circumstance , unusual at this season of the year , can only be accounted for by the fact that the home demand , at the usual high rates  --  say ten per cent. ? does not exist . In all the large cities of the East it is well known that the loaning institutions find it difficult to use their funds profitably , or , at least , prudently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money is the almost total cessation of the conversion of floating into fixed capital , the abuse of which was so greatly instrumental in causing the panic . The substantial stoppage of railway building , despite the reduced prices of labor , iron , and other material , is far from being the only instance of this . In the existing uncertainty as to the probable worth in gold of a greenback dollar a year hence , produced by apprehended legislative tinkering with the finances , no one cares to build factories , foundries , workshops , or to open mines , and thus our rapid forward movement in this direction has been temporarily arrested . The stockoperator , or even the dealer in merchandise , can bet upon the future course of prices in a depreciated currency , for they expect to be only temporary holders of either ; but the man who invests his money in solid bricks and mortar wants some security as to the future . The prevailing dullness in housebuilding , especially in the outskirts of cities , must also be partly attributed to the existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other two causes which have been assigned for it ? strikes and speculative overbuilding . As to the latter matter , the overplus of houses , if there be any , in the vicinity of New-York at least , consists in highpriced places . There is a constant and unsupplied demand , both in New-York and the suburbs , for houses at moderate rents , and even now builders . and . capitalists will find it to their advantage to construct them . The lack of enterprise is not to be accounted for by any want of substantial prosperity throughout the country . The great crops of both the West and South are being well sold , our exports continue upon a healthy scale , while our imports are neither shrunken to the lean proportions which they reached just after the panic , nor have they risen to the told extravagant figures . Our efforts at economy are apparent from the returns of the second week in this month , by which it appeared that while the value of goods imported was very much less than during the corresponding week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger , useful rather than expensive goods being sought for . Economical notions on the subject of dress have gained ground since the panic . The healthy nature of trade is also evident from the comparatively large amount of goods which goes into consumption  --  importers mean to meet the requirements of business rather than speculate upon the future by filling the bonded warehouses . Indeed , prudence characterizes our whole business just now . The volume of general trade is a fair average One , but as yet it hardly comes up to the expectations which had been entertained of the Spring trade , although the activity of the latter may only be temporarily delayed . That this is so may fairly be argued from the fact that the increased and increasing revenues of the Government must be owing to a general revival of business . But merchants are cautious , and do not know just what effect the fact that.large numbers of persons were thrown out of employment after the panic will have upon consumption . Except in large purchases made at cheap prices just after that time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low , and there should not be any serious doubt as to the ability.of the people to consume . The only remaining factor in the question is the financial agitation in Congress . Business men want to know whether the currency is to be inflated , and whether there is to be additional taxation . It is clear enough that it is impossible , at present , to operate understandingly in tea , coffee , tobacco , spirits , or any other article that may be selected for additional taxation . An addition to the currency would also unsettle values . These questions should be settled as soon as possible in the interest of the business community .                     