@@743191

txt The Rev. Dr. LODGE , a Baptist minister , of Jersey City , has recently been made the object of a good deal of severe criticism . Among the members of Dr. LODGE 'S congregation was a man who was employed by a NeW-Jersey railway company as a locomotive fireman , and in that capacity was compelled to work on his locomotive on Sundays . Dr. LODGE was about to bring this man to trial for Sabbath-breaking , when the latter , in order to avoid the threatened trouble , asked for a letter of dismission , which the congregation granted , much to the Pastor 's disgust . There was no charge against the fireman 's character as a religious man , except that of Sabbathbreaking , but Dr. LODGE insisted , and still insists , that his congregation had no right to give a letter to a Sabbath-breaker certifying to his Christian character and rebornmending him to other Baptist congregations . The press , in commenting upon this affair , has taken the side of the fireman , and assumed that Dr. LODGE is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the other hand , perhaps , he is simply . trying to practice what he preaches , and is , therefore , entitled to credit as an honest and consistent man . If the sect to which he belongs requires him to believe that Sunday is the divinely-ordained substitute for the Jewish Sabbath , then it was the duty of Dr. LODGE to prefer charges against his Sabbath-breaking fireman . To denounce and sneer at a minister who does what consistency and loyalty to his professions inexorably require that he should do , is plainly unfair . But while the Jersey City minister has , in this case , done what it was his obvious duty to do , there maybe other members of his congregation who are as guilty as the fireman . If it is wrong for a fireman to work on a locomotive on Sunday , it is certainly wrong for the railway company to require that the locomotive should be operated on that day . Every stockholder in a company that runs trains on Sunday is as much a Sabbathbreaker as the firemen and engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Dr. LODGE 'S congregation owning stock in a railway which is operated on Sunday , consistency requires that he should be tried for Sabbath-breaking , and excommunicated if found guilty . It would be unfair to punish the poor fireman and absolve the rich stockholder . The Sabbath-breaking of the one can not be distinguished by the most expert theologian from the Sabbath-breaking of the other . If the fourth commandment is binding upon railway firemen , it is also binding upon steam-boat firemen , and the steam-boat stockholder must obey it as well as the stockholder in a railway company . No man who works on a ferry-boat or who holds stock in a ferry company should be permitted to remain a member of Dr. LODGE 'S congregation . It will not do to say that it is a work of necessity to 11111 ferry-boats on Sunday . People managed to live very.comfortably before steam ferry-boats or railway locomotives were invented , and neither the one nor the other is a necessity . The same may be said of street railways . The street cars can not be run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of labor which can honestly be called necessary . Every man who is responsible , either as a Director or stockholder in a street railway company , for the running of street cars on Sunday , breaks the Sabbath as thoroughly as does Dr. LODGE 'S unfortunate fireman , and , like him , is unfit to be a member of the Jersey City Baptist congregation . Of course , the man who uses either railways , ferries , or street cars on Sunday is as guilty as the men who operate them . Guilty , also . is the Jersey City Baptist who has his food cooked on Sunday , thereby necessitating labor which could bo avoided by eating cold food . Between the . devourers of hot Sunday dinners and the readers of Monday morning newspapers , the work upon which has been done on Sunday , . there is nothing to choose . If there are such in Dr. LODGE 'S congregation , he should promptly bring them to trial , and if he himself has read a report of one of his sermons in a Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He must be impartial.as well as consistent , and it would be unjust to draw the line in Sabbath-breaking at railway firemen . It may be objected that no church which should undertake to excommunicate its members owning railway stock , reading a Monday morning newspaper , or eating a hot Sunday dinner could maintain its existonce . That has nothing to do with the matter . No church has a right to overlook and condone acts of immorality on the part of its members . Either Sunday is the Sabbath or it is not . Those sects which hold that it is can not consistently permit the continuance of Sabbath-breakers among their members . Dr. LODGE has so far shown himself to be a consistent man . He believes that it is wrong to work on Sunday , and he has courage enough to carry his belief into action at the risk of the loss of his popularity . Our belief may differ from his , bat we have no right to censure him for maintaining his own belief . It is evident that if he continues as he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excommunicate every member of his congregation , but the . higher courts of the Baptist body must sustain him if they are loyal to their creed . If they do not , he may ultimately find himself the sole member in good and regular standing of the once numerous Baptist sect , the others having all been excommunicated for Sabbath-breaking ; but in that case ho will have the comfort of feeling that he has been true to his princinlos and is an honest man .                     