@@741734

txt Concerning the contest for seats in the convention , it can no said that the tight to be made by Morrissey and the anti-Tammany delegates will be very hitter . Morrissey , James Hayes , and Senator ? Ledwith and their delegations claim to be regularly accredited by Tammany , and have not so far joined forces openly with the anti-Tammany men ; but both arc bringing all their influence to bear on the delegates whose scats are uncontested for the purpose of defeating the John Kelly delegates , as they are called here . Morrissey has his head-quarters at the Vanderbilt House , but has also rooms . at the Empire House , where the anti-Tammany delegates , headed by Benjamin Wood , exSheriff O'Brien , Gideon J. Tucker , and Thomas J. Creamer , hold their councils . On Tuesday , and even this forenoon , . it was believed that owing , to the large number of contesting delegates , all of Thursday would be consumed in settling the claims of the contestants . This opinion was founded on a generally accepted report that Gov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morrissey , would not interfere in the matter . John Kelly . however , had not been half an hour in the city after coming from an interview with the Governor at Albany , when it was confidently asserted by his followers on the street-corners and at the different hotels that the Tammany delegates would be admitted to seats in the convention to the exclusion of all other New-York delegates . It is stated that an order to that effect has been sent by the Governor to the country delegates , but whether they will obey it remains to be seen . There are two sets of delegates from every district in New-York , and three from the districts represented by Morrissey , Ledwith , and Hayes . The contesting delegates will be present in sufficient force to prevent the admission of the Tammany delegates until the Committee on Credentials have examined the claims of the contestants . It was at onetime said . to be the purpose of the Tammany men , aided by the country delegates , to settle the matter by voting to admit the former without referring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is yet believed by many that such a course will be adopted . Among the delegates who are openly and strongly working for Morrissey are Mayor Murphy , of Troy . and Stephen Dann , of Saratoga . Mr. Morrissey , when questioned yesterday about his chances , was very reticent . He said that , as far as he could learn , the general sentiment seemed to be in favor of himself and against Kelly . If it is decided to refer the claims of the New York contesting delegations to the Committee on Credentials , it is probable that ex-District Attorney Garvin and Morrissey will appear before that body to present their side of the question . For the anti-Tammany delegates Ben Wood , exSurrogate Tucker , and . Thomas J. Creamer - will do battle . Morrissey hopes to prove his regularity on the resolution passed at Rochester in 1871 , vesting the power to call conventions to elect delegates to a State convention in the Assembly district associations , and taking such power away from the General Committee or any similar ) olitical organization . With the conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that therefore admission to the . convention should not be granted them . The anti-Tammany men lay claim to admission on the ground that they represent the Democrats of New-York , while Tammany , being a secret ' organization controlled by a few men , represents only the politicians . Much aid and comfort is expected by Morrissey from the Kings County delegation , but as " Boss " , who heads the delegation , is pledged to Tilden , and consequently to Kelly ; it is more than probable that his followers will support the New-York " Boss . " While Morrissey himself is reticent as to what steps he will take in case of failure , his followers do not scruple to avow that they will scratch the State ticket in the Assembly districts . They say they have supported all Mr. Tilden 's measures , and if he forsakes them at this critical time they will be revenged . ALBANY COUNTY . Aside from the New-York fight there are other contests which promise to make trouble iu the convention . The most important of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albany , both of whom claim to be regular . The fight is a very old one , and extends bank several years , but is particularly interesting this year for the following reasons : Last year the reform element obtained control of the party machinery , and succeeded in obtaining recognition at the State Convention . The defeated section , who , by means of a secret organization similar to that of Tammany Hall , dictated nominations for years , refused to accept their defeat , and at the elections nominated a separate set of candidates for county and city offices , thereby causing the election of the Republican ticket . This year , headed by Eh Perri , Albert Tremaine , . and Edward J. Meehan , they contest the seats of those who claim to be reformers . The latter , led by Charles H. Fairchild , the Governor 's candidate for Attorney General ; Rufus W. Peckham , Senator Dayton , and Capt . Voshere , having Mr. Tilden 's indorsement , will undoubtedly be admitted . But the Perri and Meehan men , determined not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for city and county officers , so that , no matter what the decision of the conven tion two Democratic tickets will be run in the county . OSWEGO COUNTY . In Oswego County the fight between the contesting delegations has been so bitter that blows have already been exchanged . Although Willard Johnson is not a delegate , the fight is really between him and Ira Betts . When the Assembly Convention to nominate delegates to the State Convention was called , Betts presided , and the Johnson delegates , were defeated . After gthe convention , or just before its termination , the Johnson men , finding themselves defeated , attacked Betts , pulled him out of the chair , and handled him rather roughly . They next proceeded . to hold another convention and elect themselves delegates , and now they demand recognition as the regular delegation from Oswego . As a matter of course Johnson 's strongest supporters bore are A. D. Keller , Tommy Gale . Willard Johnson , Charles Degraw , Doe Denison , Abe Scouton , and other canal men . WESTCHESTER . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contest between the delegations headed by Henry T. Purroy , Patrick Brown , and William Caldwell on one side , and J. E. Ireland , Denis , and John Bussing . The former are regular , and will probably be admitted . 