@@741905

txt " Let me run the railroads of a country and I care not who makes its laws , " is a remark which no poet has so far happened to make . Any poet , however  --  or for that matter any prose person  --  owning more or less railroad stock could easily make such a remark if he felt so disposed . The late OLIVER CHARLICIC , who at one time controlled all the Long Island railroads , is generally credited with having felt a sense of the superiority of his railroad interests to all other earthly things ; and Herr Poi , - PENHUSEN , the thrifty German who has succeeded to the place in the affections of the Long Island people once held by Mr. CHARLICK , must be fully aware that he is the real ruler of the three island counties . Within the last two months Herr POPPENHUSEN has become the owner of every mile of railroad track on Long Island , and when , by virtue of such ownership , he asks for the admission of Long Island to the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Albany Legislature to thwart the wishes of so powerful a monopolist . It is pleasant to find that the new railway potentate is ready to encourage inventions designed to increase the efficiency of the railway service . The late Mr. CHARLICIC was eminently conservative . For many years his railroad trains kil.ed cattle in the old-fashioned simple way familiar to Mr. STEPHENSON and other railway pioneers . The Legislature once directed Mr. CHARfrIcx to fence in his road , but he felt that ho knew how to kill cows and horses without any advice or assistance from Albany . Herr POPPENHUSEN evidently entertaius very different views on this subject , and he has just shown a degree of enterprise in cattle-hunting which reflects the utmost credit upon him as a sportsman and a patron of ingenious inventions . It has long been evident to every one who has hunted the horse and cow with au American railroad train that no provision is made for keeping an animal who has once come within range of the locomotive in position until the fatal blow is struck . How often has it happened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have been sighted directly in front of an express train , and have nevertheless crossed the track and made good their escape without even a wound . It is obvious that some means of keeping the game upon the track until it can be secured is what is really needed , and this means the enterprise and liberality of Herr POPPENHUSEN have at last supplied . At a short distance from Hunter 's Point a Country road crosses the track of one of Herr POPPENHUSEN 'S railroads . Just at this point the grade of the track is steep , and at a little distance there is a curve , which conceals to some extent the approach of a train . A better spot for killing cattle could not easily be found , and any good railroad engineer could be reasonably sure of a full bag , if passing cattle could only be kept from jumping out of range on the approach of a train . To place a flagman at this crossing would obviously increase the evil , since the flagman would frighten cattle away , and thus render @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this locality a most ingenious contrivance for preventing the escape of game . The invention consists of two gates , one on each side of the track , which are raised and lowered by the weight of passing trains . Then a train moving in the direction of the crossing is within the distance of a few hundred yards from it , the weight of the locomotive depresses a spring , which drops the gates and bars all passage across the track . A somewhat similar device raises the gates after the train has passed the crossing , and thus , without the aid of a single flagman , the gates are dropped or raised as trains approach or recede . The great merit of this invention is too apparent to need much emphasis . Let us suppose that a cow , or a horse and wagon undertake to cross the track while an approaching train is yet a long way off . No sooner has the same reached the centre of the track than the approaching locomotive causes the gates to drop . Escape is now impossible , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the game and passed a hundred yards beyond . The most short-sighted and inexperienced engineer could not make a miss in such circumstances . The new invention combines all the advantages of trapping and hunting . The gates secure the game as effectually as would the best variety of bear trap , while the engineer enjoys all the excitement of the ordinary method of cattle-killing . It should be mentioned that this automatic gate-trap is not yet quite finished , and its merits have therefore not been practically demonstrated . There is no doubt , however , that it will be able to fully meet the expectations of the most ardent sportsmen . As to the rumor that Herr POPPENHUSEN , who has recently doubled the fares between Hunter 's Point and Flushing , intends to make a lavish display of his surplus wealth by employing a flagman to see that there are no cattle on the track at the moment when the gates fall , it hardly deserves notice . It is extremely improbable that a sportsman would make . such elaborate preparations for the capture of game , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ game away . Herr POPPENHUSEN has never yet shown a disposition to waste money in mere display , and his Long Island subjects may he reasonably certain that he will not suddenly enter upon a career of wild extravagance in point of flagmen.                     