@@741915

txt If we are celebrating this year our political emancipation from . England , would it not be profitable to ask ourselves in what relation we stand to the chief motherland in other respects  --  in literature , for instance ? For political separation is only the outward and most external sign- of complete cutting loose from such men and ideas as we have found wanting . In its train comes , or ought to come , an equal emancipation in literature , from just so much as is useless or insufficient to our needs . The fact , however , is that our literary men have looked either openly or covertly across the Atlantic , and sought in the pages of English writers the inspiration that all literature must draw from some direction . This was well for a time , was inevitable , and , so far from being a tendency to be protested against in the violent manner formerly used by NEAL Dow , was , in the main , right . The makers of English literature itself have got their strength from two sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iu their own land and among their own countrymen ; the other , without , being the literature of foreign countries . SWINBURNE is to-day an example of the latter class  --  a man who gets his inspiration and material chiefly from abroad . TENNYSON is more thoroughly British . CHAUCER in his day , and his successor SKELTON , were thoroughly of the soil , racy . Now the American writer , to be on a level of equal chances with an Englishman , must not only open his eyes to the material lying ready for him in America , but must have foreign resources as free to him as his literary cousin , and then . the American literature , over which the fainthearted wag dismal heads , may become more apparent . The step from a provincial leaning on English models to a state of mental independence may be said to have been already taken ; and no surer sign can be found than in the evidences , to one who will look carefully , of a reflex action of American ideas and methods upon some writers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed , that they see it themselves , but the fact remains . It may appear at first in a lowly and despised direction , but in this world lowly and despised things have a strange fashion of coming to the front . Nor need it be feared that literary emancipation from English traditions and a reaction of American thought on England are undesirable . Anything which breaks still more the crumbling walls of British insularity will be welcomed by all liberalminded , speakers of the English tongue , and the fact that we have always been more receptive than England of foreign thought makes of Americans the natural mediums . This , then , is the literary lesson of the Centennial . The United States has tried its raw youthfulness in the great war against one of the most crying plagues , slavery , and is now coming to man 's estate . There are battles at hand and battles in the immediate future , but with good heart . it will give the deathblow to thieves as it did to slavedrivers . Lhas taken up into its communities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Italians , Germans , Irishmen , and Welsh leaven the heavy mass which HEPWORTH DixoN has christened Greater Britain , and the hopes of good results from such a mixture seem not entirely unfounded . On the one band , Americans awake to find that much of the wonderful literary harvest of our English cousins is simply the result of a leisurely imbibing of foreign or nonEnglish ideas , and therefore within reach of the widening circle of readers of foreign tongues ; ou the other , they are amazed at the incredible richness of material lyjug about them . It might be said that its very abundance is a hindrance to a choice . American writers generally err by trying to include too much ; but the hand that writes from a fertile brain , and one that has taken time to be skilled , must only feel embarrassed at the quantity of subjects offering themselves . The Russian writer TURGENIEE struck a chord in one of his works when he says of a fruitless , highly educated character : " The difficulty is that he does not know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much the same position as the United States does , and . TUROENIEF might have written that sentence for more than one American . writer who has promise but no achievement . American writers too often do not know America . If you live in Rowe you may know what Romans do or have done , and write about them , but that is not being an English or American writer . Only a citizen in full standing , with friends and relations on the spot of his birth , and with a heart thoroughly in sympathy with his struggling nation , can really be a writer of America . Let us hope the day ier nervous self-glorifl ? cation and bombast is forever gone , but let no man hurry into the other extreme , and , like those Americans abroad who gain the scorn of men of all nations , fall to abusing their country because they hava not patience and humility enough to study it . By political emancipation we forced England to give us a seat beside her among the nations of the world ; by literary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing steadily , and will become more and more pronounced hereafter , we must force literary England , also , to acknowledge us . Far from being really a rivalry , it is a healthy condition for both countries to have something to interchange in the highest branch of national trade  --  ideas . It is only necessary for Americans to consider England as another State  --  another Massachusetts  --  the best producer so far , if yon will , but merely one in the great fraternity of English-speaking peoples ; it is only necessary for them to do that , and to study their own country .                     