@@742227

txt The dissatisfaction among Republicans , which is alluded to in Washington dispatches , is not wholly unexpected , and is certainly not unreasonable . They have . good cause to complain of feebleness and uncertainty in the councils of the party , and of vacillation , amounting almost to cowardice , in the prosecution of its understood purposes . Their discontent , and the discontent of Republicans throughout the country , will not be lessened by a consideration of the forms iu which this lack of moral strength is developed , and its possible consequences to the party and the Government . The questions now awaiting settlement are vital . Some of them indirectly affect the foundations of the constitutional system , others directly relate to the control of the Government and the maintenance or overthrow of the substantial results of the war . Every section of the Democratic party appreciates the importance of the issues involved . It ' Mr. TILDEN 's political fortunes alone were concerned , the great body of the Democrats would care little . There is so little in the man or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing more than his candidacy were at stake the Democrats would trouble themselves very slightly about the pending contest . They are battling , not for Mr. TILDEN , but for Democratie supremacy , and they carryon the tight with an audacious energy which is everywhere apparent . The man they placed in the Speaker 's chair was just the man for the occasion . He is fettered by no restraints of courtesy , by no nice interpretation of the rules and usages of the House . Right or wrong , ho never shrinks from anything required by his friends . He allows his chief subordinate to inflict upon witnesses , confined for contempt , insults and cruelties which no jailer would dare to visit upon convicted murderers . His appointments to committees show his aptitude in the choice of instruments . He understands the value of bullying as a feature in partisan warfare , and the experience before the committees since the session began proves how well Ile has , in this respect , served his party . Mr. FIELD 'S performances as the manager of the committee which Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tIA Tombs Police Court . Ile insists that witnesses shall adopt words which ho puts into their mouths , and threatens them with the terrors of RANDALL and the Sergeant at Arms if they refuse . His evident aim is , not to get at the truth , hut to insinuate statements which the uninitiated may mistake foE evidence , and which may be elsewhere used for influencing opinion . Only one thing is more surprising than Mr. FIELD 'S impudence , and that is the meekness with which the Republican members of the committee allow him to go on unchecked , While ho outrages decency and right in his treatment of witnesses , and in the perversion of , what ho calls their " evidence , " Republican committeemen look on patiently , as though they were jurors in BARNARD 'S Court and FIELD were privileged to fight for thieves as of yore . It is not a matter of reproach that Republicans have left to their adversaries a monopoly of the disgrace which these displays of partisanship entail . RANDALL 'S stolid Willie Of power , And FIRLDss ahaesaiwes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see engrafted upon the Republican policy . But the energy and daring evinced by the Democrats might have been advantageously copied by the Republican majority in the Senate . In the House , of course , the Republicans are to a certain extent powerless . They might , nevertheless , protest , and by protesting and resisting , in the committees and on the floor , vindicate the purposes and cultivate the spirit of their party . The Republican Senators have a larger responsibility . They might have been as aggressive in their sphere as the House majority are in theirs . Instead of this , they have contented themselves at almost every stage with a defensive attitude . They have brought forth explanations and little else , and even these have been so conducted that , as partisan agencies , they have been ineffective . ' rho Tilden fraud in Oregon is a gent in its way . It is at once so compact and so transparent that moderate skill would make it invaluable as au illustration of the means employed by the model reformer to win his election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , seems to languish . It excites feeble and spasmodic interest simply because the conditions of popular effect are overlooked . The most striking illustration of shortsightedness and apathy , however , is in the inattention shown by the Republican Senators to the Democratic conduct of the campaign . Ordinarily speaking , the discussion of the arts of a canvass closes with the canvass itself . The Democrats have chosen to establish a precedent for a different course . ifhey have tried  --  vainly , it is true  --  to detect wrong in the acts of the Republican managers . The attempt was a challenge which Republicans in the Senate should have promptly accepted . The onportunity was exceptionally good . Never was there a canvass so tainted with corruption and fraud as that directed by Mr. TILDEN , and for which ho supplied the money . There would have been no more impropriety in investigating Mr. TILDEN 'S bank accounts than in looking into Mr. CHANDLER 'S , while the result would have been to tear the mask off a groat hypocrite , and to fix indelibly upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried with it . The weakness on the part of the Republicans ; which the inactivity of the majority in the Senate reveals , is still further exemplified in the blind bargain which underlies the Electoral Commission . Great sacrifices might have been pardoned had they been reciprocal . But the Republicans gave up everything and got nothing . The Senators who undertook to speak in their behalf covenanted to accept the verdict of the Commission , whatever it may be . The Democrats , on the other hand , have gone into the court with their hands untied , and with a declared determination to contest the verdict it ' it be not to their likieg . " Unless Mr. TILDEN be declared elected , " assert the Democratic newspapers , " ho will avail himself of the constitutional right of appeal , and we shall have the greatest lawsuit of this generation . " In view of the same contingency , - the well-informed NVaiihingtou correspondent of the Sun remarks that the Democrats will probably " seek by some sort of tactics to get things in a shape where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then proceed to elect Mr. TILDEN . " To say , then , that the conditions of the two parties are unequal , is very imperfectly to state the position . So far as the Commission is concerned , the Republicans have been outsmanomyred by the Democrats , and the circumstance has been made possible by the blundering haste of certain Republican leaders and the want of unity and vigor in the party in Congress . The time is coming when , for the sake of the Republican Party , it will be necessary to analyze the causes of this discreditable state of things , and the relative responsibility of those to whom it is attributable . Meanwhile , we are not required to look beneath the surface for evidence of the disappointments and jealousies which are the main sources of the dissensions that exist . There are , in truth , two classes of leaders ; one intent upon upholding the integrity of the party , giving effect to its principles , and striving unselfishly for its success ; the other , thinking only of itself , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ griefs can be avenged . The consequences are apparent . Division is followed by disgust , and disgust by indifference . The consolatory fact is that these dissensions are concentrated in the Senate Chamber , and that the party out of doors has no sympathy with the spirit which for the moment jeopardizes its cherished interests .                     