@@743130

txt In the busy railroad world , few circumstances are more remarkable than the anxiety to secure the traffic of a region which ten years ago was deemed unworthy of serious notice . At that time , the popular estimate of the country traversed by the route of the Northern Pacific was indicated by the light in which that project was then regarded . Nature offered so few inducements , and interposed so many obstacles , that very shrewd investors scouted as an absurdity the construction of a railroad which must always remain without traffic . The collapse in 1873 was by the same class of people accepted as proof of the soundness of their opinion . During the period that has since elapsed , development has gone on at a rate which shows how little the objectors knew of matters about which they dogmatized . Minnesota stands at the head of wheat-producing States . Northern . Dakota has revealed resources which , as regards wheat , will make it Minnesota 's equal . As an immediate consequence , the Chicago railroad companies have secured all the roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been purchased by shareholders of the Milwaukee and St. Paul ; and both the latter road and the North-western have plans afoot for drawing off the traffic created by the Northern Pacific as well as the traffic which seems naturally to belong to that enterprise . The reorganized St. Paul and Pacific has been made possible by the same growth in these latitudes . It will compete with the Northern Pacific for the grain traffic of the Red River Valley , and for the traffic of the settlements which are advancing with almost incredible rapidity in the Canadian Province of Manitoba . We have , therefore , the spectacle of a keen struggle among railroad managers for the business of an enormous area to which ten years since hardly one of them attached the slightest importance . Instead of being required to demonstrate the reason of its existence , the Northern Pacific finds itself beset with powerful competitors for the traffic of the territory which it has opened . Doubts and sneers have given place to an earnest contest for the prizes to be won in what but the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end at the Missouri . It promises to extend along the northern route across the continent . Montana already sees signs of its advance . Tho Northern Pacific there encounters a formidable rival . JAY GOULD has caught sight of the riches of a territory which , long neglected , will soon be brought into prominence . The Union Pacific has plans matured for extending its ramifications to Montana , and securing a control of which the Northern Pacific deemed itself sure . No one can misunderstand the conditions of the competition . On one hand , the Northern Pacific must test its financial capacity to the utmost to secure advantages which , at the inception of the enterprise , seemed too precarious to be worth fighting for . On the other hand , the Union Pacific must stretch its feeders northward and secure the trade of a region infinitely richer than its own , or its power will be broken and its profito , blentess endanstered . Each side has something in its favor , while the motives to persistency on the part of both are manifest . Nor will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one phase of a struggle whose final result will either upset cherished calculations of the Northern Pacific or seriously impair the fortunes of the Union Pacific . Beyond the mountains the two companies will be competitors to an extent that will try their relative strength and sagacity . In Washington Teritory the Northern Pacific is building eastward . Its progress there has been slew , and difficulties have induced it to abandon part of the route which invested it with importance on the Pacific coast . The Jay Gould combination saw the opportunity and seized it . At the first glance , it may not be easy to catch the considerations which impel the controlling powers of the Union Pacific to buy the franchises and property of the Oregon Steam Navigation Company , and SO to secure the magnificent possibilities of the Columbia River . From Umatilla , on the Oregon side of the river , to Ogden , in Utah , it is proposed to build a narrow-gauge road which shall make the trade of Portland and the North Pacific coast , with all the trade commanded by the Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'S purpose be effected the Union Pacific will gain two points : it will divert traffic from the Northern Pacific , and it will establish a connection with the Pacific coast irrespective of the Central Pacific . To appreciate the probabilities ? of the next decade , however , it is necessary to extend the review beyond the boundaries of the United States . There has always been a tendency in this country to underestimate Canadian development , and the tendency is still apparent in the current references to the extensive territory now under the Government of the Dominion . When skeptics pooh-poohed the agricultural resources of Minnesota and Dakota on the ground of climate , they forgot that still further northward is a fertile belt at least 300 miles in width , stretching westward from a point east of the Rod River , and embracing 200,000,000 acres of cultivable land . So far as our side of the boundary is concerned , no one doubts now . In no part of the United States has the recent influx of population been greater ; in none have the sales of land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales and the settlement have been eclipsed by the experience of Manitoba , which has attracted an excellent farming population from the older Provinces , and has also obtained various colonies of hardy Europeans . Mennonites are there , thrifty and prosperous as with us ; and in the remotest North an Icelandic colony is in successful operation . It is computed that the settlement already effected embraces three millions of wheat land as fertile as that of North-eastern Dakota , and that within the next two years two-thirds of this area will be in cultivation . Here , then , is a new element of almost inconceivable magnitude which enters into the problem of Northwestern transportation . For the present , the St. Paul and Pacific and the Northern Pacific will be the gainers . Tho chief outlet for Manitoba wheat will be Duluth . But the Canadians are building their own Pacific Railroad , and with the help of ' a water-system oast of Lake Winnepeg , they will soon have direct traffic communication with Lake Superior . The river system of this part of British America is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the guarantees of growth . Three great rivers ? drain the fertile districts . Evidently , then , Manitoba is destined to be a competitor with Minnesota and Dakota in the wheat markets of the world . If the speculations of a writer in the Nineteenth Century prove even approximately correct , an ocean outlet may be obtained " in the very heart of the continent , " eighty miles nearer to Liverpool than Now-York is , and available for four or five months in the year . We may laugh at the suggestion of Port Nelson , en Hudson Bay ; but the time is not remote when the Northern Pacific was treated as an Arctic joke .                     