@@743218

txt The occasion of a vote on the adoption of the . State Constitution , and the election of officers under it , afforded to the Republican Central Executive Committee of Louisiana a good opportunity for once more bringing the party together and defining the ground of its future action . Our telegraphic report of the doings of the convention must have struck " machine " Republicans as somewhat difficult of comprehension . It has been supposed that the Southern Republicans generally , and the Louisiana Republicans especially , ? cherished angry feelings toward the Hayes Administration on account of its action in 1877 . Both the organization and the resolutions of the convention just held at Now-Orleans point in a totally different direction . W. A. J. DUMONT , who presided over the proceedings , is described in our report as " an out-and-out Sherman man . " He is more than that . As President of the late Central Executive Committee , he is in good part responsible for the address to the Republicans of the State in compliance with which the party chose its delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms , so hostile to trading and " machine " politicians , so distinctly pointing to a reorganization of the party as essential to its usefulness , that the " indorsement " of its author must be regarded as a token of a new departure in Louisiana politics . In harmony with this document and with the new policy it reveals , the resolutions are framed in a spirit that must have disturbed the equanimity of extremists of the stalwart order . There is not only no attack *upon the Administration for its Southern policy , ? there is an emphatic trib  --  ute to the President 's " fidelity to his party " and to his " acts . " Not less remarkable is the moderation which pervades the resolutions , wherever they refer to national or State affairs . Upon the plea for subsidies of divers sorts , it is not necessary to dwell . It is noticeable chiefly because it exposes the folly which treats the Southern demand for Treasury aid as exclusively a Democratic demand . Such questions as subsidies , internal improvements , and the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , are , as regards the South , everywhere non-partisan . So far as Louisiana ' is concerned , the declarations of the Republican Convention are conclusive . Apart from this class of subjects , the resolutions were evidently framed with the view of lifting the party to a higher plane than that on which it has too often conducted its contests . Prom beginning to end , there is no mention of blood , no mention of revolution , no allusion to hideous violence , no hint that another war is necessary , no call for a Northern conqueror to dictate terms of an , other peace . These exciting themes are reserved for Northern platforms . The men who now speak for the Republican Party in Louisiana have . no relish for tactics designed to irritate one section and to excite the passions of another . While faithful to their convictions , and to the principles upheld by their party , they assert their claims in a tone calculated to win support in quarters which partisan violence has ordinarily made unapproachable . They assert their right to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the privileges of republican government . They address themselves to the self-interest of the planters by reminding them that a continuance of fraud and violence at elections will drive from the State the labor on which its prosperity depends . The temper and style of the whole platform , in fact , may be accepted as proof that in Louisiana at least the Republican Party has passed out of a control that has not seldom disgraced it , and is now directed by men who blend fidelity to principle with respect for others ' opinions , and with personal characteristics not looked for in mercenary partisans . Turning again to the address of the State Central Executive Committee , promulgated in advance of the convention , we find that the movement rests upon an acknowledgment of the necessity of the change thus plainly indicated . The cardinal idea seems to be identical with that enunciated by Gen. GRANT in one of his Oregon addresses . Speaking of the population on the Pacific coast , he remarked that " those who fought on opposite sides during the war are now peacefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same right to be proud . " In a similar vein , the Louisiana Republicans were urged by their committee to reorganize on a basis worthy of the party 's mission . That mission , the document signed by Mr. DUMONT asserts , is " to restore the fraternity of the Union ; to bury with the honors of both flags the memories of a brave , a bitter , and a decisive struggle ; to mediate between the preponderant power and suspicion of the North and the unabated enmity of the Bourbon Democracy at the South , so as to save our fellow-citizens from the inevitable consequences of another sectional conflict . " Following out this conception of the mission of the party in the South , Republican voters were called upon , in effect , to discard adventurers , to have nothing to do with'political traders , and to send to the convention only " citizens of good repute , " faithful to Republican principles , and responsible in their own " persons , business ; and property for whatever might be done by them in a representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best evidence of the response given by Republicans to this appeal . The ticket is composed of bond fide Southern men , men of substance and character , identified with the interests of the State , free from all taint arising from past party transactions in. the State , and possessing the respect of all classes . A platform and a ticket of this description mark a new era in Southern politics . They are examples of the mariner in which the Republicans of other Southern States should reorganize the party . They are rendered parti , , alarly gratifying in Louisiana by the contrast they afford to the nominations and tactics of their Democratic opponents .                     