@@781598

txt It is unnecessary to say that Boston is almost as full of culture as Central Africa is of native kings . There is but one Boston worth mentioning , and every Bostonian is his own prophet . It is true that the great Boston humorist  --  the late EDWARD EvEalirr  --  seemed to forget his native city when he proclaimed as his motto that thrilling phrase ? " Every man his own Danbury News man , " but had EVERETT while living been taxed with want of faith in Boston he would have indignantly frozen his accusers into ice of paleochrystie solidity , and asserted , in his most impressive manner , that Boston was the sole manufactory and warehons ; ; of American culture . What else save culture and . the Adams family has Boston produced ? The stranger who enters a Boston street car finds it occupied . by twelve ladies reading through gold-rimmed spectacles the works of EMERSON , Ar.cotr , and Prof. FISKE , and by a dozen Adamses , wrapped iu chilly metlitation upon the fatal reluctance of the American people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ice . When any other city can produce a spectacle like this it may be possible to question Boston 's eminence in culture ; but until then New-York had better humbly scrape her streets with potshreds , and Chicago sit in , silence beside her own swine and pig-pen , instead of conceitedly presuming to the possession of any culture whatever . One of the characteristics of true culture is thoroughness . The man of culture never presumes to judge of any thing until he has examined it with the utmost thoroughness . An instance of this has recently been afforded by Boston , and it deserves to be hold up as a lofty example to people of inferior towns . Not many months since the leading citizens of Boston suddenly decided that a local theatrical manager had displayed so much true culture in the conduct of his theatre that he deserved to be thanked in a cultured , but , of course , inexpensive way . So they signed and sent him a series of resolutions thanking him for elevating the drama , and thereby satisfying the infinite longings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compliment , the manager began a new season with the production of Shakespearean and . other dramas , such as people of culture admire , to that extent that they will get up in the middle of the night and howl for them . Curiously enough , it so happened that the cultured Bostonians were all detained at home by illness in the family , and so could not attend the theatre . Tho manager gallantly continued to lose money until the process became too monotonous to be interesting , whereupon he withdrew his Shakeapearean plays and engaged an opera bouffe company . Now , opera bouffe has acquired the reputation of being a style of entertainment eminently adapted to bring a blush to the cheek of the ideal young person who is capable of blushing . When opera boil &; is offered to people without any culture  --  as for example , the inhabitants of Now-Yorkthey hastily call it naughty . Not so the persons of true culture . Boston declined to condemn opera bouffe unseen , and prepared to examine it with all the spectacles , lorgnettes , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultured Bostonians attended the opera boffin . They would witness the " Bello Helene " on Monday . and spend all Tuesday  --  except the evening ? in debating the question whether it was full of great moral lessons , or strikingly deVoid of clothes . Night after night they thronged the theatre . On the second night the Mayor of the city want to study opera bouffe , and , it is said , brought a series of anatomical plates with him to aid him in ascertaining the exact lino where the prima donna apparently ended and her clothing began . The next night the Governor of the State was present , for the like purpose , and for six nights and a Saturday afternoon the study of opera bouffe was prosecuted with unflagging interest ; and at the end of that time it was calculated that every cultured Bostonian , of all sorts of sexes , had witnessed at least four representations of the Offenbachian opera . After a quiet Sunday spent in carefully reasoning from all the data gathered during the week , Boston decided that the opera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pro-eminent culture , said that in the opera bouffe they found a want of proportion between the singers and their clothing , and that the latter ought be increased at least 100 per cent . in order to create a proper balance . These persons of culture pointed out that after hearing improper jests , repeated for two or three nights by opera bouffe artists , they had fully decided that they had heard them and that they were improper . Furnished . with such evidence , the press denounced the opera bouffe with its utmost vehemence , and . as there were no people of culture left who had not already attended the theatre , the audiences dwindled and the manager tore his hair . Of course , an angry manager can not be expected to see things in their true light , and therefore no attention need be paid to this particular manager 's assertion that the Bostonians would not go to see Shakespeare , that they did go with wild enthusiasm to the opera bouffe , and that they never discovered it was immoral until they had begun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is totally untrue . Tile Bostonians simply investigated the opera bouffe with honest thoroughness , and when they felt that they had acquired facts enough concerning it to pronounce upon its character , they expressed their opinion in a way at once vigorous and full of sweetness and light . This is what culture enables a community to do , and it is only the crude and barbarous New-Yorker and his like who will rashly call the " Bello Helene " improper after witnessing only one representation .                     