@@741772

txt No subject can be more important to the country as a whole , aud especially to the eaten involved in the recent war , than the niduct of the Southern members of the tajority iu the next.House of Represeutayes . Including uuder this term the memers from the ten States which were numbered ' Ith the Confederacy , and those from the tate of West Virginia , who are closely Lentified with these , and we find that the anthem Democrats constitute nearly one fth of the House of Representatives , and bout one-third of the Democratic majority . t the same time , the Southern Democrats in se Senate number within a fraction of oneaif of the vote of their party in that body . is obvious that with any degree of unity purpose and action , the Southern memsrs of the Forty-fourth Congress can exert oonsiderable and possibly a controlling in- fluence upon congressional policy to any question in which they may take an interest . It will undoubtedly be the desire of the shrewder Democratic leaders to keep out of Congress all matters directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whatever may hate been the errors of the Republicans with reference to that sul-ect , or whatever the faults ? of some of their prominent representatives , the sympathy of the people has been with the avowed objects of the Republicans . There is no approval of the positive aims of the Democratic Party as to the South , and there can be none'in this generation . Distrust of many of the Republican measures has given the Democrats the appearance of popular support , but this has been purely negative , and will not warrant that party in undertaking any distinct action , or even any very definite avowals of principle . This the Democratic leaders understand , and we may be pretty sure that if they can prevent it , no questions directly affecting the South will be allowed to become prominent . Whether the leaders can have their own way , however , is open to doubt . But there are several classes of questions in which the Southern members will be very likely to act together , and in which their action will possibly have a very serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is the financial question . It is well known that the Southern Democrats have , as a rule , very little regard fur the obligation of the public debt . It is natural that they should not have . The debt was incurred in the prosecution of a war in which  --  they were on the . losing side . It was one of the most important measures by which the success of the national cause was secured . The South may acquiesce iu the results of the war , and hesitate to do anything that bears even a semblance of bad faith toward the Union , the perpetuation of which was the object of the war . But it is plain that the Southern mind will be mare open to auk plea by which an injury to the national debt may be supported than the Northern mind would be . Direct repudiation is not thought of and would not be proposed by any one ; but indirect measures to secure the same end are distinctly favored by prominent men in the Democratic Party , and the arguments in support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; tions of the South . Among these measures , the most formidable will be the postponement of specie paymeuts aud the direct or indirect increase of the Government notes . If the Southern Representatives are not found actively sustaining these , we shall be greatly and agreeably surprised . To the fact that such measures are covert assaults on a debt unpopular in the South , there are many reasons in the condition of the South , in the comparative ignorance of its voters , and in the deficiency of competent public men from that section , why its representatives should incline toward positive inflation and indirect repudiation . Another class of questions in regard to which there is only too much cause for thinking that the Southern Democrats will agree is that of subsidies of various kinds . A great batch of these is known to be in preparation for submission to the next Congress , and a large part of them relate in one way or another to the South . The most prominent is the Southern Pacific Railway , which commands the services and is designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Col. " TOM SCOTT . It is true that this scheme , even if carried out , would have but a very indirect influence on the interests of the South ; but we may be sure that before it has got fir on its way through Congress it will be the subject of many alliances , offensive and defensive , between its advocates and those of other projects more wholly Southern . Of these there is no end . They were plentiful iu the last Congress , but they will be more so in the next . These will be found to be the source of much trouble . They will give rise to infinite " log-rolling ; " and though there is almost no chance that they can be carried through the Senate and receive the President 's approval , they will consume a great deal of time and interfere seriously with the progress of essential legislation . The prospect is certainly not an encouraging one . It is impossible to say what may come of the presence in the House of so large a number of Representatives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and acting with a party so desperate and unscrupulous as the Democratic Party at present is . That the next session will be a confused one is certain , but what may be the final product from the confusion , no reasonable politician would like to prophesy .                     