@@743071

txt While Senator BLAINE is proposing to create a merchant marine by act of Congress , the Secretary of the Navy has already matured a plan to make the United States Navy the pride and boast of our beloved country . There was a time when the ship-builders of Maine supplied the wooden hulls which carried " the flag of the free heart 's only home " to every quarter of the globe , and when Maine fishermen were trained to be ready to man the fleet of the National Government whenever an emergency might arise . Something , which Mr. BLAINE proposes to remove by Congressional legislation , has brought a blight upon the ship-building industry , and the race of eodfishermen and " mackerelers " has either run out or transferred itself to other fields . Secretary THOMPSON has been invited from the surging Wabash to rule the Navy of the Republic , and to find out , if possible , what can be done ' to revive it . The Secretary has discovered what is the matter : The Navy requires an infusion of Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says in a letter to a friend in St , Louis . The one thing needful , the Secretary thinks , is the Western infusion . Heretofore , the boys enlisted in the Navy have been drawn from the effete Eastern States . Many of them are American-born , of Irish parentage . They lack the bold , free manners of the great West . They are too apt to obey orders with a slavish and servile obedience , instead of saying , as the Illinois boy did , when ordered aloft in a driving storm , that he " would n't go up them pesky rope ladders without an umberel , nohow . " And when the Bold Mariner of the Wabash has anxiously scanned the United States Navy , to discover how he could best restore its pristine manliness and vigor , he has seemed to hear an admonitory voice saying , " Go West ! " But , as the West can not well come to the Navy , Secretary THOMPSON has decided to send the Navy to the West . He writes to his friend SIMPSON that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Navy would be advantageous to the service , " he has decided to send a ship out to the Wabash and along shore . He has not made up his mind of what route to avail himself , but he will probably take the new line by the Erie and the Toledo and Wabash Railroads . In his letter , the Secretary says that such an expedition " would be undertaken with the view of enabling the people to see what kind of a thing it the ship is , and , at the same time , get a lot of recruits . " The excellent Secretary recalls with delight the keen enjoyment with which he first beheld s , real ship when he came on from Indiana to take charge of the Navy . And he argues , with great force , that the novel spectacle of a man-of-warin the Mississippi River " would , if carried out , benefit the railroads in all probability . " For , as the shrewd Mariner of the Wabash calculates , " the people would come in large numbers from all directions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Secretary says that he has a fine ship which can be made ready by the 1st of June . She draws about sixteen feet , and , Secretary THOMPSON thinks , " would have no difficulty in reaching St. Louis in June and Cairo at any time . " The Secretary is quite right . The steamers that ply in those waters , we do know , are built to go wherever the ground is a little damp . But possibly the Secretary meant that the draught of his ship is 16 hands , instead of 16 feet . In Indiana . where the bold peasantry are more accustomed to horses than to naval matters , the hand is the most common unit of measurement . The vessel must really draw 16 hands of water , and we can well believe the Secretary when  --  he adds that " although not one of the largest , she is a splendid ship , and would excite admiration . " We should not have had the pleasure of anticipating this delightful naval excursion if the Secretary had not felt obliged to send @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water between that city and . Cairo . " The inquiry , " he says , " may be confined to the river above the mouth of the Ohio . " From which we infer that the Secretary does not intend to go below Cairo . A naval spectacle would be no novelty in New-Orleans . The last time such a sight was afforded the citizens of the Crescent City , they remarked that they had had enough . But the bucolic residents of Southern Indiana and Illinois will flock to see the man-of-war , 16 hands high , and will not only pay their fare to the railroad companies , but will be eager to enlist . Perhaps the worthy Secretary has provided a sort of scoop-net by which , as the good ship speeds along , the 750 boys now required of the West for the improvement of the Navy may be scooped on board , very much as the mail-bags are taken in by the fast trains . Everything depends , however , upon the report which the Secretary 's friend , Major SIMPSON , makes concerning the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mississippi can not afford 16 feet ( or is it hands 7 ) in June , July , and August , the ambitious youth of the free West will vainly blast their tarry top-lights and fruitlessly belay their jaw-tackle . They will see no man-of-war . The Navy of our beloved land will languish for the limit of that " infusion of Western spirit " which it is notorious can only restore its ancient glories . The PREBLES , DECATURS , and . FARRAGUTS of the future are now hoeing corn on the banks of the raging Wabash . They must be called , like CticomsTATus from his plow , to the service of their country . Let us hope that Major SIMPSON will find 16 feet ( or hands ) of water at Cairo , and that the Western prairies may be rejoiced by a sight of a real man-of-war.                     