@@741165

txt The World has been trying on the ostrich policy again in regard to tea claim against the City for advertising . It began by denying that the bill had been reduced $23,1 ) 00 , and tried to conceal the proof from its handful of readers by suppressing the item referring to its claim in the report of the meeting of the Board of Audit in January , at which the bill was submitted from the examiners . The report of Monday 's meeting , at which the bill was formally passed in its reduced form . was altogether omitted from the ' Work/ . The contemptible shuffling of MARBLE 'S newspaper , as it likes to be called , in regard to this claim is quite in harmony with its well-known character and antecedents . It is hardly a matter for public regret that a paper like this should be on its last legs , and that there should be a fair chance of the conductors of such a sheet being starved out of a position which they have so basely prostituted . Ghosts have lately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a necessity of every well-regulated newspaper . As a rule , ghosts have been thicker in the Northern States than elsewhere , but they are now settling in large numbers in eligible locations in the South . There is a ghost in Georgia who indulges in the reprehensible Practice of dropping red-hot nails on the heads of the unfortunate family in whose garret he has taken up his abode . As to the character of tine ghost there can be no doubt . No visitor from the regions of bliss could have any opportunity  --  even if he bad the desire  --  to heat nails red hot , and bring them to earth with him in order to annoy peaceable people . The Georgia ghost clearly comes from a region of furnaces , and the sooner he returns to his warmer residence the better . The conduct of the police in the matter of the Goodrich murder is a striking example of bungling and incompetency . For the last day or two , they have suspected a Spaniard , called Roscos. of being the murderer . Instead of quietly proceeding to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have loudly announced through the newspapers that " RoScoE " is the man of whom they are in search , and that they mean to arrest him as soon as some one will kindly mention where he is to be found . Of course , the man is not sufficiently stupid to stay in the City after this announcement , and has doubtless already made his escape from the country .. The police seem to have modeled their conduct upon that of Mr. Tinkle , who , on the occasion of a street tett , loudly announced that he " was about to beam , " and leisurely took off his coat  --  being , of course . immediately arrested . The police have told " ROSCOE " that they are about to begin to look for him , and actually seem to expect that be will wait to be found . A case of death while walking on a railroad track , near Jersey City , is reported this morning . This particular form of recklessness seems to be absolutely incurable . Out of 136 persons , not connected with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hurt while walking on the track . Precautions seem to be utterly futile to prevent such " accidents . " They take their place ? in more respects than one ? by that inevitable percentage of suicides of which statisticans assure us . The report of the Fire Marshal as to the number , causes and results of fires in New York last month is more than usually curious . There were 139 fires in all , or an average of one every five hours and twenty-four minutes . The total insurance was 3.23 times as great as the total loss , and the uninsured loss was only $13.665 out of 8381,295. or a little over three per cent . These facts Speak volumes concerning the ramification and extent of the business of fire insurance .                     