@@742359

txt The resolution adopted by the New-Hampshire House against any revival of the subsidy system on the part of the National Government is as seasonable as it is explicit . It affirms sound doctrine just when an organized effort is in progress to compel its violation . The country needs to be taxed lightly as possible , and for no other purposes titan the maintenance of an efficient and economical administration and the preservation ? of the public credit . If , after all , a surplus remain , its legitimate use ? as the resolution declares  --  is in the reduction of the debt . Save for these objects the imposition of taxes is ill present circumstances indefensible ; and therefore the lower branch of the New-Hampshire Legislature protests " that the National Government should not undertake any new obligation , or lend its credit , for the furtherance of any speculative schemes under the guise of internal improvements that may be for the advantage of any particular locality or corporation . " We trust that the example thus set will be followed by Republican conventions as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans in Congress nor the Federal Administration should be left in doubt as to the feeling which predominates in the party with reference to the injustice and inexpediency of sanctioning any scheme for " developing the resources of the South " at the cost of the country . It can not reasonably be alleged that there is no ground for anxiety upon this subject . The warning we have cited comes not one moment too soon to put the Republican Party on its guard against the influences which will be brought into play whenever Congress assembles . A very large proportion of the South insists , as a matter of policy , that the General Government shall , by lavish expenditures of the free use of its credit , lift the Southern States to an equality with the North and West in respect of railroads , canals , and other aids to commercial development . What the North and ' West have acquired for themselves by the energy and enterprise of their citizens , the South imagines that it may seek through the instrumentality of the National Treasury . A suggestive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allusion is made to this method of fostering local development . The so-called independent journals vie with the partisan sheets in urging the claim fur special benefits of this character . Thus the Louisville Couricr-Journal unblushingly declares , in the name of the South , that " all the aid wu can get front the General Govmeat we must have . " " Our public polio. , " it says , " must be shaped to that end . " To make the meaning still clearer it emphasizes " the reconstruction of the broken levees of the Mississippi and the construction of a railway to the Pacific upon the thirty-second line of latitude " its " essential to the South . " These are specimen projects which serve to point the moral of the plea for levying tribute upon the nation in order that the dream of " a new South " may be realized . New-Orleans , Savannah , and almost every other Southern city has some scheme of its own to which also the Government is to be asked to contribute . The same general argument is available for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and the burden of the revival must be borne by the nation . The Southern people seem to have persuaded themselves that they have a right to call upon the Government for whatever is in their opinion requisite or desirable . And they frankly declare that in pursuance of this idea their Representatives in Congress will make all else subordinate . It this were the whole peril , then , the New-Hampshire Legislature would have ample justification for the declaration against a renewal of the subsidy system . The mischief to be combated is not an abstract proposition which might perchance bear fruit at some distant day ; it is urgent and practical , and it intik be frustrated , if at all , by such an expression of public opinion as shall make it impossible for Northern Representatives to comply with the Southern demands . There will be no lack of temptations to the adoption of another course . Southern Representatives who come to ' Washington with their minds made up to seek subsidies before all other things will be in a mood for bargaining and coalescing with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy will have strong charms for them . They may be induced to accord votes of a political character in return for votes securing to them material , gains . Business and politics may for the time be interchangeable , and sinister agencies will be at hand to profit by the opportunity . The Texas-Pacific Railroad , though nominally a Southern enterprise , has so close a connection with certain Northern schemes and interests that the movement iu its behalf can not be too carefully watched . Let there be any sign of public indifference , and the peril incident to its passage through Congress will be great indeed . Questionable influences are even now at work in its favor , and only determined manifestations of disapproval in Northern States can reader them nugatory . As their strength is derived mainly from Democratic sources , the hope of defeating them turns in a great measure upon the action of Republican organizations . The Concord resolution appears to have been adopted by the House without opposition , and there are few legislative bodies at the North in which any considerable number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against subsidies . The duty of initiating opposition , however , devolves most naturally upon Republicans , and to their action in the various State conventions we look for declarations that will be most effective at Washington .                     