@@741170

txt A very remarkable result has recently been elicited in regard to the British meteorology of the past year . Mr. BUCHAN , summarizing the observations of the Scottish Meteorological Society , shows that while it has had several singular features , the specialty is an excessive rain-fall . At Edinburgh there were sixty consecutive years ' accurate observations to refer to , and the last year 's rain-fall exceeded that of any year in that long period by more than four inches . The average precipitation of rain over the whole of Scotland for sixteen years has not amounted to forty inches , but last year the figures went up to the unprecedented height of fifty-four inches . It is also probable that the Winter which has just closed gave still further rain-fall above the average . At Castle Gordon , in Banffshire , the rain-fall of last year went over that of the average for the past ninety years by nearly six inches ; and at other points , according to Mr. BUCHAN , a similar excess was observed . We know that in November and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Danish , Holstein , Prussian , and French coasts , and were even extended as far eastward . over the continent as Italy . This fact , taken in conjunction with the other data obtained , points to the forthcoming agricultural season as one very promising in all those countries south of Norway and the Baltic Sea . This entire belt of the continent is situated geographically just as our Pacific coast belt from California to British Columbia , and . eastward beyond the summits of the Rocky Mountains . The oceanic influences of the Northern Pacific are said . to be more wide-spread andpotential than those of the narrower and . colder waters of the Northern Atlantic . But the facts recently produced and published by Mr. BUCHAN are highly interesting as ' confirming the old . and generally-received. belief that the Gulf Stream is the source of heat and rain-fall. and consequently of verdure and vigor. ' to the soil of Great Britain and Western Europe . It seems quite as impossible to explain the physical and . climatic peculiarities which so strikingly mark the high latitudes of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnificent forests , the rich soil , and . the equable climate of the Pacific coast belt , without the aid . of the Japan current , or Kuro Siwo , of the great ocean . In this connection , it is not unworthy of note that Dr. WYVILLE TECOMSON , the last great explorer and philosopher of the Gulf Stream , in his very recent work , despite the contradiction of some lesser lights , reasserts " the enormous influence which ocean currents exercise in the distribution of climates at the present time . " He also analytically demonstrates that the influence of the Gulf Stream on the climate of Europe " is so paramount as to : educe all other causes to utter insignificance . "                     