@@741778

txt The people who have had occasion , recently , to pass the entrance of the Tivoli German Gardens in Eighth street near the Bowery , have doubtless been attracted by a poster proclaiming exhibitions within by " Prince Leo , the wee acrobat . " They who have entered the gardens and passed through the saloon to the theatre in the roar have seen " Prince Leo " in the person of a very small , delicate boy , who has been performing wonderful tight-ropo acts to the mingled astonishment and indignation of the audience . " Prince Leo " performed at the Tivoli for the last time . Saturday night , when be was rescued from the cruelties of his situation by officera under the direction of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children . The attention of the officers of the society was directed to this cane by complaints of several per  --  Ana who had witnessed the acrobatic performances , and more particularly by the complaints of employes of the theatre , who alleged that Water Leonard , the man having charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The complaints led to en investigation , which occurred last Friday night , when Superintendent Jenkins and Superintendent Hartfleld , of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children , were of the audience at the Tivoli . Prince Leo was introduced at about 9 o'clock in the evening and put through his acts by the man Leonard . The first performance was on the horizontal tight-rope stretched across the stage upon cross-trees . The officers sal ' that the boy trembled limn head to foot as ho was compelled , taking a heavy balancing nolo of gas pipe in his hands , to walk forward and backward on the repo and co through other performances common with tight-rope walkers . This tremoliug was visibly increased when he was brought forward to be blindfolded . His muscles twitched spasmodicall e , and his countenance was expressive of the utmost terror . But the man Leonard was ruthless , and binding a handkerchief tightly over the little fellow 's eyes ho again lifted nun to the rope and sent him off on his perilous trip across the stage . The worst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when a small rope was stretched from ceiling to floor , a distance of about sixty feet . at an angle not less than forty-five degrees . lip this steep incline , grasping the line with his toes and holding in his hand the balancing noio. the child laboriously anti painfully crawled . Thera was no smile on nis face such as boys are apt to wear when they are doing that which is to win them admiration and applause . his face depicted the intensost fear . Reaching the top of the rope , ho stretched his right foot backward , grasping the rope between his first and second toes . A secondlater he was sliding with frightful velocity down the steep descent , bringing up with a rush in the arms of Leonard . There was no netting to catch him in case of a fall , and the only arrangement looking toward safety bad much better have been dispensed with . Only a brute of a man could bring himself to make use of it . It consisted eta flue cord , not so large as an ordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the boy 's abdomen . The other end , after passing through a block above , was carelessly held by Leonard . The slack of this cord was at least six feet , so that if the child had fallen either while ascencing or descending , he must almost inevitably have been cut in two by the sudden jerk . This was substantially what Messrs . Jenkins and Hartfield saw , and this they eonsidera was enough to justify the arrest of Leonard and the rescue of the boy . Judge Donohue granted two warrants , the one an injunction demanding Leonard to show cause why the child should not be taken from him , and the other charging Leonard with assault and battery on Prince Leo . The arrest occurred on Saturday night , and was conducted by Superintendents Jenkins and Hart field , assisted by officers In the command of the latter . The performance was about half through a hen the officers , who had been sittiug in the audience , leaped upon the stage , and seized Leonard and the child . The sudden raid created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scenes , and also among the people who witnessed it from the auditorium . But when the surprise had slightly subsided and the cause ofetbe disturbance became known , there was a round of hearty applause and cheers . Leonard , ccompanied by the boy , the officers , and Mr. Bergh , was at once taken to the residence of Judge Donohue , in Sixty-sixth street . The Judge , after an examination , ordered Leonard to give his own bond for $300 to be present for the trial of the cause in the Supreme Court , Chambers , this morning at 10:30 o'clock . The buy was given in charge of the Sheriff , with orders that he be produced at the trial . The society will produce at the trial a number of witnesses , who will show conclusively that Leonard is not a fit person to take charge of the child ; that he has repeatedly beaten the boy and kicked him at rehearsals , and that his conduct towards him is uniformly brutal . Medical testimony will also be introduced , if necessary , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the muscles of his abdomen and spine from the severe strains to which he has been subjected . The officers of the society have no doubt that the boy will ho given up to them , in which case they will put him into some good home . The boy was taken from a Home in Philadelphia by Leonard , who represented to the managers teat himself anti wife wanted to adopt him , and to bring him up with every possiltle comfort . Leo  --  for that is the name by which the boy is known ? is seven years old , of under size , and puny physique . His limbs are Tory small , anti his every motion , except when under the eye of his master , is characteristic of weariness . His face is remarkably sweet and interesting , and ho is a very intelligent boy . He has never been to school , and has not yet mastered the alphabet . His recollection of his early life is slight and contused . He says that his father was a German , that he drank to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His mother must have been a rag.plcker , for Lea says that to re ? members assisting her sometimes in the assorting of her rags . How long ago it was , arid when it was , he can not say . Nor had he yesterday tho faintest idea as to the time he has been with Leonard . lie was asked which he would prefer , rag-picking or tight-rope walking . " I 'd rather pick rags , " he replied , " for then I should n't git licked so . " From the testimony of the employes at the Tivoli and from the boy 's meagre story , it nupoars that it has only been by means of cruel beatings that the little boy has been taught his difficult feats . One of the ballet girls said yesterday . " It was only Saturday morning that I saw Leonard whip little Leo terribly . He told him to perform a now anti very hard feat . Leo tried to obey , but was overcome with fear , and fell to the floor when half-way through . Without stopping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and kicked him . Wo girls interfered and tried to stop him , but ho swore at us , and beat the boy all the worse . The next time Leo tried the feat ho got through all right . and Leonard told him to take care that he did not fall again . " It is doubted if Leonard comes to court this morning . and Superintendent Jenkins cares very little whether he does or not .. His main purpose has been accomplished in the rescue of the boy . The case of little Le ) is only one of perhaps a hundred in this City . The society means to reacu all of these cases , and would bo glad of information of any atrocity practiced on children . The society has during the short time of its existence accomplished a groat deal for the unfortunate children of Now-York , and has proved itself quite worthy the title it assumes of " The Children 's Friend . " 