@@742848

txt As a demagogue , pure and simple , Gen. , BUTLER has made an ignominious failure in a cathpaign in which he put forth his sr. - preme effort and used all the arts and wiles that a long career had taught him . The overwhelming defeat which he suffered in Massachusetts on Tuesday is significant and gratifying , not so much as a triumph of the Republican Party and its distinctive principles , or as a crushing blow dealt incidentally to a ruinous financial policy , a3 for the evidence it furnishes that the people are not to be led or wheedled into sup ? porting unscrupulous self-seekers , to whom the public well-being and the honor of State or nation are minor considerations , and their own personal advancement the one grand object . Of this class BUTLER . may be regarded as the most consummate type that our politics have produced . His past success has been due to the fact that he attached himself to the winning party , and was able to use its organization , within a limited range , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressional district , where it had a strong ascendency , he was enabled for a time to share in its successes . By the trick of holding a residence in two different districts , when he had no hope of being a cantdidate in one he resorted to the other , and when that at length east him , out he went back to the first . Finding that he could not bend the organization of the whole State to his purposes , he abandoned it altogether , and undertook to create a party for himself and to win merely by the arts of the demagogue . His course in the campaign just . ended has given a full illustration of his character as a politician , and enabled the people to repudiate him and his method , independent of their attachment to one or the other of the great parties of the nation It is idle to attempt to deal with Gen. BUTLER as a man of principles or convictions . It is doubtful if he has either the one or the other on any of the questions upon which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are men so constituted that they are capable of an earned belief in the vagaries that make up what is called the Greenback policy . WENDELL PHILLIPS and WILLIAM D. KELLEY may fairly be regarded as belonging to this class , but BUTLER thought he saw in this movement the means of bringing to his support a considerable number of vote es whom he could unite with others for the advancement of his designs . That , and that alone , determined him to make himself its loader . Then he endeavored on every occasion to get himself accepted as the champion of the working mon . Himself a professional man , with an exceptionally large income , and a capitalist whose investments were of the most profitable kind , he professed to sympathize keenly with the hard lot of the toiling masses , and to bo anxious to bring them relief through seine undefined method , if power were placed in his hands . Ho played upon their prejudices , exaggerated their causes of complaint , incited then to discontent , led them to believe that they suffered from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ad faithful friend to them if they would give him their support . Knowing how largo a part of the voting population was of foreign birth , he was at great pains to commend himself to that element by professions of special sympathy and friendship , and such occasional acts as were calculated to attach them to his ' interest . As a party man , he had always endeavored to secure from those who worked for his advancement a strong personal allegtanco , by rewarding their services and giving them to understand that they were to be sharers in his triumphs . It was on this account that he hoped to carry with him a considerable portion of the party with which he had been acting for some years . Having previously been a Democrat , he gave out that he had never abandoned any essential pa : : t of his early faith , and that there was no reason why Democrats as such should be hostile to him . Thus ho attempted to unite the Greenbackers , the laboring men , the Irish , aid the disaffected generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draw strength from both political parties to swell his following . The extent to which he succeeded in doing this is remarkable , but he was forced to depend largely on ignorance and lack of thought and reasoning capacity among the people , and fortunately it has proved that intelligence and honest conviction control the majority in Massachusetts , as they no doubt would be found to do in the whole country , if the matter were brought to a fair test . In combining and leading the heterogeneous elements through which he hoped to win his way , Gen. BUTLER has used every device and trick of management and of appeal that unscrupulous ingenuity could conceive of . It is common , even for those who detest his character and methods , to concede his great intellectual ability , but even in that there is much of delusion . Ile has never displayed that breadth and power of mind that constitute the great statesman or the profound jurist , and as a speaker he has neither eloquence , originality , nor wealth of information . His success as a lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great mental powers , but by that not uncommon substitute for them , a combination of audacity , vulgar shrewdness , utter lack of moral scruple , and untiring energy . These are not intellectual qualities , but they often achieve practical results where modest and conscientious greatness of intellect would make a less brilliant show . It is frequently the man who dares to take , rather than the one who is able to win , that enjoys possession . Lack of conscience and of scruple may enable a man of mediocre talents to push himself to recognition the vulgar and get undeserved credit for great capaci ty . While BUTLER lads the character foe integrity and upright conviction whirl would beget the confidence o 0 holiest and telligent men , he has not bhe power to dazzle and command by magnificence of intellect He is merely a plotting , menipulating wheedling demagogue , . and he endeavorea. to make himself Governor of a t3tate , with perhaps , a hope of still high ir achievement . by the arts and wiles and tricks that can only succeed with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is welt that the experiment was tried by one so admirably qualified to use every resource to make it succeed . That it has failed is reas ? suring . It is creditable to the people , and gives encouragement to those who feared the ascendency of demagogues in this Re ? public . It may be too much to hope tha Gen. BUTLER will subside from further activity in politics , but we may , et least , feel confident that neither he nor others like him will ever succeed in making the peopl 3 the instruments for effecting their selfis:i purposes .                     