@@742596

txt Mr. WATTERSON 'S menace , uttered during the heat of the silver controversy , was not meaningless . Universal suffrage may influence the solution of the financial problem to an extent not dreamed of by capitalists . It is a force with whose capacity the property-owners of New-York are unpleasantly familiar , but whose possible exercise financiers have not paused to estimate . But it is also capable of upsetting calculations dear to the heart of the Democratic journalist . The Democratic managers have relied upon numbers rather than intelligence ; they have appealed to mob instincts and tendencies , and have adroitly used both for party purposes . Now , however , the power hitherto pliable begins to assert its own pretensions as against the Democratic leaders ; and those of them who , like the Louisville Genius , have threatened to hound on the multitude against the conservatism of the country , may find that they are themselves in danger . The hunter may be devoured by his own dogs . To most people , probably , the strength developed by the Labor or Greenback @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a surprise . They have usually red garded the Greenback movement as mainly Western , ? with sympathizers scattered here and there in the East , but devoid of noticeable influence save on the other side of the Alleghanies . The Labor movement , again , has been treated , not indeed as mythical , but as lacking the elements of vitality , and as not likely to embarrass the operations of ordinary politicians . The ultraism with which Ohio Republicans last Summer disgraced themselves was supposed to be a product of the excitement occasioned by the proceedings of railroad workmen , and therefore as having little significance . Events have corrected this impression , though they have hitherto failed to prove the growth of a socialistic power in the older States . The communistic utterances of the Indiana Democratic platform , the Nationalist Convention yet more recently held at Toledo , and other organized expressions of the Labor and Greenback agitations have all been poohpoohed as symptoms of a Western " craze " which must soon exhaust itself . Their recognition as distinct and growing forces , at variance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer confined to half a dozen Western States , has not been thought of by the average partisan manager . He may have pandered to them to gain some temporary end , but he has rarely acknowledged the probability of their becoming important electorally , or troublesome to men of his class . While , then , the successes just gained by the new party , under one or another of its designations , at Auburn , Elmira , Oswego , and Utica may not be sufficient to justify apprehension , they certainly remind us that pretensions and demands which many great men have been accustomed to dismiss contemptuously , are rapidly acquiring the influence which is most surely felt . They show that the various movements which are being consolidated into the one new party have a voting power which can be no longer if/morel The , election of Mayor in com- munities where one would little expect to encounter Communism as a controlling fact , is not the only evidence of the progress of change in the party relations of working men . Though defeated at Rochester and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insure to them the balance of power as between Republicans and Democrats , even where the mastery may not be attainable . There is no reason for believing that the efforts whose results are now reported were exceptional . On the contrary , their simultaneous character , the sagacity with which they were conducted , the vigor and resources they developed , all justify the supposition that that which is for the moment local will , before another State election occurs , so expand as to tell seriously upon the calculations of both of the old parties . And we may safely assume that the process which is going on hi this State is also going on in other States which have not been deemed more likely than New-York to listen to the delusive appeals of the Greenbaeker or of the Communist pure and simple . It is not a pleasant condition of things to contemplate , but we can not for that reason afford to treat it with indifference . With the demagogism of the Ohio Republicans fresh in the memory , and with Mr. KELLEY , a Representative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their mad warfare upon capital , it were not wise to predict that this mongrel movement  --  half-inflationist , half-anarchist  --  will not derive aid and comfort from Republican sources . The issues presented , old in their essence , are new in form and as regards the conditions governing them , and the Republican Party will need all its statesmanship to steer clear of the temptations and perils they involve . That it will become the ally of an agitation which threatens society with disorganization , we do not believe , however seductive the promises of success . Mr. GARFIELD is but one of a mighty host who are not willing , for the sake of any partisan advantage , to succumb to communistic threats or to parley with agitators who , to gain their point , are ready to sacrifice all that is essential to the peace and prosperity of the country . The record of the party in Congress is dimmed by its action on the silver question , but its future is largely contingent upon its manner of dealing with the considerations which the united strength of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Much more probable is their alliance with the Democratic Party , whose most sagacious Western leaders already appreciate their magnitude and are not averse to making terms . The line dividing them from the Democracy is in some States imperceptible , and , notwithstanding the declaration of the Toledo Convention , we look for their amalgamation on a basis that will be satisfactory to the promoters of what is now the third party .                     