@@741946

txt AFTER ADJOURNMENT . THE MEMBERS SCATTERED -- GENERAL RESULTS Oil THE SESSION  --  MISMANAGESILNT OE THE MAJORITY  --  WHAT WAS LOST AND WHAT GAINED . Special Dispatch to the New-York Times . ALBANY , May ** the adjournment of the Legislature the members have dispersed to their homes , and the State capital seems half deserted . The Democrats have gone off rejoicing , the Republicans chagrined and mortified . Tile former have succeeded in defeating a large number of the best reform measures which wore to make the record of the session . The Republicans lutive the satisfaction of accomplishing the negative good of preventing the passage of any " striking " bills . There is almost entire unanimity of opinion that , except the Ogden charter . a. d the Rapid Transit bill , no measure has been either defeated or promoted by the use of corrupt means , and for the defeat of these bills only , a few votes had to be bought . Altogether this has been a poor session for lobbyists , and when that Is said nearly all the praise which this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record is scarcely one to which the party of the majority can point with any degree of pride . When the causes of - this failure are sought , an impartial judgment must place the wretched mismanagement which marked the conduct of affairs in the Assembly , and much of what must certainly appear to be double dealing among the more astute men who composed the Senate . The mismanagement in the ' House would have been dangerous had the Repuulican majority been a largo one ; but with only six votes to spare above the sixty-dye required to pass a bill it was fatal . Every bill to which the minority were opposed was passed with the greatest difficulty , for while the majority were all at loose-ends , the minority exhibited that perfect party discipline which it is hopeless to 0% ; pact Republicans will submit to . The policy of delay , which was so thoroughly executed this morning , was all agreed upon in secret meeting the night before . Its cost in the number of bills , in which Democratic members were interested , and which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the plan arranged that the leaders each gave the time be thought he could bold the House . Ruggles was asked ' if he could delay twenty minutes . He boasted that he would do it for forty , and be kept his word , with one minute to spare . Yet had the Senate yielded to the urgent solicitations of some leading members of Assembly , and consented to modity the resolution to adjourn , so as to give only six hours more , the filibustering of the Democrats must have failed of its purpose , and the important bills which bare fallen dead at the last moment could have been passed . For what reason the Senate was so determined in its opposition to make the concession is at present a profound mystery to those not in the seorets of politics . . The Charter Amendment bill , which did pass , happily contains ao much that is good in its provisions that there is less regret at the loss of other bills . It was indeed framed to cover a large number of desirable changes in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate bills , If the chief bill failed , then these could be passed , and if it went through there was no fecesBit ? ' for them . In the conduct of this line of policy there is little to complain of except the constant delays which imperiled them all . As it is , the Amendment bill passed without its , friends being perfectly conversant with the character of the changes which were made in it by the House last night , and what the effect of the bill as a whole will be can not be known until the engrossing is finished , which will not be until to-morrow . As respects the Mayor 's Appointment bill , it may be said that it is claimed that neither its failure nor its passage will affect the tenure of office of Controller Green . He , it is said , is absolutely beyond the power of the Mayor to remove , except for cause . The twentyfifth section of the charter of 1873 expressly excepts him , with the President of , the Police Board , the Commissioner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of the removal power , and it fails to give the Mayor any authority to appoint their successors . Controller Green , it ' is asserted , holds over until his successor is appointed , and there is no one who can make the appointment . The loss of the Deposit and Disbursement bill , and especially the Salaries bill ; upon the economic reform which this was to effect the party was to stand at the next election , are subjects for the keenest regret , and the possible consequences of this failure are regarded with no little anxiety by Republicans . It is hard to say whether blundering and mismanagement or actual bad faith was the cause , but on a calm review of all the circumstances it is not easy to escape the conclusion that it was a combination of both . Some one will have to suffer for the record which this Legislature has made , and it will not be only the five or six insignificant and obscure wretches who come to it as Republicans , but in reality were human cattle for sale to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentlemen in this horse who were a credit and honor to it , who have lett it in the enjoyment of the respect and friendship of friends and opponents , but it is none the less true that there was a lamentable failure where there should have been success , and at best only negative where there should have been positive good . To justly fix the blame upon the men who were responsible for this , requires a more searching and cooler inquiry than can be made at this time , By some strange error the name of Mr. Gero , of Broome , was placed among those voting against the Charter Amendment Ifill . It is scarcely necessary to say that Mr. Gore was*one of the most sterling Republicans in the House , and voted on the right side on this and every other occasion .                     