@@741277

txt The attention which . has been called to unjust discriminations in railroad freights has brought out some very remarkable facts . Making full allowance for everything that ' can be said by the companies , it is impossible for any intelligent and candid man to avoid regarding some of the distinctions made as utterly unfair . After oil that call nossibly be urged . in respect to the greater advantage with which full car-loads can be carried , the smaller proportional expense of loading and . unloading arlieles transported long distances , the difference between regular and irregular freights , and everything else that can be mentioned in defense of the discrepancy in rates , there still remains a catalogue of inequitable discriminations for which no valid excuse can be given . If we carefully analyze any unfair practice which has become common in one kind of legitimate and useful business , we shall generally find that it prevails more or less extensively , in substance , if not in the same exact form , in other kinds . It is not difficult to see the application @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices have of late years been carried to such an extent as to be a great evil in many other things besides railroad charges . This is in a marked degree true of mercantile business . There always indeed have been , and always must be , some differences made with respect to different classes of purchasers . Everybody understands the distinction between wholesale and retail . It would not require a particularly brilliant child . of ten years old to see why articles can not , as a general rule , be sold by the yard or pound . as cheap as by the piece or hundred weight . Nobody finds fault with this , unless it is carried too fax . But the simple and systematic differences between well-recognized classes of buyers have now been iu many cases so altered and . modified that certain purchasers are favored without any very definite rule about the matter , except that the rates to large dealers are usually less than those to small ones . The tendency of this is to break down houses of moderate capital . It is especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young men who , by Industry and thrift as clerks , had saved something from their salaries , could often unite in a firm , under circumstances where it would be folly to attempt the same thing now . It is obvious that no class of men , young or old , have much chance of making a living by selling goods , when others in the same line can buy the articles in which they deal two or three , or it may be five or ten , per cent . lower thou . they can . lithe discriminations of which we are speaking were made on account of the smaller proportionate inconvenience of selling to a firm which buys double or perhaps a dozen times the quantity of the same article that another does , it could not , however hard it might be upon the smeller purchaser , be considered unreasonable . But the actual cause of these discriminations Le often precisely what it Is in cases of what are substantially the same kind of distinctions in railroad freight charges . The smaller dealers , like the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the higher rates . In one respect , no doubt , the seller of goods ( tillers from the railroad company . A corporation receives certain privileges by virtue of its charter . Au individual dealing in goods has never asked any such privileges , and may be considered as being , to au extent which is not the case with the company , at liberty to do as he pleases . But , on the other hand , every man is bound in conducting his business , whatever it is , to look not only to his own interests but to those of the community . A railroad Is a public servant . So is a citizen ? not , it is true , exactly in the same sense or the same manner , but certainly no less really . A railroad is protected by the Government . Bow long would a merchant continue to sell goods if this were not also true of his property and business ? We have spoken of an increasing tendency to special rates in mercantile transactions . This , we think , applies ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposite is to a great extent the ease . The practice of having " one price " for all purchasers is more common among retailers than it was twenty-five years ago . A long process of bargaining , and the bringing in of a dozen outside considerations which have nothing to do with the actual value of the goods , is not considered by our best retail merchants at all requisite in dealing with their customers . Perhaps there are reasons which render it more necessary in wholesale trade , but taking into full account all that can be urged on that score , there assuredly can be no need for so much of it as actually exists . Steadiness and certainty in mercantile matters are exceedingly important elements in the prosperity of a community ; and these elements must inevitably be greatly impaired where no purchaser can be certain that he is not paying materially different prices from the one that precedes or follows him .                     