@@741611

txt The publishers of the London Times and Daily News have been summoned to the bar of the House of Commons to answer to the charge of a violation of " the ancient and just privileges " of the House . To American readers the occasion of the offense is of a good deal more interest than its bearing upon the freedom of the press in England , or the rather indefinite question of parliamentary privilege . The breach of privilege complained of consisted in the premature publication of evidence submitted to a Select Committee of the House of Commons-on Foreign Loans . The most interesting part of this evidence related to the financial transactions of the Republic of Honduras . The story is a very instructive one , and illustrates in a remarkable way the extreme gullibility and greed of the ordiva ry British investor . Its main oatliaes are as follows : The Republic of Honduras is one of the minute fragments of the old Confederation of Central America . It has a population of about a quarter of a million , chiefly consisting of aboriginal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or less mixed descent . its annual public revenue is within half a million of dollars , and the total annual value of it 's exports is about a million of dollars . But for its petty wars with the equally insignificant State of San Salvador , Honduras is a country about whose existence the civilized world might easily have forgotten . One prerogative of a sovereign State it very early learned . to exercise  --  that of running into debt . Its Government began modestly by borrowing $20,000 from a London banking house , and , being pressed for payment , acknowledged its extreme poverty by stating that it must first launch a loan . It was about this time-1867 ? that DON CARLOS GVTIEBROZ quitted the humble position of clerk to a - commercial firm in Liverpool to become the accredited Minister of . Honduras at the Court of St. James . , This gentleman seems to have possessed a peculiar aptitude for finance . He made up his mind that it was quite beneath the dignity of a full-blown Republic possessing a President , a Senate , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of four thousand pounds sterling. ; ? He seems to have opened communications with that enterprising firm , Messrs . BISCHOFFSHEIM &; GOLDSCRMIDT , with the view of placing on the London market a loan of one million sterling . The terms were attractive  --  ten percent . interest and the price of issue , 80. - By skillful manipulation the British investor was induced to take the bait freely , and the following year , 1868 , it was resolved to repeat the experiment on a still larger scale in Paris . The Frenchmen were offered . bonds to the nominal value of twelve millions of dollars , at the quotation of ? 75 , but were allowed . only six per cent . interest . The ostensible object of these loans was the construction of an interoceanic railway-232 miles long  --  between the Atlantic and . the Pacific . In fact , a contract was actually made for the construction of such a road , and some three millions and a half of dollars were paid for the construction of the first section . In 1870 , Honduras appeared again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the amount of twelve and . a half millions of dollars . The new loan found subscribers at 66 and upward , and its proceeds were either used to pay the interest on preceding loans or to enrich the set of harpies who had been kept together by the cohesion of these remarkable transactions . In 1872 , was launched the most ambitious scheme of all . This was the prospectus of a ten per cent . ship-railway loan of seventy-five millions of dollars , to be used for the construction of a railway capable of conveying ships of large tonnage , without disturbing the cargo , between the Atlantic and . Pacific Oceans . By this time , however , the bubble hadburst . The British investor began ? to have his doubts about Honduras , and buttoned up his pockets , thus depriving a pushing young Republic of the power to render the Darien Canal superfluous , as well as the power to pay interest on its debts . So the stock which in 1868 been quoted as high as 95 , began to decline , until to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There seems to be no good reason why it should not drop to zero , as the only assets of the . Republic consist of fifty-seven funds of abandoned railroad , Vlueh is already cal vegetation . The arrears of interest , moreover , now amount - to six millions of dollars . To enable a half-civilized State with an annual revenue of half a million to borrow thirty millions of dollars within five years obviously required a good deal of " management . " The history of this is quite an entertaining sample of the comedy of high finance . The chief characters to this piece of somewhat " tragical mirth " were , in addition to the ex ? clerk who officiated as Honduras Minister , a Mr. DAVIDS , who occupied the position of confidential clerk to Mr. BISCHOFFSHEINI , a Mr. LEFEVRE , of undefined position , and the inevitable M. P. , in the person of a Capt . BEDFORD PIA , naval officer and . barrister at law . DAVID 'S was told by his employer that he had been appointed cotrustee of the Honduras @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroad . contractor who was - appointed the other trustee declined to serve . DAVIDS had . the business of giving out bonds and receiving the proceeds pretty much to himself . He called a meeting whenever he thought proper , and , as he constituted the entire board , there was always a quorum present . At these unique meetings , letters were read by the Secretary , reports presented , resolutions passed , always unanimously , of course , and checks were drawn for large amounts . Mr. LEFEVRE 'S part came in when it was a question of " working the loan . " He was supplied with bonds at prices apparently fixed at DAVIDS ' meetings with himself . At first LEFEVRE sold ? 100 bonds at ? 85 , and accounted to the Trustees at the rate . of ? 80 . Later , he only paid ? 63 12s. for every ? 100 of stock . By these and similar transactions , some three and a half millions of dollars were absorbed for the benefit of Mr. LEFEVRE and other persons unknown . Capt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were becoming desperate . He was engaged " to see the bondholders and allay their apprehensions . " He knew nothing about Honduras , and says that he was innocent as a child about the mysteries of finance . Yet be accepted the post of Special Commissioner of Honduras , " to represent the Government in all financial matters in Europe . " He declared before the Select Committee that it was a matter of perfect indifference to him how Honduras paid her debts , yet ho took twenty thousand dollars as his pay for addressing the bondholders , publicly , privately , and by circular , with the view of keeping up the credit of the precious swindle which he represented . Altogether , there has not been seen of late a more extraordinary revelation of credulity , greed , and knavery than appears in the history of these Honduras loans .                     