@@781457

txt It does not seem reasonable to suppose that one man could obtain a monopoly in the business of painting the warning to passengers which decorate our street-cars and ferryhouses ; and yet the uniformity with which these warnings fly in the face of LINDLEY " MintRAT , and defy even the ordinary rules of ortbography4 , points to a common origin of them all . The street-ear placards inform the public that " No person is allowed to get on , or off , or stand on the front platform " ? a rule which , instead of applying merely to the front platform , as the author evidently ? Mended that it should , really forbids any one to use the car as a public conveyance . So , too , the direction displayed conspicuously at various ferries to . the efloot that " No one is permitted to leave the boat until made fast . to the bridge , " would , if strictly obeyed , lead to the cheerful spectacle of scores of ferry passengers chained to the bridge , and waiting in vain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hypothetical person who prepares these warnings likewise superintends the lettering of the street lamps . The fact that the names of streets are so often displayed upsidedown , or are affixed to the wrong side of . the lamps , and thereby made to mendaciously inform the stranger that " Broadway " or the " Bowery " runs directly through a solid block of builolugs , strongly suggests the sit:melon that the same hand directs the stranger in the streets , and warns the traveler in the oars and ferry-boats . The petroleum producer is apparently as strongly addicted to discontent as was the Israelite who marched after Moses . The wanderers in the desert clamored for meat , and when they were furnished with quails , which all men concede to be a delicacy , straightway grumbled at the sameness of this diet , and pined for the Irish stews for which the Egyptian kitchen appears to have been famous . Similarly , the petroleum person was terribly discontented when his well did not flow ; but now that it flows with oil to . an extent which leaves the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bent upon choking it . At the present moment , nearly all the . well-owners of the oil regions have corked up their wells , while the few who have declined to follow this example are receiving gentle hints , in the form of smashed machinery and ecuttled ? oil-tanks , that their course is in opposition to the wishes of the community . The reason of this attempt to stop the production of oil is the fact that oil is now exceedingly cheap , and the well-owners hope to raise the price by lessening the supply . Undoubtedly the price will rise as the supply falls off , but have the oil-men asked themselves precisely how much they will gain by selling five barrels of oil at a dollar a barrel , instead of ton barrels at fifty cents each 4 Perhaps if they bad solved the problem they would neither have corked up their own wells , nor smashed their neighbors ' engines . There is an ohlptaverb which inculcates the justice of giving even that undesirable person , darkly alluded to in extremely serious circles as " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should we give praise to that well-meaning optimist , the Chief Signal Officer , when his management of the weather is undeniably meritorious . Look at his conduct yesterday . In the morning the clouds hanging over this City gave every promise of a rainy day . The Chief Signal Officer , however , did not falter in his duty . He boldly promised " clear weather , " and le l before midday the clouds vanished and the sun came out . Now , nowever much we may condemn the evident mismanagement which resulted in the intense beat of July and August , conduct like that of yesterday demands that the Chief Signaler ' should receive our thank Indeed , as a rule , his predictions are trustworthy . Occasionally be shows a disposition to " hedge , " as when he promises " clear and partially cloudy weather ; " bat usually Ins Predictions are plain , and , aftord ' him no means of evasion in case they prove to be erroneous . The public will gladly see him retained fn office for another four years , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rare occurrence , he would still be much preferable to the Chief Signal Officer whom H. G. would appoititrwere he to have the power  --  and who would doubt-less try to give us thunder-storms in January , snow-squalls in July , and meteoric showers ' every day in the year . The Italian population of this City is perhaps one of the most orderly and inoffensive of all the varied races that are represented among us . The Italian , however , is neither long-suffering nor unnecessarily meek , as a small boy yesterday learned to his cost . This young rowdy had been engaged , in company with other small boys as vicious and undesirable as himself , in teasing and maltreating an Italian woman who kept en apple-stand on a street corner . After enduring their taunts and juvenile brutalities for some time , she finally became exasperated at the small boy who seized her by the foot in order to upset her , and stabbed him severely . It is , of course , impossible ' to commend the violence of the woman . Not that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a proposition manifestly absurd and utterly untenable  --  but that the apple-woman , not being a well-dressed woman of infamous life , like LAURA FAIR , has no right to kill either boys or men . Before she can claim a license to kill , she must abandon her apple-steno , and enter upon the course of life which endeared Mrs. non to the Californian juryman . In reading about the French exodus from Eisass-Lorraine , of which the cable furnishes some fresh details , it is well to bear in mind the fact that the German law permits foreigners to own property in Germany , and that the French subjects who leave the newly-annexed province can not be compelled to sell their houses or farms . The rule is absolute . however , that the inhabitants who choose to continue French must leave the territory . Undoubtedly many peasant proprietors will find the struggle between patriotism and the problem of living , a sufficiently hard one . Their German ancestors probably found it equally hard to accustom themselves to the exactions of Lours the Magnificent , and doubtless longed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more grinding oppression of the impecunious successors of the Great Monarch left them barely enough to buy bread withal . Of such are the revenges of history .                     