@@741485

txt . While good nominations and an excellent platform , such as the Republicans have in New-York this Fall , are indispensable to carrying the election , they will not of themselves insure that result . Indeed , there is one respect in which the high character of the ticket may be said . to tend to defeat it , since it encourages the party to think that nothing more is needed . But in a great State like New-York , where three-quarters of a million of votes are cast in any important election , and where a change of one vote in a hundred may alter the result , it is impossible to rest safely on the mere fact that our principles are sound and our candidates superior men . We can only command a satisfactory result by organization and work . Up to the present moment in the canvass the only danger that threatens to make the Republican success less signal than it ought to be is overconfidence among Republicans . In other words , the Republicans have nothing to fear so much as themselves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so rash as to suppose that they could not throw away their chances if they were so inclined . They have not much to fear in the Democratic Party , if they themselves choose to make such a canvass as it is in their power to make . But the Democrats are not idle ? of that we may be sure . They are straining every nerve for success . Tammany made a desperate struggle for the mastery in the convention . The leaders of that organization staked everything on success . When JOHN KELLY proclaimed CHURCH a tool of the Canal Ring , and denounced HOFFMAN for his connivance with the frauds of his Administration , and defied the LORDS and JOE WARREN to an open contest , he knew very well what would be the result . He knew that he must not only win in the convention but in the election as well , or else take a much more obscure place than he expects or desires for the future . The consequence is that all the machinery of Tammany Hall is being called into requisition . Every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that were insulted before the convention , and no stone will be left unturned to discover the means of vindicating at the polls the wisdom of the Tammany rule . Nor is it worth while to underestimate the power of Tammany . There is a notion in the interior of the State that Mr. TILDEN will be cut by the old . followers of TWEED . Nothing could be a greater error , though it is a natural one . . We shall not undertake to account for the fact , but it is a fact , that TWEED 'S former henchmen are working tooth and nail for Mr. TILDEN . This , indeed , is not so inexplicable when we remember that KELLY was himself an active and . ardent member of the old Ring , and that his forte is the control of the gangs which TWEED used to employ so freely . And , so far , we are inclined to believe that Tammany is getting on very well with the men who were treated so roughly at the convention . Tammany still has  --  or has recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has always been found very healing to Democratic " sore-heads . " If the Republicans expect to prevail against such means as the Democrats are able to employ , they must go to work , and work hard . Certainly there is every motive for doing so . Mr. TILDEN is ' an . excellent - man , as we have taken occasion to-say ; but his nomination was the triumph of as vulgar and desperate a clique of politicians as the Democratic Party ever saw . Why this clique chose to work for Mr. TILDEN we can not : pretend to say ; ; but that they had sufficient inducements is evident , and it is not supposable that these inducements were of the most elevated character . Whatever they were , they were strong enough to set the whole clique actively to work , and they are still in force . The election of Mr. TILDEN , and a Democratic victory in the State , would be zegarded by KELLY as a repetition and confirmation of - his victory in the convention . Considering the Senatorship , which is at stake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great control over the affairs of his party . Our readers can judge for themselves how far that would be an advantage or a credit to the State , or to the country . They know what Tammany rule was before , and they may rest assured that , so far as it is re-established , its character or its results will not be found very different now . Mr. TILDEN is entirely above any complicity with the bad leaders of this bad . clique . But if they did not see their way clear to get some good out of his election , we hardly think they would spend . their energies in advancing it . We have , on our part , as much inducement to support our own ticket as to oppose that of the Democrats . It can be a matter of small moment to Gen. Dix whether one more is added to the many evidences he has already received of the deep respect in which he is held by the people . Neither his election nor defeat can change the estimation in which his solid services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any one undertake to say that his success will help any clique in the Republican Party . But it will be a serious loss to the people if he is not elected . It will not only deprive them of his great abilities in the Governor 's chair , but it will discourage men of his type from allowing themselves to be placed in nomination . His claim on popular support is as strong as that of any man could be . If the people ignore it , and if the Republican Party neglect the effort necessary to secure its recognition , it will be both a pity and a shame . We have no doubt that this fact will be appreciated . But there is no time to lose .                     