@@781486

txt One of the chief objections to following the business of a reigning King or Queen is the publicity which is given to every royal act and thought . The modern newspaper correspondent knows everything that takes place within the walls of every royal or imperial palace in Europe . . Way it is that VICTORIA , and WILLIAM , and ALEXANDER , and the other members of the profession confide all their hopes , anxieties , and troubles to the correspondents of the Oshkosh Bugle of Freedom , or the leading beer journal of America , is not plain to the ordinary mind ; but that such is the habitual conduct of those confiding monarchs there is no room for doubt . Thanks to the newspaper correspondents , the world knows exactly how often the Crown Prince of Germany boxes the ears of the Crown Princess , and precisely what . the Emperor Wheelie ' remarked to , his wayward son when he last caught him in the act of enforcing marital discipline , and gently checked his ardor by twisting his left ear . Especially are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the English royal family . We know how the Princess BEATRICE told her mother that she would not walk behind any Russian minx that ever yet breakfasted on candles ; and how the Queen said , " Never mind , my dear , Mr. DISRAELI shall give us the imperial title , and then no imported minx can take precedence over Princesses of native manufacture . " Then we are told how the Duchess of Edinburgh resented this astute device , and said to the Queen : " If you think , mum , that I shall recognize your Indian title , mum , you are mistaken ; which I am not to be put upon in that way , mum , and am going back to Russia to-morrow , mum . " These and other stories might seem a trifle improbable did not the newspaper correspondents assure us of their truth , and unless we are to doubt their word , we must accept the painful certainty that royal families can not indulge in the most private " tiff " without having a full report of their remarks subsequently laid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ household of the Prince of Wales is unique iu its origin , and promises to be so serious in its results that it is strange that it has hitherto received only a passing notice from the enterprising correspondents . It is generally known that the Prince brought home a large menagerie of wild animals from India , partly with the view of eclipsing the Skye terriers of which his brother ALFRED is perpetually boasting , and partly to go into puniness ae a traveling menagerie hibitor in case Mr. BRADLAUGH carries out his threat of refusing to permit him to ascend the throne . Among these animals were two fine ostriches of the most miscellaneous digestive powers . These ostriches were at first welcomed with delight by ALEXANDRA , who is fond of singing birds , and were placed in the back yard of the Sandringham palace . On the very first night of their arrival they ate ? up the lawnmower , all the garden tools , and a set of camp-stools . On discovering that these articles were missing , the Prince instantly accused his wife of having put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women , and expressed the wish that she would ultimately learn to leave his things alone . That day the correspondents were pained to know that ALEXANDRA ALEXANDRA was constantly weeping , and that the Prince remained sullen and silent . On the next day one of the ostriches was detected by the Princess in the act of swallowing the very last article of the week 's wash , while the other was ravenously devouring the clothes-pins . This terrible scene afforded a clue to the disappearance of the lawn-mower and the agricultural tools , and we can easily understand that the Princess , indignant both at the false accusations which had been leveled at her , and outraged by the loss of the week 's wash , demanded , with flashing eyes , that the ostriches should instantly have a few feet of their necks wrung , and should sub , sequently be sent to the poulterers . The Prince refused to accede to this proposal , and asserted that ho would keep ostriches in his own back yard in spite of all the . Princesses in England or Denmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete estrangement between the once loving pair , and the promulgation of niutual threats of divorce and ostrich poisoning . This curious illustration of royal manners and customs has not been minutely described by the correspondents , but the story as now set before our readers is as intrinsically probable as any of the anecdotes of palace dissensions which are daily published . It is not saying too much to claim that it . deserves precisely as much credit as is duo to the elaborate accounts of the quarrels between the Princess BEATRICE and the Duchess of Edinburgh , and the public which believes the latter ought to have no difficulty in accepting the former .                     