@@741838

txt At a meeting of the Judiciary Committee of the Senate , held last evening , a resolution passed at the this convention of the General Term Judges was considered . The resolution requires that students of law and other colleges desiring to be admitted to the Bar shall be required to study for a certain time in the office of a practicing lawyer and to pass an examination at a General Term of the Supreme Court . The committee be , fore taking any definite action will hear Prof. Theodore Dwight , of Columbia College Law School , ' is in favor of continuing the right of the Faculty of law colleges to examiuci and admit the students of such colleges to the Bar . The commit . tee will hear Prof. Dwight 's argument on next Thursday week . Mr. D. C. Colvin was heard by the Judiciary Committee of both houses in a long argument against the bill recently introduced , with the object of abolishing the Law Register , and requiring legal notices to be published in three papers in New York City , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was much more convenient for lawyers to have legal notices published in one paper . The system proposed in the bill was open to great abuse and had been abused in the past when those notices were published in the daily papers . The Assembly Committee on State Prisons , which by a resolution recently passed has been constituted a committee to investigate the affairs and tnanagement of all the prisons of the State , had an executive meeting to-day . After discussing the prison management generally the committee decided to start next week on a tour of investigation . They will visit all the prisons in the State , make personal examination of all books and papers of the various institutions , and make the most rigid examination into their receipts and expenditures . They hope to make a full and exhaustive report at en early day . The Governor 's Canal Commission held a meeting this afternoon , with Messrs . Orr , Magone , and Van Boren present . Mr. Orr stated that inasmuch as the commiasion was required to make its report to the Legislature at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think it would be well to continue the investigation further . This view was concurred in by the other Commissioners present , and it was decided that no new investigation should be entered into . It is probable that the final report of the commission will be made within the next two weeks . , The Canal Committee of the House met and organized to-dec . Mr. Burieigh , the Chairman , on taking the chair said , and he was sure he could speak for the majority of the present Legislature , " that lie and his party would join with any party in any economical management of the canals , but considering the importance of the water-ways ho thought they should be kept up by a judicious but liberal expenditure . Ho advised that the $300,000 which remained in the Treasury from the Champlain Canal appropriation should be expended in giving the canal a uniform depth of six and a half feet of water . " It was rumored here to-night that there is a movement in the Legislature to investigate the affairs of the Hudson River Railroad Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being the particular object of inquiry . The report could not be traced to any trustworthy source , and it is generally believed that it was originated by a certain lobbyist in the interest of a stock-jobbing clique . Gov . Tilden has prepared and next week will have presented in Legislature a bill which provides That in all suits , both civil and criminal , nine members out of a jury of twelve , shall be sufficient to render a verdict . The bill is Particularly intended to cover such cases as that of George D. Lord in the New-York Ring suits .                     