@@740824

txt and her stern , where there was less lumber , had settled deeply , and was completely washed by every wave . In this desperate condition , without food or drink , or control over their vessel , and out of the track of any probable passing sail , it is little wonder that the luckless mariners thought their case hopeless . Still , they battled vigorously for life . A barrel of tongues and sounds floated up to them . The number of shipwrecks and disasters at sea is relatively far below what it formerly was . Improved marine architecture , more accurate instruments , and superior knowledge of the art of navigation , assist in keeping down the average of calamity ; and the application of steam , the use of iron in ship-building  --  especially on the compartment principle  --  and the increasing - stores of meteorological and topographical information within reach of . the seaman , all tend to safety . Now and then , however , we hear of a catattcophe that recalls the dismal experience of -. the past . Such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was found floating water-logged in the Pacific , near the Sandwich Islands , some weeks ago . The wreck was seen one morning by the look-out on board . the steam-ship Moses Taylor , from Japan , bound for San Francisco . A solitary man was taken off the brig , the only survivor of her crew and passengers . He was the Captain of the Shelehoff , LUDER HOPICEN , and although , when rescued , he was at the very door of death , he has recovered so far as to be able to tell his story . The Shelehoff cleared from San Francisco for Callao on the 22d of July last . Her cargo consisted of lumber , and her crew of the Captain , two mates , a steward , and four sailors . There were likewise four passengers . Rough , but not dangerous , weather attended the beginning of the passage , but on the let of July there was a dead . calm . The master employed this in a way common on shipboard , by painting his boats and otherwise setting things in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hawser coiled up and stowed in the forecastle ; and this act was providentially the means of saving the Captain 's life and of prolonging the lives of others . On the 3d of July the ship was overtaken by heavy squalls . Canvas was rapidly shortened , until at last by nightfall the Shelehoff was under bare poles . But even this brought no safety . The wind and sea increased to prodigious violence , and it became evident that the vessel was caught in a cyclone . On the morning of the 4th of July the Shelehoff was on her beam ends . the sea making a clean breach right over her . It seemed certain that she would founder , and . but for the lumber , she doubtless would have done so . By night , with infinite labor , the masts were cut away , and the ship partially righted . But the lumber on the " tween " decks had got loose , and carried away the sky-lights , wheel-horse , and companion-way , and bad jammed up the entrance to the cabin. - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was impossible to get at either provisions or water . Meanwhile the brig was filled by the sea , They managed to get from the hold two half barrels of salmon and a box of starch . The water-butts were stove in , and not a arop could be had from them . A sail was , however , rigged . in such away that some rain water could be caught . The lumber being lighter than the vessel , and the latter full of water , now began to press the deck and sides asunder , and the peril was imminent that the Sholehoff would go to pieces . At this moment the hawser came into play . It was lashed seven times around the entire hull of the brig . and the threatened danger was thus warded off . Yet , although safe for the time from drowning , the crew were now tormented by thirst . In vain the Captain begged them not to drink salt water . Some of the miserable men swallowed quantities of it . Then great boils burst out on their bodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in raging madness . In spite of all the privations endured . it was not until the 17th of October , nearly four months from the time the Shelehoff was thrown on her beamends , that the last survivor , except the Captain , expired . This was a passenger by the name of ASHLEY CaArip . After his death the Captain gave up all hope , and lay down , hoping soon to follow his last companion . It was ordained otherwise . for he was saved . by the people of the Moses Taylor , who found . him in a state of insensibility . The story of the wreck of the Shelelloff is a very pitiful one . and has a resemblance to thobe old-fashioned chronicles , which , for the reasons named , seldom find parallels in our own day .                     