@@742561

txt It is all very well to be a philosopher and to make all sorts of investigations with all sorts of things ; but when it comes to trifling with the holiest feelings of an honest Scotch terrier , under the pretext of investigating his religious views , it is time that prying philosophers should be told to exercise some little self-restraint and decency . M. COMTE , the philosopher who invented an ingenious religion , based upon the cheerful and sustaining doctrines that there is no GOD and that the soul is not immortal , held that dogs have a religion closely resembling fetichism . Au English philosopher , one Mr. GEORGE J. ROHANES , who is evidently on intimate terms with dogs , but who is obviously undeserving of that precious privilege , has recently been investigating the alleged fetichism of dogs , and has decided that while they are not really fetich-worshipers , they are firm believers in ghosts and spiritualism . It is not with Mr. ROMANES ' conclusions that we need find fault , but with his methods of investigation . That prying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of experiments upon a Skye terrier of culture and refinement , ' which , if generally known in polite dog circles , would subject him to severe barking , if not to actual biting . His first experiment was made with ? a bone . This is alone sufficient to show the heartless and irreverent elm rae ter of the man . If there is anything whicil a dog holds peculiarly sacred it is a bone . A terrier will submit to be deluded by false representations that there are eligible cats in the coal ? scuttle , or that the piano is full of rats , but ho feels that bones are too sacred to be made the subject of jest , But what did Mr. ROMANES do ? According to his own confession , he tied a small silk thread to a bone and gave it to his dog . After that animal had convinced himself hat it was in all respects a genuine and substantial bone , the philosopher possessed himself of the end of the thread and drew the bone slowly across the - floor . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-moving bone with startled ears and terrified tail until he convinced himself that ho was not dreaming , but that a ghostly bone had materialized itself in front of his nose . When this conviction had mastered his mind , he fled , howling and with every symptom of terror , to his kennel , where lie undoubtedly spent a miserable night , torturing himself with inquiries as to what this supernatural appearance might portend , and whether he had committed some grave sin in point of cats or rats for which the vision of the ghostly bone was intended as a punishment . Mr. ROMANES argues from this cruel experiment that his dog recognizes the existence of supernatural things and dreads them . Of course , the philosopher fails to notice that the conduct of the dog was far more sensible than is the conduct of the average man who thinks he sees something supernatural . In all probability , had Mr. ROMANES ever seen a piece of roast beef in the act of cruising unassisted around the table , he would instantly have asked it preposterous questions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have become a confirmed Spiritualist . His intelligent dog did none of these things , but as soon as he decided that ho had seen a spiritual bone , ho refused to have anything more to do with it , and continued to wear his hair of the usual length , and to cling to that faith in which he was educated . Still , although the experiment proved that the dog was far superior to his master , it was a cruel trifling with the most sacred feelings of his canine soul , and the ' philosopher deserves to be classed with the scarcely less cruel and far less mischievous practitioners of vivisection . Not-content with his first experiment , Mr. ROMANES tried another . Ho blew soapbubbles , suffered them to roll along the carpet , and called his dog 's attention to them . It took some time to convince the dog that they were not a new kind of particularly dangerous rat , but he ultimately made up his mind to attack them . The first bubble upon which he placed his paw instantly vanished , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discouraged , and he attacked a second bubble with a similar result . Then , there flashed upon him the recollection of the ghostly bone , and he decided that soap-bubbles were also supernatural . Again he fled , manifesting every symptom of extreme terror , and has never since consented so remain in a room in company with oven the smallest bubble . Finally ; Mr. ROMANES tried the dignified experiment of " making faces " at his unfortunate dog . Whether he is a handsome man in his normal state or not , he refrains from informing us , but it is certain that ho made his face so hideously ugly that the dog mistook him for a worse ghost than any he had yet seen , and thereupon crept under the sofa and tried to die . A world abounding in supernatural bones and soap-bubbles , and infested with an atrocious demon in the clothes , though not the likeness , of his master , had no further charms for him , and he preferred to leave it , and to hunt the unsubstantial cats of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ghostly dog . If that outraged dog had as little generosity as the average man , he would tell his miserable tale to all his acquaintances , and enlist their sympathies in his behalf . If this were done , Mr. ROMANES would be fitly punished . Avenging dogs would lie in wait for him at every corner and bite his saerilegous legs . They would take turns in howling before his midnight windows , until the lack of sleep would drive him into insanity , and they would finally convert his grave into a canine baseball ground . He ought not , however , to be left exclusively to the vengeance of the dogs . He has done his best to disseminate among dogs a belief in ghosts which tends to unfit them for the duties of their station . This is a direct injury to every dog-owner , and Mr. ROMANES should not be permitted to lead our dogs into evil ways with impunity.                     