@@781781

txt deleted 7 lines He has , however , had no pupils . The reason is very apparent to every advanced thinker who has the boldness to east off the wornout myths which have trammeled the mind of Christendom for so many centuries . There is no Chinese language , and , of course , the Harvard Chinaman , not being an eminent Bostonian philosopher , can not obtain pupils for the study of something that has no existence . That the majority of the people of Christian lands have long unhesitatingly believed in the existence of the Chinese language proves nothing . They believed , for a long time , in the truth of the so-called historical books ascribed to MOSES , and in the imaginative and graceful stories told by the writers of the four Gospels . Bishop COLENSO , and other theologians of the Rationalist school , have shown us that MOSES was a myth , and that the reputed writers of the four Gospels were either deceived or deceivers , and in either event are wholly unworthy of credit . It is as easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of the Chinese language as it was to demonstrate the mythical character of the legends upon which the Christian religion was founded , and as soon as this is done belief in Chinese will be as obsolete as belief in Christianity . The writers who support the theory of the existence of Chinese allege that it consists of two distinct languages , the written or literary language and the popular or spoken language  --  the latter being subdivided into many dialects , of which , at least two  --  the official or Mandarin dialect and one of the colloquial dialects  --  must be learned by every Chinaman . Chinese is further said to be a , monosyllabic language , having syllables instead of letters . These syllables entirely change their meaning according to the tone with which they are spoken or read . There are on an average four tones in each dialect and in the written language , and , of course , the Chinaman is necessarily compelled to learn at least the four tones of the official dialect and the four tones of his local dialect , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learns to read , the four tones of the literary language . Now , let us suppose that a Canton infant undertakes to learn Chinese . He must learn the Canton dialect , in which there ' are 1,582 syllables , including the modifications formed by the different tones . He must also learn the 1,774 syllables of the Mandarin dialect , and the 32,873 syllables of the written language . In all , he must learn 36,229 syllables , characters , or letters , as we may choose to term them . This monstrous story is its own refutation . No able-bodied English or American infant masters his alphabet before he reaches his sixth year . There may be here and there a rare exception , but , as a rule , it takes the infant of the Anglo-Saxon race five years to learn twenty-six letters . It would , therefore , require 1,393 years and some months for the Chinese infant to learn 36,229 letters . We may unhesitatingly affirm that 1,300 years is the very shortest time in which any Chinaman can learn to read , write , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this impossible language is spoken and read by millions of men and women whose average length of life is precisely that of Europeans and Americans . Indeed , it is actually pretended that Chinese children of 8 and 10 years of age are perfectly familiar with the imaginary language of the mythical CONFUCIUS . That intelligent men should have been imposed upon by so absurd a falsehood would be , incredible , did we not know that even the Trustees of Harvard College are firm believers in the existence of Chinese . When an alleged fact is demonstrated to be absolutely impossible , it is hardly worth while to refute in detail the pretended proofs of its existence which its advocates may bring forward . It may , however , be worth while to glance at the alleged evidence of the Chinese language said to be contained in its literature . We are told that this literature exists in the shape of teachests , though the clumsiness of such a literature is as evident as the clumsiness of the falsehood which assigns coherence and meaning to the arbitrary scrawls that decorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination of these scrawls will show that they are entirely devoid of meaning . Any small-boy with a brush and a pot of black paint can make unlimited additions to the so-called literature , even if he has never heard of China or the Chinese . More than this , if we take a common house-fly and dip him in an inkstand and then place him on a sheet of paper , he will immediately proceed to write in the purest tea-chest style what are probably profound treatises on Chinese grammar or the origin of the Chinese language . The impudence of the attempt to convince mankind that the tea-chest scrawls are the books of a great and learned nation has probably never been surpassed . The motive of the inventors of the Chinese language imposture is a matter of conjecture . Probably , they were weak enthusiasts who mistook their disordered dreams for realities , and firmly believed that there was such a language as the Chinese . The case of PAUL , commonly styled ST . PAUL , was a somewhat analogous one . There is , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , and really thought that his story of his conversion from Judaism on his way to Damascus was true , although science conclusively proves that it was not true . We know that a voice from heaven did not speak to PAUL , for the sufficient reason that no telescope gives the slightest evidence of the existence of heaven . PAUL mistook a fit of epilepsy for a miracle , and certain men , perhaps excited by too much green tea , mistookthe marks on tea-chests fora written language . We need not judge ' them harshly , but we can not easily overlook the persistence with which missionaries and other unprincipled men continued to foster the imposture . If any one wishes to know in what language Chinamen really converse , let him visit a Chinese laundry , where he will very soon find that what is vulgarly called pigeon English " is the genuine Chinese language . It is a simple language , entirely in deleted 6 lines                     