@@742737

txt It is said that a now revolution is impending in the United States of Colombia . The State of Panama has heretofore furnished the officers of the National Militia quartered on the isthmus . The national authorities have , by a quiet stroke , removed this control of tho forces into their own hands . It is well known in Central America that the possession of military power invariably implies the intention to use it . Contending factions in Panama used to fight for control of what was known as the " Battalion Santander . " Whoever had the support of this organization had the power to subvert the Government . It was not until the battalion was abolished that the country enjoyed more than one continuous month of peace . The " Colombian Guard , " as the National Militia is called , is the pivot on which the Government of the country revolves . The national authorities are intriguing to get possession of this body , with the purpose , it is alleged , of overthrowing the existing State Government . The State Government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Militia , in order to anticipate their own subjugation . This story is not strikingly novel . In one shape or another it has been often told . Mexico , Central America , and the upper tier of the South American States are continually in a condition of political disturbance . These disturbances arise , not so much from the excitable and mercurial temper of the people , as from the audacity and unscrupulousness of the leaders . The people , as a rule , do not care ' which side wins . There is a fusillade in - the plaza , or a volley at the cuartel , or barracks . The prudent citizen , hearing the din , puts up his shutters , retires into the recesses of his house , and when the visas of his ? neighbors tell him that victory has crowned the banners of somebody , he goes to his window to inquire as to what form Of government he is now living under , and who is at the head of affairs . The revolution has been accomplished by two or three partisans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tatterdemalions , whose regular pay is always in arrears , and whpse services may be secured by paying up their wages and giving them a full ration of the favorite tipple of the country . This sort of thing happens so often in the localities above indicated that it has become a stale joke to say that tho people of these States go to bed at night uncertain whether they shall wake up on the morrow in their own country or in some other man 's . The uneasy philanthropists of other lands have invented many schemes for the betterment of these unhappy regions . WALKER , the gray-eyed man of destiny ; proposed to conquer the Republic of Nicaragua , and give it  --  a , stable Anglo-Saxon Government , by way of example to the rest . ' NAPOLEON III . declared that only the Latin race could rescue Mexico and the Central American States from a condition of perpetual anarchy . Both of those experimenters were wrong , as history has shown . If they could have ' changed the climate of the disturbed ? region , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great DANIEL WEBSTER , making a speech in the interior of New-York , is reported to have said that no people ever lost their liberties who had a fall of water 150 feet high . He might have said , with equal truth and more impressiveness , that no people could keep their liberties if they lived in a climate where the mercury never went below 700 Fahrenheit . What has humanity to expect from a country which never uses blankets , and in which snow-shovels and parlor-grates are unknown ? What great thing for human freedom'has ever been done in that portion of the globe which lies between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn I Is it possible that ** would worry them- selves about their liberties , when the . thermometer marks 90 ? in the shade To come nearer home , it is evident that the opportunity for a foreign invasion of the United States , or for the traditional " man on horseback , " WaS let week , when the whole wide nation was fanning ; itself and " lying off in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heat as that then endured in this country were the characteristic of our climate from January to December . Under such conditions , wo aid thai renowned defender of our liberties , Gen. B : : 1JAMIN F. BUTLER , have spirit enough left in him to defy Great Britain and cast his oblique glances at the sinuous advances of that power I Would Senator BLAINE continuously bellow forth his indignation at the Fishery Award and the duplicity of the Belgian Minister , if he had to do it in a climate of eternal Midsummer ? Even Mr. POTTER 'S forlorn committee , engaged in ferreting out ( under difficulties ) " the greatest fraud of the century , " are compelled to go to Atlanta City , in order to keep up their virtue and patriotism to the sticking point . Suppose they had . no Atlantic City to floe to , and that our sea-shore was laved with the tepid waves which murmur on the beaches of San Salvador or the Mosquito Coast . Mr. POTTER 'S frigid determination would melt into an oleaginous , dew . In such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central American chieftain , could surprise the White House with the Marino Band , capture the Treasury Department , and ensconce himself in Mr. Haus ' best bedroom , as President of the United States . With a deluge of heat pouring down on the face of the Republic , who would care whether there were any President ? or any constitution ? or any politics I The nation would . hear the laws , roused from its uneasy nap , " i.ad , being thud flighted , swear a prayer or two , and sleep again . " The good old maxim of " put yourself in his place " should be remembered when we criticise the Central American who allows adventurers to change his Gel/eminent for him at irregular but frequent intervals , and who will not turn in his hammock to see whether he lives under a Dicator or a President .                     