@@781684

txt Yesterday we spoke in praise of Judge BRADY 's action in declining to reduce the bail of JOHN D. COUSE , a banker 's clerk , accused of embezzling $25,000 from LAWRENCE BROS. , his employers . Equal commendation should be extended to these gentlemen also , if , as is stated , they refused a proposition for a return of the amount embezzled , on condi-tion that the charge should not be pressed . With a degree of wisdom . and foresight which we regret is not more generally shared in the financial community , they replied that " they could better afford to lose the money than to allow the offense to go unpunished . " In this era of paltering collusions and compositions with dishonesty , when all the principles of commercial rectitude and social duty appear to be sacrificed to dollars and . cents , such au example is memorable and encouraging . We trust it may mark a new departure in the code of financial morality . If business and bank officers only recognized more forcibly the extent of their obligation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring to punishment offenses of this sort , they would less often sacrifice to selfish personal considerations the welfare of the mercantile community and the requirements of the law . It is a great temptation , of course , for a banker who has lost a large amount of money through the misconduct of a clerk to bo offered reimbursement as the price of the thief 's escape . But it ought to be distinctly understood that such a proceeding is little less criminal than the original theft . It is even worse , in so far as its consequences are more wide-reaching and injurious . It is a direct encouragement to dishonesty , and every such release of a defaulter and bond:robber makes a dozen others . It is often urged as an excuse for this compounding of felony  --  for it is nothing else ? that it is actuated by regard for the offender 's family , or his own Youth and previous good character . The clemency is a mistaken one , and the excuse can not be received . On the same pretext half the murderers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be turned loose to prey on the community . " Therefore , we deem it fitting that this action of LAWRENCE BitornEns should be recorded for praise and imitation . It is , indeed , rather a sad commentary upon the condition into which our commercial community has fallen , that men should be praised for doing a simple and obvious act of duty . But when duty is so persistently ignored and violated , its rare and exceptional observance acquires a value too great.to permit that it should go unnoted and unrecorded . Let all dishonest bank clerks be dealt with in the same manner , and we shall hear of fewer defalcations , and less of the fine , impalpable distinctions between stealing with a " respectable motive , " and stealing of the ordinary disreputable kind .                     