@@742608

txt In their eagerness to make a point against the Secretary of the Interior , two or three Senators have not only arrayed themselves on the side of the despoilers of the Government timber lands , but they have misstated and befogged the whole case . To read the arguments of these Senators , one would suppose that the only difference between them and Secretary Scnuaz was that the latter was oppressing a fow poor and lonely settlers by forbidding them to cut their firewood on the public lands , and that the former were championing the cause of the oppressed . By confining the discussion to a single and . immaterial branch of the subject , these Senators have contrived to give great importance to it , while the real difficulty is left in the background . It is improbable that any disinterested man will deny that the timber in the United States , on public and private lands , is rapidly disappearing . It would be contrary to the experience of the civilized:world if this were not the case . And it is also very well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not their own , they waste much timber in pursuit of what they really need . It has pissed into a proverb in some sections that a reckless poacher will fella pine tree to get wood enough for an axe-helve . But , in certain localities , the lumbering business is conducted exclusively on the public . lands . Large mills on the streams of Minnesota , Montana , Northern Michigan , the bays and estuaries of Florida , and on . some of the smaller rivers of Mississippi and Louisiana , are very busily sawing lumber from logs cut onthe public lands . It seems superfluous to recall these facts . Everybody at all familiar with the industries of the country knows them . Unless something is done to prevent this wholesale destruction of timber , the lands will be stripped of their noble growths ; there.will be a great outcry that a timber famine is upon us ; prices of lumber will be much , enhanced , and , worse than all , droughts will infallibly be common in the region which is thus denuded . To prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered the collection of stumpage duos ; and long before the Senate was graced . with the noble presence of the Senator from Maine , successive Secretaries , of the Interior sent out instructions to the Land gents throughout the country to assist in enforcing these regulations . United States District Attorneys were also instructed to prosecute persons found trespassing upon the timber lands . Stumpage was collected and paid into the hands ? of the land officers of the United States , and suits were instituted against timber thieves , years ago . And when Senators assume and charge that the present proceedings against this class of trespassers are a novel invention of the present Secretary of the Interior , they show an amazing ignorance of the usages of their own country , or an amazing disregard of its history . The collection of a tai on logs taken from the public domain is lawfully imposed . It is an easy and liberal provision for the settler . And legal proceedings against men who steal timber from the lands belonging to the Government are just as legitimate as similar proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals . The present discussion was opened by a proposition to remove the place of sitting of the United States Court for the Southeen District of Mississippi to a timber camp . This proposition was notoriously made in the interests of persons who were to be tried in that court on charges of depredating on the public lands . Tho President very properly vetoed the bill , which had been passed by one branch of Congress in the face of an adverse report from its own Judiciary Committee . Now , instead of discussing the merits of that bill , instead of endeavoring to find sonic means for the protection of timber lands , two or three Senators attack the Secretary of the Interior ' because certain lonely settlers in Montana , " who go forward and bear the flag , " as Senator BLAINE eloquently remarks , freeze to death for want of free firewood . This is a deliberate attempt to pettifog the whole case . It is small business to raise a tremendous hue and cry about the firewood of Montana settlers when the question of stripping Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to shriek about the oppression of drain-sellers in Maine , while the Senate was called upon to devise measures to stop illicit distilling in West Virginia , we should be justified in believing that his real sympathies were with the outlaws of West Virginia . We do not , however , pretend that the Senators who make this prodigious clatter about the Montana settlers care a rush for the " pioneers who go forward and bear the flag . " These hardy sons of toil are , in theatrical parlance , merely incidental to the piece . The real point of attack is the Secretary of the Interior , to injure whom some of these hot-headed and thoughtless Senators would willingly side with law-breakers . To gratify their grudge against a public officer who is honestly doing his whole duty , selfish Senators forget their own duty as law-makers . It is a pitiful exhibition of personal spite when Congressmen , in then. , haste to make a case against a public officer , deliberately pervert facts and conceal the real issue in a matter of considerable national importance . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the timber question . The debate in which Senator BLAINE took a leading part . during the past few days is highly discreditable to the Congress of the United States .                     