@@741288

txt The representatives of the Associated Banks met yesterday morning at the Merchants ' Bank , No. 42 Wall street , and discussed the communication of the 24th instant from the Governing Committee of the New-York Stock Exchange . In reply to that communication the following report was submitted and unanimously adopted : To Messrs . . Baylis , King , Cutting , Chapman , and Garland , Committee of the New-York Stock Exchange : GENTLEMEN : At a meeting of the Associated Banks , held this morning at the Merchants ' Bank , at 11 o'clock , the following resolutions were presented , approved and adopted : 212 the Associated Banks , New-York City : The Committee to whom Was referred the communication addressed to the New-York Clearing House Committee from the New-York Stock Exchange , dated 24th instant , beg leave to report . The gravity of the subject , and the high respectability and intelligence of Messrs . Baylis , King , Cutting , Chapman and Garland , who compose that Committee , demand from the Committee of the Associated Banks a careful consideration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first part of the communication is devoted to devising the means of making payments by certified checks on banks , instead of greenbacks . The action of the Clearing-house on the very day the communication was received from the Stock Exchange provided for all that which the suggestions of the Stock Exchange Committee aimed to provide . It is obvious , therefore , that further comment on that point is unnecessary . - The Stock Exchange Committee suggest a plan for the adoption of the associated banks in the following terms , viz. : " The true plan in the present emergency is , that those banks who were content to make clearances with each other should , to the extent of their associated capital , guarantee the payment of checks certified by the banks allowed to enter into the Clearing-house . " To your Committee this seems impracticable , the banks ( whose certification would be most desirable to all who deal with banks , merchants , brokers , and others ) could not be expected to voluntarily guarantee the payment of checks of each and every bank without reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control over the action of tellers , who might carelessly or corruptly certify to millions more than the customers could respond to ; particularly when the associated banks , not having it within their power to foresee such action , could never have security in hand to indemnify them for such gratuitous hazard of their stockholders ' funds . One of the safeguards set forth is , " That the bank clearings be made an hour earlier than at present . " This will shut out all the receipts from the morning mails which are now included in the exchanges , and it is not likely the banks will consent to that delay in the collection of remittances . Indeed , it is far from certain that in law they would be justified in making such a change . The Committee say , also , that they would possibly have to request the banks to remain open until 3:30 o'clock if they change the hour of delivering stocks , in order to find out results of the clearings the previous day . The gentlemen can not fail to see that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in affairs which have been running in grooves so long ; especially as many of the banks have little or no connection with the operations of the Stock Exchange , could not see why their business should be varied from the regular course from such a cause . The Associated Banks are further requested to adopt a resolution that they will not for ten days after the reopening of the Stock Exchange call in any loans to brokers which are sufficiently secured ; but on the contrary will make new loans upon approved collateraL It seems to the Bank Committee that the New-York Stock Exchange Committee could hardly have reflected on the the full import of this request . The banks in their present condition are asked to make loans to the extent of their ability and to forbear calling on those who are indebted to them . Your Committee are quite sure that this proposition requires no comment , and they have only to add that with the heartiest wishes to work in harmony with the New-York Stock Exchange , whose action in closing the Exchange and keeping it closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say that the suggestions and modes of relief proposed seem to your Committee to look too exclusively to the convenience and safety of the Stock Exchange without apparently comprehending the extent of the dangers and inconveniences to which a compliance would involve the Associated Banks , in all probability .                     