@@743086

txt Every now and then there ' is brought to light in some great city the traces of some dark deed which furnish the fancy with a clue which leads into a realm of dismal and unknown tragedy . These traces may be studied and followed up until a clumsilyconcealed crime is unearthed , but if they had never been found or the crime had been skillfully hidden , the deed might have remained forever in the dark . How many may remain undiscovered the registers of man will never tell . A short time ago the half-decomposed body , of a young woman ' floated to the surface of the Seine , with a rope around the neck . The rope had been broken , and exploration of the river bed revealed the . rest of it attached ? to a heavy stone . Further investigation estabished the identity of the woman as one who , two months before , had gone to Paris from Belgium and disappeared from mortal view . By what hand or under what circumstances she came to her fate is still unknown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been made for her after she was swallowed up in the abyss of Paris life , and if the rope had not given way before the buoyant parts of the body were wholly gone , or if the re- ' mains had been kept down in the muddy ooze of the river bed by some superimposed weight , the curiosity of the world might never have ' been excited ; and if friends in after-time had made inquiry , it would have been vague and hopeless . How often may the supposed case be a reality ? Mysterious crimes are continually coming to light . Often the mystery is unsolved ; the sad conundrum is given up . Who knows in how many cases the mystery is never brought to the . knowledge of the heedless world at all ? It is now but a few weeks since a - man " putting in coal " in the basement of a London house , in which lodgings were let , was startled by a human foot protruding from a heap of rubbish which he was shoveling out of the way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition , and must have been lying there undetected for more than a year . This was the beginning of the Euston-square mystery . Of course , investigation then set to work , but had the body been buried with quick-lime below the surface in the cellar , it might have lain there unquestioned till the last trump . The eccentric habit of the deceased , , : a - woman of sixty , in dressing like . a girl of eighteen , andbedizening herself with cheap jewelry , led to her identification as Miss MATILDA HACKER , formerly of Canterbury , ' and suspicion was directed to her sole companion in the Easton-square house , a servant named HANNAH DOBBS , as the author of her mysterious death . ' The latter has been arraigned for the murder of her mistress . But the most suggestive feature of the mystery is that Miss HACKER was a person of marked peculiarities , well known by sight in the vicinity , and with many acquaintances in Canterbury , was possessed of some property in that town , and had been very exacting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been seen or heard of her for many months , and the letters of her agent had been returned through the Deadletter Office , no one appears to have made any exertion to discover her whereabouts . The agent had abandoned his functions as unremunerative , the tenants were living rent free , and the many people who had known Miss HACKER merely indulged in a passing wonder as to what had become of her . Had the criminal been an adept in the business , instead of a bungling servantgirl , and skillful in the art of concealment , the wonder would have died out ; Miss HACKER would have been simply given up as dead , and her property would doubtless have passed by proper formalities into other hands . When the ghastly discovery in Eastonsquare was made , KATHERINE WEBSTER , another servant , had just been committed , or was about to be committed , in London for trial for the murder of her mistress , Mrs. THOMAS . This ease , too , had begun in a mystery , and was known as the mysterious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a box which was found to contain the mutilated remains of a woman , afterward identified . But before it set investigation on foot , nobody had deemed it worth while to inquire why Mrs. THOMAS had not been seen about her residence for several days . Hor servant made purchases in her name , and even sold out her furniture and departed for Ireland , and yet no one troubled himself about the affair . It may be that KATHERINE WEBSTER might have gone her ways and enjoyed , so far as under the circumstances she could enjoy , the small amount of Mrs. THOMAS 'S property , and the mistress might have passed out of mind as well as out of sight but for the tell-tale box which the Thames refused to retain , with its guilty secret . As it was , the identity of the dead was established and the long arm of the law brought back the living culprit . She told a somewhat plausible story calculated to implicate others , but a tedious preliminary examination resulted in the discharge of those upon whom she tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a regular trial . These are samples of city mysteries which accident , rather than the solicitude of man for the fate of his fellows , has brought to light , so as to set the machinery of legal investigation in motion . Other cases ' nearer home may be easily recalled , some of them never cleared up , and never to be , by the tribunals of man . And still the persistent suggestion comes  --  how many tragedies may be enacted , and buried out of sight , in the social solitudes that abound in great cities , while no human being has motive strong enough to set inquiry going . If such a terrible and exciting mystery as the robbery of a rich man 's grave may be a nine days ' wonder and pass out of mind , how easy for deeds which no one will care to investigate to be perpetrated and sink unnoticed into the limbo of unexplored iniquity !                     