@@742427

txt Heavy defalcations in the Democratic counties , and the disclosures of official rottenness connected with them have awakened the people to the importance of reform in local government . The number of counties in Ohio that are controlled by corrupt rings is something startling for the tax-payer to contemplate . A recent examination of the records of the State Auditor 's office disclosed the fact that official crookedness of some kind or another prevailed in 21 counties . Seventeen of these are Democratic counties and four Republican . Compared with the stealing of these county rings , and the general evil of local misgovernment , State taxes , silver remonetization , and even the Governorship , are coming to be regarded as questions of small moment . The comparatively clean record of the Republican Party in this direction can not fail to be of great assistance to it when the people become fully aroused to the magnitude of the evil . Another thing that has helped the Republicans perceptibly is the tour of President Hayes in the South . It has effectually silenced the murmurs of discontent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Beatty sounds the alarm , and scatters abroad his letters from outraged Republicans . The people are squarely at the back of the President in his effort toward reconciliation with the South . Ohio is a border State , and her business interests are to a considerable extent bound up in the prosperity of the South . Cincinnati has raised 110,000,000 and built a railroad through the States of Kentucky and Tennessee to the heart of the South . No closer tie between the two sections could be formed . Peace and good feeling south of the Ohio means prosperity to the merchants and business men of the cities immediately north of the Ohio , and anything that tends to keep alive the old animosities is looked upon with increasing disfavor . Every expression of cordiality toward President Hayes and of loyalty to the Government that has come up from the Southern States in the progress of the President 's tour has added scores of votes to the Republican side . In Hamilton County , which is generally regarded as the key of the contest , the situation could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in progress in the ranks of the Democracy , and threats and diplomacy have been employed in vain to subdue it . The leading candidates on the local ticket procured their nominations by means so shamefully corrupt that the better element of the party is disgusted . The Gennans , who compose one-third of the voting population , are generally pleased with the course of Hayes , and with the nomination of one of their number for the second place on the State ticket . The Know-nothing record of Bishop , the Democratic candidate for Governor , is , moreover , distasteful to them . The indications are , therefore , that they will go strongly for West , and turn the balance in the county . The Working Men 's movement is not exciting the attention that it did a few weeks since . It has dwindled rapidly under the manipulations of the regular party managers . The Democrats are endeavoring to regulate it so as to contribute to their advantage by buying it off in strong Democratic counties and helping it along in strong Republican counties . Sans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's and Greenback tickets in the State will be 40.000 , but ' this gentleman 's calculations have ceased to have weight in Ohio . One thing is certain : The labor movement will draw from the Democrats as largely as from the Republicans , in spite of all manipulations . Another thing that can not fail to operate to the disadvantage of the Democrats is the universal neglect of voters to register on the day 's specified last week . The class most largely affected by the law are the laboring men in the cities , who are three-fourths Democrats . The Republicans , looking ever the field this morning , have every reason for confidence .                     