@@781833

txt The victory of honesty over corruption , which has just been achieved in New-Jersey , should be esteemed a valuable lesson by the Republicans of that State . During several years past , all their failures have been attributable to lack of foresight and extreme laziness . The men who were looked up to as leaders have endeavored , by every means in their power , to shirk responsibility . The immediate effect of such a course was to give an opportunity for advancement to men - who could afford to spend a trifle of money for the furtherance of ambitious schemes . The masses of the people , very properly , were disgusted , and although Republican at heart  --  as has now been shown went with the side that gave evidence of life and . vigor , if not of purity . The contest for Governor in 1871 was a sufficient illustration of what lukewarmness and want of principle can do . The Democrats knew that they had nothing to put into the scales but the personal popularity of a man whose character was above reproach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success , and they attained it . On the other hand , the Republicans t3ok for their candidate a man who , although he had gained wealth by hard industry , was , in many respects , objectionable . The working classes , whether rightly or wrongly , imagined that he had . not been a good employer , and , as a consequence , believed that he would not , if elected , be a just Governor . The Democrats made the most of this feeling by the circulation of slanders of the very vilest nature . Indeed , to such an extent were these tactics employed , that Mr. WALsa 's defeat became a rout , . and gave to the Democracy a new lease of life . The minor offices , it is true , were to some extent filled by Republicans , but the prestige of the party was destroyed , and the spirit , poor as it was , which had . heretofore sustained it was utterly crushed . To this cause alone we have'been indebted for the " soreheadism " that brought into national prominence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope to the " Liberal-Democratic " coalition down to the last hour of the struggle . COCHRANE , ALLEN &; Co. little knew the kind of material of which Jersey politicians are composed . and , having based their calcutions upon the success of JOEL PARKER in 1871 , and the desertions from the Republican Party that followed , thought they saw a clear road to victory for Mr. GREELEY . It is but right to say that much of the time of the campaign was consumed in the effort of Democrats to saddle all the work upon the " sorehead " Republicans . How far they succeeded in this game is shown by the result . The loyal Republicans , as they can now see , have reason to rejoice that those whose exertions had mainly conduced to their defeat in former elections , had gone out from their ranks , leaving them to fight their own battle . The contaminating influence of these traitors swept like an epidemic through the camps of the enemy , and made the Republicans proper a unit of strength . In the future , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be animated by the vigor which has characterized their actions during the past few weeks . They must keep clear of the rocks upon which they have so often drifted ; they must have nothing to do with " bargains " or " sales " ; and above all things , they must see to it that for local as well as State offices , none but the best men are put forward . By a strict adherence to this course , a Republican can be elected to succeed JOEL PARKER , and a long lease of honest government insured .                     