@@781805

txt That men are but children of a larger growth would seem to be borne out by their fondness for pictures . Children learn to read . by the ah of p ettu es , and men are induced at present to read by the same agency . There are those who can scarcely be brought to look at a book which is not illustrated . Illustration is so much a part of book-making in these days that publishers avail themselves of it to the utmost . Not only are novels , accounts of travel , and all light works illustrated , but also books of reference , like dictionaries , eyelopredias , and gazetteers . Popularity is identified with illustration , without which almost any work designed for the many , whatever its value , runs serious risk of failure . Good wood engravings  --  and many of them are excellent , for we have improved vastly in this art in the United States  --  add greatly to the interest of printed matter for the majority of readers , The comparatively few indifferent to them can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the average taste , and find their profit in so doing . But illustration may be carried too far , as it frequently is now , being employed in many instances to relieve letter-press of a very poor character . Not seldom a cheap publisher , knowing the attractiveness of pictures , puts worthless books upon the market , copiously illustrated , as he announces , and effects a large sale by such means . The poor pictures help the poor letter-press , and a combination of poverty produces , paradoxically , a certain kind of richness for him . It is not pictures of fidelity or artiatie merit which the general public wants so much as pictures of some kind . Give it these in suf-ficient quantity , and it is content to accept whatever may accompany them . Their original purpose  --  to elucidate and embellish the text  --  has been entirely departed from , the text having been made subsidiary to them , when they should he subsidiary to it . Hence it happens that many persons have become prejudiced against illustrated works , believing that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they dismiss their prejudice until they have critically examined the letter-press and found it up to their standard . Some of the subscription publishers ( the difference between the subscription and the regular trade is that in the latter people buy books who want them , and n the former people buy who do not want them , ) are so reckless in their manner of illustration as to be comical . Their patrons being amongthe multitude , mainly in the small towns , vil-lages , and agricultural regions , prefer pictures to anything elso , and will have them . A subscription firm never thinks of getting out a work without illustrations , and as sub-scription firms are often more practical than conscientious , and , moreover , have little surplus capital , they are prone to introduce pictures irrespective of exactness or merit . Their customers not being fastidious , nor of an inquiring mind , receive what is offered without hesitation or skepticism , holding that a picture is a picture , and that the worst or falsest one is better than none . Not long ago a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Wanting a representation of one of the giant cedars on Mount Lebanon , and not having any n cedars on hand , it substituted therefor o . Charter Oak at Hartford , and the trick es-caped detection . On another occasion , it is said , that in an illustrated volume of the theological order an old cut of the Matter-horn was compelled to do duty for Mount Ararat , and an Erie Canal-boat , with some alterations , was put forward as a fac-simile of NOAH 'S Ark . There has been no end to the pictorial deception put off upon pious folk , who have received it in a reverent , and therefore an unquestioning , spirit . Cuts of common New-England gardens have been paraded in place of Gethsemane , and Mount Holyoke in place of the Mount of Olives . Ancient blocks used in school geographies are reputed to have rendered service in de-picting Biblical scenes to which they had not the remotest allusion . Thus the noted Ruins of Palmyra , familiar to every child of the past generation , has gone into books as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heaven , according to the Scriptural account , and became the Buried Cities of the Plain . Sacred history is in this manner belied , because nothing like a description of those cities has ever been given , nor has any trace of them been discovered by curious arehteologists . Some subscription publishers of the un-regenerate kind are understood to have taken unwarranted liberties with their fel-low-countrymen . Two or three years since a publishing-house issued a trashy , sensa-tional volume , claiming to be the lives of notorious criminals during the last half century . Any blanks in the careers of the culprits were filled up with imaginary hor-rors , and all their misdeeds were grossly ex-aggerated , in order to present the lovers of such refined and ennobling literature with the most highly-spiced morsels . When the manuscript was finished and the proper il-lustrations were looked for , it was found that only a certain number of the scoun-drels ' likenesses were obtainable . The question was to supply their places with assumed portraits that would not betray the cheat . After considerable search , an old volume , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a bygone day , with portraits , was opportunely discovered . These were coarse wood-cuts , and so wretch-edly done that it seemed to the publisher that they would pass current for villains of ' the deepest dye . The work was issued , and as it was extensively advertised as a moral publication  --  to warn the young from the be : ginning of vice , and so forth  --  it fell into the hands of many orthodox people , who had no difficulty in reading the characters of the rascals by ' their utterly depraved countenances . Before long some of the readers detected the likeness between the criminals and certain aged preachers still lingering on this earthly stage . Discovery after discovery was made , and finally the whole fraud was revealed ; but the exposure , it is asserted , only increased the sale of the noxious book . This and the other instances cited are ex-treme eases , it must be admitted ; but they show the rage for illustration , and how the public confidence is liable ? be abused . Peer or unfaithful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alike to false taste and vulgar curiosity . The passion for illustra-tions merely as such , and as exhibited in ninny books , periodicals , and newspapers , is unfortunate and unwholesome , and needs curbing . The correction is coming from honest illustrations of a superior order , but coming much more slowly than might be wished .                     