@@781851

txt The manner in which marriage is regarded by other than the contracting parties , depends very much on the number . of times that it has been perpetrated . Although nothing is more entirely and exclusively one 's own affair than marriage , it is usually the thing about which.one 's acquaintances and neighbors Ousy themselves most . In fact , no man or woman , whatever his or her reputation for sound judgment and discretion , is supposed to be quite capable of determining who he or she ought to wed . This important question , mainly concerning themselves alone , should be left , according to public opinion , to a self-elected sanhedrim of promiscuous councilors , who , however foolish or reckless they may have been respecting their own marriage , are presumed to be particularly sagacious as to the marriage of others . Indeed , the circumstance of their own matrimonial failure is thought to empower , if not to authorize , them to direct their friends in the right course . They have learned wisdom by experience ; they can tell their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just what to ' avoid . Having suffered disastrous defeat , they are enabled to win any number of vicarious victories . First marriages , when there is no strong objection to them , are apt to be looked on without any special prejudice , and the announcement of their early occurrence is commonly a welcome bit of intelligence . Our relatives , our friends , our enemies , particularly our enemies , accept our approaching doom with complacency , if not with undisguised approval . They may have , they are very likely to have , their criticisms , their sarcasms , and their jests ; nevertheless , they are prone to be resigned to our happiness or unhappiness , as the result may prove . On the whole , wo get off easy . Earring a vast amount of miscellaneous , unsought , and often impertinent advice , we are graciously permitted to obey our proper inclinations with very little hindrance . Second marriages are different . They encounter mere friction , more Opposition , snore misunderstanding thin the first ; the general impression seeming to be thot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repetition . A number of people who appear to think a first ' marriage natural anti commendable , consider a second marriage unnatural and , in some sort , reprehensible . They say that neither man nor woman has a right to connubial iteration , though why he or she should not have it they never make quite clear .. The cause of their bias is really sentimental . They have extremely romantic notions , wholly unwarranted by experience , reason , or knowledge of human nature , and one of their notions Is that well-regulated persons love only once , and that any assumption of another love is hollow , the passion counterfeit , the object unworthy . They are fmmcious Monogamists , and , being such , hare no sympathy with widows or widowers . When they are told that the heart is never so likely to form a new attachment as when it is suffering from the memory of an old one , they stout the sentiment , call it covert cynicism , and pronounce it a shallow pretext for disloyalty .. They will not be reconciled . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentimental theories shall be answered , albeit these ' are baseless and utterly fantastic . ? And when persons enter , for any reason , upon a third matrimonial venture , they are , in a certain sense , outlawed . It is ordinarily held that there can not be any justification for such excess of conjugal enterprises , and that the execution of it borders upon guilt . Even those who have been thrice wedded are by no means certain tope patient or tolerant of third marriages in external instances . There were peculiar circumstances in their cam  --  of course there were  --  which rendered their tertiary commission of wedlock entirely excusable ; and such a combination of circumstances could hardly have happened again . It may possibly ; but they have never heard of it . and ? must beg leave to doubt it . People who advocate second marriage. ; with energy and fervor rarely admit the propriety of third-marriages . Three times , they assee-erate , is just one time too often . They would define man as an animal who inclines to matrimony , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed to the established order of things , that has the hardihood and effrontery to be thrice , married , The most unfortunate thing , how , ever , for the thrice married is the endless ridicule to which it exposes them . They may endure any degree of misrepresentation , slander , orobjurgation , but laughter overwhelms them , and disturbs the stoutest equanimity . No man or woman , whatever virtue or position they may have , can afford to . be ridiculous , and ridiculous they are certain to be after a triple alliance . Any one will speak soberly of a man who has had two wives , anti refer with dignity and decorum to the first or the second , as occasion may require . But let lido take a third at his imminent pull ! After ho has done so he is no longer referred to respeAtully or seriously . Tile mere ) nent ion of his name in connection with marriage causes men invent and provokes sareasin . He is called a polygamist , the gentleman imp . ' Utah , the husband of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the American illohantinedan . His wife is spoken of as one of his wives , and the question is asked whether she is the eighth or ninth ' I The much-married man is one of the phrases applied to him , and ail sorts of jokes , old and new , are fastened upon him . Ii he be seen paying any attention to a It dy , he is accused of arranging for another marriage in the event of accident . It ie asserted ; hat he keeps a relay of possible wives on hand , always having four or five in view ; that the oily two certainties to him are death and continued connubiality . He is accused of having made a contract with marble-cutters to supply monuments Wholesale , and tohave purchased a private cemetery for his domestic accommodation . This is . all unjust , and ' cheap , coarse , and somewhat cruel . But folks will be perpetually jocose over third marriages , and can not be hindered from indulging in their propensity . Perhaps men show their highest appreciation of what has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but the public will never take such view . Wo may marry once with sympathy and applause ; twice with a moderate amount of opposition and criticism ; but we can not undertake cooperativehousekeeping a third time without paying in annoyance and misunderstanding what amounts to a large discount upon the happiness so courageously purchased .                     