@@781814

txt The Civil Damage Liquor bill , passed by the retiring Legislature , almost as its last official act , is likely , if properly enforced , to do good . As our readers doubtless know , it makes the liquor-seller liable in damages to any person injured by the drunkard whom his liquor has intoxicated . Under it the wife of a drunken husband may have even so intangible  --  an injury as her domestic unhappiness , estimated and paid for in substantial figures ; or the sufferer , whom some " son of Belial , flown with insolence and wme " has jocosely knocked down and stamped on , or in his own figurative language , presented with a superfluous head , may recover from the purveyor of the vinous frenzy a comfortable salve of dollars and cents . It is to be feared , perhaps , that hard-headed persons of a speculative turn , may be tempted under the new law purposely to put themselves in the way of warlike sons of Belial , for the sake of the prospective damages . Or on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their bibulous spouses to frequent the tavern so as to secure a cause of action as against its unwary keeper . In this way , with a little care and prudence quite a comfortable little income might be realized , and a well-trained husband might speedily drink his family into a position of comparative affluence . There is a sort of poetical justice in thus converting the destroyer of domestic peace into the mainstay of domestic comfort . Our temperance morality will probably wink at a stratagem - which tends to lessen the resources and the numbers of the enemy . But there is another effect of the which the Legislature could scarcely have had in contemplation , and which may sadly disturb some old-fashioned ideas of hospitality . In States where the principle of this enactment has been adopted , the liquorsellers have sought to evade its penalties by the same device which an ingenious Vicksburg showman adopted to exclude his colored patrons without infringing the provisions of the Civil Rights bill . He issued only complimentary tickets , which were given away with the understanding that each recipient , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the expenses of the entertainment . So the rum-sellers gave away their cocktails , and accepted : slight pecuniary acknowledgments  --  testimonisls , as Mr. Dorrit would say  --  from their grateful customers . To meet this crafty manoeuvre , the New-York bill recites that " any person injured " ' by any intoxicated person , or iii consequence of the intoxication , habitual or otherwise , of any person , shall have a right of action ? * * against the person who , by selling or giving away intoxicating liquors , caused the intoxication , in whole or in part , of such person , " That is the law . Under a strict construction of it what is to save a gentleman at whose dinner-table a guest has taken a glass too much , and amused himself by breaking a show-ease or his own neck on the way home from being sued for damages by " the persons " injured in consequence of this intoxication I He has clearly gives . away liquor which has caused intoxication in whole or in part , ( our convivial guest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's table enough to start him , to put him the humor for more , ) and this intoxication has resulted in injury to others . It is difficult to see what legal quibble can relieve our host from the penalties inflicted by this bill . such a construction should be insisted a " little dinners " and " jolly suppers " w speedily lose their charm , at least for tl givers , or else be converted into the mo uncompromismg cold-water banquets . Who Amphitryon finds that every exhibition his hospitality is followed by one or ma summonses for relief , when half a dozen litt bills for damages are handed in with Vichy or soda in the morning , he will begi to think that hospitality may have its dram backs , and to believe with Pindar , wh however , preached much better than I practiced , that " water is best . "                     