@@741579

txt The time that has been devoted to a discussion of the question whether German should be taught in the public schools might with as much advantage have been given to subjects that arc of real practical moment . Among these , drawing is by no means the least important . The old idea that drawing should be regarded as an accomplishmentis a mistake . In a time when industries of all kinds are general , and when competition is sharp , it is a necessity . The branches of manufacture where success depends upon design , or upon the skill of a draughtsman , are very numerous . In all these a man who can not draw , or who has no artistic taste more or less educated , can never hope to attain the highest place in his trade , and consequently he can not expect to receive the best wages . Thus , for the sake of a deficiency which ought to have been made good in his boyhood , he is forced to occupy an inferior place in his business for the remainder of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age . The rudiments , at any rate , should be taught in youth . Mr. RUSKIN has said that all art is either infection or education . Although the word " infection " may be open to criticism , there is mach truth in the general nature of the observation . There have been great painters and sculptors who belonged to . the Anglo-Saxon and Teutonic nations , but , as a rule , the people of these allied races have shown greater aptitude for science , and art has been left to be excelled in chiefly by nations of Latin affiuities . In those branches of it which . although esteemed inferior , are of the most practical value , this has been made very clear . The International Exhibition of 1851 showed that the essentially manufacturing and commercial nations were then far behind others in design . It was the one weak point of British manufactures , and it existed wherever art became an essential element in the perfection of any object , from textile fabrics , glass , or metal-ware , down to the commonest wall-paper . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and there are now nearly three hundred thousand . students in the schools of design which have been established in that coon try since the lesson taught by the first exhibition . If there had existed . a sound public-school system for fifty years before . and due attention had . been given ? to the study of drawing , and to the artistic training ' of the minds of the children , it is not likely that such a ! defect would have been observed , or it certainly would have been less marked . In this country the same necessity exists . It is of no use concealing the fact that very much of the finer artistic work produced here in manufactured goods has been done by foreigners . Even in architecture we can boast of very little that is really good , while we have very much that is execrably bad . The truth is that the public taste needs educating and training , and for all practical purposes the place where that must be begun is assuredly the public schools . A curious exemplification of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Detroit . There a committee of the Board of Education was appointed to consider the expediency of teaching drawing in the schools of that city . That committee sent in two reports . The majority recommended . that drawing should be discontinued by all schools below the high schools , while the other advocated its introduction into all classes , including the primary classes . The minority consisted of but one person , Mr. J. T. LIGGETT . But when the subject was brought before the full board , the minority report was adopted by a majority of 15 to 5 , and Detroit consequently continues to educate its youth in drawing . We should like to see a similar resolution come to in all parts of the ? United States wherever it can be acted upon . Most of the children iu our schools are destined to follow some occupation where it would be useful , and . many of them , perhaps the majority , at any rate of the boys , may be called . upon to do work where , to attain the highest efficiency , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid to the industrial progress of the nation , being a means which will enable us to rival foreign manufacturers , in design as well as in mechanical skill . But even where it is not put thus to a practical use , it tends to train the mind to a better appreciation of art . It promotes that higher culture which refuses to sanction anything that ie not good . in the widest sense of the word . And if it can accomplish that , its power as an agent in improving the moral tone of a nation will not be denied .                     