@@741584

txt The Senate Committee on the Judiciary on the 1st inst. made the . following report The petition of the citizens of De Soto County , ' MUM , asks the return of the tax on cotton for the years 1865 to 1S69 inclusive , on the grounds that the . tax was nujust and oppressive , and because it was unconstitutional . The Government of the United States has been obliged to raise a large amount by taxation to defray the expenses of the recent war . The properties and industries at the North have been heavily taxed , and , as cotton constitutes the principal wealth of the South , the committee see no reason why a tax upon it should be considered unjust or oppressive . The cotton tax has been claimed to he unconstitutional for the following reasons : First  --  Decanse it is equivalent to a direct tax , and is not laid according to population . When the Constitution was framed the larger States were careful to provide that direct tax should be according to population , for fear that a .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unequal burdens on them . Hence the Constitution , ( article 1 . section 2 , ) provides that direct taxes shall bo apportioned among the several States according to an enumeration made every ten 3 ears . But the cotton tax is not a direct , or a land tax , it is a tax on the productions of lax/tin is an excise on cotton savored from the land in the bale and by the pound . Second  --  The tax is claimed to be unconstitutional , because it is not uniform . The eighth section of article l provides that all excises shall be uniform throughout the United States . This tax is uniform . It is the same whether the cotton be in Maine or in Louisiana . The fact that cotton is grown at the South , and not in the North , creates no want of uniformity , any more than the fact that manufactories are found at the North more than at the South renders a tax on the products of the Northern mechanic partial and local . Any one can raise cotton , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its production . The excise is uniform . It is said the tax is unconstitutional because it is a tax on exports . The ninth section of article 1 . provides that " No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State . " The fact that any article may he or is largely exported does not make the article an " exported article . " This is simply a tax on cotton . The object of the Constit ration was to prohibit a tax on exportation , and this tax is not that . The committee therefore recommend that the petition be not allowed .                     