@@742329

txt A group of Western business men have visited the South , journeying without cost to themselves from city to city , and being everywhere hospitably entertained . Their speeches now and then partook of boasting , and under the influence of wine the South was occasionally reminded of its inferiority . Its natural advantages were conceded , and the desirableness of establishing close trade relations between the two sections was affirmed in gushing rhetoric ; but a patronizing air ran through the oratory , and the achievements of the West were held up to the admiration of the less energetic Southerners . Like courteous hosts , the latter submitted to the braggadocio with a good grace . Some of their newspapers , however , have resented the invidious comparison , and with more point than poetry have challenged the pretension to superiority . " The West , " they say , " has undoubtedly grown wondrous great , but how much of the growth is duo to borrowed money ? It is apparently prosperous , " ' they admit , but the inquiry follows , . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ou the spot and how much is free from mortgage f ' ' Stress is laid upon the fact that the chief city of Indiana has recently allowed a largo amount of its official paper to go to protest , and that the recklessness with which other Western municipalities have assumed large liabilities affords au assurance that the disgrace will not be confined to Indianapolis . The delinquent tax list of Chicago  --  filling mote than 200 pages of one of the local newspapers  --  is singled out as an illustration of the burdens fastened upon property and of the indifference manifested by its reputed owners to the equitable rights of mortgagees . " Is there a foot of ground in Chicago not covered by a mortgage ? " a Georgia editor asks by way of climax ; and assuming that the answer must be in the negative , he thanks Heaven that the South is not responsible for Chicago or its debts . There is too much grim truth iu these taunts and counter-taunts to make them palatable to the people concerned . It is easy to understand the mixture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South contrast its railroads , its towns and villages , its farms and Stock , its hotels and stores , its standards of comfort and well-doing , with the condition of things to which they are accustomed . They find it behind the age in almost everything , and they may be pardoned if their home pride obtain expre6siou in the exaggerated forms of Western speech . Their energy and enterprise have accomplished so much that they can not refrain from urging upon Their Southern brethren the cultivation of the same qualities . They feel that what the West is the South may be  --  and will be whenever its people rid themselves of the proscriptive spirit which is their greatest bane , and apply to their material interests the zeal and force which they have hitherto expended upon politics . Sectional jealousy has no place in these half reproachful allusions to the position of the South . Tho sooner it begins to improve , and the greater the prosperity it acquires , the bettor for the West . On the other hand , the South is right in the opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be , and that , judging of the relative condition of the two peoples by their respective amounts of individual indebtedness , the odds are in favor of the Southerners . Their houses and lands are worth much less than property similarly situated in the West , but , they are also less heavily laden with debt . Their merchants ' stocks are scanty , but they are paid for . Their people are poor , but , nobody having been willing to trust them , they have learned some valuable lessons in the school of adversity . Altogether , they have ground for the belief that their chance is good in the race of the deleted one line development of qualities which have not yet taken deep root in the greater part of the South , but  --  other conditions being equal  --  it is not wholly unreasonable . The distrust with which the Southern people have been regarded in the matter of money may prove not to be a calamity , after all . Certainly the Western people have no particular reason to rejoice over the facility with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the security of their houses and farms . The cheapness of money in the Atlantic cities and the dearness of really good securities have jointly contributed to the investment of enormous amounts in mortgages on Western property . Lacking faith in the bonds and shares of ordinary companies , real estate mortgages , bearing rates of interest considerably highsr than Eastern borrowers have occasion to pay , have become , favorite forms of investment . Eastern companies invest their subscribed capital in Illinois , Iowa , Missouri , and Kansas mortgages , and , guaranteeing principal and interest , sell the mortgages and reinvest the proceeds . In this manner the more successful companies have assumed liabilities exceeding many times the amount of their capital ; so that a very largo proportion of the bonds represent simply the security of the mortgage and the credit of its maker . Less responsible agencies have built up a great business as between borrowers and lenders , the latter being dependent upon the agent 's sagacity and integrity to an extent which promises much loss and trouble . The consequence as regards the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Western man always fancies that he sees opportunities for the profitable use of borrowed capital . His usual difficulty has been an inability to borrow enough . The last couple of years have given him a new sensation . Lenders have sought him and thrust upon him their money . They have accepted his bond and mortgage with a blind confidence in its value which contrasts strongly with the want of faith in other securities . The growth of mortgage indebtedness has therefore been without parallel . Our inquiries lead to the conclusion that Western farms were never so universally incumbered as now ; while oven according to the prevailing standards of appraisal , the value of the security is greatly over-rated . This widely-diffused indebtedness of the farmers has undoubtedly a close commotion with the mania for the remonetization of silver and the continuance of a depreciated currency . The debtor interest , always powerful , is at present omnipotent in the West . Lax as are the notions of the Western debtor when the interpretation of a contract is in question , the State credit is far superior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unenviable distinction of being the solo repudiating State in the West . Its record with reference to its defaulting bonds is disgraceful . What it has done on a small scale the South is doing without stint . And the most shameless acts of repudiation are perpetrated by States whose resources and condition leave them without excuse . The Southern Democrats have shown themselves utterly indifferent to the sanctity of State financial obligations . In this respect their section is unapproachable . When we come to county and municipal indebtedness , there is not much room for choice between the two sections . They have been equally eager to issue bonds and equally unwilling honestly to redeem them . The repudiation of Missouri county bonds , judicially sanctioned some months ago , has since been followed by similar repudiation in Illinois . In each wise tho proceeding has some technical pretext ; but the pretexts are almost invariably of a kind which no private citizen could resort to in his own behalf without incurring the stigma of a scoundrel . ' They are all aggravated by the fact that the repudiating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of the loans of which they thus summarily rid themselves .                     