@@742442

txt The Democratic Senators met in caucus this morning and had a long conference in reference to the work of the session . The principal topic considered was the party action upon the admission of the Democratic contestants from South Carolina and Louisiana . It was decided not to present them to be sworn in this morning , but to as so in a day or two , and make this question the primary work of the session . They will meet again to-morrow morning to determine more fully the details of the plan of operations , but it is well known that Judge Spofford 's case will be first presented , being believed to be the strongest , as ho was elected by the full Legislature after Nicholls became Governor , so there can not be the same question as to regularity or irregularity of credentials as in the case of Eustis , who was elected while there were two Legislatures in session and two Governors , both claiming to ho legally elected . The Democratic Senators are sanguine of securing Judge Spofford 's ad mission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that object , and they are confident that those will come from the Republican side . Just whom they rely upon is not known . There will be some considerable time which the Senate can devote to the determination of its membership before the House can prepare any appropriation bill and make it ready for the Senate to consider . The Democrats of the House held al caucus this morning , but accomplished nothing , and adjourned until to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock , with the understanding that it was then to be determined whether the special subjects only which called Congress together are to be disposed of and the session then adjourned until December , or whether the regular work of Con-1 congress should he taken up and the session he made continuous . Association with the members developes the fact that they are about equally divided on this subject . Most of the Western and Southern members are.in favor of a continuous session , but there are some exceptions , notably Mr. Morrison , of Illinois ; but the Pennsylvania members , and those from other States easy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those favorable to a continuous session argue that it will facilitate work , and permit them to get through early next Spring , while those favorable to a short session say that they will save no time next Summer by remaining now . Both parties bring their strongest arguments in favor of their views of the demands of political service . The caucus , as before stated , is designed to determine this question , but it may be found impossible to decide upon adjonrnment till after a survey of the business on hand has been taken by the Committee on Appropriations.                     