@@741595

txt The Board of Aldermen will , to-day , take up the suggestions of the Mayor 's recent Message in regard to the necessity of putting a. stop to the increase of the City debt . es the Mayor arid Aldermen are the two auehorities ceettly responsible eevising miw methods to increase the City dals , they can easily show their sincerity in this movement by abandoning the ; themes they have already sanctioned , and adopting precisely the opposite policy in future . It would be well that they should . also abandon the attempt to make the public believe that they have always been advocates of the strictest economy . That is too transparent a delusion to take in anybody , and by persisting in it they only prove that they are as incapable of serving the taxpayers without a display of demagoguery as they have been to legislate in the presumed interests of labor without robbing the tax-payers . The Mayor 's first Message gave the key-note to the new policy of pushing forward public improvements without reference either to their utility or their cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Morningelde avenue  --  two very expensive and totally unnecessary public works  --  in a section of the City where thirty millions of public money has been spent during the last five years . Not to be behind-hand , the Aldermen introduced at their very first meeting a long string of resolutions providing for the gradingenirbing , &c.,; of new streets , chiefly on the same territory to which , in spite of the vast expenditures of the last few years , population steadfastly refuses to migrate . Ono of these resolutions provided for the grading , curbing , flagging , and widening of King 's Bridge road , at a probable expense of some two millions of dollars . The work was not to be let out by the honest method of public bidding , but was to be intrusted to the Department of Public Works , to be done by day 's work . In other words , the tax-payers were to be robbed of at least half a million of dollars to enable the Aldermen to demoralize the laboring class of the City , by giving out tickets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That resolution has furnished the text of one of the very ablest reports ever issued by the Council of Political Reform . Its facts and arguments may not be entirely new to most of our readers , but it brings together an array of information on the subject of up-town improvements , such as has never before been presented at one view , and it treats the entire question with a clearness and comprehensiveness which entitle it to the most careful attention . The report was printed in full in THE TIMES of yesterday , but we shall briefly recapitulate some of its most instructive points . They are equally conclusive against the wisdom of the policy set forth in the Mayor 's inaugural Message , against the opportuneness of the Aldermanic resolutions , and . against the arguments recently presented . in the interests of real estate speculators to the Department of Parks . About thirty-four miles of streets and avenues above Fifty-ninth street and to the west of Central Park and Fifth avenue were finished and ready for being built on about three years ago . Yet during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still unoicupied  --  have been erected on these thozoughfares . The new avenues , finished and maintained at enormous cost to the City , have attracted only about half of these new buildings . Fifty-three thousand dollars a year are spent for lighting miles of such avenues " as brilliantly as the business part of Broadway , although there is not one dwelling upon them , or one person to be seen after nightfall . " Exclusive of the cost of Central Park , which nobody has had any reason to grudge , parks and avenues in the north-western section of the City have been responsible , during the last three or four years , for an addition of twenty-nine millions of dollars to the City debt . The idea that these " improvements " have repaid the City by enhancing the value of property , and . so widening the area of taxation , is a totally fallacious one . The report shows this by taking the Boulevard as an example of how these improvements have affected the tax levy . The entire cost of that work was over seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly in progress in 1870 , and was fully completed by 1872 . Between 1870 and 1875 there was an increase in the assessed valuation of lots bordering on the Boulevard of a little over three and a half millions of dollars . This accounts for an increased annual taxation of say one hundred thousand dollars . But the yearly interest which the City has to pay on the improvement is over half a million , while the additional State tax to which it renders us liable , the cost of lighting , watering , &c.,; bring up the total annual expense created by the Boulevard to six hundred thousand dollars . ' Instead , therefore , of the City being a gainer by the construction of this great thoroughfare , it is , so far , a loser to the amount of half a million a year . Yet the Boulevard , apart from the reckless extravagance displayed iu its construction , is the most defensible of all the improvements above Central Park . To ask the City , as the Mayor has done , to complete the Riverside avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it along a large portion of its length by only a block and a half , is surely one of the most amazing proposals which could possibly emanate from a man profs sedly desirous of keeping down the amount of the City debt . The future course of Mr. Wicienall and the Aldermen ought to be tolerably clear . If they want people to believe that they are convinced of the ignorance and folly of their recent course iu regard to finishing useless streets and conatrueting superfluous avenues , let them bring forth fruits worthy of repentance . Should they fail in doing this , the work of retrenchment and reform will probably continue , as it has done in the past , to get along without them .                     