@@781623

txt deleted 2 paragraphs paper money , and still more , ad nauseant , never minding whether the condition of the country requires it or requires the opposite . Again , the Ohio resolutions condemn the act which withdraws greenbacks as national bank notes are issued . That was certainly a Republican measure . They also hint at paying the bonds in paper , and boldly advocate collecting half the Customs dues in legal tenders . Now , the Republicans are the authors of the law which declares the bonds payable in gold , and of the other law which pledges the Customs dues in gold to the sinking fund and the payment of interest . All the things , therefore , which the Ohio Democrats oppose , all the measures they would repeal , and the entire financial policy which they condemn , are Republican . Nor are they the product of the platform only . They are embodied in Republican legislation , and stand as the policy of the country for which the Republican Party is responsible , and which the Democrats are seeking to overthrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gross blunders on the financial question , by alleging that these are Republican , is a partisan trick of the Poorest possible kind . , The fact is , that the Democrats of Ohio are desperately in earnest in playing their game of repudiation . They are not only bent on making the issue prominent in their State this Pall , but they mean the fight there to be introductory only to a fight in their National Convention . They are manaauvring with reference to the nomination of an Ohio man for the Presidency , and ho is not Senator THURMAN . The friends of THURMAN in the West and of TILDEN in the East have avowed their position on finance , and it is in favor of hard money . The Pendleton wing do not propose to allow the position to go unassailed . They have already carried Ohio once on a platform diametrically opposed to it . They have also carried Indiana , Missouri , and . Tennessee on platforms very similar . They think that they can count on the South-west and Smith , and they are determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a defined issue over the doctrines advanced by their rivals . Success for the Democrats in Ohio will be along step toward committing the Democratic party in the nation to repudiation .                     