@@742334

txt One of the customs of the Orient  --  a locality frequently mentioned by persons who do not wish to confine themselves to geographical details ? is that of employing hired mourners to weep and howl at funerals . The custom undoubtedly has its advantages . When an objectionable uncle dies , leaving his nephew a largo fortune , the latter can save himself the strain of mourning his departed relative by merely hiring a few loud-voiced women to wail for a decent number of days . It is- rather strange that , with our constitutional love of business and division of labor , we have not adopted this custom , or improved upon it by constructing ingenious mechanical mourners operated by steam . A four-horsepower mourner would doubtless produce more heart-rending shrieks in the course of half au hour than Mr. TALMAGE could utter in a day , were his exceptional genius as a public howler to be placed at the disposal of enterprising undertakers . Probably we shall use steam mourners at no distant day , for it is the firm conviction of the average American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by steam . Meanwhile there is good reason to believe that we have among us a class of people who are professional weepers , al ? though they have not yet offered their services as funereal mourners . The exist ; once of this class has not been openly announced , but that professional weepers do exist , and that they are constantly present at certain public meetings , can be easily proved . Every reader of the daily newspapers knows that meetings are frequently held at which ho never dreams of being present , but which are duly reported as matters of news . Public speakers at real meetings are also addicted to mentioning incidents which are said to have occurred at the shadowy and unseen meetings , which are always asserted to be crowded , but which no one is ever known to attend . It is these mysterious meetings which the professional weepers attend , apparently in great force , and for the purpose of practicing the art of weeping , in order to fit them to perform at meetings of the ordinary type . So far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by popular temperance lecturers and revivalist exhorters of a certain grade , the professional weepers are constantly bursting into tears . A public speaker tells in their presence a story of the following general type : " Fifty years ago a humble missionary saw a gray-haired man sawing wood in his back yard , and said to him , ' My friend , do you believe in a future world ? ' Fifty years more , and the same humble missionary passed by that same back yard , and again said to the grayhaired man , who was still sawing wood , My friend , do you believe in a future world 1 " The gray-haired man burst into tears , and instantly signed the total abstinence pledge . That once depraved and reckless wood-sawyer is now betoro you . " This story does not strike the average mind as being particularly pathetic , and yet we are always told that at its conclusion " there was not a dry eye in the house . " Another public speaker tolls of a " good little boy , only three years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sixteen-gallon demijohn with ruin , and who remarked , ' Father , I will obey you ,  --  but pause , and remember that it you constantly drink sixteen gallons of rum per diem , you will in time form a taste for intoxicating drinks . ' The conscience-stricken father broke his demijohn over his wife 's head and clasping the noble boy to his heart , promised that ho would never drink another drop except when thirsty ! " Loud sobs from all parts of the house never fail to follow an anecdote of this sort , and it is usually some moments before the audience becomes calm enough to permit the speaker to proceed . Then there is the anecdote of the poor boy of whom wo so constantly read in the reports of crowded meetings attended by nobody . This boy is always described as having a good situation in a manufactory owned by a wicked man . " Ono Saturday night the wicked man said to the boy , ' James , I want you to get up early to-morrow morning and spend the ( lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The noble boy replied , Sir ! I can not work on the Sabbath . I will kill any quantity of people on Monday ; but if you persist iu requiring me to work to-morrow , I beg leave to send in my resignation . " fhe wicked man , totally overcome , praised the boy 's fidelity to principle , and instantly took him into partnership . " ' This story not only affects the entire audience to tears , but obliges several women to be carried out in a hysterical state . And yet the same story , if told at a private dinner-table , would not draw a tear from the youngest infant present . Now , it may be affirmed without fear of contradiction that the American is not given to tears . Ile may have his faults , but sniveling is not one of them . If he ever does weep , he previously takes the precaution to lock himself up in his room , and would much rather be detected in paying his debts with debased currency than in weeping for any conceivable reason . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in every variety of public meeting is simply incredible . In point of fact , no one except the species of public speaker above described , - or the conscientious reporter who attends the strange meetings which nobody else attends , has ever sceu au American audience weep . Occasionally au imnreseiblo woman wipes her eyes when Rip Van Winkle is driven out into the storm , but she never imperils her complexion by any real public weeping . Can any reader of TILE TIMES honestly assert that he ever saw an American audience burst into tears ? Such a spectacle would be as astonishing as the sight of an audience unanimously standing on its head , without distinction of sex or previous condition of sanity . The American will die when occasion requires , but he will never disgrace himself by public and denionstrative sniveling . But , if this be true , it will be asked how are we to explain the stories so freely told of audiences that burst into tears on hearing preposterous anecdotes . The explanation is easy . The audiences at these mysterious meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do weep , for unless we make this admission we must assume that reporters and popular speakers are capable of telling what is not true ? an assumption from which human nature revolts . These meetings are obviously attended by men and women whose business it is to weep , and they constitute their training schools . It is the purpose of the public speakers to insidiously introduce trained weepers into assemblies of intelligent people , so that a chorus of sobs may be always at the orator 's command . This is the only explanation which fully accounts for all the facts , end we must expect that in duo time the professional weepers will graduate from their training schools , and will be present at every meeting where their tears may be desired .                     