@@742146

txt The prominent Northern Democrats who came to Louisiana at the request of Messrs . Tilden and Hewitt are going home disheartened and disgusted . They see that Gov . Hayes has undoubtedly carried , the State , and many of them are unwilling to give countenance to any attempt which may bo made to defraud the Republicans out of the fruits of their honest victory . In the meantime , the Politicians who remain here are beginning to talk a great deal about a compromise , and this morning a number of them tried to make some kind of terms with Mr. Packard . Both he and Gov . Kellogg , however , positively refused to listen to any plan of adjustment other than that which can be based upon a fair count of the votes . The proposition to which I refer was not definitely made , still it was very plainly intimated to Packard that ho could be Governor without trouble if he would agree to have Tilden counted in by the Returning Board . The ex-Marshal replied that he had no influence with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would do their duty honestly and fairly , and that oven if he could control them he would decline to do so . I am informed , upon the very best authority , that plans of compromise , similar to the above , were made last night to at least one member of the Returning Board . Ho indignantly refused to listen to them , and in the name of himself and his colleagues protested against any further attempts to influencing the action of the board . It is but justice to state that Gen. Ni'eholls , the Democratic candidate for Governor , is not a party to any of these schemes . They ' were all concocted by friends of Mr. Tilden , who were willing to sacrifice the claims of all the State offices in order to secure the triumph of the great " reformer . " Failing in these efforts , however , and seeing that they can never hope to honestly secure Louisiana 's vote for their chief , they have now virtually abandoned New-Orleans , and are preparing to devote all their attention to Florida . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prominent Democrats in Tallahassee ,  --  and they go prepared to use every means known to the lowest politician to capture a majority in that State . The leaders of the Republican Party should be warned in time . They must not neglect Florida . The Democrats are concentrating all their forces there , and they mean to defeat the will of the majority in that State , no matte r what it may cost to do so . Florida has undoubtedly gone Republican by a majority of several hundred , but the Republicans must not be secure in their victory . Their opponents are desperate , and they must be watched closely . As to Louisiana , there is no doubt . There need be no anxiety . Upon a fair count the State will give Hayes a majority of at least 6,000 , and a fair count will certainly be had . The canvass before the State Board commences to-morrow , in the presence of five prominent members of the Republican Party , and five well-known Democrats . The committee to represent the latter party has already been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sherman , Mr. Stoughton , of New-York , and Geo . Garfield , of Ohio , will attend the meeting . Of the fifty-seven parishes in the State , forty have been officially heard from . They show a Republican majority of from seven to eight thousand . There will be contests in regard to at least twelve and perhaps twenty parishes , but they will not come up until the districts in which there is no contest have been disposed of . This is in accordance with the State election laws . The count of the uncontested parishes will be finished in about three days , and then the disputed ones will be considered . It is thought that they can be gone through within seven days , and that by the 1st of December an official announcement of the vote for President and Vice President can be made . Both sides are now busy preparing testimony which is to be submitted in regard to the con:Awed parishes . Chief amonirs thesesare East and West Feliciano . In bath these districts the Republicans have a majority of at least 1,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already been anuouuced , there was only one Republican vote cast in East Feliciano , and only twenty in West Feliciano . In this connection it has been noted that the full voting strength of both of the parishes was polled on the last election day , and the Democrats pointed to this fact as an indication that they had allowed the negroes to vote peacefully , and that they had all voted the Democratic ticket . The Republicans will be able to show before the board that this story is entirely unworthy of credit , and they will prove , by the sworn testimony of dozens of trustworthy witnesses , that the negroes in the parishes named were forcibly prevented from voting ; that they were violently drawn away from the polls , and that hundreds of armed white men rode across the border from Mississippi and voted the Democratic tick-et in their places and on their names . Overwhelming proofs of similar practices in other parishes are now ready , and wtil bo produced at the proper time . Regarding the difference in the vote for the National and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been somewhat in error . At first it was announced , as will be remembered , that Gov . Hayes had run at least twenty-five hundred votes ahead of the State ticket . It was definitely ascertained yesterday , however , that the difference would not be more than eight hundred . Some of the Presidential Electors fall several hundred votes behind the others . In West Baton Rouge , for instance , where the negro State Senator Allain was running au independent ticket , ho failed to print the names of two of the Hayes Electors . In this way they lost at east one thousand votes . The Democrats are attempting to make capital out of this unfortunate circumstance , by declaring that no matter what might bo the result of the canvass for electors at large , these two District Electors have been defeated . They might have been if they did not have a majority of eight thousand to draw upon . To-night the Democratic Campaign Committee is circulating what purports to be a copy of the official returns from forty-eight parishes , with nine estimated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Tilden 's electors is 9,219 , and for the other three 9,036 . Of course the Democrats know that this is au absurd one . Their circular was prepared to influence the nubile mind at the North , and for no other purpose . A nice question regarding the legality of the Returning Board , which was raised hero yesterday , is worthy of a passing notice . It will be remembered that the board was created by the same Legislature that elected Pinchbeck to the United States Senate . He was refused his seat on the ground that the Legislature was not properly and legally organized . Now he claims that if the Returning Board is recognized as a legal body , he should be seated . Of course , his claim is simply another bid for notoriety . It is laughed at by all the lawyers here . H. C. Dispatch to the Associated Press . The following named gentlemen have left the city : Oswald Ottendorfer and F. R. Coudort , of New-York ; C. W. Woolsey , of Connecticut ; Gen. J. E. and J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and W. F. Hamilton , of Maryland ; ex-Gov . A. G. Curtin , of Pennsylvania ; W. Chapman , of Iowa ; Charles Gibson , of Missouri ; Hon. W. R. Morrison , of Illinois ; J. B. Jeffreys and W. K. Sullivan , of Chicago . The gentlemen who are here at the request of the President , and also those sent by the Republican organizations of States other than Louisiana , say that they have determined to secure a full stenographic report of all the proceedings of and evidence given before the Re turning Board , so that nu impartial statement may be given to the public and sent to the President . They have also determined to change their committee of five from time to time , in order that all of them may observe the mode of proceeding and the appearance and character of the witnesses examined . 