@@741707

txt Considering the pains that most people have been taking for the last two years to keep their expenses down , it is rather discouragingito be told that the task was useless . This , however , is substantially what they are advised by some very respectable writers on political economy . These writers think that saving will be of no avail to produce a prosperous trade unless there is joined to it a good foreign market for our surplus products . As there is not the slightest possible connection between saving and a foreign market , since no amount of the former could produce the latter , and . as the latter is made in this argument the indispensable condition precedent to prosperity , the argument obviously tends to the conclusion that mere saving is of no use whatever . To us this tendency seems unfortunate , and we should be very sorry to see the argument generally accepted . It might lead to very serious consequences . The question , no one will deny , is a practical one . Whether they agree with the theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found economy in the present state of affairs absolutely necessary . Hardly any one dependent on general trade for an income  --  and who is not , directly or indirectly ? ? has been able to get on without it . What is true of individuals is necessarily true of large classes . And we think it is a melancholy fact if a practice which is compulsory on nearly the whole community , and which is unquestionably prompted by the most honorable motives , should be discovered to be entirely useless in bringing about a better condition of things . Whether this is actually so or not may be best determined by examining the causes of the difficulties which it is sought to remove by means of economy . These in the present instance may be summed up in the general term overtrading , brought about by various abuses of the system of credit . Trade is , in its essence , the exchange of products to satisfy the varied . needs of producers themselves , each class of individuals producing that which they think some other class will want , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced by a number , more or less extensive , of other classes . Now , hi the simpler conditions of society , where exchange is principally barter , or where it is effected by moans of cash payments , there would be practically no danger of any class producing more than is needed by others , or buying more than it could pay for . But whether this system is or is not essentially the : best , it no longer exists , and a system of credit has taken its place . This fact modifies the entire mass of the transactions in which society engages . Classes and individuals , instead of producing exactly what they can sell , and buying exactly what they can pay for , produce what they think that they can sell , and buy what they think that they can pay for . The modification is immense , because the most powerful of all motives , self-interest , is stimulated by it . The tendency is universal and strong for each man to exaggerate the value of his own products  --  i. e. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also to exaggerate the estimate of his probable capacity to pay , and the degree to which , therefore , he can safely gratify his desires . These two tendencies  --  that toward exaggerating the power to sell and that toward exaggerating the power to pay  --  are reinforced by a third which is scarcely less important ; namely , a tendency to exaggerate the power of customers to pay . Between them these produce what we call overtrading . Men gradually go on producing more than they can sell , selling more than their customers can pay for , and buying more than they can pay for themselves , until there results a fictitious wealth . For , as a necessary consequence of our easily-expanded ocredit system , nearly all ' property Consists of promises to pay in one form or another  --  of merchants ' notes , of bank credits , of corporate stocks ? which , to a great extent , are indirectly the promises of the customers of corporations , or of landholders ' mortgages . ' When , in this condition of things , some groat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? announces that its real assets are not what it was thought they were , every one instantly sets to work to find out if his own assets are not in the same condition . If they are , then there is a collapse of " business , " as there was two years since . Now , under these circumstances , economy is the first resort of every one , and we conceive that it is not only the natural but the most effective expedient to restore prosperity . The primary element in the situation is overproduction , and the consequdnee is a surplus stock . Men begin to buy less ; production is correspondingly lessened , and , as consumption . of one degree or another must go on , the surplus is gradually reduced . It would not be reduced . if men went on spending freely , because in that case the same motives that were stimulated until , overforaduction resulted would be still stimulated . 7 There would be nothing , to show that there was a surplus , nothing to induce a reversal of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that what the country needs is a revival of confidence . That is true . But the country will not got it until the process- of reducing the surplus has gone far enough to revive a genuine demand for further active production . Then confidence will come as a matter of course ; and we are sorry to say that we are compelled . to believe that it will go on again increasing until another surplus and . another discovery of the surplus ensue , followed by another depression of business .                     