@@742730

txt The tendency to disintegration in both of the old parties is undeniable . Whether it shall go on or be checked before much harm is done to either , is a question the answer to which depends upon the sagacity of the leaders in detecting the hidden causes of discontent , and their ability to profit by the influences which these causes involve . The fact admits of easy explanation and is not , of itself , much to be wondered at , So far as it applies to the Democracy , it proceeds from an evident incompatibility of principle and purpose and a lack of the leadership to which the party has been indebted for its successes . In view of the blunders that culminated in secession , the value of Southern leadership to the party may seem to have been overrated . And yet there can be no doubt that one of the compensations of the slave system was the development of a class who had some genuine pretensions to statesmanship , and whose circumstances and habits saved them from the personal degradation which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partisanship . If the South exercised the power of an oligarchy in shaping the policy and controlling the nominations of the Democracy , it also gave character to the party and supplied the larger portion of its brains . The oligarchy and the Confederacy fell together . The class of Southern gentlemen who had made of national affairs a study , and whose conservatism as regards the financial policy of the Government was undoubted , disappeared from the public stage . Inferior men took their places , ? inferior , we mean , in character and capacity , ? with none of the restraints which usually attend the possession of property , and representing the worst elements of Southern society . The " carpet-baggers " very often deserved the reproach which the term implies , but they were certainly the equals of the men to whom the overthrow of the old leaders brought the opportunities they have used unscrupulously . Hence , to a largo extent , the independent spirit which , vague and unorganized as it is , is the most hopeful sign in Southern politics . The capable leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable share of respect , are few in number . Their direct influence for good is not much greater than their numerical strength . The active managers of the Democracy in those States are on a level with the mass Of the membership , which never acquired unbridled power until now . The immediate results are seen in the recklessness and low standard of duty that were always characteristic of " the white trash . " Purity and respectability are in the background . Repudiators and schemers are in the front . The indirect results take the form of dissatisfaction with the administration of State affairs , of impatience under the domination of worthless men , and of a growing desire to break the dead level of Democratic rule . How soon and how far this undefined hostility to Democratic ascendency , as it now exists in the South , will be felt by the Democratic Party , depends upon the moderation of Southern Republicans , and their willingness to co-operate in a. no-party effort to overcome the power now intrenched in the South . Throughout the North and West , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different nature . Whatever influence may attach to the South in the party councils , as a consequence of its vote , its personal power among Northern and Western Democrats is not great . Mr .. LAMAR can not reconcile the party in these sections to the subsidies he pleads for . Mr. BAYARD. , perhaps the best type of the class that is all but extinct in Congress , has not the slightest hold , upon his party in the Western States , Messrs . THURMAN and VOORHEES more truly represent the prevailing characteristics : one , the vulgar demagogue , who is ready to pander to the basest passions of a mob for the attainment of his ends ; the other , the trimmer , who blows hot or cold as the exigencies of the moment require , and who has not art to conceal his want of sincerity . Taking Mr. BAYARD as the exponent of sound financial opinion and of the integrity which dares to rebuke popular clamor , his powerlessness in the party is very suggestive . It shows that the uprightness , the character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority , and that its control , outside of the South , is in the hands of men who are prepared to do a great deal to conciliate the greenback advocates of inflation .. If their overtures fail ; it will be because the Greehbackers have lost faith in politicians generally . As the financial question really is the great question of the time , and will ? be such whether we have nominal resumption , or not , the disintegrating process can not soon be arrested . The party will be weakened by the defection of much of its greenback element , and by the demoralization which the attempt to conciliate that element will produce among the better portion of its members . In the latter ease , the disaffection may not Iv overt . But it will cool partisan ardor t ' several of the East- , Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . F ern States , and will repel support which the party can ill afford to lose . Unsatisfactory as the attitude of the Republican Party with regard to the financial question is in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held , it can not escape unharmed . Probably it will suffer less than the Democracy , judging of its injury by the relative drain upon its vote ; but enough is apparent to show that doubt has been introduced into districts hitherto certain , and that to avert defeat in others it must make concessions that will disgust not a few of its worthiest members . Any consolation that may be derived from the belief that the financial delusion which is making itself felt everywhere will be short-lived , is worth little . The issue raised is not one that can be quickly suppressed . Overcome in one shape , it will reappear in another . The ideas that underlie it are ' a volcanic force that will reassert itself as long as the wrecks produced by hard times are in sight ; and its disturbing effect upon parties will continue . It has loosened party ties , and it will be a source of increasing anxiety to politicians until they learn that where radical differences of principle exist compromises at the expense of principle are always unprofitable . Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than the financial question ; the range of its influence is narrow , and the dissensions it fosters are tinged with a contemptuous disregard for itself . But the tendency of its proceedings , its vacillation and hypocrisy , its attempts to clutch a power it can not wield , its constant disposition to make those who created it ashamed of their responsibility , ? all serve to alienate thoughtful Republicans and to consolidate and strengthen the influences whose repression was two years ago regarded as essential to the usefulness and success of the party . It matters not that Mr. HAYES " means well . " A weak President is one of the worst of Presidents . Nor is there much satisfaction in Mr. SHERMAN 'S anxiety to anticipate resumption after having given aid and cora-. fort to measures that endanger its permanence . The infirmities of the President and the wiles of his Secretary of the Treasury are a perpetual source of party embarrassment . They excite ridicule at the expense of principle , and they give rise to plans in which the humiliation of the Administration will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has striven to crush . The Administration can not gain , and the party must suffer .                     