@@741266

txt Many parents are now inquiring about schools . The long vacation will soon be thawing to a close . With children who are to be sent for the first time to school , or those who are to go to some different institution from that which they have been attending , the termination of the Summer holidays is generally the time for making the change . In many such cases , the parents have long ago decided upon the school . In others , and . probably a majority of instances , they have not yet fully made up their minds ; and . not a few of them are a good . deal perplexed about the matter . There are perhaps few things respecting which people are more apt to be unreasonable in their demands and expectations than the schools which their children attend . This is often the result of the extraordinary qualities discovered by the keen vision of parental affection in the children when they are very young . It is not always pleasant ' for the father and mother of a son who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of philosophical thought that would have done credit to Sir Isaac NEWTON in his best days , or a daughter whose brilliancy of conversation , when she was just three years and . six months old , was the wonder of the family , and the admiration  --  real or affected ? of a large circle of acquaintances , to be confronted with the fact that the child is , after all , very much like other boys or girls . The difference which time thus discovers between the ideal child aud the , real one is too often laid . to the fault of the teacher . This is especially the case with the- older children of a family , or with au only child . Parents who have had a number of children at school are less liable to fall into such a mistake . But the parental vanitycto which we have alluded is not the only source of unreasonable demands in regard to schools . Many parents who have little or none of this vanity expect altogether too much in the education of their children . They often seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institution can possibly combine . They want , for instance , the most energetic promotion of intellectual progress , and at the same time a full regard for health . They may get either of these ; but they can not have both . The hard study and close confinement necessary to the one are entirely incompatible with the other . This is especially true in regard to very young pupils ; but it applies with greater or less force to those of all ages . But apart from the question of health , parents often expect a school to impart a degree of proficiency in a dozen different studies which would be quite as great as the pupil could possibly attain within the allotted time in any one or two of them . The inevitable consequence is that the parents are disappointed either in the number of studies assigned or , as is : more frequently the case , in the amount of thoroughness with which they are taught . A great deal of censure is in these days : expended upon teachers on account of the superficial style of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extensively in schools , and is productive of very deleterious consequences , is perfectly true ; but it by no means follows from this that teachers are principally to blame for it . A teacher is dependent upon the public for the means ofliving by his profession . If the institution is a private one , he must consult the wishes of the parents . If he is employed in a public school , lie must regard the ideas of the community in general . Even the instructors in an endowed academy are obliged to remember that though the establishment may be independent in respect to funds , it must comply , to some extent at least , with popular opinion , in order to obtain pupils . If a ? dry-goods merchant deals in showy rather than substantial goods , it is usually because lie has a class of customers that prefer show to substance . A precisely similar principle applies with no less force to education . Many parents in choosing a school appear to think that the main question for them to consider is its aggregate capacity as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger the institution is , and the more teachers there are , the better . They forget that the amount which one pupil can acquire is , in any case , very limited , and that the presence of ten ; twenty , or a hundred . instructors could not make it anything else . There is often far more lost than gained by a multiplicity of teachers and a complicated , system of recitations . Much of the time that should . be given by the pupil to his studies is frequently wasted in adapting himself to the peculiarities of the different instructors . Simplicity in school arrangements is an element so desirable that it is well worth while to sacrifice a great deal to it . There are some machines which expend the greater part of their force in overcoming their own friction . This is sometimes necessary in manufacturing , but there is no need of it in teaching . The characteristic error of the " presentday in regard to education is that people expect and attempt too much . At no time is the prevalence of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their children . That the anticipations thus so often indulged are doomed to disappointment may be partially , but can not be entirely , the fault of the institution upon which they finally decide . The main difficulty is that the anticipations themselves are inconsistent with the essential principles of human nature and the limited powers of the human intellect , or at any rate of that intellect between the ages of six and eighteen years .                     