@@781923

txt No fair-minded man can observe without indignation the injustice with which that eminent traveler , Capt . Lemuel Gulliver , has been treated . Notwithstanding the simple and unpretending character of his writings , he has been denounced as a bold and conscienceless impostor . The same incredulous persons who have affected to doubt the literal exactness of the narratives of such distinguished travelers as Mr. Du CHAILLU and Mr. BAYARD TAYLOR have openly asserted that Gulliver 's Travels is even less worthy of credit . That Gulliver may occasionally have made mistakes and given , unintentionally , a false coloring to certain incidents , may be conceded ; but no candid person can read the narrative of his voyage to Laputa without recognizing its substantial accuracy . It will be remembered that Gulliver , after being set adrift in an open boat by Japanese pirates , discovered the Island of Laputa floating in the air . Those who lack the effrontery to deny that Japanese pirates arid open boats exist , dispute the existence of any floating island , and assert that it is absurd to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man can float unsupported in the atmosphere , a floating atmospheric island is certainly not impossible . Now , the Spiritualists firmly believe that Mr. HeNIE and certain other eminent high priests of that peculiar faith can annul the law of gravitation so far as it affects them personally , and can float at will in the air . When we remember that the Spiritualists claim that their numbers are only five millions , when they might with equal ease say ten millions , they must be conceded to be people of great moderation , and hence presumably credible witnesses . ' If these five millions of people believe in the " levitation " of Mr. How , why should not an equal number believe in Capt .. Gulliver 's floating island , and can We honestly call in question their intelligenee and credibility ? While it is thus easy to demonstrate by a rigid train of reasoning that there is nothing intrinsically improbable in the story of an island floating in the air , there is a mass of direct evidence of the truth of Capt . Gulliver 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his return from " Central Africa , " given a description of the manners and customs of the people of Uganda , who were at that time totally unknown to Europeans ; and had Capt . SPEK ? , who subsequently visited Uganda , confirmed Mr. TAYLOR 'S description , we should have unhesitatingly decided that the latter had actually been there . Evidence closely analogous to this proves that Capt . Gulliver really visited Laputa and the capital city  --  Ladoga  --  of the kingdom of which Laputa is a part . In his account of the scientific persons of Ladoga he mentions several theories and facts which at the time were unknown in Europe . Tho same facts have since been discovered and the same theories formulated by European scientific persons . Now either Capt . Gulliver told the truth concerning tho Ladogan philosophers or else ho was gifted with the spirit of prophecy . Thus another rigid train of reasoning proves beyond question the credibility of this muchabused traveler . Among the facts and theories just referred to , the following may be mentioned and put in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed that the earth is slowly approaching the sun , into which it will ultimately fall , and that the heat of the sun will in time  --  whether before or after its collision with the earth  --  become entirely exhausted . Prof. Puee'reu has recently demonstrated that the earth is annually drawing nearer to the sun , and has calculated the exact time when the two bodies will come in collision ; while all astronomers agree that the extinction of the sun 's heat is a mero question of time . Again , we are told that one of the Ladogan philosophers was , at the time of Gulliver 's visit , perfecting a plan for the extraction of sunbeams from cucumbers , in order to utilize them for heating purposes . This is the first mention of the doctrine of the correlation of forces , now held by all scientific persons . The heat of the sunbeams which enter the cucumber is stored up in that able vegetable , and just so soon as a way of extracting it is devised , it can be utilized . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosopher had actually succeeded in accomplishing his purpose . Had the traveler been simply au ingenious liar he would undoubtedly have asserted that he had seen quart bottles full of solar heat extracted from cucumbers , hut , as it is , the moderation of his statement is strong evidence of its truth . Passing over the significant fact that in their treatment of colic the Ladogan physicians anticipated HAHNENIANN 'S homeopathic teachings , the discovery of the Martial satellites by the Laputan astronomers ought alone to settle the question of Capt . Gulliver 's veracity . He says , " they have likewise discovered two lesser stars , or satellites , which revolve about Mars , whereof the innermost is distant from the centre of the primary planet exactly three of his diameter , and the outermost five . " Only the other day our astronomers discovered tho existence of these very two satellites . We are thus forced to the conclusion that either Capt . Gulliver did visit Laputa and conversed with the Laputan astronomers , or that without the aid of any telescope or any knowledge of astronomy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1711 . Is it not time that , in the face of such overwhelming evidence , we should acknowledge the substantial truth of his narrative , and rank him among the ablest and most conscientious of travelers ?                     