@@742407

txt A few days ago the Daily Exchange published a reply from Justice Field , of the United States Supreme Court , to an article recently published in the New-York Sun , charging Justice- Bradley with having read an opinion , to : Justices Field . and Clifford to the effect that the Electoral vote of Florida should be given to Tilden and Hendricks , the Demoeratic nenrinees , and reversing his conclusion without alteration of the promises or arguments . A number of attempts have neon mule 1 ) ) , representatives of the press to interview Justice Field on t the sub- ? ject , but he has uniformly refused to say anything , and in most cases lies declined to see . them altogether . The Exchange to-day publishes an interview vith Justice Field . He at first demurred to giving any statement whatever , but finally said , after some reflection and speak ing with great deliberation , ? ? Well , Sir ; all that I care to say with regard to that is that Justice Bradley read " ? with peculiar emphasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion to me in advance of the formal submission of the opinions to the Commission . Beyond . that I think it would be improper for mo to say anything . If I should enter upon the subject I should probably say it great deal more than I wish to say . " " I think I comprehend your reply , " said the interviewer . " The point you make is , that tho opinion which the San , says was submitted to you and Justice Clifford in writing was not so written . It was a mere verbal communication of the opinion which Justice Bradley had arrived at " To this the Justice replied : " You have my answer ; all the answer I can now make . Justice Bradley did not read " ( again emphasizing the word " read " ) " any opinion to me , as alleged . " " Very well , Sir , " continued the questioner , " there can be no objection to my calling attention in my publication of this conversation to the emphasis you put on the word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear to the reader as it is now to me , " " You have all the answer I have to make , " persisted the Justice ; " I will not discuss the matter in any of its details . " In the course of some further conversation , the Justice urged his preference not to be dragged into the controversy at all ; said ha regretted that his name had been used , as he was associated with Justice Bradley on the bench of the United States Supremo Court , and it would be exceedingly unpleasant were their social relations disturbed by such controversy . He also emphatically declined to go any further into the subject , urg. ing that members of the commission were bound by resolution to respect the secrecy of their deliberations.                     