@@743040

txt During the discussion of the Democratic caucus resolution to change the standing order of the Senate in relation to the appointment of subordinate officers of that body , Senator Wallace , in reply to an interrogatory from Senator Colliding , as to whether the Democrats intended to remove any wounded Union soldiers said : " They the Democrats have not removed , and do not intend to remove such . " The resolution to change the rule was passed on Friday . On Saturday , Secretary Burch informed several Union soldiers who have been serving as clerks in the Secretary 's office for a number of years , that their services would not be required from and after Sunday , the 27th inst . Secretary Burch , in his notice of dismissal , said that he believed the appointed officers , like those elected by the Sonata , should be in political accord with the dominant party . Major Commons , the Resolution Clerk , who served three years in the Federal Army , was one of those summarily removed by Secretary Burch . Upon receiving his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed his attention to the declaration made by Senator Wallace , Chairman of the Democratic caucus , to the effect that it was not intended to remove Union soldiers . The Secretary replied that he had read Mr. Wallace 's official utterance upon this question , but he regretted that he could not govern his action in accordance with it . The pressure upon him , he said , from Democratic Senators was irresistible , and he was forced to make places for their friends . Thus it will be seen that the official declaration made in the Senate by the Chairman of the Democratic caucus was intended simply to deceive the public . The declaration is regarded as of so little importance that Secretary Burch gives it no consideration whatever , and It is not likely to receive any more respect from the Sergeant-at-Arms . The impatience of the Democratic Senators to secure the appointment of their followers is illustrated by the fact that Secretary Burch was forced to begin the work of making removals immediately , without waiting for Sunday to pass . All the officers removed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and papers today to their successors . This was done so that the newly-appointed officers can be placed on the pay-roll and draw pay for to-morrow .                     