@@741248

txt By a curious piece of maladroitness , the Gladstone Ministry found itself outvoted , a fortnight ago , on the question of moving an address to the Crown on the subject of international arbitration . The exact words of the motion presented by Mr. H. RICHARD were these : " That an humble address be presented to her Majesty , praying that she will be graciously pleased to instruct her Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to enter into communication with foreign Powers with a view to further improvement in international law , and the establishment of a general and . permanent system of international arbitration . " The motion points to nothing less than the establishment of an International Court of Arbitration , ready at all times to listen to and decide questions which are usually submitted to the arbitrament of the sword . So long ago as 1849 a similar motion was made by the late Mr. COBDEN , who found the House of Commons of that day not at all disposed . to entertain the project . Mr. RICHARD 'S motion was passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority in a thin House , and . in the present instance the address will , of course , be presented , but with almost equal certainty that that will be the last of it . The mover of the resolution was eloquent enough in descanting upon the terrible burden of the war debts and the military expenditures of Europe . As a concise history of the triumphs of arbitration in international disputes , his speech was perfectly satisfactory . But he failed entirely to indicate how any High Court of Arbitration could make its decision respected . As Mr. GLADSTONE very fairly put the case : " It was to trust to moral force alone . That presupposed a condition of nations in which moral force would be strong enough to induce each of them to give up the prepossessions and predilections connected with its own particular interests and passions , and . to adopt a judgment proceeding from some impartial source . " In fact , by the time a High Court of Arbitration , administering a comprehensive and generally accepted code of international law , can be got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spirit as will render war impossible , and secure in any event a friendly adjustment of international difficulties . A change in the temper and aims of the great nations of Europe is the essential thing . A spirit of conciliation must precede the formation of the code , not the code the peaceful disposition . To people who think that the triumph of arbitration in international disputes will be accomplished . by slow and laborious steps only , and will rest upon a number of successful precedents rather than on a systematically constructed code of legal maxims , the practical results of the system are , thus far , very encouraging . As Mr. RICHARD pointed out , one of the earliest applications of the principle related to the Portendic claims , arising out of the blockade of the Moorish coast by France , in 1834-5 . That difficulty was referred to the arbitration of the King of Prussia , and his award was accepted . In 1833 the subjects of dispute which had arisen between the United States and Great Britain during the previous twenty-one years , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were referred to joint commissioners , between whom , Mr. JOSHUA BATES , the American partner of the BARINGS , and the founder of the : Boston Public Library , was appointed umpire . These were also , mainly because of the excellent judgment of the umpire , satisfactorily adjusted . Then there was the difficulty between England and Greece in 1849-50 , which was settled through the mediation of France , and the further case of the pending war between Turkey and Greece over the Cretan insurrection , where a joint resolution of a conference of the Great Powers not backed by any threat of force succeeded in averting hostilities . The dispute between England and Brazil in 1663 was settled under the arbitration of the King of the Belgians ; the Luxembourg difficulty between France and Germany was smoothed over in 1868 , mainly through the mediation of the British Foreign Minister , Lord DERBY , while his successor , Lord CLARENDON , had similar good fortune iu averting any serious issue to the quarrel between France and Belgir. : . , over the question of controlling the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like these may , as Mr. GLADSTONE hoped they would , " harden into rule . " It is consoling to be assured that the ' latest and most striking examples of the application of the principle of arbitration at Geneva and at Berlin are redardod as exceptional pieces of good . fortune in England . The peace party , for which Mr. RICHARD speaks , is glad that on both the Alabama and San Juan questions the award went against England , because it gave the country a better chance of showing the value it attached to the principle of arbitration . Mr. GLADSTONE was rather disposed to indorse this view ; at any rate , he was decidedly of opinion that the world would see from the reception given in England to the awards of Geneva and Berlin that " their attachment to the principle of arbitration was not a vulgar and sordid attachment , founded on a confident expectation of success ; that they valued the principle for its own sake ; that they valued it far more than either the territory or the money involved in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and is much better than the nagging of sundry leading English newspapers over the . same subject , and almost makes one forget how near the two countries were to falling into a more bitter dispute than the original one , in their endeavor to agree on the method of becoming reconciled . But satisfactory as has been the record of international arbitration so far , it must not be forgotten that it failed . to have the slightest influence over a dispute apparently so simple as that about the Hohenzollern candidature for the throne of Spain , and that there is no " burning question " in the foreign politics of Europe at the present time which any mode of arbitration could prevent becoming al cants ben when the parties interested are ready to fight . Franco certainly would listen to no plea for mediation in regard to her lost provinces ; the adherents of the temporal power of the Papacy would laugh at the idea of submitting the wrongs and spoliations of the Holy Seo to an international court ; when Russia wants to get to the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her arm , and if Germany ever wants to incorporate the Teutonic provinces of Austria , she will be in no mood to submit the question to arbitration , because that would involve the possibility of failure . The present generation can hardly expect to see the principle of arbitration exercised over any but a strictly circumscribed field , and it is only to delay its ultimate triumph to insist on expecting too much from it .                     