@@741994

txt The assertion of the right to embrace Canada in the operation of the Merchant Shipping bill , which the House of Commons , at the instance of the Government , has sanctioned , has raised an important discussion on the limitations of imperial authority in colonial concerns . The Canadian authorities , who objected to certain provisions of the measure as in conflict with provisions enacted by the Dominion Legislature , ( ) Vince a more . conciliatory disposition than is shown by the London journals which have espoused their cause . The Canadians care less for forms and . abstract principles than for tangible results . If only Sir . CHARLES ADDERLY removes or modifies their causes of complaint , they care not whether it be by way of proviso , leaving the implied right intact , or by a distinct acknowledgment of Canada 's title to independent action . The latter is unattainable , for ' the time at least . The former is conceded them ; and , like sensible people , they are satisfied . Their champions in the London press , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is founded conflicts with the self-governing power with which Canada and other colonies have been invested . From this point of view it is contended that Canada may regulate its trade and shipping according to its pleasure , and that any attempt to interfere on the part otthe Imperial Government is an invasion of right which , should be determinedly resisted . As a matter of fact , we know that Canada can not exercise the power thus claimed font . It would not be allowed , for example , to impose discriminating duties Upon goods imported from England , or in any other mode to arrange for an interchange of commercial benefits with this country at the ' cost , of the British manufacturer or ship-owner . Here , then , at once , is an interference with the self-governing power of the Dominion . Who , however , will say that it is unreasonable 7 Canada desires to retain the , benefits of the colonial relation , whatever they may be , and it must also submit to the inconveniences . Whether the inconveniences or the benefits preponderate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . The fact that they value the relationship , and that they resent any expression of opinion which imputes to them dissatisfaction with it , is the best proof that they do not chafe under the mild restraint to which they are subjected . But if the London writers who denounce imperial interference with colonial legislation are wrong , what shall be said . of " Historicus " and the Saturday j:eviete , and their revival of pretensions that carry the mind back to the days of GEORGE III. ? According to these expositors of the colonial relation , Canada really has no rights except as an integral part of the British Empire . The imperial authority is in everything supreme , the only practical consideration being when its rights'shall be exercised and when waived . It is obvious that this version of the case is as much at variance with the realities of self-government which Can ada enjoys as the opposite extreme is with the maintenance of colonial connection in any shape . The truth is that , when colonies reach the condition Which Canada and Australia have attained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ susceptible of logical definition , and . calls perpetually for moderation and forbearance on both sides . To fetter the Canadians vexatiously in the exercise of the rights with which they have been invested would be to drive them into resistance , with separation as the result British Ministers , - Liberal and Tory , are too . wise to do that . They have in the Governor Generalship a leverage as effective in its way as that which the Crown but lately exercised in reference to the Royal Titles bill . They have a reserve of honors and compliments which exercise a potent influence over , refractory colonial politicians . And their readiness to grant subsidies , or loan credit for the furtherance of colonial enterprises secures them prompt consideration when they have special objects in view . Thus , successive British Governments have managed to accomplish purposes irreconcilable with the idea of complete colonial self-government , without wounding the susceptibilities of the Canadian people . On the other hand the colonists are aware that there is but one way of ridding themselves of imperial interference , and periecting the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration of absolute independence . They have no other method of escape , if ever British Minister or Parliament meddle with their affairs in a manner too unpleasant to be endured . For this contingency , however , no preparation has been made by the Colonial Office or the colonists . The statesmanship that obtains on either side is at best n succession of compromises , and the colonial relation itself is a compromise from which all pretense of logical consistency has been eliminated .                     