@@741302

txt Representative Shanks , Chairman of the House Committee on Indian Affairs in the late Congress , has just returned from an extensive tour in Washington and other Territories , which he undertook officially at the instance of the Department of the Interior , in order to obtain a better understanding of the questions concerning the relations of certain Indians with tho Government , and also with a design to reforms . The following statement embodies that gentleman 's views : The Indian question has greatly changed , and must be considered from its present standpoint . Formerly the Indians were practically outside of the Government , but now the entire country being under our political and practical Control , it is a question as to how soon the people will compel bad and mischievous white men to keep the peace with Indians , and bad Indians to keep the peace with whites . The people in nearly all the settlements are now able to enforce this necessity and will insist upon its consummation . Until the Indians shall be made voters and citizens in fact , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by law and judicial enforcement , to secure justice , the only true forerunner of peace : Allow Indians to testify in Courts as whites do . Protect Indians in their real and personal property from the encroachments of trespassers . Protect the persons of Indians ' wives and daughters from the pollution of had white men ; the seine as white men 's wives and daughters are protected . Make the personal property of Indians liable for their debts , contracted for the necessaries of life . Protect their real estate or homes from liabilities for debt . Prevent , by severe law , polygamy among them . Compel by law , enforced by order of Court , white men to provide for ' the support of their illegitimate Indian children . Legitimatize the children of white men by Indian women , and let them take by descent from both father and mother . Prohibit voluntary divorces of Indians or of white men from Indian women , with whom they have been cohabiting . Allow Indians to procure divorce in Court , after full hearing ; and then only for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Require the same restrictions in procuring divorce by white men who have cohabited with Indian women that shall be required of Indians . Declare the cohabitation of white men with Indian women a marriage to all intents and , purposes , and enforce it by order of Court , when its duties are violated or neglected . If either the white man or the Indian woman is married at the time of cohabitation , punish both for adultery or fornication , and make the punishment of such white man severe . Protect by law informers of violation of these laws . Compel Indians who have not adopted the civilized mode of dress to do so . Compel Indians to have fixed abodes , and allow them the same privileges of trade and travel now possessed by whites . Extend and enforce the criminal law over Indians for offenses against one another , and also for offenses against whites . Extend and enforce the criminal law against white men for offenses against Indians . Compel every white employe on reservations to have continually in his service one or more Indian apprentices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , only married men on the reservation as agents , farmers , millers , dco. , and make their employment conditional upon their removing their families to and remaining with them on the reservAlion . The presence of white women And white children among the Indians is nec .. a.sary to the best interests of whites and Indians . Schools on the reservations to be kept open as continnously as practicable . There isnow serious neglect in this important matter . Compel every agent to report , under oath , the respective violations of law by Indians under his charge against Indiana or whites , and of whites against Indians , giving names , dates , and facts ; provide by law for punishing agents and employes for violations of their duties as such ; prevent by law the trespassing of cattle on Indian farnA , as white men are protected in their farms ; provide by law against British Indians furnishing intoxicating liquors to Indians in the States and Territmges . These , Mr. Shanks says , are some of the things to be done to secure justice to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the honest , industrious settlers sustain these views . It is probable that legislation will be proposed at the next session of Congress in accordance with the above programme . 