@@741232

txt No State Executive ever displayed more conscientious care for the public interests than has Gov . Dix in his action upon the bills which were submitted to him by the Legislature . In briefly referring to this subject , yesterday , we did not do that full justice to the Governor which is demanded by an examination of the list of vetoed bills which has since come to hand . While Gov . Dix has probably vetoed more bills than must of his predecessors , he has not been ostentatious or captious in the use of this check upon improper legislation . During the session of the Legislature he kept careful watch of pending measures , and promptly but privately gave his views concerning bills which he considered objectionable . By this course many measures were perfected before they reached him , and of those which slipped through without his knowledge , forty-four were recalled at his suggestion and amended so that he might sign them . By this close attention to the course of legislation , the Governor found it necesssry to use the veto power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But he was left at the adjournment with over 300 bills on his hands , nearly all of which had been crowded through during the closing hours , and he was compelled to approve or veto them in the shape in which they were . It is creditable to Gov . Dix that under these circumstances he has ? not hesitated to use the veto power in accordance with the dictates of his judgment , and . the people of the State will approve his course , although the result has been that many pet projects have been destroyed , and the unusual number of ninety-one bills have failed to receive his approvaL In almost every case in which he has exercised his constitutional prerogative , Gov . Dix has been . able to give a reason for his action which commends it to popular approval . In some cases the bill under consideration had a proper object , but had been so hastily drawn and considered that it was plainly unconstitutional in some of its provisions , and the Governor had no choice but to veto it . A notable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enlargement of the Champlain Canal , of the object of which the Governor seems to have heartily approved , but as it made an appropriation without distinctly specifying the object except by reference to the title of another act , which is forbidden by the Constitution , he was forced to withhold his signature . An examination of the list of vetoed bills proves that Gov . Dix has zealously guarded public rights against the invasion of private interests . If a bill was found to be retroactive , to give undefined authority , or was special in its character , it was sure to meet with his disapproval . Pertinent examples of the reasons which have controlled his action are found in his vetoes of the Brooklyn Bridge and Washington Market bills , but many more equally forcible , if less distin-. gashed , cases , can be discovered in the list . Fourteen bills relating to the City have been vetoed , and nearly all of them because the objects sought could be attained under the charter , or because these objects were improper . In vetoing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more important of these defeated measures , the sufficient reason is given that nothing has been alleged to justify disturbing the arrangement of the election districts so recently made under that law . Every good citizen will agree with the Governor in this view , as nothing has so tended to facilitate frauds in the ballot as the frequent changes in the election districts to which we have been subjected . In taking a general view of the manner in which Gov . Dix has discharged the delicate duty imposed upon him in connection with the legislation of the past session , the most unfriendly observer must admit that he has been guided solely by considerations of public duty . It may be that he has made some mistakes , but his errors , if he has committed any , are due to his great zeal to guard the rights of the people . In all the functions of his high office , Gov . Dix has fully justified the extraordinary mark of popular confidence which he received in the great majority by which he was elected . The Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made , and not the least of its titles to public gratitude and approval is that it made John A. Dix Governor of the Empire State .                     