@@781802

txt The near approach of the time  --  the 27th of February  --  when Mr. LoNGEELLow , crowned with the highest honors of literature , shall have reached the fullness of years permitted to men , reminds us of what he has done and for what we are indebted to him . In England he stands next to TENNYSON , if not before him , as the poet of the people , and there is no poet among ourselves whose works are so widely known or who has in the same degree transformed the admiration for his genius into love for the man himself . This is due to the fact that Mr. LONGFELLOW has allowed his personal poems to centre chiefly in the affections of home and family life . Though a large part of his poetry is concerned with foreign subjects and translations , the rule of the heart is felt in everything he has written . In language smooth and flexible , but never strained  --  raised only to that point where imagination makes it the vehicle of beautiful sentiment or passionate emotion  --  he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impressions and convictions of his own life . He has written nothing which either friend or foe could regret , and , while never a radical in politics or religion , has always stool on the side of humanity and justice in questions of the day . If his reputation needed a broader basis than the poetry of sentiment , his translation ofDANTE displays the happy combination of scholarship with poetic genius , and has given him a European reputation . Besides all which may be said of his public work , the modesty and humility of one whose acquaintance distinguished foreigners when among us have sought as a personal favor , shows that the man himself is more than his writings , and that they are the proper and legitimate outcome of a noble and finely-tempered life . If those who make the people 's songs exert a stronger influence upon national character than those who make the laws , Mr. LONGFELLOW is a national treasure . Cambridge may give him a house to live in , even the historic home of WASHINGTON , but every house in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ LUNGE ' FUMY is known to be to public tributes to himself , his approaching birthday will not probably be observed outside the circle of his personal friends ; but the public has too large an interest in him to allow this memorable event to pass by unrecognized . The New-York Historical Society , in this City , has just honored itself by suspending its rules and making him au honorary member by acclamation . The poets themselves are already singing their characteristic tributes to this venerable brother who only stands second to the more venerable and equally-honored BRYANT because he came later into the world . And there is a spontaneous feeling of gratitude and satisfaction wheresoever his name is known that age has not changed the quality of his verse nor the traditions of men worn down the personal vitality of the man . So many things crowd upon one 's time , and Mr. Losus'ELLow is so constantly speaking to us in new poems , as mellow in tone as they are fresh in thought and feeling , that it is difficult to think of him as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain that thousands will join us in the hope that many years of healthy and joyous activity are yet before him . The strength of a country is iu its illustrious men , and no one has done more to exalt the American name , at home and abroad than Mr. LONGFELLOW. lie has made himself the poet . of the people o.verywhere. lie has stood faithfully by the plain and honest virtues of life ; he has taught men the purity and sacredness of home . And his long life of public useHness is all the more to be honored because lie has always been contented with the position of a private citizen .                     