@@781680

txt " Believe me , " said ST . FRANCIS DE SALES , " I speak from experience , and the more you say the less people will remember . " It must be on this principle that certain apologists for jobs have lately been talking in the French Chamber of Deputies . Unhappily . there are jobs to be got through the French Legislature , even under a Republic . Prince BISMARCK 'S speculative friends at Berlin have their prototypes at Paris . What seems most odd , however , in the latter city , is that men , supposed to be chosen as law-makers for their superior merit , should be so astoundingly ignorant as late debates show many of them to be . The particular storm of thought-concealing words to - which we just now refer related to the carriage of the French mails between Calais and Dover . It may be as well to show that they do not , of necessity , order these things better in France . Some months ago the French Government ceded the contract for carrying their mails ? that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headed by two gentlemen , MM . MAGNIER and DUMONT . The qualifications of MM . MAGNIER and DUMONT appear to have been , first , that they bad no experience whatever of the business they undertook ; second , that they had no facilities whatever to perform it , and third , that they were respectively the editor and manager of the Evenentent newspaper . This being so , the whole thing naturally worked splendidly ? only it was on the ? um a non lucendo principle . In other words , the mails either did . not go at all , or were so slow and unreliable that the public began to refuse to trust them , and to depend either on the telegraph or the express . Finally , an inquisitive gentleman began to ask questions in the Chamber . fat first he was suppressed in the usual order , but he refused to remain so , and . returned . again and again to the oharge . Thus , at last , it has come out that the enterprising company led. by MM . MAGNIER and DUMOlsiT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even to the extent of a steamlaunch , wherewith to cross the channel , but without any other means , down to the smallest detail , of carrying out their contract . After a time , indeed , they bought some old , cast-off tubs owned by an English company , and which took exactly thrice the time to cross the Channel that ordinary passenger boats do . Having so far perfected their means of transportation , these enterprising worthies actually got a bill into the Chamber  --  and came , too , within an ace of passing it  --  to compel all people traveling from France ' to go by these crazy , rotten hulks of theirs , or , put in another shape , to spend six hours in crossing the Channel instead of two . This precious bill also contemplated obliging all through passengers to London to go by a particular railroad , the ' Proprietors of which were , of course , to make it worth while for MM . MAGNIER and DuMONT to grind their ax for them . The cream of the joke is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriously believed that the Chamber could really so oblige people to go by an arbitrarily designated line after they should have arrived in England . Happily , this amazing exhibition of ignorance forced a discussion which resulted in this particular " rake " of the contractors being frustrated . When , however , the attempt was made to look into their contract , and ferret out the terms on which a " divide " had been agreed on with the Government officials , determined . and energetic struggles were made by their partisans to cover these patriotic conspirators from impending detection . Thus it was that the principle of ST . FRANCIS was adopted , with the hope that if the apologists could only be allowed to babble long enough , nobody would ever remember a bit about the real purpose or intent of the debate . For all this , enough has come oat for us at a distance to discern that the magnates of the Republic have not been above having anchors to windward with the Press , and , moreover , that officials under M. Twits are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Napolean III . We are lihowiso put in a position to suggesbthat competitive examinations , by way of preliminary to admission to the legislative body . might be a good . thing for them to think about in Paris . Sonia of the honorable gentlemen , from the rural districts displayed , in tins debater , a degree of mental darkness hardly less . Cimmerian Stan the Kentish rustics of the time of Waterloo , who believed that the dreaded . " Bony " subsisted On Sterva , of which the chief components were English babies .                     