@@741442

txt The execution of a law of Congress reducing the clerical force in certain executive departments at Washington seems to have caused much laceration of spirit . In the Treasury Department , where the dismissals were most numerous , heartrending scenes are said to have occurred when the discharged persons , after anxious delay , received official notice of their fate . Many women fainted outright , others'were hysterical , and it was necessary for physicians to be called in to attend to the numerous cases of nervous prostration . One unfortunate man was so overcome by his grief that he became temporarily insane , and , rending his garments from him , made himself a melancholy spectacle in the halls of the Treasury : Here wore poor women suddenly - turned out of the positions in which they had earned their daily bread . Here were helpless men , with families looking to them for support , cut off remorselessly from the only means they had for securing a livelihood . Hero were hard-working , underpaid public servants , set adrift without a moment 's warning , compelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . industry , which long official seclusion had unfitted them for reentering . It was a gloomy and depressing sight . The sympathetic observer might well question the wisdom of an economical Congress whose fiat had . evoked all this lamentation and misery . These people have been scantily paid ; they have saved nothing ; they have lost in the steady grooves of the public service all relish and fitness for the ordinary struggle for bread . Why not let them stay ? To the sentimentalist , who has exalted . views of the duties and obligations of a paternal government , this question appears reasonable . It does seem a hard case that a system that deliberately takes the best years of a man 's life , and eats out his ambition to reach high in the great struggle of humanity , shall not also be compelled to care for him during the poor remnant of his days . There is some force in the acrid remark that it were better that the United States Government should curtail expenses in other and more notoriously extravagant branches of the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few hundred poor clerks . But rigid economy in every department of the Government is necessary . Expenses are great ; the public revenues have diminished , and the prospect of needing higher taxes has been at times uncomfortably near . The public service is not a governmental system of genteel alms-giving . There is no earthly reason why any man or woman whose services are not absolutely needed should be retained in the public employment for a single day . If he or she deserve well of the Republic , let us know the ground of merit , and let a pension be granted . There has been something too much of illegal favoritism for inadequate reasons . As for these special cases of individual hardship , sorrowful though they may be , and personally unjust as some of them must seem , law and logic agree that they must exist . But this painful episode in the Treasury Department ought to be a lesson to bureau burrowers generally and to small officeseekers in particular . Republics must be ungrateful . We have no privileged class of officials , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very nature of things these are impossible , and cautious efforts to create any such refuges have always been lustily hissed down . Somehow the routine work of official life , particulary in subordinate stations , incapacitates men for any other manner of earning a living . The man who spends his days and years in folding and filing intermipable sets of multitudinous vouchers is not more than half a man when he is finally pushed out into the busy scramble of life , where competition is keen and every one is looking out for himself . A horse in a treadmill is not more of a machine than he whose life is spent in the desiccating atmosphere of red tape and circumlocution . If we pity the poor fellow who is suddenly thrust into - the dazzling daylight of the world . from one of these cool caverns in the Treasury Department , what shall we say of those who are content to stay and hug their chains ? Their day of deliverance must come at last , and when it comes , with few exceptions , they will be of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the insane greed for office is never checked , and thousands of men who could win an honorable wage , a manly bearing , and vigorous health in the various fields of activity which this broad land affords , consent to the sapless existence of official servitude . For the poor women , whose chances of earning an independent living are fewer , we must have much sympathy ; but even in their case the inexorable law of the public necessity admits of no appeal . It is well that our soft-hearted Congressmen have not witnessed this woful exodus from the department . But it will be well for the mourners if they address themselves at once to labor . It will be still better for the country if Congress shall apply the knife of retrenchment in other places , and if the wailing in Washington should give pause to the average American office-seeker.                     