@@740772

txt The Pacific Mail Steam-ship Company 's steamer Alaska arrived safely at San Francisco on Monday with a remarkable cargo . It was reported by the steamerwhich preceded her that the Alaska 's whole space . not of her hold , but her cabins and . upper deck-room , was chartered for a cargo of tea . She brought , or was expected to bring , in lact , not less than thirty-five hundred tons of tea from China and Japan . Now , thirty-five hundred tons make a , net weight of about two millions of pounds of tea . It is not possible to tell the precise weight , because we do not yet know how much of this enormous cargo was green and how much black and Japan tea ; and green tea is from twenty-five to thirty-three Per cent . heavier than the other qualities . But we may pretty safely reckon that the Alaska brought over nearly if not quite two millions of pounds of tea . and as the consumption of tea in the United States amounts to about forty-two millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has brought into the port of San Francisco onetwentieth , nearly , of our whole annual consumption of this Chinese leaf . This great and valuable cargo , which a few years ago would have come to us by way of the Cape of Good Hope , and reached us only after a tedious and dangerous sea-voyage , comes now in a few weeks from Hong Kong to San Francisco , and in a few days from that port to New-York . At least a considerable part of it is to be sent to this port . Forty-five thousand two hundred and eight packages of tea and 260 packages of silk are to come over the Pacific Railroads from San Francisco . The cost in China and Japan of such a cargo as the Alaska has brought in. was probably not less than eight hundred thousand dollars ; it may have reached a million , in gold . Its value in this country , including freight . insurance , duties , and exchange , is probably a million and a half , in currency . But the Alaska has also brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this as her predecessor in the same line , this would add another half million to the value of her cargo . It is probable that her cargo is the most valuable that has ever been brought by a Pacific mail steamer ; and it is a curious evidence of the change which the completion of the trans-continental railroad line has wrought in the commerce of the world , that we ' should thus receive . in a single vessel , onetwentieth of our whole annual consumption of tea . How long will it be before Western Europe will find it more profitable to buy tea and silk from China and Japan by way of San Francisco and New-York , than by way of either Cape Horn or the Cape of Good Hope ?                     