@@741724

txt The work which the Government is doing by aid of the various surveying parties now 3mployed in the far West is one of very treat importance . These parties unquestionably undergo a good deal of hardship . ' ley are exposed to heat , cold , and wet , Ind occasionally suffer severely from hunpr and . thirst ; nevertheless , they undonbt3dly enjoy themselves . In the pursuit of science , pain and inconvenience are never heeded by the enthusiastic student . The chemist who blows himself up in his laboratory thinks , while descending from the ceiling upon a pile of shattered instruments , not of such trifles as a missing finger or eye , but solely of the temporary failure of his experiment and the waste of his chemicals . A similar devotion to science sustains the explorers of Colorado and Montana . The geographer , intent only upon carrying out his triangulations , wades through icy streams , and knocks himself against sharppointed rocks with undiminished cheerfulness . The geologist ponnds his fingers with a too enthusiastic hammer , or lightly tosses the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fangs , provided he can disinter some coveted fossil ; and the veteran entomologist rashes , hat in hand , over a shadeless plain , baking his bald head with perfect indifference , and caring for nothing earthly in comparison with the capture of some gaudy butterfly . In the pursuit of pleasures such as these the scientific party under the command of Assistant Geographer GARDNER has passed the Summer in Western Colorado . Perfectly peaceful themselves , they anticipated no opposition from the Indians . They forgot , however , that even the . Colorado Indian is capable of imitating the practices of the superior race . While they marched through the country , collecting minerals , insects , and . plants , the puzzled Uto was watching them from behind convenient trees , and . wondering whether this habit of collecting specimens might not be the real secret of the white man 's power . He had faithfully tried to make himself the equal of the white man by emulating the latter in the consumption of whisky , but the result had been a total failure . Here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him , and . he probably decided that men who carried home to their camp baskets full of bones and sticks and , stones thereby helped to make civilization the resistless conqueror of barbarism . At any rate , a large party of Indians decided that they , too , would join in the work of making collections . and on the 15tH of August last proceeded to business . This sudden interest in science unfortunately ' manifests itself in a way not to be commended . The Utes undertook to make a collection , not of stones and plants , but of scientific persons . The chief doubtless pro-. posed to begin a private museum - with an assistant geographer or an intelligent geologist , labeled " very rare , " while the rest of his band may have resolved to form the nucleus of a Ute National Museum , with specimens of the North American , surveyor , entomologist , and teamster . So they fell upon Mr. GARDNER 'S party while in a narrow canon , and undertook to cut them ' off from a spring near its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to any want of energy on their part , but to the wholly unexpected way in which the scientific men , fought . The battle lasted nearly twenty-four hours , and at its end the Indians were beaten off ; while the scientific party did not lose a single man . This battle will be memorable as having furnished proof that the scientific person , when his blood is up and his collection of specimens is in danger , can fight as successfully as the bravest soldier . or the most skillful scout . That all sorts of scientific men can fight on paper with groat vigor and endurance has long been known , but they have pot hitherto been called upon to demonstrate:their prowess with rifles and revolvers . And yet the bravery of the Gardner party could not easily be excelled . Geographers : shot at Indians perched on lofty precipices with a certainty of aim that was doubtless developed by long practice with the theodolite . Entomologists tracked their foes through the brushwood . with the same enthusiasm that they would have chased a new species of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such success that a stratum of Now Red . Utes was deposited here and there on the field of battle . The dispatch announcing the fight asserts that the only regret of the party was that they " did not kill Indians enough to make up for the loss of instruments and baggage . " This clearly showsthat could the scientific men have brought off a few Indian skeletons or half a dozen Utes neatly pinned on pasteboard , they would have been entirely reconciled to the loss of their less bulky collections of fossil bones and impaled butterflies . It has been suggested that the Government ought to provide its surveying parties with escorts of troops . Most persons , on reading the account of the battle in Colorado , will rather think that parties of soldiers on duty among hostile Indians should be supplied with escorts of scientific men . Certainly , the drilled and uniformed soldier , fighting according to UPTON 'S tactics , is much less formidable to the Indians than a. party of geographers and geologists would be , were they to fight with the splendid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific men can take ample care of themselves , and the War Department might wisely drill its soldiers in the use of the sextant and the theodolite , if it could thereby make them as accurate in Indian shooting as are Mr. GARDNER and his companions .                     