@@781454

txt When our civil war was ended , there was a feeling of regret expressed by very many that no medals or other honors were awarded to officers and men who had distinguished themselves in the army or navy for acts of conspicuous bravery . Not hiving anything of the sort to give , the Government naturally did not give it , but the Emperor WILLIAM has lately shown how easily such a difficulty can be avoided . That thrifty German baajust presented several of his officers with captured French cannon , as rewards for valor in the field . Now we captured quantities of cannon from the rebels . and had the idea occurred to us , we might have distributed them among our soldiers . The man who captured a regimental color might have been rewarded with a twelve-inch mortar , and other acts of bravery would have been fitly recompensed with thirty , twenty-four , twelve and six-pound guns . To be sure , these would have been inconvenient if their owners had attempted to wear them on their persons , and it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However . it is hardly to be supposed that the German Emperor has not thought of some use to which his gifts can be put , and what German soldiers can do American soldiers could likewise have Bono . The Methodist General Conferonce bus just elected eight new Bishops . Amon , the newly-elected Bishops are three editer a fact which will probably be quoted as an evi oince of the consideration in which journalists is ? aid . It should be remembered , however , that the editors of the Methodist official papers  --  of which there are a very large number  --  are clergymen detailed for the work by the Church authorities , and hence any Methodist Minister may be called upon at some time to assume the duties of editorship . The successful candidates elected yesterday are nearly all men of eminence , not only in the Methodist Church , but in the entire religious community of the country . Three of the number are from this State  --  Bishops FosTER , ANDREWS and Peck  --  the latter being , perhaps , the leading clergyman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few dais ago . has since made but one or two appearances . ' It is not to be supposed that a person so dull as to be unaware of the insolence of which he Is guilty can beye felt the prick of shame , and resolved Upon self-reformation . It is more probable that some bold man has resented ins insults , and that his nefarious career has thus received a temporary cheek . Whatever may be the reason , we should congratulate ourselves upon even this brief reignite from his importunities . Within the past week he has made only one or two attacks upon the peace of passengers , and in each instance he was evidently acting in the interests of Mr. GREELEY. since the result of his canvass was in that eccentric person 's favor . It is a curious fact that the ear-can vasser 's election returns vary inversely as the real votes polled at the proper polls . Thus , in 1864 , railway passengers were represented as nearly unanimously in favor of MCCLELLAN , ana in 1868 , one would have fancied , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressly in order to vote for SEYMOUR . The explanation of this fact is probably that exasperated passengers angrily profess precisely what they do not believe  --  or else that the oarcanvasser " cooks " his returns . Gen. MUCH , whom it was lately the fashion in France to style the heroic defender of Strasbourg , has been found guilty by Court-martial of having surrendered when he was capable of having prolonged the defense of the arty . In spite of this decision , public sentiment , which has heretofore been unanimous in favor of the gallant Maui , will probably continue to regard him as a hero and faithful officer . It is prob able that the real reason why URI= is found guilty is to afford a safe precedent for the conviction of BAzArsin for the unnecessary surrender of Metz . The present French Government has shown a disposition to crush RAZAINE , as one of the few steadfast Imperialists among the higher army officers . Hie conviction will be sure to be regarded by all Napoleoniats as a punishment for his Imperialist opinions , and the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be to point to the condemnation of Mum whose loyalty to the Republic is above suspicion . With the warm weather , the ravages of the peripatetic boy who infests railway-cars to prey upon passengers grow fiercer and more intolerable . He is no longer content with dropping undesirable newspapers on your lap , , with demanding that you purchase prize packages , or strenuously insisting that you fall a victim to his hideous pies . He now pervades the train laden with decayed bananas , shriveled apples , and a warm , thickened fluid , called in mockery " ice-water , ' which is dispensed in tin cups of forbidding aspect . Ice-water should be kept iu tanks in every car , and thus the only excuse for the peripatetic boy 's existence removed . The person who commits suicide by jumping from a ferry-boat is an unqualified nuisance . He always creates a painful excitement among the passengers , and usually succeeds in causing a long delay while those in charge of the boat are trying to save his miserable life . Even were he unable to commit suicide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an act in the presence or women and children would still be inexcusable . Suicide in public is a grossly indecent act , and is , in this City at all events , wholly unnecessary . There are so many opportunities in the way of poisons , pistols , and razors offered to the man who wishes to kill himself , that he has no excuse whatever for lumping from a crowded ferry-boat , as a rude fellow did on Tuesday night on the Thirty-fourth-street ferry . If he insists upon drowning himself , he can easily jump from any dock in the City after dark , and no one will see him . Public sentiment ought to frown upon those ill-bred fellows who shamelessly kill themselves in full view of scores of helpless spectators .                     