@@740996

txt The deposition of Judge Barnard is an event fraught with salutary lessons that were sorely needed . Of these . one of the most important is the paramount necessity of decorum and dignity in all proceedings connected with the administration of justice . No one who has been at all observant of manners and customs in our Courts during the last twenty years can have failed to notice their deterioration in those respects . The deterioriation has , of course . been gradual . but it has been constant and rapid ; and it is particularly significant and . worthy of remark that bad manners have been accompanied by , or have accompanied , inferior law , and . that a loss ' of dignity has kept equal step with an impaired sense of judicial purity and honor . Nor has this degradation been *confined to the Bench . Indeed , it could not be so . For the Bench and the Bar are so intimately connected , so interdependent , in such habits of daily close communication , that one could not become debased and corrupt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other . One Judge might be corrupt , for a while , another might be undignified , without the implication of the whole profession in their delinquencies ; but the whole Bench , with two or three honorable exceptions , of a large community could not become degraded both in morals and manners , unless the body of counsel that appeared . before it were not more or less careless of honor and decency . Had . professional honor and professional courtesy been rightly dear to the whole Bar of New-York , had the tone of that Bar been high and well sustained during the last twenty years , such Judges as BARNARD . CARDOZO , and McCurtsr , and others whom we have in mind , but need not now mention . would have been impossible . They would not have dared to do the deeds that they have done , to say the words that they have said . They could not then have stood before the storm of indignation that would have broken from the throng of their professional brethren . We would not underrate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the profession . no less than to the community . by the bold , able , and thorough manner in which it has undertaken , and thus far Performed , the great task of the purification of our corrupted Bench . But the best and most active members of that Association will support us in saying that the reason for its formation was the necessity of some great organization , some banded power , sufficiently strong to lift the profession as a body out of the slough into which it was surely and not very slowly sinking . The success of the projected plan has thus far been very encouraging , and we have . reason to hope that the great end of thorough regeneration maY be attained . But the task has only been begun . Our Courts are haunted daily by sneaks and bullies and boors who write themselves counselors-at-law . Orders and injunctions are granted , because orders and injunctions are asked for , the very asking of which a respect for justice and honorable practice would have estopped . Personal quarrels are carried on in open Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tone of the Bar will not sustain a Judge in such a prompt and stern rebuke as no man with any self-respect would . venture to incur . With the exception of the United States Courts and one , or perhaps two . of the occupants of our City Benches , these remarks have , we regret to say , a very gen- ' oral application ; although we have Judges who , for learning , integrity and dignity , would grace any Bench , and our Bar boasts many counsel who are worthily represented by such men as O'CoNoR and EVARTS . But such being the general condition of the profession , and the Judiciary being still elective. the suppression of three such men as McCARDOZO and BARNARD is plainly but a temporary relief . The Bar Association has honored its formation by showing What it can do in one direction  --  that of purifying the Bench ; to it the public will now look for earnest and persistent efforts in another  --  the elevation of the Bar ; an end hardly less to be desired than the former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel who has a standing retainer on the side of justice . Let the Association turn all the weight of its influence toward giving us again a Bench , not only pure but dignified , and . a Bar not only learned and . able , but distinguished by professional pride and courteous bearing . And to this end we repeat the suggestion made in these columns some weeks ago , that the example of the St. Loam Bar should be followed , in the assumption of the gown , which is recognized the whole world over as a becoming and appropriate costume for Judges and counsel when in Court . The dignity of . a horse-hair wig is laughable to many persons and questionable to almost all ; but in the gown there is certainly both dignity and grace . Moreover . the influence of this costume would be very great in imposing those restraints of decorum which our Courts of late have so sadly needed . We have seen - the influence of a costume in raising the tone of our Police force ; we all know that officers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and checked in the indulgence of reprehensible habits , by respect for their uniform . It is not absolutely impossible that a Judge might dispense justice of a reasonably good quality , sitting in his shirt and trousers , beguiling the tedium of argument by whittling , and marking the points of counsel by expectoration . But such is not the working of ordinary human nature ; and we hope that the Bar Association , in its efforts to elevate the profession of which it has in so short a time made itself the recognized representative , will give this question a serious and unprejudiced consideration .                     