@@741767

txt Just at present Long Island City presents a curious spectacle . Its inhabitants , becoming tired of living in a swamp , are raising the grade of their streets , so that heavy rain-falls can be induced to retire by way of the sewers , instead of taking up prolonged residence in cellars and the lower floors of basement houses . The consequence is that vast ramparts of earth are making their appearance in the middle of the streets , as if they were thrown up to protect the sidewalks from an enemy 's shot . Vagabond locomotives lounge about the town , whistling idly to themselves , and troops of dissolutelooking dirt-cars are perpetually on the point of starting out on extemporized tracks into the suburbs , under pretext of looking for work , or are returning from such excursions in a more muddy and disreputable condition than ever . Many of the houses are struggling up from behind the street embankment toward the light , and the piles on which they rest remind one of the feeble stalks that are developed by accidental potato vines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and reach vain tendrils toward the glimmering windows . Other houses are straggling off in search of better localities , and the belated wayfarer is liable to be shocked by the sight of a dissipated Methodist meeting-house which is spending the night in the gutter , or an intoxicated grocer 's shop which has stretched itself in the . middle of the street , and put off until morning the attempt to stagger toward its proper corner . The whole city is undergoing a sort of combined municipal moving and house-cleaning , and when the inliab itants reflect that this prolonged discomfort must be paid for by heavy taxation , they may very naturally ask themselves if it would not have been better to bear the chills they have than to fly to piles and embankments the cost whereof no man can estimate . Long Island City is passing through the same experience which Chicago and ninny other towns have already undergone , and which scores of American cities and villages have yet to undergo . The malarious diseases which desolate so many of our towns are due , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are situated in localities where drainage is impossible . They thus become the nurseries of fever , and the more thickly they become inhabited , the more al ) . - palling is their death-rate . To abandon them , and thus destroy the eapital which has been invested in them , is impracticable . The only remaining remedy is that of raising their level to a height sufficient to admit of a thorough system of drainage . It requires courage to undertake so costly a work , but in the end it pays . Chicago made sure of its future when it raised its grade , and Long Island City permanently secures its position as the terminus of the Long Island railways the measure which for the present entails so much discomfort and such burdensome taxation . ? The rapid and unparalleled growth of the population of the United States will c.eeessarily lead to the constant building of new towns and settlements for a century to come . We ought to learn from experience the folly of building on the low banks of rivers , or in valleys where water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In all the Western States and Territories , a little wise forethought will save the expense of raising whole towns , and thus temporarily swallowing up their value in taxation . It is not impossible to make the matter a subject of efficient legislation . If the state has the right to make any sanitary regulations whatever , it . assuredly has the right to say that its citizens shall not deliberately build cities in which fever must necessarily be a constant and active resident .                     