@@742982

txt The Convention of Anthracite Coal Miners of the State , which had been looked forward to with anxious expectation by thousands of producers and consumers of coal , mot in this city to-day . In point of numbers the convention was a failure , though no less than six counties  --  Dauphin , Schuylkill , Northumberland , Carbon , . Luzerne , and Columbia  --  were represented by the 11 persons present . The managers conducted the affair with great caution , care being taken , by means of secret sessions , that the public should not learn too much of the proceedings . The convention was held in an upper room of the Washington House , an obscure hotel in a quiet part of the city , and only delegates were admitted . The meeting was called to order by Mr. , of Carbon County , who read the resolutions offered at Hazleton on March 1 , and invited a free expression of views on the subject . The greater part of the day was spent in discussion , in the Course of which a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Luzerne Counties , in which the writers manifested a desire to cooperate iu any movements calculated to advance the interests of operators and miners . The meeting was addrqssed In the evening by Mr. , who dwelt on the necessity of more perfect and thorough organization for the struggle which , sooner or later , would bo joined between the corporations and the miners and laborers . Mr. also advised the reorganization of the Minors ' and Laborers ' Beneficial Association , which has been allowed to die out . The proceedings of the evening session consisted of the adoption of a resolution calling on the coal-miners and laborers of the State generally , and of the anthracite region in particular , to organize for tho accomplishment of the purpose for which to  --  day 's meeting was held  --  a general strike . The following preamble and resolution Were then adopted : Whereas , That inasmuch as the individual coal operators of the anthracite coal region manifest a strong desire to force a suspension of operations throughout the whole region . and as they have failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for them ; therefore , be it Resolved , That until the entire interests of the anthracite coal trade are fully represented at a joint meeting , including operators and miners , no further action will be taken looking to a restriction of the output of coal in the several regions . A committee was then appointed , with authority to issue an address to the miners of the State . The delegates to the convention do not hesitate to express their disappointment at the failure of the individual operators to participate in their meeting today . They say they had been led to believe that the individual operators were anxious to combine with the millers and laborers against tile great corpora . tions , but when the time came for action they ( tile individual operators ) withdrew and left the miners in the lurch . They say the situation is rendered difficult for them by reason of the individual operators , for whom a strong sympathy exists among the minors . They claim that they would have been successful in the great strike of 1871 and 1875 had it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come , they say , when the latter will be compelled either to join the millers or go to the wall before the corporations . In either event , a strike , it ordered , will be successful , as the feeling of animosity toward the companies is intense and universal . Although much disappointed by their failure this time , the delegates express the hope that the situation soon improve sufficiently to enable them to carry the movement for the correction of existing abuses to a successful issue .                     