@@741078

txt We have , on previous occasions , pointed out that the ravages of a great fire are recklessly invited by the numerous lumberyards on the east side of this City , and . by the utter disregard of the ordinary conditions of safety shown in permitting the existence of frame buildings in crowded and dangerous localities . We print to-day , in another column , some facts in regard to the condition and contents of several blocks in the neighborhood of Maiden-lane , Front and Water streets , from which it will be perceived that public neglect has allowed in this quarter the collection of a magazine of inflammable materials , such as the exercise of the most diabolical ingenuity could not have surpassed . The buildings of this section , commonly known as the " oil district , " have first had their floors and timbers thoroughly dried throughout nearly two generations of occupancy by some of the leading commercial houses of old New-York . As these went out , the oil men came in , and the dry-rot of the old warehouses and dwellings was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , petroleum , and all the other animal , vegetable , and mineral oils known to a rapidly developed and quickly expanding trade . The buildings in question , including at least a hundred oil and grease warehouses , never had the slightest pretensions to be fire-proof . The chief distinction they can claim now is , that they would burn longer , more brightly , and more fiercely than any other section of this , or , perhaps , of any great city in the world . Their cellars and Apt floors are calculate &; with perfect certainty , to burn " like pineknots , " while in the attics such invaluable aids to a destructive fire as loose resin and rolls of tarred felt are stored with the closest attention to securing splendid pyrotechnic effects . Given a chance spark , an " accidental " explosion of kerosene or gasoline , a quiet hour of the day or night , and a fresh south-east wind , and the " oil district " of New-York will start such a fire as will throw that of Boston in the shade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by means far less obvious , the City of Chicago . It is no exaggeration to say that the very possible association of such conditions as these , would sweep nearly the entire area occupied by colonial New-York , and might not improbably leave hardly a block untouched east of Broadway and south of the City Hall . Along the river front , we could not bring the force-pumps of a single floating " steamer " to bear upon such a fire . We have not pressure enough of Croton to rise to the third stories in that region , and with the extraordinary drain which would be made upon the supply in the event of a huge fire , the force of water would be ridiculously inadequate to cope with the destroyer . The outlook is by no means pleasant , but it is better to look at it before than after the event . The whole subject of precaution against fire in this City has been grossly neglected , like all other points of local administration . Tammany rule has not only left New-York poorer , dirtier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever before ; it has also left large sections of it in a condition as dangerous to life and property as if they contained exposed powder-magazines . Half measures are of no use against such evils ; the tinkering of Corporation ordinances , and the confident assertions of incompetent Fire Commissioners . will hardly serve to reassure a public which has once fairly comprehended the dangers to which its property and business interests are exposed . There must be a radical reform in the means of preventing great fires , as well as in the appliances for meeting them ; and these subjects can not too soon receive the attention of the authorities competent to deal with them .                     