@@742213

txt We had hoped that we should not be under the necessity of troubling our readers with further discussion of the inocli-befogged but really very simple question of how the President-elect shall take his office . But the reports which have recently come from Washington as to what the committees of the House and Senate may agree upon , concerning the action of Congress , make it proper to reopen the subject and to call attention to the points which are important and conclusive with reference to it . As an aid to the reader 's understanding ; we present in another column a clear and full analysis of the report of the House Committee on the Electoral Vote . This analysis will enable any one who chooses to see exactly what has been done since the adoption of the National Constitution in respect of those points now in dispute which have hitherto been raised , and have been acted on . Tho report is from a Democratic committee , and its plain agreement with the Republican doctrine is , therefore , the more noteworthy . The points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall " count " the votes I Can the House alone reject a vote Can the House alone decide when there has been no election , and , comequently , when it has itself the power of choice I Can Congress , or either branch of it . go behind the certificate of the Executive of a State to determine who are its Electors ? If the certificate can be thus passed by , what is the limit of Congressional investigation ? Can the ( palifieations and eligibility of individual Electors be inquired into ? All these points have been introduced in the debates in the Senate and the House . All of them are more or less directly connected with the facts in the case . But all of them , and all others we have seen stated are , subordinate in importance to the question , What are the powers and duties of the President of the Senate when two sets of differing certificates are placed in his hands I It is not doubted that it is his duty to " open the certificates ; " but what shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer to this question depends the relevancy of all the others . If it is answered in one way , and what we are perfectly clear is , under the law and on the facts , the only right way , then all other questions vanish . If it is answered in the opposite way , then there is , so far as human foresight can penetrate , no path out of the labyrinth of doubts and difficulties into which the Government will be plunged . To us it is plain that , when the President of the Senate has received more than one set of certificates from any State , it is his right and duty , as the law is , to decide which one ho will open . The Constitution requires him to open the certificates . It also provides in a general way what those certificates shall be . The acts of Congress direct how the certificates shall bo brought into the hands of the President of the Senate . Now , with two seta of certificates in his possession , and with an obligation laid upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary for him to decide which are the genuine certificates . Obviously only one sot iu each State can be so , and it is the genuine ones alone that he is authorized to open . In deciding this important question , ho is not to be guided by ; whim or prejudice or partisan feeling . Least of all is he to be guided by chance . His duty is to exhaust all accessible means to discover which are the genuine certificates , and then to open those , as the Constitution directs him to do . This is what is required of him ; it is all that is required of him in respect of the opening , and it is a duty which lie can not , as the law stands , evade or relegate to any other person or persons . In arriving at his conclusion he is at liberty , and it would be natural for him , to give great weight to the investigations and declarations of the body of which he is a member and an officer . When the President of the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they shall " then be counted . " On the interpretation of this provision a great deal of superfluous acumen has been wasted . The " counting " is a very simple process , consisting of adding up the votes announced in the certificates , and giving out the result . In the great majority of the elections which have taken place , this has been done by the President of the Senate , aided by Tellers , and the various questions which have arisen at the time of the counting have , almost without exceptiou , been in nowise like those now iu dispute . Congress has fallen into discussion over new States whose admission was in doubt , and over States in rebellion or not yet represented iu Congress ; it has disputed regarding the regularity of the Executive certificate , ( which question would arise in regard to Oregon , ) and once has rejected the vote of Louisiana wholly on the ground that there had been no legal election . But it is plain that of these questions some can not arise , and none are likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate has discharged the duty laid upon him by the Constitution , and opened the certificates which arc genuine . When these Are counted , it will be found very easy to determine who is President of the United State . The notion , therefore , that it is necessary to resort to the lot , or to take the Justices of the Supreme Court out of their legitimate sphere of duty , in order to settle the question , is not well founded . It is only necessary for the President of the Senate to do the duty imposed on him by the Constitution , according to the best information lie can secure ; we shall then have a straight and cue and legal way out of the half-imaginary difficulties which Mr. TILDEN 's ingenuity and that of his lawyers have provided for us.                     