@@741564

txt From geographical reasons , as well as from the tendency of commercial interests , it may be inferred that Italy always took a more or less active part in emigration . The Eastern trade was for centuries a channel of wealth for Italian merchants , and must have offered them occasional inducements to seek their fortunes beyond the natural limits of the Peninsula . Another source from which this number of fortuneseekers probably derived some increase is to be found in the eminence which Italians have long sustained in several of the liberal and artistic professions . Premiums , such as are held out to special talents , can not have failed to keep up a temporary outflow from certain ranks of the population . But as it affected very little the places whence it originated , as well as those to which it moved , there was not much attention paid to Italian emigration . It is only within a brief period that it assumed larger proportions , and that the Government thought it worth while to keep an official record and reliable tables of returns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about six months ago , by two gentlemen connected with the State Department and the Board of Official Statistics . According to their returns , the number of Italians who are established in foreign parts is not much less than five hundred thousand . A little less than half of this number is found iu Europe or on . the coasts of the Mediterranean . The main stream of emigrants who cross the ocean is turned toward the southern shores of the American continent . Affinity of races , and a climate more like their own than is that of North America , probably are the motives of preference . Among the virgin lauds which invite a spirit of foreign enterprise , those which form the rich basin of the Rio de la Plata are favorites . There are at this time not fewer than one hundred thousand inhabitants of Italian origin iu the Argentine Republic . They follow various pursuits , and industriously develop the wealth of their adopted country . Iu Uruguay also they head the statistical tables of foreign emigration . These show that of a hundred immigrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frenchmen , seven English , three Germans , and fourteen of various other nationalities . If Italian emigrants are less numerous in Chili , Peru , Bolivia , and Venezuela , it is , perhaps , owing to local political complications , or to difficulties of access . When these are once removed , there is no doubt that those countries will draw a considerable portion of ? European emigration . They contain immense pastoral , agricultural , and mineral wealth . Their population - is very much below what it ought to be , considering their area and resources , and the enterprising , industrious European is sure , sooner or later , to find there conditions of welfare and success such as the Old World does not afford . The Government of Brazil , more liberal and progressive than any other in South America , has offered extraordinary inducements to foreign emigration . There is room there for millions . for its present population of about twelve millions gives only four inhabitants to the square mile . There is wealth , too , for millions , at a moderate expense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes held forth have yet failed to yield the desired results . Germans alone have begun to show themselves iu respectable numbers , and Italians still prefer the banks of the Rio de la Plata to those of the Amazon . As for the United States , they have up to a recent date been little thought of by Italian emigrants . It was iu 1858 that the first important arrival was recorded . Since 1866 there has been an increase on previous returns , and , according to the nearest calculations , there are to-day about seventy thousand Italians in this country . California draws them more than any other State . The City of New-York contains about five thousand . A few only bring capital . Most of them belong to the working and uneducated classes . They find employment iu the streets . on the wharves , on railroads , and are employed in various ways as laborers , journeymen , sweepers , plasterers , venders , organ-grinders and rag-pickers . Many come over without any resources whatever , allured by fallacious pictures and promises , and fleeced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of scheming scoundrels . The Italian Government owed to its subjects the duty of protecting them against such deceptions , and we owe it to ourselves to protest against the importation and extension of pauperism . All men willing to work and be useful are welcome to our shores , but we do not mean them to be a place of refuge for the paupers or the criminals and outcasts of the Old World .                     