@@742803

txt The most intense excitement prevails here over the attack of 300 Indians upon ale cattle camp of Champan &; Tuttle , 20 miles from here , and in which George Simmonds and a man whose name is not known were killed . Simmonds was in a wagon , and was literally riddled with arrows and bullets . The remainder of the men fled . in the direction of Dodge City and were hotly pursued by the Indians . A few of them Only reached here . The horses of some of them were killed and they were left on foot . Their fate is not known . The horses of those who came in are nearly all wounded . A party of citizens are now preparing to leave for the steno of the fight . The Bluff Creek Ranch , 26 miles away , is said to be in a state of siege . Roving bands of Cheyennes have been seen within a few miles of town , and messengers are hourly arriving with startling news of depredations . The Indians are bold and fearless , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cattle man named Bates , who left here yesterday for his camp , 40 miles south , returned at 12 o'clock last night , and corroborates the reports of the killing of the cow-boy at Kollar 's Camp , on Bluff Creek . He reports the country much excited , and says that the Indians have killed two farmers and severely wounded another , and that they have surrounded Driskall Brothers ' cow camp , were killing cattle by hundreds , and have stolen many herds of horses . The news created much excitement , and a party of citizens and stock men , well armed and mounted , and all Indian fighters of experience , lest at once to aid them . Messengers from other points bring information that creates much alarm among cattleowners . One says that while he and others were busy yesterday afternoon burying the cow-boy mentioned before , they were set upon by a band of Indians and driven away from the grave , and that . they could see another party some distance away firing at a horseman who. while fleeing . was seen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is impossible to ascertain who the ( lead men are or just how ninny have been killed , but that some have been killed is definitely known , and that several cattle camps , from 30 to 60 miles south of Dodge City , are in need of assistance . Rumors of almost every description are current , and it is almost impossible to ascertain to what . extent the damage has been carried . A dete.chtnent of the Nineteenth Infantry , from Fort Dodge , have gone to scout south from the small station west , and to endeavor to prevent the Indians from journeying north . The number of Indians in the vicini y where the depredations have been committed is estimated at from 300 to 0 . Lieut . C. Gardner , of the Nineteenth Infantry , reports that official information by courier has just arrived stating that Capt . Rendelbrock , with two companies of the Fourth Cavalry . had an engagement with the Indians on the Cimarron , south about 40 miles , in which three men were killed and three wounded . The soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharp , but the Indian loss is unknown . Tho same courier says that two men and a child were killed near Sun City yesterday . This afternoon at 1 o'clock , the Cheyennes burned a farm-house within two miles of this city . The farmer and his family saw them corningand fled . The burning building could beseen distinctly , and the Indians were plainly visible with the aid of a glass . The greatest excitement prevailed , and women and children left their homes to gather in the streets for protection . Guns and horses were hurriedly gathered together and pursuit iven , but the Indians soon disappeared over the hills . Engines were at once started east a d west to warn settlers of the danger , and many have come in for protection . The Driskall party , which left on Monday . have just returned . They , with a company of the Fourth Cavalry , under Capt . Hemphill , together 77 strong , engagedwith. 300 Indians 30 miles from here , at 12 to-day . The Indians showed a degree of bravery never before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Indians drove the whites from the field . One soldier was mortally wounded . The Indian loss is unknown , but the scalp of one was brought in . The Indians are well armed and mounted , and it is said by experienced fighters that their bravery was remarkable . They report all the cattle camps abandoned and several men missing , who it is feared have been killed . Troops are on the way from Forts Elliott , Riley , and Lyon to Camp Supply . The running of night trains has been discontinued until the danger is over .                     