@@742399

txt The recent event which created so much surprise and consternation in Providence can hardly be passed over without comment by the thoughtful and earnest journalist . It is not a topic to be treated with the irreverent , if amusing , flippancy characteristic of such journals as the Evening Post or the Missionary &raid.; There are some subjects which should be approached in a serious frame of mind and handled with earnestness and dignity . The Providence affair is unquestionably one of these , and the lesson which it teaches is as solemn as it is valuable . Not very long ago a Chinese Commislioner , with some rather indefinite mission , took up his residence in Providence . He was an atniabh ; gentleman , who dressed in the Rhode Island style , and put up his pigtail with hairpins so as to effectually conceal it under his hat . He was accompanied by two pretty Chinese ladies , who were understood to be respectively his wife and sister-in-law , and who made up by their cheerful smiles for their ignorance of the Rhode Island language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " society , " and while the grave but affable Commissioner was especially popular among the ladies his fair companions were even more popular , since it was evident that no Matter how pretty they might be , two ladies who were able to converse only with the aid of signs and tea-chests could not prove dangerous rivals to lathes who could converse iu the best Rhode Island dialect upon such important subjects as PATTI 'S divorce- ease and the Brown University Base-ball Club . It was unanimously agreed , that the Chinese ladies were perfectly sweet . They were such dear little innocent things , remarked the Providence ladies ; though their feet were so ridiculously small , and they were awfully nice , even if they were so fearfully ignorant that they had never heard of . " Timothy Titcomb . " As for the Commissioner himself , he was just a perfect love , and it was awfully mean in the local orthodox ministers to call him a heathen . His religion was beautiful , and was almost the same as one of Mr. FROTHINGHAM 'S last religions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nice things could be anything but good , no matter if uncharitable people did call him a heathen . Whispered regrets that ' he was not an unmarried man were frequently heard , and more than one lady who was supposed to have given up all expectations of marriage took the broad general , ground that for a Christian woman to marry a well-meaning Confucian , order to gently lead him into the Unitarian fold , would be a noble exhibition of enlightened philanthropy . In course of time the Commissioner 's wife presented him with a small Chinese son , who was declared to be the exact image of the typical infant portrayed on Chinese falls . The Providence ladies felt a renewed interest in the happy Chinese household , and sent the happy mother presents of tea , fire-crackers , rice-pudding , crockery , and such other objects as might be supposed to meet her Chinese views . It was undoubtedly a mistake to send her a basket of sparrows ' nests , . since that particular variety of bird 's nest is not edible , but the Commissioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were grateful . A graver . mistake was made by a warm:hearted old lady who sent tile Commissioner a dozen choice young rats , and was greatly surprised when her present was unceremoniously thrown at the head of the small boy who carried it , and who subsequently reported that the Commissioner swore dreadfully in his , native and complicated tongue . Still , there could be no doubt that the arrival of the infant.Chinaman was warmly welcomed ; and that , on the whole , the popularity of the Chinese family was increased . To say that Providence was surprised when , precisely four months later , the amiable Commissioner announced that lie had a " new piecee small boy , " would convey a very faint idea of the effect of that announcement . Two successive small boys within four consecutive months was something unparalleled in the history of any Providence family . No serious objection would have been made to the two Chinese infants had the latest one avoided crowding so closely upon his predecessor ; for the Bostonian theory that maternity is an essentially indelicate act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as yet been fully adopted in Rhode Island communities . Nevertheless , it was felt that the presence of two infants , one of which was but four mouths older than the other , in a respectable family could not be overlooked . There were a few stanch friends of the Commissioner among the elderly single ladies whose hearts had been won by flowery Chinese compliments , who tried to smooth the matter over by suggesting that among a people so peculiar as the Chinese all sorts of odd customs might prevail ; but the suggestion was scornfully repelled by all the married ladies . The utmost efforts were made to solve the mystery which it was agreed hung on the affair . The leading minister was asked his opinion of it , and replied that the ways of the heathen are dark and past finding out ; and the officiating medical man refused to violate his Hippocratic oath by revealing the secrets of his patients . Finally , the truth was obtained directly from the frank and unsuspecting Commissioner , who explained that he had " two piecee wife , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his newest infant was the property of the second wife . That Commissioner being thus openly convicted of polygamy has fallen from his former height of popularity . He is no longer regarded as the best of men , and his wives . are no longer described as dear little innocent things . In fact , he has been openly denounced as a miserable pagan , and has been cut on the streets by the elderly maiden ladies , who recognize the improbability that he will become a complete widower in time to really mend his ways . Meanwhile , the unsuspecting pagan can not understand what is the matter , and has written to his Government that the barbarians have been infuriated at their glimpse of Chinese and meditate the massacre of himself and his family . This incident teaches more things than can bo well set forth within the limits of this column .                     