@@742785

txt Perhaps the most persistent fallacy that ever captivated the human mind is that which attributes such enormous power of national enrichment to the " balance of trade . " The President showed in his St. Paul speech that ho was carried away by it . " Balances , " he oraculary remarked , " must be settled in cash  --  the money of the world . " Therefore , wo are to infer the favorable balance brings us much cash and makes us rich , In his recent financial speeches , Senator BLAINE has given the weight of whatever authority ho may have to the same notion . He said , in an incidental sort of way , as though ho was announcing au undisputed and indisputable thing , that the conduct of national finance was a more matter of selling more than we buy . Before 1873 , he remarked , we thought we were getting rich ; but wo found that we had been buying $800,000- , 000 more than wo had been selling , which proves the contrary to have been the fact . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1-se buy , and have a large balance in our favor in foreign trade . The inference seems to be that we are getting rich , though few people can be found who will admit that they notice any such effect . If a farmer is buying more than he is selling , says Mr. BLAINE , ho is getting poorer ; if he is selling more than he buys , he is getting richer . " The idea holds good with the trade of the country . " Now , this kind of reasoning is calculated to confuse and mislead , and will not promote a clearer understanding either of the principles of currency or foreign trade . The analogy suggested does not " hold good . " In fact , it is the prolific source of false ideas , and at the bottom of theories which have long perverted legislation to the injury of the country . It is of the essence of the " mercantile theory , " long since discarded by enlightened students of finance and trade . That theory , which received its deathblow a hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notion that money was wealth , and the way for a nation to get rich was , not to develop and make the most of its own resources , but to accumulate money by drawing it from other nations through the " balance of trade . " Though this theory has been refuted over and over again , and has long since ceased to have influence with some of the most successful of commercial nations , it has continued in this country to be almost the foundation of our revenue legislation , and has had no little effect upon the financial policy of the Government . Timid believers in a resumption of specie payments have contended that it could only be accomplished with a favorable " balance of trade , " and others have contended that to secure that result should be the chief aim of legislation bearing on finance and commerce . And yet it does not require very deep study or remarkable sagacity to convince any one that , first and last , all foreign trade must balance about even . The real objects of trade are merchandise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries only au equivalent of what it sends them . In a normal state of things , there is no gain in an increase of money , and the real source of national wealth is the nation itself , and not foreign countries . To hake the most of our own resources and build up our internal prosperity , we must exchange what we produce for what others produce ; but the gain is in the development of our powers of production , and in the increase of their results , and not in getting more from others than wo give them . What do the " unfavorable balance of trade " prior to 1873 , and the " favorable balance " since actually show ? Under the stimulus of an inflated and depreciated currency , and au abnormal extension of the credit system before that date , we were drawing capital from all quarters . In what did wo pay for the $800,000,000 , more or less , which we are said to have bought in excess of what we sold ? Certainly not in money , for in calculating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included with that of merchandise . This vast amount came over in exchange for our credit obligations , the bonds of the nation , of States , of municipalities , and of corporations . In other words , it was borrowed , in the same reckless way , for the most part , that we were borrowing right and left among ourselves here at home . We did not buy so much excess of merchandise and pay for it ; wo put our obligations on the market , and the merchandise came of necessity to pay for them , and added to the general stimulation of trade and extravagance . The balance of trade is said to have " turned in our favor . " What does that mean Simply that we are gradually paying back what we borrowed years ago . In the dullness and depression of trade our people have been putting their money in the public securities and they are drawn home from Europe . They must be paid for , and merchandise goes out for the purpose , and so Mr. BLAINE and others say we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting rich . It is not to be regretted deleted 2 lines should not be confounded with the legitimate operations of commerce . There no special advantage or disadvantage in a temporary balance of trade either way , anL apart fromincurring or liquidating indebtedness , it can never be permanent in one direction . Moreover , the balance of trade has nothing whatever to do with the abilitf of the country to maintain a specie basis . What we need wo can buy , so long as we have the wherewithal to pay , and for extraordinary needs we can borrow , so long as we keep our credit good . This applies as fully to gold as to provisions or the munitions of war . With a national credit kept above suspicion , and legislation to promote a sound and healthy trade , there is no difficulty in resuming and maintaining a specie basis for our currency .                     