@@742551

txt It is once more seriously proposed to entreat Congress to admit Utah into the family of States . A bill for this purpose has been introduced in the House by GEORGE Q. CANNON , the Mormon delegate . Mr. CANNON has already been before the Committee on Territories with an argument in favor of the admission of Utah . But he sedulously evaded the notorious objections to the measure . He had nothing to say about the often-repeated. allegation that the Mormon priesthood use the limited political power derived under the organic act of the Territory for the purpose of building up their Church and excluding non-Mormon settlers . He relied , it is understood , upon the wellworn argument that the Territory is rich and populous , and therefore ought to be a State . Delegate CANNON is a plausible man ; otherwise the crafty= Mormons would not have sent him to Congress . It is intimated that he has secured Congressional aid for his scheme from Nebraska , Illinois , and one of the Now-England States . To offset this bold attempt to give Mormonism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-Mormon citizens of Utah is now in Washington opposing CANNON 'S bill , and urging the passage of law to suppress polygamy . Their arguments , though not novel , have the merit of being illustrated with many new facts  --  facts which can not be too forcibly and frequently pressed on the attention of Congress . It is not pretended that the Mormons will give up their polygamous habits ? if they should be permitted to form a State Government . Such a pretense , if made , would amount to nothing . The Utah Legislature , under existing conditions , is a strictly Mormon body . It might almost be called a religious body , since , with a single exception , it is composed of Mormon Bishops and apostles . There is every reason to suppose that a State Legislature would be constituted in the same manner . An anti-polygamy clause in the State Constitution would be practically annulled by a Mormon Legislature . And the manner of legislation which would occupy the attention of a Mormon State Legislature may be guessed at when we consider what the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present head of the Mormon Church , when in the Utah Legislature , in 1876 , introduced a bill to limit the time of bringing prosecutions for murder , where Mormons wore concerned as defendants , to three years . He refused to extend this privilege to non-Mormons , and advocated the passage of the bill in a speech full of abuse of the Federal courts . The bill was favorably reported upon , and only failed because the priesthood were afraid to face the impending veto of the non-Mormon Governor of the Territory . TAYLOR was the champion of another bill which had for its purpose the expulsion of smelting and quartz mills from the streams and valleys of the Territory , and their ' banishment to the tops of the mountains . This absurd piece of tyranny was actually passed , and only the veto of the Governor saved the destruction of much valuable mining property . It is easy to see what would happen if Utah had a State Government  --  Legislative , Judicial , and Executive  --  wholly Mormon , as it surely would be . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Industrial enterprises for this purpose would eventually bring so many strangers. , or " Gentiles , ' into the country that the Mormons would lose their present numerical and political preponderance . Less than te*.ears ago , GODBE , LAWRENCE , SHEARMAN , and others wore excommunicated , or " cut off " with much cursing , for advocating a development of the mines . These men were subsequently persecuted to financial ruin . All of which was in harmony with the policy of exclusion pursued by the Mormon hierarchy . It is merely the Mormon policy of self-preservation . The non-Mormons have $40,000,000 invested in the mines of Utah . In the event of this vast property becoming subject to regulation and taxation by a Mormon State Government , these men would not sacrifice their interests without a struggle . They would have no redress in the State courts ; they would be powerless against State officers , and the United States Government would not interfere without a call from the State authorities ; and that call would never come . Wo trust that the Jesuitical and oily arguments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The animus and purposes of the Mormon leaders have been too frequently made manifest , it seems to us , for any intelligent legislator now to be deceived . The Mormons , notwithstanding their pretensions to virtue , are the same bad lot that they ever wore . They believe , or affect to believe , that the end justifies the means , when the end to be gained involves " the prosperity of Zion . " Innumerable murders have been committed in the sacred name of the Church . Theft , lying , conspiracy , perjury , and all manner of deception , are justifiable in Mormon eyes when , committed in defense of Mormonism , or against the enemies of their religion . Polygamy is bound upon their consciences by a sacred obligation ; it is not only authorized but coinmanded by a divine revelation . From such a people what can be expected , when they shall secure a State Government , but a strengthening of their present peculiar vices , and ? a persistent persecution of all non-Mormons This newest attempt to clothe Mormonism with the dignity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ au abominable and insidious organization . There is no good reason why the Territory , with its insufficient population , should be created into'a State , even if it were not a Mormon settlement . There is abundant reason why this daring scheme to give new vigor to a great national scandal should not succeed . The smooth-speaking agents , who now beseech the favor of a State Government with such pathetic protest against " persecution , " are not to be trusted . Conspiracy is as natural to them as the common air .                     