@@742786

txt Objection is made to the call of the Republican State Committee , for a convention , on the ground that the National Administration is ignored . The omission is declared to be provocative of dissension . To us it seems the exercise of a wise discretion . The business of the convention , apart from the single nomination which it is required to make , is to consider how best to promote the welfare and usefulness of the party . Unity is essential to the attainment of this object . But the party is not united in its estimate of the men composing the Administration , of their conduct of affairs , or of the tendency of measures with which as a body they are identified . So far as the Administration is concerned , therefore , the price of party unity is silence . And the committee in convening the convention could not properly disregard the only terms on which harmony in the convention can be maintained . In this connection it is well to keep in remembrance the drift of party sentiment as evidenced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proves the slight estimation in which the Administration is held by the party , and the prevailing unwillingness of the latter to accept the responsibility which the most guarded mention of the President and his policy involves . The few " indorsements " which the President 's friends have contrived to obtain may be presented first , ? if only as a warning to the over-zealous persons who contemplate a similar effort at Saratoga . ; The Vermont convention leads off with an approving mention of " the motives and general course of the Administration , " coupled with an admission of the existence of " a difference as to policy , " and winding up with a gospel plea for charity . As nobody has impugned the motives of President HAYES , this is not a formidable challenge to the majority who disapprove of much that he has done , and complain that he has left yet more undone ; and the minority were allowed the little consolation which the resolution affords them . The Indiana convention bases its reference to the President upon the Democratic desire to upset his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its praise to his " personal integrity " and the " general course of his Administration . " Ohio is a little more cordial . It professel to see in his Administration " the highest integrity and patriotism , the most sincere effort to promote political purity and harmony and secure general business prosperity . " A State to which the President has assigned a very large share of his patronage could not , with any degree of decency , say less . Tho only genuine " gush " occurs in the ease of Minnesota , whose platform , or so much of it as relates to the Administration , is entirely the handiwork of some genius who draws upon his imagination for his facts , and sketches a portrait that bears no resemblance to the original . The precise value of Minnesota 's testimony may bo inferred from the fact that it treats Mr. IIAves ' civil service reform as a great reality . To preserve appearances , it concedes the presence of " embarrassments , incidents , and collateral difficulties " as a drawback to the glory of thevAdministration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of responsibility . The only other platform which gives a crumb of comfort to the Administration is that adopted by the Alabama convention . " We heartily sympathize with the purposes of the President in his efforts " to allay Southern irritation , is the consolation we refer to ; but after all it is unsubstantial , since the resolution expresses " regret that these efforts have not been more successful . " Look now at the other side . The Administration and its measures are utterly ignored by the representative Republicans of Maine , Pennsylvania , Michigan , Illinois , Iowa , Kansas , Colorado , Oregon , South Carolina , Tennessee . The conventions held in these States passed over the whole subject in silence as the only mode of reconciling themselves to the absence of the condemnation which , had they spoken at all , would have been pronounced . Maine , Pennsylvania , Michigan , and Colorado emphasize their silence in regard to the President by hearty praise of their State administrations . their Governors , none for the President . Iowa indirectly hits him by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war between North and South was a war between Greek and Greek , with no greater merit on oats side than on the other . In Tennessee an attempt was made to extort some solace for the Administration , but the ' resolution was withdrawn to escape rejection . In South Carolina Mr. HAYES ' friends were less judicious , and the approving resolution was promptly voted down . If the Administration had friends in the other conventions , they were too discreet to expose themselves to public humiliation . Any effort they made was unseen by the reporters , and they submitted to the policy of silence as the alternative of censure . The sources of the feeling which thus obviously preponderates in the party we need not stop to consider . The fact is sufficient for our present purpose . It shows that the New-York Committee would have encountered the risk of an explosion had it ventured to assume that the Administration is in harmony with the party . And it also shows the necessity of avoiding the same difficulty in the coming convention . Next to the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ; and anAdministration that persists in claiming indorsements which the party is not willing to give is really entitled to scant courtesy .                     