@@740660

txt Last night 's meeting at the Cooper Union was the most imposing political demonstration which this City has witnessed for several years . Not imposing by virtue of the braying of multitudinous brass bands and much burning of blue fire ; not imposing even because of mere numbers , though the hall was crowded to its utmost capacity ; but imposing in the best and highest sense , because it presented a magnificent assemblage of thoughtful and intelligent citizens , brought together by a common sense of duty and a common resentment of wrong . No party trumpet could have summoned a meeting so thoroughly representative of all the varied interests of this great community , and so keenly appreciative of intellectual and oratorical display of the highest order . The Bar sent some of its brightest ornaments , and a liberal contribution of its rank and . file ; distinguished leaders in the Christian Church were there , and men of the highest name in the walks of commerce . Large property-owners might have been numbered by the score , and . the flower of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the counting-room were there , to testify by their presence and applause how keenly they sympathized with the great crusade in favor of right and justice and free government which the meeting was designed to inaugurate . Not a point of vigorous argument , biting irony , of scathing denunciation was lost upon the mass of reflective and enlightened citizenship that faced the chair . The speakers addressed themselves as to thinking men , and they judged well of what was said . As Mr. EVARTS justly remarked , bad the labors of the Council of Reform been destined to yield no other result than this , they had not wrought in vain . The men who misgovern us could appreciate the significance of such a demonstration , as fully as they could the opinions that swayed a Ward meeting , or controlled a caucus of roughs . To us , who have labored to form that public sentiment , of which the meeting was a. noble expression , it was no slender gratification to find the popular pulse beat so truly to a repetition of the special appeals that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were honest Democrats who were ashamed of the infamy of Tammany , and who would forward any movement to rid their party of the " Ring . " The President of last night 's meeting , Ex-Mayor HAVENIEYER , an honest and upright Democrat of the times when that party in this City had not cast principle to the winds , emphasized by his position , and . gave trenchant expression by his words , to this opinion . We have stigmatized in the strongest terms the inconsequential and delusive character of the report of the Astor white-washing committee . Judge BAurcErr 's scornful reference to this transaction was cheered to the echo . We have condemned without stint the unconstitutional and fraudulent Tax-levy scheme . The masterly exposition given by Mr. EvAnis of the enormity of this proposal , and the eloquent denunciation by Mr. BEECIIER of some of its fruits , elicited the hearty and unanimous approval of an auditory whose moral greatness was even more apparent than its numbers . The Republican journalism that coquets with Tammany , and the corrupt wing of the party that shares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what the best members of every section of this community think of them . The Press that is gagged , and the leading citizens who are either deceived or bribed by an unscrupulous Ring , are as distinctly recognized and marked out for condemnation by the independent and educated . voters of this City , as the salaried servants of Tammany who misrepresent us in the Legislature , and the Republicans who betray us at the polls . Last night the people began to realize fully their own power , and we shall not have to wait long to see how effectively they can ite " It will no longer , " said Mr. Evens , " be a pride , but a shame and disgrace , to be a New-Yorker , if New-Yorkers can not lift themselves out of the infamy into which they have sunk . " The manhood of this City has been appealed to as it never was since the flag was fired . upon at Sumter , and , with capable leadership , the new war against an insolent oligarchy can be carried to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well shown last night , we owe it not only to ourselves , but to the nation , that the crying scandal of local misrule should be removed . Our common institutions have been outraged , and . made a byword and a hissing by the men who have cheated themselves into power in this State and City . And further , as Mr. EVARTS again showed , suppose a Presidential election should turn upon the fraudulentlyobtained and falsely-returned vote of New York  --  would the men who took up their muskets to enforce the peaceful vote of 1860 not again support , by the same means , the true vote of the country in 1872 , or at any future period. ? It is perfectly true that we are at this moment coming face to face with the great and real problems of politics , and that no subject among all the dead issues of previous struggles occupies the mind of the country at large half so much as the question bow republican institutions are to come out of their crucial trial in New-York . The " noble minority " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was loudly cheered last night . The same speaker deplored the want of concerted action among the organs of public opinion , from whom aid . in a fight for truth and honesty might be expected . The people need hardly be reminded that in this , as in other details of the conflict , they have the remedy in their own hands . Let the stipendiaries of the Ring have the option of living by the Ring , and that alone , or of earning the suppoft and . approval of the ' people , and we shall see fewer journals so Solicitous of keeping on both sides of the political fence . In a crusade like this , those who are not with us are against us , and neither from the Press , the politician , nor the citizen , can a hollow truce with the Ring coexist with any good service in the cause of reform .                     