@@740961

txt Certain people are never tired . of ringing the changes upon Custom-house mismanagement , or rather they ring without the changes . It is ever the same old chime . one part of which is always the wrongs of some merchant or trader of spotless character , whose business and whose reputation suffer because the Collector , or some other agent of the Treasury Department , is taking all the means the law allows to compel his compliance with the Revenue laws . He can not imagine why it is that his books are kept so long , and why he is asked such very unpleasant questions , unless it is to get " blood-money " out of ? him . This is quite Vatural . It is not at all surprising that a gentleman who has been evading the Revenue laws , possibly swearing false oaths. or having them sworn for him , should deem it a great outrage that his books are seized , and . regard the fine to which he will be subjected or the compromise he will have to pay , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been obliged to sweat blood ; but for that there is no other reason than their own actions and the operation of the law . If mewhants will doctor their invoices , if they will bribe weighers and inspectors in hope of gain , they know they run the risk of very uncomfortable , and in fact injurious , proceedings , with the prospect of fines , and other pains and penalties , when they are found out . The degree to which the Government has been defrauded in past years is hardly suspected by the public generally , and would be almost incredible were it not so well substantiated . by the results of recent investigations . And one of the worst features of these fraudit -- all accompanied by perjury and . bribery somewhere  --  is that in so many cases they are perpetrated by commercial houses of wealth , and , hitherto . of high standing . Men who hold their heads very high in the social and mercantile world have not scorned to stoop to vile tricks , to subornation of perjury , and to bribery , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dollars to their yearly . receipts . Not all of these cases have been made ' public , or even been made the occasion of proceedings . For in many . of them the offenders have " come down " at once like the coon , and paid up their delinquencies to save their credit . Others are foolish and resist , and make an outcry , going chiefly to the " Anti-Grant " journals with their woes ; relating them as examples of " the misconduct of this corrupt Administration . " It is needless to say that they get a ready hearing , and are held up as martyrs to the greed of that omniverous soldier at Washington and . of his myrmidons . Meantime the Treasury officers go quietly on according to law and make these perjuring , bribing gentlemen disgorge their " blood-money . " This is known to all persons in the official employ of the Treasury Department , and might be known to any one who would . make the proper inquiries with discretion and in good faith . The matter has been somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration means that the Government shall not only deal justly , but be dealt justly by ; and the consequence is that there are inquisitive official persons engaged in looking closely into the transactions of certain importing houses , and once in every little while they perpetrate the outrage of detecting fraud , with the still further infamy of extorting " blood-money " in the shape of fines or compromises ; all , however , according to law , and by the authority of the Courts or of the officers of the Department of Justice . And that is Gen. GrANT 's Custom-House mismanagement .                     