@@742127

txt So many spiritual mediums have recently been detected in cheating and publicly exposed that the ghostly cause has seriously suffered . Of course , those who originally believed in Fuxr 's teapot and SLADE 'S slate will probably hold fast to their fantastic faith , but unless ? the spirits liberate SLADE from the House of Correction , or by some other equally skillful feat repair their damaged reputations , the number of future proselytes to Spiritualism will be extremely small . In spite , however , of the bad route into which spirits have fallen , a courageous German philosopher has just come to their aid . Herr HELLF:Nnnen , a citizen of Vienna , who has for years enjoyed the local reputation of holding vaguer views as to the unconditioned and the unknowable than any other philosopher has ventured to hold , has written a book in which he sets forth the evidence which has convinced him of the truth of Spiritualism , and made him conscious that he has an immortal soul . This evidence is of the most conclusive and delightful character , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he prefers it to the vaguest theories and the best tobacco with which German philosophy is acquainted . Of course , there was a " medium " concerned in the conversion of Herr HELLENBACH . Fortunately for him , the medium was not a tiresome slate-writer , or au elderly priest of the sacred teapot , but a young and personally handsome American woman . This medium , whose name was LOTTLE FOWLER , went from London to Vienna expressly to convert the Viennese philosopher , and the evidence which she produced was so remarkable that it deserves to be set before our readers . Having invited two or three philosophical friends to be present and to see fair play , HerrHELmNuncur tied the medium in a chair in the middle of a room , and placed over het head what he calls a garment , but what was evidently . a meal-bag , which reached nearly to her feet . The devoted investireator then sat down at her feet . with his " back turned in such a way " that the back of his head rested on her knees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not present , and it is to be presumed that the investigator felt that he would trust to the discretion of those of his friends who were present . Still , there is no doubt that Herr II.MLENBACII has acted rashly in pubhaling so minute a description of his method of investigation . He may rest assured that sooner or later it will come to the knowledge of his wife , who will thereupon convince him that , though his soul may be immortal , his hair is certainly mortal , besides being inserted much too loosely to bear any severe and prolonged strain . Having placed himself in the pleasant , but indiscreet , position above described , Herr HELLENBACH immediately , and to his great surprise , began to experience novel sensations . Among them was , as he asserts , a " sensation as if somebody was running his finger nails from the nape of my neck up to the part in my hair . " This immediately convinced him that there is another world , inhabited , to some extent , by the spirits of just barbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who find the testimony of St. Paul , unworthy of attention , this overwhelming evidence will be entirely conclusive . Another sensation was that of " two strong , and , once , of four delicate fingers , " which touched Herr HELLENBACH 'S temples . After this he could no longer doubt that he had an immortal soul , and so delighted was he with the clearness and force of the evidence that he " spoke out loudly , and in vain desired its repetition . " He does not say whether the touch of the two strong or . the four delicate fingers was most agreeable to him , but it is probable that he would have been contented with either . The spirits , however , not only declined to gratify him , but openly resented his attempt to dictate to them . " The third feeling , " says Herr HELLENBACH , with mingled sadness and joy , " was a quite common and unpleasant one on the top of my head . " He does not tell us whether it reminded him more of a poker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that for a moment the terrible idea flashed upon him that Mrs. HELLENBACH had softly entered the room , and was expressing in " a common and unpleasant " way her opinion of her husband 's method of investigating spiritual phenomena . Nevertheless , his fears were unfounded . The invisible poker or broom-handle was wielded solely by spiritual hands , and with the double object of warning him that he had been wanting in courtesy in sitting up and hailing for more " delicate fingers , " and that there is a Great First Cause . Naturally , he w as strangely convinced of both of these great truths . An elderly and inactive philosopher can be convinced of almost anything by banging him over the head in a dark room , where there are ne policemen within call . Herr HELLENBACII promptly yielded to the unanswerable argument of the spirits , and he went forth from that game a confirmed Spiritualist , buoyed up by the hope of meeting accomplished barbers in the future world , though , perhaps , a little saddened at the thought that , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not wholly cease from troubling . The results of HELLENBACH 'S investigations are so completely satisfactory , that persons who are uncertain whether they have or have not immortal souls have only to read the record of his experience to have their doubts dispelled , It can not be too strongly impressed upon them , however , that it is unnecessary for them to repeat the philosopher 's experiments by personally leaning their heads on some attractive medium 's lap , and waiting for novel sensations in their hair . Let them be contented with what Herr HELLENBACH has done in their behalf ; and not rashly seek superfluous evidence at the risk of incurring the domestic difficulties which will sooner or later overtake that devoted investigator.                     