@@781733

txt political corruption is not a new disease to the Anglo-Saxon race , and that it was a flourishing disease in England under a Government of au aristocracy . It is no palliation of our own faults that members of the British Parliament were bought by the score , as one might buy goods over a counter ; nor that the Speaker of the house of Commons was a chief huckster in this disgraceful traffic ; nor that a treaty was carried . through Parliament by Lord Burt : ' s open expenditure of bribes ; nor that two hundred members of one Parliament were believed to be in the direct pay of the Government , mad that the price of sold peerages was openly entered on the books of the eschequer . No American citizen will be content that Congressmen shall be corrupt and Government officials venal because aristocratic England bought political support with rich sinecures , or because millionaires bought seats in Parliament as they would buy acres of ground , or because it was or is common in England for the clerical member of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyment of a couple of canonries , or two or three benefices with the care of souls , the tithes of which ho drew as a non-resident . But it is some satisfaction that these historical reminiscences prove that political corruption is not a distinctively republican malady , nor yet one which is incurable . Even the peculiar forms which the disorder has assumed in our day are merely repetitions of old types . Railway jobbery in Great.Britaia has been as insidious in its approaches and as fatal in its embraces , when the reputations of British legislators were concerned , as similar schemes hate ever been in the United . States . The Honse of Lords , as well as the House of Commons , has been a vulgar ring , exacting tribute from the railway companies for every member of Parliament who owned property on the contemplated lines of road . It is said that the Parliamentary expenses of the London and Brighton Railway were $15,009 per mile . Nor are we to understand that this subsidy was distributed with the show of decent privacy with which the managers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most good . In England , at least , there has always been one ready instrument of political corruption which we know almost nothing of in America ? the gift of fat sinecure , life-hold offices . The costly and meaningless incumbrances of an old official system have not ' yet fastened themselves upon our political fabric . It is not possible , whatever is true of our so-called ' ? enormous official patronage , " for Ministers to buy support by the bestowal of life appointments which yield an income without exacting any labor , arid which represent nothing but a long-forgotten form of service . Of course , less is proved by the recollection of individual personal instances of corruption in office , in an aristocratic Government , than by a comparison of the general condition of such a government with that of our own . To say that certain Ministers in the British Government covered their names with infamy by their dishonest conduct is to say that aristocratic institutions are no safeguard to individual character , and a high station in a monarchical government no more free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a republic . Men are the same everywhere . But it is possible for a political system to act upon the morals and manners of an entire people . In GOLDWIN Ssrtra 's paper there is no attempt to prescsibe an absolute remedy for the ills with which we are now struggling in the United States . As we have said , some of the sources of political corruption which have been so difficult to extirpate in other countries are unknown here . As for that form of disease which is seen in the Belknap case , it is suggested that a sharp , clear law , framed to meet such cases , immediately overwhelming the guilty man , instead of dallying with him in a pompous and cumbrous impeachment , would be a most effective remedy . Railroads and their franchises . Mr. Surest thinks , should not be intrusted to political assemblies , but to a board of scientific men , acting under legislative authority , and answerable with their professional rem . tation for the result . The prime necessity , as every man will admit , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are familiar with the arguments and illustrations which are used to show how the absence of such a civil service has wrought the greatest evils . And we do not need to be told by even such ' a friendly critic as Mr. GOLDWIN SAitrii that administrative reform is really one great question , if not the great question , in the pending Presidential election . The national pride has been alarmed , and we only need that the public sentiment shall fully realize the need of an improved civil service , in order to secure that reform . Congress only can effect a reformation in the civil service , and when Congressmen find their interest is so far following an intelligent public opinion rather than in holding to official patronage for personal and party uses , we shall have reform  --  not before . It is possible , as Mr. Small suggests , that we have too much partyism in the United States . But we must have parties , nevertheless , and that party will longest endure which proves itself not only faithful to the Republic but to honest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a friendly neighbor are always worthy of consideration , GOLDWIN Sat ra 's opinions concerning the causes and cure of political corruption in the United States have a certain value . Nobody , we presume , will question the sympathy with the Republic and with republicanism which this writer possesses . He has never failed to show that his long and patient study of the problem of popular government convinces him that the Republic is not only the ideal but the ultimate practical framework for all human society . Therefore , when he considers , as he does , the discouraging forms of political degeneracy which , in the United States , appear in venality and corruption in official station , we may be sure that he endeavors to discover how far the evil is peculiar to the republican system , and what are the possibilities of its cure . In the first place , iu his late letter to a Canadian journal . Mr. Smith recalls the fact that With the highest elective office in the world almost within his grasp , he utterly ranged to do ui act or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him , he would accept as an honor and a trust , but ho would not reach out his hand to lay hold of it . In the midst of the struggle , the manoeuvring and counter-manoeuvring , the schemes , combinations , bargains , no one could promise anything for Gen. HAYES , no one claim anything of him . The almost complete singularity of this attitude , which no candidate except Secretary BRISTOW could imitate , was of itself , a powerful element in Gen. HAYES ' strength . strength in the Convention : will give him The facts which gave Gen. HAYES so much equal advantage , if , as is now hardly doubtful , lie is called to the Presidency . He will carry no pledges into the White House , and . will be as free to perform its duties as ho deems wisest as he is to-day . There never was a candidate less under obligations to the machinery , of politics , and there could not be a President ' more at liberty than ' he , to servo his country first and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advice of those , in whom he has confidence , is not reasonable ; but there , is every reason to believe that he will be guided by an intelligent interpretation of the desires of the whole country . And a man who has shown himself so unselfish can be relied . on not to subordinate the interests of the public to the selfish ambition of others , oven though they be party leaders .                     