@@743080

txt There are three ways in which colossal fortunes have been built up in this country . One has been by a judicious and careful investment in real estate in growing communities . The inheritors of the little cabbage farms of the early Dutch settlers on this Island of Manhattan became millionaires without effort , by merely holding on to their possessions while the City grew up and land became valuable by the sole fact of being wanted by an increasing population and a growing business . They needed only to nurse their patrimony and see it spring up and spread like JONAH 'S gourd , but , unlike that historic vegetable , it hardened into enduring substance . Others in this and younger cities have seen the advantage of securing the inevitable increment to the value of land in places destined to vigorous growth , and have put their capital , as fast as it could be spared , into the secure investment of real . estate  --  secure when fully paid and hold ' in permanence . The riches that come from this source have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in. part of good fortune , but in either case the process of acquisition is legitimate , and no one can begrudge the owners their fair estates . Another method of getting enormously rich has been by the energetic , skillful , and fortunate conduct of business enterprises . Thousands have engaged in the attempt where one has succeeded ; but in a few cases vast fortunes have been built up in a single lifetime by sheer devotion to business and the unremitting application of those qualities best calculated to bring success . Such fortunes are not altogether secure in other hands than those which have made them , for their preservation requires something of the same qualities , the same shrewdness , skill , and energy , which'wero necessary to their accumulation ; but they are tolerably stable . It is certainly easier to keep and to manage what is already attained than it is to acquire and to increase , but the results of commercial ventures and of skill or good fortune in business are apt to be divided up and to become scattered in the course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up apparent wealth is less legitimate , and the results far less substantial . It has sprung from the vast development of corporate enterprises , depending in some measure upon privileges granted by the State and exercised presumably in the interest of the public as well as for the profit of the managers . The extension of this mode of moneymaking has been so rapid during the past generation that it has outstripped all effort of the popular mind to comprehend its bearing upon the common weal , and its true relations to the body politic that has bestowed franchises and opportunities for its behoof . It came upon the stage when no system of principles had been established for its regulation , and it has either controlled legislation for itself or eluded its grasp until the problem of bringing the young giant into subjection has become one of formidable difficulty . This mode of fortune-building has been most strikingly it-. lustrated in the career of railroad magnates , and the means used have been such as to give their colossal structures a fragile foundation . It is not necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common knowledge that the rated value of the great lines of communication , and of the stock that represents the wealth of those that control them , is largely fictitious  --  that is , it is not an exact measure of a substantial existing property or of actual capital in possession or in use . Stock has been increased and multiplied and obligations assumed , until a fortune on paper of many millions may have for its basis a bona fide investment of only a fraction of the amount ! Its rated value depends on its power of Paying dividends out of the receipts of business . Money has been drawn from the smaller holders of stock and from buyers of bonds , and has been used at the discretion of a small number of managers who have had practical control . They have carried out their own schemes andprojects , and profited at once at the expense of the general body of stockholders and the public , which they are presumed to serve in return for their franchises . They are rated as holders of many millions , and possessors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are kept up . The vast structure of assumed wealth rests on a slender sup- port of 6 or , 8 per cent . of ' ' not income-on stock , and not on actual investment , and all the while the hand of the public , whose patience has long been tried and whose confidence is continually abused , rests upon it , and may at any moment , by restrictions made necessary by the arrogance ' of the companies , crush the colossal fortune of a railroad millionaire under the mass of obligations that he has rashly assumed .                     