@@781532

txt The cavalry expedition or Gen. MACKENZIE , or , rather , of Col. YOUNG , into Mexico , seems to have resulted in nothing whatever , thus adding another to a long and very uniform series of failures . But it would be gross injustice to lay upon the troops the blame of these fruitless errands , because the limited nature of their searches , and the difficulties surrounding them , make success dependent on luck as well as skill , and often on a degree of luck like that which finds a lost needle in a haystack . If detained at the river till it becomes fordable , as was the case last week , their prey has abundant warning to escape , and in any case , the proximity of the SantaRosa Mountains gives a near and effectual hidingplace to cattle-thieves . It is easy to criticise the policy that resorts to expeditions so fruitless , especially as the policy of a great nation toward its neighbor . But , granting this , what better , just now , can be done i The Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raided without an attempt to defend them . The preservation of peace and order within a State is primarily the duty of its authorities , aided , in case of need , by its Militia . But it has always been held that the line of the frontier between our own and a foreign country is to be guarded by national forces , and neither justice nor expediency could throw the duty of repressing forays from foreign soil , with the possible necessity of following them back across the border , upon local Militia . If the paramount duty devolving on the General Government be conceded , it may still be asked why a peaceful remedy for the evils can not be found nudes our treaty with Mexico for the extradition of criminals . But this treaty , by its express terms , only calls for the delivery to either Government of its own citizens who have taken refuge in the jurisdiction of the other . Hence , Mexico is not bound to extradite her citizens for offenses  --  committed on our soil . It is true that President DIAZ , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some of the gang who , last August , broke open the Starr County Jail , killed the jailer and his wife , and the County Attorney , and released two prisoners , did deliver up criminals of Mexican nativity , as a matter of justice , not of treaty right . But his zeal in thus stretching the strict demands of law raised a storm of opposition . Besides , a remedy depending on friendly favor instead of international agreement is not thorough and adequate . Shall we , then , modify the ibxtradition treaty:so as to make it include Mexicans who raid in Texas ? Such a convention must be mutual . Would our own people like to be bound by an agreement to deliver up , on Mexican complaint , citizens of Texas to be tried and punished in Mexico ? The difficulty here is obvious , and it will enable us to understand why the Mexicans objected to the extradition of their citizens , even if known or tiforoughly believed to be guilty . But if diplomacy does not help us out of the practical difficulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of the river , leaving Mexico to guard hers ? That plan was tried for ton years after the war of the rebellion , without in the slightest degree curing the evil . The Rio Grande presents a long frontier  --  almost a thousand miles , in its windings , from Matamoros up to New-Mexico  --  and fordable at times through a large part of its length . Even in the limited portion commonly infested by raiding parties , it is possible for the Lipan and Mescallero Indians , mounted on their swift ponies , to make a rapid swoop upon the Texan ranches , gather up horses and cattle , and taking a wide circuit through the thinly-settled country , recross safely before troops can get upon their track . This has been the familiar experience of years . Some gain has been achieved by the extension of telegraphs , which , when not cut , give quicker alarm , and much is hoped from the establishment of the new forts for which Congress provided last Winter . But , after all , it is practically . impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even to make a small approach to this would require a force and an expenditure that the country could not afford . We thus are reduced to adopting the course actually pursued , of following raiders across the river , and sending expeditions to hunt out reported possessors of . deleted 10 lines with several thousand regular troops in the border States , no interference with our own has been attempted . The expeditions have been frequent , and frequently Mexican troops have beon found drawn up on the other side , but in no case has trouble occurred . On tho contrary , in two well-attested cases , one of them occurring outs 's , few weeks since , our expeditions have been aided  --  lis when Lieut . KELLY was joined by the Alealde of Los Vacos and others , who assisted him greatly in recovering stolen cattle . It is fair to suppose that the key to the conduct of the Mexican Government is that , while objecting to our expeditions , it bows to them as inevitable ; yet its al titude toward its own people is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our Rio Grande policy is undoubte &ly; lamentable and to some extent perilous ? not the policy that a Government would choose on theory , nor even vindicated is yet by results . But it is all that remains , outside of open war or a shameful and dangerous abandonment of the frontier ; and it seems to bo submitted to by Mexico because she has no acceptable substitute to suggest . In such a condition of affairs much depends on the judicious conduct of our officers , and they have proved themselves hitherto possessed of much discretion as well as plenty of dash . All we can hope is that this makeshift will load to something better , and that while it continuos it may be rewarded with happier fortune in catching the murderous cattle-thieves and their abettors.                     