@@742998

txt A gentleman who has just arrived hero from New-Orleans reports that the exodus of the blacks from Louisiana and Mississippi is producing ' great consternation among the planters of the Mississippi Valley , who will be unable to till their broad acres unless the migration is speedily checked . The planters are all iu debt , and the fact that the msjority of them usually hypothecate their crops one year in advance of prorluc ; ion adds to the complications of the situation , and increases the general alarm that is felt concerning the immediate future . The planters of Madison Parish , believing that sx-Gov . Pinchbeck would be able to persuade the migrating people to abandon their determination to leave that parish , recently invited hint to visit Madison ; gut Mr. Pinchbeck was unable to stay the exodus . Simultaneously with this effort of the planters of Madison to detain their laborers , Vicksburg admonished St. Louis through the Associated Press that the latter city 's influx of black immigrants and their baggage should be subjected to rigid sanitary inquiry . Why Vicksburg should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meantime , hundreds of blacks have swarmed into St. Louis en route for Kansas , and have evidently been misled into relying upon somebody 's specious promise to bear them gratis to their point of destination from St. Louis . Their meagre funds have , in the main , been expended for the transportation of their families to Missouri . It is reported that the St. Louis Anchor Steamboat Line , which thrives by carrying negroraised cotton and what that cotton buys , offers to return them to their plantations without cost . The gentleman alluded to , who is a native of Louisiana , and familiar with the situation of affairs in that and the adjoining State of Mississippi , in conversing with THE TIMES correspondent about the migration of the colored people , said in substance : Now , if ever , the Republicans of the North should demonstrate their sincerity ; nay , humanity . These blacks have left their old homes because they are bullet-riddled and blood-splashed homes . They want to get where their citizenship is not an offense and an affront . The ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizenship , in the exercise of the rights - and duties whereof they have thus far had little more than blows . Let that party now say to them through its National Committee : " We will make good and secure your citizenship ; we will raise money to enable you to distribute yourselves upon a new soil , upon which you shall mature to the manliest self-assertion , build comfortable homes , and cultivate farms . You are good laborers , you bring your families as your anchors , you can render valuable political as well as industrial service . " This will be a practical discharge of the intent of the Windom bill . The colored race of the Mississippi Valley is cow looking north-westward . It smarts with its wrongs and quails in apprehension of future persecution . If the negro van now at St. Louis is to be dbnied sympathy and ultimately to betake itself back to Louisiana and Mississippi , the Republican Party of the North will soon thereafter hear from the Southern blacks something like this : " bur citizenship is a barren thing ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motive ; it wanted a black civil posse at the South to neutralize the Democratic vote . We took all the brunt of Democratic hostility , until forbearance ceased . to be a virtue , and when wo asked these Northern Republicans , who have profited by she political victories we won on the bloody picketline , and by our massacres , which they always utilized as political capital , to aid us to maintain our American citizenship upon a new and free soil , they turned their hacks and buttoned their pockets . Hereafter we will purchase peace and immunity for ourselves , our wives , our farms , and our neighborhoods , by no longer antagonizing at the polls the dominant Democratic sentiment . " This may be crude and selfish logic , but who can reasonably chide the blacks for it ? Never was there a more unselfish people ' than they , and never was a cause more shamelessly forsaken than theirs has been by the Republican Party . Every black who has reached St. Louis Is a terrible witness against the bastard " conciliation . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be only at Republican cost . Ex-Gov . Pinchbeck , writing from Delta , Madison Parish , La. , on March 11 , thus describes the exodus : " Before leaving New-Orleans I heard of the Kansas fever among the colored people of this section , but did not attach much importance to it . I was , therefore , surprised 071 nearing the Delta ferry-lauding , to find the banks of the river covered with colored people and their little stores of worldly goods . The crowd awaiting transportation at this point was estimated at 300 , but I learn it was swollen to 500 yesterday , when the people took their departure on the St. Louis packet Grand Tower for Kansas . A noticeable feature about their departure was the fact that net one of that vast number was permitted to board the steamer until fare was paid to St. Louis . This fact explodes the erroneous idea that these people are having their expenses paid by some outside agency , and that the movement is not a spontaneous one on their part . Numerous reasons are alleged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been able to learn , the real cause is an apprehension of undefined danger in the near future . They religiously believe that the Constitutional Convention bodes them Bo good ; that it has been called for the express purpose of ubtidging their rights and liberties , and they are ? fleeing from the wrath to come . ' They are absolutely panic-stricken . Every road leading to the river is filled with wagons loaded with plunder , and families who seem to think anywhere is better than here . On my way yesterday to Mthiken 's Bend , I saw a large crowd camped on the landing at Duckport . A still larger crowd awaited transportation at Milliken 's Bend . There is no doubt in my mind that this movement has assumed formidable shape , and , unless some means are devised to arrest it , this Portion of the State will soon be entirely depopulated of its laboring classes . " The entire congregations of two of the Leading Baptist churches of ? this  --  parish have already gone , and the estimate or the number that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' planters as high as.1 , ri00 . While I deeply deplore the condition of things up here , I am not certain but . what it will be productive of more good than harm in the end , in diet it , has taught the white people of Louisiana that there is a point beyond which even negro endurance can not last . " Gov . Pinchbeck says meetings have been held in Madison Parish , at which Gen. Morey , William Murray , himeelf , and others have attended and addressed the blacks , and ho expresses the belief that their efforts will lead to mutual understemling between the planters and the laborers. - Si . Louis . March ** 400 of the plantation negroes who recently arrived here front the South loft last night for Kansas , and about 200 arrived by the steamer Helena , from Mississippi , this afternoon .                     