@@741685

txt Since the famous " era of investigations " began , some years since , the once-common charge of bribery in legislatures has gradually become less frequent . It is now revived in States where hungry Democrats are in power , and the model " Reform " Party in the ! Ladd State of Connecticut is among the first to suffer from the aspersion . When Mr. EATON 'S party secured the ascendency in Connecticut , it was the newest broom that ever promised to sweep clean . It was to purify the State of all the old leaven of Republican unrighteousness , elevate the moral standard of American politics , and generally bless the race with the freshest and best pattern of public virtue . Senator EATON went . to Washington big with ideas respecting the usurpations of Executive power and the crimes of " this corrupt Administration . " One would suppose , to read the speeches of this furious old " war-horse , " that he had waked up from a sleep beginning with the middle of the rebellion and ending with a nightmare of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellow-Democrats in other States never disturbed the tranquil EATON . He blew his horn as vigorously and persistently as though he had . been the Gabriel of a new resurrection  --  a man rising to a new era of virtue and morality . Somehow , the promises of the Connecticut Evangelists of Reform do not hold good . The very first thing the stern Reformers did was to " go for " the offices , and they scrambled after these in the most ignoble and undignified manner . Legislators and politicians fell over each other in their rude haste to get a snatch at the good things while they were to be had . The rough and tumble struggle of the New-Hampshire Democrats , and the wild dance of the " Fool Legislature " of Indiana , were nothing to the antics of the famished gentlemen of Connecticut . There was not enough provision to go round . The supply of plunder was not equal to the demand . Thrifty politicians of small calibre ? and these predominate in the Democratic . majority of the Connecticut Legislature ? began to murmur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the authority of well-informed people ; that members from the Counties of Litchfield and Fairfield offered themselves , or were offered , for sale at the price of $300 a head on single vote . It has been objected that this is a low figure . Some of Senator EATON 'S friends , adepts . in legislative methods , may think this is " throwing away " influence . But - then , the times are hard , and " Reform " Democrats have had uo opportunity to sell out at any price . Moreover , it is said . that the broker who conducted the negotiation expressly stipulated . that this was a transaction based on principle . If there were any general interest felt in the question involved , the crafty go-between declared , he and . his friends would spurn the bribe ; but , so long as it was a purely local affair , not " concerning the general good , " why , they would go for the measure for a consideration which was described by holding up three fingers . It appears , therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of money and , to questions of corresponding importance . The reformation which began with the election of Mr. EATON has not got down to the small towns . The gentlemen accused are from the district of that eminent Democratic Reformer and . Congressman , Mr. W. H. BARNUM . This gentleman is also a man of wealth , and his , firm hold on his district shows how strong is his grip on the " Reformers . " With a rare stroke of humor , the legislative body which is thus wickedly derided. by the newspapers at first proposed to expel the correspondent who had told abroad the story of the bribery . It was thought a good . joke to turn out the reporters , and . so make an end . of it . But , after private caucus , the Reformers thought better of it , and rdsolved to have an investigation . Think of a Democratic Legislature , hardly yet warm in their seats , making an inquest for bribery ! The occasion does not furnish a very auspicious opening for the great reform party of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and virtuous resolutions , we might be excused if we were deluded into believing that these people were in earnest . They are probably just as sincere as those of their brothers who promise to " uphold the national faith " , by repudiation , and . return to specie payments by ? way of inflation . Curious people on the outside will look on and wait for the end of the legislative inquiry in Connecticut . There have been great hopes entertained of Mr. EATON 'S " Reform " party . It Makes a bad beginning when it is brought up with a charge of bribery .                     