@@742083

txt We publish this morning the result of inquiries made by our reporters among the principal business houses of this City touching the present condition of trade and its immediate prospects . The scope of these inquiries  --  as been pretty extensive , and the information obtained is , on the whole , encouraging . Leading houses in the following branches were visited : Dry goods , boots and shoes , hides and leather , india-rubber goods , carpets and upholstery , wines and liquors , groceries , provisions , grain , iron , paint , jewelry and bronzes , china and glass ware , pianos , country produce , and seeds and bulbs . We refer to our reports for the details of the information obtained . Meanwhile , it is not too much to say that , as a matter of fact , there is a decided improvement in the condition of several of the trades reviewed , and a perceptible improvement in the condition of a number of others . As a matter of opinion , the prospect in nearly all branches is better than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be rash to conclude that the improvement already realized is certainly to be lasting and to increase , or that the more cheerful views entertained by merchants are fully justified . But it is quite evident that the indications point in that direction , and these are confirmed by the experience of the last three years . We have always held , and we have frequently expressed the opinion , that a decided improvement in trade was sure to take place as a consequence of a process which has constantly gone on ever since the panic of 1873 . How soon the change would take place , we have never undertaken to say ; but we have reasoned in this way . The revulsion of three years since was caused by previous extravagance in manufacturing , in ' industrial enterprises of various kinds , particularly in works of transportation . This extravagance fostered recklessness in giving credits and in living , and was , in its turn , largely due to the issue of paper money , which gave the appearance of actual wealth to what was really the evidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Government and devoted to absolute destruction  --  to purposes which did not and could not yield one penny of return , some four hundred millions of dollars was represented by legal-tender notes . These notes were in reality a debt  --  nothing else , nothing loss ; but in the hands of the holders they were money , and were counted and used as monoy . The influence of this radical error on the modes of doing business and on the ways of living was itself enormous , and yet it was only an impulse which constantly tended to multiply itself , and to ally itself with other similar impulses . Tho result was that , with high prices , ready sales , and extravagant consumption , the country built up au imposing fabric of fictitious wealth , which took various forms . It existed in " watered " stocks of railways , mining companies , foundries , and factories ; it consisted in the fancy prices of real estate , and other kinds of fixed property ; and it consisted especially in a groat mass of commercial credits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they were based . The panic of 1873 was but the touchstone of reality applied to this castle in the air . It was a sudden and imperious demand for the payment in a hundred eh ap es of the debts on which every branch of the community had been building as on solid values . The result was inevitable . Business was temporarily crippled , and in part suspended . Credit was practically destroyed . Men hesitated in producing what there might be no demand for , in selling what they might not get pay for , in buying what they might not be able to sell . ! At the same time people everywhere began to cut down their expenditures . This process was , perhaps , unnecessarily pushed in some cases , but it was a wholesome and unavoidable process in most cases . It caused a reduction in production , and compelled consumption of the accumulated stock . At a certain point , which there is some reason to suppose that we have reached , this process was certain to bring about a better state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come when the worthless men would be weeded out of the various branches of trade ; when the honest but unfortunate would have obtained au adjustment of their affairs , ascertained their actual resources , and know what they could do with safety ; when apparent wealth would be reduced to actual wealth and form a solid basis for business , and when the community , having consumed its surplus , beginning to realize renewed wants , and knowing what its actual available resources were , would begin to trade again . As we have said , there is reason to believe that we have reached , or are approaching this point . There is au unquestioned revival of demand for various articles . Buyers are able and ready to make their purchases on safe terms . Collections are falling into their natural channel . The course of trade is such as might reasonably have been expected at the turning-point in our affairs . At this interesting moment there is also a prospect of a revival of foreign demand for our braadstuffs , a force which , once fairly in operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on its upward path . Mr. JAMES CAIRD , an English authority of weight , estimates the decline in the growth of English wheat this year below the average of the seven preceding years at twenty per cent . He is of the ? opinion that England will require at least 13,000,000 quarters for this year 's consumption from the stocks in hand and from foreign importation . The main dependence is on America , and it is impossible that we should not feel the beneficial effect of this demand . At the same time it is encouraging to note by the Board of Trade returns , published in the Economist for Sept. 9 , that there are signs of reviving trade in Great Britain as well .                     