@@781622

txt deleted 14 lines than before it , may not have been shared by any large proportion of his fellows . But the Tammany demagogues of this City certainly did leave the impression on the voting masses of their party that some miraculous change would be wrought by the transfer of political power . The laborer would get more work and higher pay , public improvements would be prosecuted with a degree of activity unheard of before , and an era of contentment and large profits would return , to the great glory of the Democratic party and the general satisfaction of all classes of the people . A good many persons who ought to have known better voted the Democratic ticket last Fall in the vague expectation that a change would somehow improve the commercial prospects of the country . The laboring class voted at the dictation of Tammany Hall in the blind confidence that their position would be improved . The Democrats are now finding out how dangerous an advantage is gained by trading on the socialists ; prejudices of ignorant men They are in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by supplying them with bread and shows , but who had to bear the brunt of popular fury when these political anodynes gave out . After winning the election by an appeal to the self-interest of the laborers , they tried to preserve its fruits by another aliesl to the pockets of the tax-payers . It was a taking kind of reform to attempt to save say half a million a year by cutting down laborers ' - wages sonic twenty per cent . It would have been a good deal more effective had the reduction taken place all round , and it was hardly good Democratic doctrine to begin to economize from below . But such as it was , the retrenchment was intended to strengthen the Democratic Party at the point where it is weakest  --  the support of the propertyowners of the City . If the move should alienate a large proportion of the laboring vote , there was still the resource left of dividing the day of City labor into two halves of five hours each , and of making up in the multitude of new appointments for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the City will derive from the saving of half a million a year ou laborers ' wages is a trifle compared with the good which is likely to follow the serious schism in Tammany Hall which has attended this rash experiment . Experience has shown that nothing but Democratic disunion can save this City from being plundered , and every day of the present system of Tammany management carries the dividing wedge further into the Party . Mr. JOHN - MORRISSEY can calmly defy the disciplinary power of KELLY &Co.,; because he knows that the voting masses of the Party are at his back . When so dexterous a politician as FERNANDO WOOD hastens to place himself " on the record " as opposed to the reduction of the laborers ' wages , Mr. MORRISSEY need hardly fear the consequences of being " read out " of the ' Tammany organization . The inherent weakness of that body comes out very clearly in MonatssEv 's statements about his position in regard to the Costigan bill . This was the great Democratic measure of the last legislative session , and yet while it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishes of the Governor , it was pushed by the inner Ring of Tammany with all the force at their command . The unity of the party was reckoned of little account beside the chance of gratifying the narrow and grasping ambition of a few local politicians . So , by one accident or another , it has come about that among the leaders of the Democratic Party in the State of New-York , every man is for his own hand . There is neither unity of purpose nor unity of counsel . The Governor poses and proses ou his lofty eminence without much regard to either the wishes or the interests of those who raised him there . JOHN KELLY and his man Mayor WicKnAm are getting daily more confused in their efforts to run the party machine in a way equally acceptable to the exquisites of the Manhattan Club and the political bummers of the lower wards . JOIIN MORRISSEY has his special following of malcontents , and indulges in the safe luxury of ridiculing Mayor WICKHAM and reviling JOHN KELLY . Altogether the forces of dissolution are exceedingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage of the City their operation can not be pushed too far . It is a species of poetical and moral justice that the unscrupulous deumgogism which has traded so long upon ignorance , prejudice , and corruption , should be likely to find in the passions it has fostered its own defeat and ruin .                     