@@742639

txt The report . that tho prevailing desire among*Democratic . Senators is to secure an adjournment of Congress not later than the middle of June is almost too good to be true . Besides , there would still remain wide margin for doubt as to the ability of the more sensible of the Senators to influence in any material degree the action of their party brethren of the House . Certain it is , however , that the best possible thing that can happen for the country is the early close of a session which has thus far contributed greatly to the retardation of confidence and the consequent injury of financial and business interests . The assigned motive is less creditable than the alleged proposition . A journal usually well informed states on the authority of its Washington correspondent that the Democrats in both houses begin to realize the strength and significance of the National Party and its probable effect upon their own fortunes . They are anxious to study on the spot the hidden springs of the movement , and to devise plans for averting the defection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration that it will draw off as many Republicans as Democrats may not be incorrect so far as the West is concerned , but the consolation it affords is not substantial . Nor is the eagerness of Congressional Democrats to make ' an early start in the work of the Fall campaign , with especial reference to the necessity of counteracting the efforts of the Nationals , at all reassuring . Of the two conceivable methods of breaking down the new organization the Western Democrats are likely to choose the worst . Unless the Republican managers are afflicted with judicial blindness , they will intelligently and fearlessly array ' the truths of sound finance against the fallacies of an inflated and debased currency ; they will stake their party 's future upon fidelity to the public faith , whether as regards national or local obligations .. They will not make peace with repudiation nor pander to current Communistic notions , whatever the consequence in particular districts . A different course may be looked for on the part of the Western Democrats . Having discarded the best traditions of their party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will bring them votes . The Toledo Convention , which formulated.the joint demands of the various factions now forming a united and powerful organization , did not urge any demand at variance with the views of Mr. VOORHEES . He anticipated all of them . How nearly VOORHEES comes to be the type of the dominating forces in Western Democracy the action of the Illinois Convention has shown . A body containing but one ? man honest enough to speak against the financial ? heresies of the day , will riot be very scrupulous when party exigencies dictate the conciliation of the Nationals . Indeed , taking theWest as a whole , trifling alterations are needed in the latest formal utterances of the Democracy to bring , them into general harmony with the principles and schemes* of the new party . But as between the Democrats and the Nationals , the advantages are on the side of the latter . Their chance of obtaining recruits is greaterthan the chance of the Democrats for the reason that their demands , however abominable and dangerous , represent convictions , while those of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' professions ? the Nationals will ask  --  when on the occasion of a conflict between the Pacific Railroad monopoly and the Government he tmaketed , his Communism and voted - for the monopoly I The query is one of many , quite as pertinent , that expose the hypocrisy of the noisy Democratic ' leaders who , for the sake of votes , are ready to outbid the Nationals in the next campaign . Now ; as the Nationals represent a large portion of the Western people , they have only to stand firm to ' win over the average Democratic politician . The higher his'party bids for National votes the more it strengthens the National cause . We may therefore expect next Fall to find either a general understanding between the Democrats in the Western States and the Nationals , or so close a resemblance between their platforms in all that relates to currency.and the public credit , that they will together constitute the common enemy of - the Republican policy as it will be if Republican leaders do their duty . It is necessary to look at these contingencies a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depth , and force of ' Western opinion in favor of repudiation and inflation , and because there is a too general disposition to assume that with the accomplishment of resumption next January the financial peril will end . The fulfillment at that time of the nation 's pledge will amount to little unless we have some assurance that resumption can be maintained on a gold basis . Under the most favorable conditions , the question must remain open until the operation of the present remonetization law has been fairly tested . The difficulty is in obtaining any such . assurance . Mr. SHERMAN 'S mind is hazy . Striving zealously , as he undoubtedly is to accumulate gold , his opinion in regard to the reissue of legal-tender notes up to a certain limit , after they have been technically redeemed , shows low signally he fails to comprehend the true function of the Treasury , and the true mode of rendering specie payment permanent : Uncertainty upon this and other equally essential points will continue as long as Congress is in session ; and its duration afterward will depend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fall . At present we know that the Senate may accompany the retention of the Resumption act with changes that would be fatal to its efficacy . The Committee on Finance has been credited with a determination to report against or otherwise to stifle the House bill repealing the act . We now learn that while the committee is tolerably unanimous against repeal , it is nearly evenly divided in regard to a proposition abrogating " so much of the Resumption act as requires the retirement and cancellation of SO per cent . of legal tenders for additional circulation issued to national banks . " Another proposition having a similar chance of adoption aims at fixing the permanent circulation of legal tenders at a figure above the $300,000,000 which Mr. SHERMAN would keep outstanding . The second proposal , in fact , differs only in degree from the Secretary 's suggestion . Its fallacy is not greater than his own . The effect of the two changes would be an unmistakable inflation of legal-tender notes , and a serious increase of the difficulties attendant upon resumption . From risks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress ' remains in session . Whether the next Congress shall arrest the tendencies now so potent , or shall develop them still further in their application to legislation , is a question which the Republican Party should be prepared to consider . It is not a question that will solve itself satisfactorily .                     