@@741203

txt A Senator at Albany said , last week , " Already we have appropriated this year $1,250,000 for expenses of State prisons . " For this reason the Legislature seems to have prudently arrested the work upon the fourth great prison until the beneficent design of the State to establish a reformatory rather than a bastile at Elmira can be carried . out . Two important facts concerning our prison system are conceded . on every hand . First , That crime and the number of habitual criminals  --  persons who live by crime as a vocation  --  have , for years , continued to increase more rapidly than the growth of population . Second , That our prisons promote this perilous increase of crime and criminals . Let the question now be answered , " What can the people do to prevent this increase , and . by what reformatory measures may the increasing numbers of the dangerous classes be reduced 1 " The homely adage that " prevention is better than cure " does not yet influence our system of public justice ; but from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1824 , until now , the State has recognized the duty of providing reformatory training and . education for juvenile delinquents ; and at the period when the State Prisons at Auburn and Sing Sing were first established , this State boasted . its leadership in a system of penitentiary discipline designed to produce reformatory results . And the fact is noticeable that during the few years that our State prisons were administered with such results in view , they were selfsupporting . Judge GRESHAM POWERS , Of Auburn , while an inspector of prisons forty years ago , placed on record the fact that a large proportion of the discharged convicts entered the ranks of honest industry and good citizenship after that discipline and treatment by which they had passed through their term of imprisonment without expense to the State for their maintenance . But now , by the pernicious operation of the State Constitution as amended in 1846 , the three State prisons are an incubus of yearly expense to the State , and the prestige of their reformatory influence upon the convicts has long since departed . Again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penal system and prisons , and each of the three great prisons for felon-convicts has been placed under a reformed administration ; but , with the short-lived authority of the officials in charge none of the great capitalists of prison industries are willing to offer more than half-price for prisoners ' labor . Two days , and even two and a half days , of skilled labor in our prison work-shops are sold for a dollar . while outside of the prisons the same labor would command from three to six dollars ! Pernicious and destructive as such a system is , it can not be strange that the prisons are not reformatories . But let not the present wardens , chaplains , and keepers relax their efforts to preserve the young convicts  --  and half are under twenty-five years old ? from sinking into the hopeless abyss of criminal thought and companionship . The ignorant must be enlightened , every mind , however debased , should have substantial mental food and ample themes for healthy thought , while hope should be kept alive in every breast . Daring the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and organized a most practical method of dealing with convicts discharged or about to be released from the State and . County prisons . The last annual report of the association shows that its officers have a good understanding with the State prison inspectors and wardens , and that every convict has ample opportunity before release to confor with and be advised by the society 's representative . By this means a large proportion of the younger convicts are provided with good employment , away from the cities , and with suitable employers , from the day of their discharge . This is truly an effort by the people to reduce the ranks of crime , and rehabilitate the men who will honestly win a claim to the respect and citizenship they forfeited . The following facts relating to this subject have just appeared in a memorandum issued by the Prison Association of New-York . " At each of the State prisons , and at some of the penitentiaries , the association has established a definite system of personal effort to induce and prepare the convicts about to be liberated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and , to all such as will do so , definite offers of employment and friendly protection , in suitable localities , are extended by the agents of this association . Upward of eighty convicts are liberated monthly from the three State prisons , and of these . more than eighty per cent . go directly to good em ployers , under direction of the association . Experience shows that the greater portion of these discharged prisoners try to do The penitentiaries discharge upward of six hundred prisoners monthly , and for many of them the association finds employment and extends such aid and counsel as they need . In the sixtyseven county jails this system of duty has become in some measure established , and . by local agencies , each one is visited weekly . Upward of 300 employers of organized labor and trade industries are now aiding this effort for the benefit of discharged prisoners and for the repression of crime in all parts of the State . The known result of then efforts are remarkable . ? Or ' example : ti ging Sing Prison these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from that date until May 1 , a period of eight and a half months , out of the entire number ( 245 ) of prisoners disoharged , only three have been resentenced to the prison ; and at Auburn Prison , out of 243 prisoners discharged during the nine monthsending 33 ; i3P 1 , only one has been retyped to the prison , and he Was a man who persisted In his old habits of inebriety , and had not accepted the offer of employment . * * * At Clinton Prison only one of the discharged prisoners of the same nine months ' period was returned to the prison during that time . " These facts appear to prove that much may be accomplished by the employers of labor co-operating with the Prison Association .                     