@@741603

txt Connecticut will open the brief series of elections to be held this month by itsannual contest on Monday next , for State officers , for members of the Forty-fourth Congress and of both branches of its Legislature , besides variouannuor officials . The character of the contest and the progress of the campaign have already been fully set forth ? in our special correspondence , and need not be recapitulated here . On the same day , Michigan will hold its " judiciary election , " when two Regents of the State University , and two Judges of its Supreme Court are to be chosen , one of the latter to fill the vacancy on its Bench , caused by the transfer of Hon. IsA.ie P. CHRISTIA.NCY to the United States Senate . For Supreme Judge , both Republicans and Degtocrats have united in the support . of Hon. BENJAMIN F. GRAVES for re-election . For the remaining offices , separate candidates have been named , and a brisk rivalry has ensiled between their supporters . The vote of Michigan last Fall was so close as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prohibitionists , who had a separate ticket iu the field , have lately ; withdrawn it , three of , their leading , candi , dates having declined to run ; and their- State Committee has recommended all adherents of the . Prohibition Party in the State to vote for those , candidates on the various State tickets whom they think best qualified for the respective positions , without regard to political party associations . It should be mentioned that various local offices are to be filled in the towns of Michigan on Monday , and that these , politically , are regarded as of more consequence , and are contested more zealously , than the positions of Judges and Regents . On Wednesday , 6th inst. , Rhode Island will elect its State officers and Legislature . By a recent change in the law , the members of Congress ale chosen in Rhode Island in the November preceding the meeting of the new Congress , and . these places having been filled last Fall , the election next week will not have the interest usually attaching to it outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much excitement prevails , four separate tickets having been placed . in the field for the leading general officers . Many of the Republicans being greatly dissatisfied with the manner in which the regular party nominations for Governor and Lieutenant Governor were brought about , and it being indeed openly charged that they " were secured by the use of means destructive to the integrity and purity of the Republican Party , and perilous to all its interests , " independent nominations for these offices have been made , and will tend to make the contest exciting . The question of license or prohibition entered closely into the choice of nominees by the regular Republican Convention , and the license advocates were only successful by one majority in nominating their candidate for Governor after an all-night session . Meanwhile , the Prohibitionists have met and nominated . the present board of State officers entire for reelection , but are , promptly met by the refusal of Gov . HOWARD and Lieut . Gov . VAN ZANDT to run under any circumstances , and they will probably unite in the support of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Florida will close the list of State elections until late in the Summer , by holding a special election upon certain proposed amendments to its Constitution . These amendments have already been ratified , as constitutionally required , by the vote of two-thirds of the members of each of two successive Legislatures . They provide , among other things , for biennial instead of annual sessions of the Legislature after 1877 ; declare the method of procedure in impeachment cases ; limit the power to contract debts in the name of the State ; authorize the Governor to veto a portion of the items in an appropriation ' bill and to approve the rest ; require that the property of all corporations , except those exclusively for religions , educational , or charitable purposes , shall be taxed ; and provide for the election of a Lieutenant Governor .                     