@@741515

txt It seems the manifest destiny of a vast area about the City of New-York that it shall be , in one way or another , absorbed into this Municipality . It does not follow that Long Island , the Jersey shore , and lower Westchester shall all become incorporated into the City . It will be practical absorption when men who hold considerable property , transact their business , and follow their trades and professions in this City , shall fix their residences outside of the limits of Manhattan Island and inside of ii considerable circle of which the City Hall shall be the centre . Year by year the march of business up town presses the line of homes further up the island . Year by year streets of residences are invaded by retail shops , and these , in their turn , give way to warehouses and . mammoth business blocks . Within the memory of living citizens , Bond street was the boundary of paved thoroughfares ; north of that point , horsemen timed their trotters on turf or earth roads . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of town ; and even the young folks can remember when there were only a few shops on the west side above Fourteenth street . Now , on either side of the main arteries of travel running lengthwise the island , shops , stores , factories , and business blocks shoulder homes and residences far into the background . This up-town movement is an extension ; it leaves no room behind it . There is no recovery of the space occupied for business purposes in the lower part of the City . Our people must look elsewhere for homes . In an article printed in these columns a few days ago , it was shown that the general tendency of New-York 's surplus population was Jersey ward . This was more evident during the rule of the Ring than later . It may be added that but for the difficulties of water transit , Long Island and neighboring New-Jersey would be preferable , as suburban homes , to most parts of Westchester . Nevertheless , it is notorious that Westchester has drawn very heavily on our semi-de , taehed population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the opposite shores of Long Island , it is because people prefer a solid rail communication between their business and their homes to the best ferry that was ever invented . High taxes and vexatious delays in transit have transferred not a few Brooklyn families to the charming towns that dot the hills of Westchester . And we know that , in spite of the nuisance of North River ferries , thousands of cheap homes have been established in New-Jersey by people crowded out of this City . As we suggested the other day , the possible solution of the various difficulties which attend suburban residence is the tunnel . The citizen who dreads the danger , vexation , and delay of ferry transit will hail as a boon the tunnel under the Hudson that shall give him an all-rail route from this island to any point between the Jersey shore and the Gulf of Mexico . Nothing is impossible nowadays . Tunnels under rivers and straits are accomplished works . It is thought that it will be a comparatively easy thing to drive a tunnel from Christopher street in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City . Such a tunnel , it is said , need be only sixty-five feet below the surface at either outlet . A bore of twenty-five feet diameter , at the bottom of ample shafts , would give room for double tracks ; and such a tunnel , five thousand feet in length , dry and well-lighted , with trains drawn by locomotives using compressed air , would be a practical annexation of New-Jersey . Such a work as this should not be a failure , nor should it be designed with exclusive reference to our New-Jersey suburbs . Naturally enough , the urgent need of some means by which Southern and Western railroad travel may be brought directly into the City has first suggested a tunnel under the Hudson ; and such a mode of relief would afford a ready outlet for our overflowing population . But , pending the completion of the famous East River bridge , a tunnel under that stream might be made and used with great comfort and profit . The distance from shore to shore is not so great as at the narrowest part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why Long Island , with its six or seven hundred thousand population , should not be annexed to the rest of the world . If the bridge is ever finished , such an annexation would be practically accomplished . While the scheme hangs in the air a tunnel may be built . When Brooklyn and the charming villages along " Long Island 's sea-girt shore " have the homes and people which they should , we shall want a tunnel , or another bridge further up the stream . It does not seem a visionary idea to suggest that the time may come when travelers may travel by unbroken rail line due westward from Sag Harbor to San Francisco . Of course , we must presume on Brooklyn 's ability and determination to encourage an immigration of New-Yorkers by low taxes and other allurements . All other things being equal , NewJersey certainly offers a rate of taxation that tempts the burdened citizen of New-York and Brooklyn . And there is no good reason why Brooklyn should impose taxes - which , notwithstanding the enormous frauds upon our City Treasury , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has pointed out that the Democrats of Kirrgs County have excused their past economical failures on the ground that the Republican Legislature interfered to mar all plans of retrenchment . This plea can no longer be made , and , as the Post suggests with sanguine friendliness , we may expect to see in Brooklyn that employment of Democratic skill and thrift which will cheapen homes and invite the most desirable citizenship .                     