@@742709

txt An immense crowd filled the galleries and lobbies of the Senate at the hour of meeting this morning . the majority of the throng was composed of citizens of Washington , who manifested the deepest interest in the action about to be taken upon the nominations for two District Commissioners under the law recently passed , and for other local omces or minor importance . In marked contrast to the busy scene without was the deserted appearance of the floor , the attendance of Senators being very slim , with less than a quorum present . About noon , however , a quorum was obtained , and on motion of Senator Morrill an executive session was ordered . The doots remained closed until after 3 o'clock . The secret proceedings were characterized by two animated discussions . The first was relative to the nomination of Josiah Dent and Capt . Phelps for District Commissioners . The latter was confirmed without much opposition . In Mr. Dent 's case , however , the old Ring element which antagonized him utterly because he was known to be inimical to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strong opposition to him in  --  the Senate . After a sharp debate Mr. Dent was confirmed , greatly to the disappointment of those who opposed him . This subject having been disposed of , the nominations for members on the part of the United States to the International Monetary Conference were taken up . Then ensued a heated financial discussion , in the course of which , Senators reiserated their oft-repeated views on this familiar theme . The nomination of Mr. Groesbeck elicited some opposition from . the Senators that advocate the single gold standard , who are , of course , in a contemptible minority . The struggle over Mr. Groesbeck was of brief duration , and resulted in his confirmation . The silver men then made a vigorous onslaught on Reuben E. Fenton and Mr. Walker , and motions were made to reiect both nominations . These were opposed by the more conservative Senators , who advised a postponement of final action until the President could be unofficially communicated with , and an opportunity be afforded him to withdraw their names and send in others . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misapprehension existed respecting the monetary views of Mr. Walker , and that he was more in harmony with the majority than they had supposed . Upon ascertaining this fact , his confirmation was moved and carried . The Senate then agreed to bold another secret session in the evening , when , if the name of Mr. Fenton was not withdrawn , he would be formally rejected . With this understanding . the doors were opened and the public session resumed .. In justice to Mr. Fenton , it must be stated that the objection to his confirmation emanated solely from an antagonism to his financial views , which , in the opinion of the Senators opposing him , disqualify him from representing this Government at a conference , the object of which , as the law directs , is " to adopt a common ratio between gold and silver for the purpose of establishing , internationally , the use of bimetallic money , and securirur fixity of relative value between those Metals . " As Mr. Fenton has repeatedly expressed himself in favor of the single , or gold standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Shortly after the public proceedings began , Senator Voorhees moved to take up and consider the bill that passed the House to-day , authorizing the payment of Customs duties in legal tenders after Oct. 1 . Senator Conkling immediately raised the point of order that , ? under the rules , the motion could not be entertained without unanimous consent , except during the morning hour . One of those - protracted wrangles over simple parliamentary questions for which the present Senate has become notorious ensued . Conkling 's point of order was finally overruled , and the bill was taken up . The opponents of the measure , however , were determined in defeating it at all hazards , and accordingly , after the Clerk had read it the first time , objection was made to its second reading . This proved fatal to the further progress of the bill , as under the rules no bill can have more than onereading on the.same day without unanimous consent . With this defeat of the Anti-Resumptionists terminates the financial legislation of the session . A'recess until 8 o'clock was then taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had arrived at the Capitol early in the afternoon , in order to facilitate the dispatch of business , but when it became manifest that it was impossible to adjourn at 6 o'clock , the President left , saying that he would return at 8 o'clock . In the meantime the Conference Committee on the Sundry Civil bill , which had been in almost continuous session since yesterday afternoon , had disagreed once , but upon a second attempt it was evident that an ultimate agreement was only a question of a few hours . The committee reached an agreement shortly after 8 o'clock , and the bill as determined upon was placed in the hands of the engrossing clerks . Although the audience in the Senate Chamber was unusually brilliant at the evening session , a large number of ladies being present , the public session was abruptly terminated within a few minutes after the proceeding commenced by a motion for an executive session , which lasted until 11:30. when the doors were opened , but only for a few moments , when they were again closed . Shortly after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President sent in the name of Charles B. Lawrence , one of the Louisiana Commission , for member of the International Monetary Conference , in the place of ex ? Gov . Fenton , who , as has since transpired , was actually rejected this afternoon , although several Senators had a different understanding of the disposition of the case . What actually occurred in executive session to-night touching Mr. Lawrence , can not be ascertained . A number of conflicting rumors are afloat . The report that is most generally credited is , that a motion to reconsider Mr. Fenton 's rejection was ' made by Senator Colliding , and that after a warm discussion the President was requested to send in his name a second time . Be this as it may , the President , who was at the Capitol from 8 P. M. , at 11:45 withdrew Mr. Lawrence 's nomination , and Mr. Fenton 's name wits substituted . On the doors being opened at 12:15 , the confirmation of Mr. Fenton was announced . Senators who have been questioned respecting particulars of the debate are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced a resolution to extend the session until 3 o'clock this morning , which was adopted . The Sundry Civil Appropriation bill was brought over from the House shortly before 1 . o'clock . The report of the Conference Committee was approved of after a few brief remarks from Senator Windom. - The Senate has also confirmed the following nominations : Justices of the Peace. ? Alonzo W. Church , Samuel M. Wilcox , Simon Wolf , and A. S. Taylor . 2fficellaneotm  --  John Howe , of Montana , to be Indian Agent for the Western Shoshone Agency , Nevada . Woodbury H. Palleys. of New-York , to be United States Consul at Barbados . John Wasson to be Surveyor-General for Arizona . Assistant Paymaster Z. T. Brown to be Passed Assistant Paymaster United States Navy . Theophilus French , of Ohio , to be Auditor of Railroad Accounts . The Senate rejected the nominations of Samuel G. Reid , of Alabama , to lie . United States Marshal for the Middle and Southern Districts of Alabama , and Thomas Cumming to be Postmaster at Hackensack , N. J.  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          