@@743169

txt This challenge brought the LieutenantGovernor to his feet , and the third great scene of the convention was enacted . It may , without any exaggeration , be said that Mr. Dorsheimer then made the greatest effort of his life . As his tall and commanding figure appeared high above the heads of the crowd , loud applause came from delegates of all parties and from many of the spectators in the gallery . Then there was silence , and the Lieutenant-Governor began his speech , going at his subject with a directness which was a surprise to those who know him best . Faulkner 's personal references to himself ho disposed of in a word , and then calmly , with great deliberation and impressiveness , he made the first official announcement that if the men who claimed to be in the majority insisted upon making Lucius Robinson the Democratic nominee for Governor , the 72 delegates who represented the City of New-York would at once retire from the convention . Upon this the wildest cheers came from the followers of Tammany ; the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very best use of his opportunity . Walking deliberately down the aisle of the hall , the crowd making a passage for him as he came , he left his place , and , directly facing Hugh and the delegates from Kings County , appealed to them not to force their sister organization into the position described , but in the name of harmony , in the name of unity , in the name of heaven , and in the name of Democratic success to abandon Robinson , and join hands with Tammany in nominating Gen. Slocum or any other Democratic leader except the man who had outraged and persecuted the Democrats of the Metropolis . Holding out his hands to , by his attitude , if not by his words , almost supplicating the Kings County men for aid , he narrated the wrongs of which Tammany had to complain and asked with much feeling if the representatives of Brooklyn , under like provocation , would not act precisely as the men from New-York were acting . But in response to all his appeals the delegates from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stared into space . Hugh turned a deaf ear to Dorsheirner 's entreaty . Returning amid shouts of applause , the most heartfelt and sincere he has ever received in a Democratic convention , the Lieutenant-Governor continued to beg for that harmony which he at the same time announced could only be secured by an acquiescence in the will of the minority to which he belonged . John Kelly 's action in publicly announcing his determination never to support Gov . Robinson he praised as highminded and manly , and then turning to Daniel Magone , of St. Lawrence , and Mr. Peckham , of Albany , he appealed to them by name to abandon their first choice , give up their personal preferences , that the Democracy might be saved . His effort was beyond all comparison the most impressive one of the day . He was applauded on all sides , but no other response was made to his appeal .                     