@@781545

txt No one can read ScnumEa 's valuable and candid book on Turkistan without feeling that Russia , whatever be her faults in other directions , is as much the civilizer and lawipholder among the wild tribes of Central Asia , as England ever was among the waring races and peoples of India , and that the two powers have really very little cause for jealousy . The current idea in Europe and America , about the Muscovite rule in Asia , is that it has merely been the extension of a barbaric tryanny over tribes only a little below its own standard of semi-civilization , and that the great danger of the future is the collision of the two mighty Empires , advancing from the east and the west of Asia , each seeking to subdue and appropriate the land of the half nomadic people . Russia , in her steady advance toward India , seemed , to our Western imagination , as the modern imitator of ALEXANDER or TAMERLANE , leading vast armies against undisciplined tribes of shepherds , and re-establishing conquering rule over historical cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , burdened with plunder , should come forth through the passes of Upper India . These new conquests of the Czar seemed to us as filling his Treasury with the spoils of Oriental nations , and extending the Muscovite dominion over wealthy and populous regions . The narrative of the observing American traveler , however , changes all this romance . The far-famed conquests of Russia in Central Asia are found to be very difficult and expensive victories over scattered tribes , somewhat like our own successes over the Indians in the centre of North America . The newly-won regions are of little value to Russia either pecuniarily or strategically . They cost more than they bring , and are of small importance for any future campaigns . Like our own rule over the Indians , the new Russian dominion over the tribes of Turkistan is accompanied with heavy and expensive responsibility . A conquering race must transplant its own superior institutions . The Muscovite is obliged to offer to hordes accustomed to live under absolute tyranny a certain degree of selfgovernment . They misuse it often , as our own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian adminis- ' tration . This , in such remote districts , is expensive and complicated . He is not permitted to interfere with religion ; but he can , at least , introduce European justice ? a thing almost unknown to Orientals  --  and deleted 1 line barbarity . With all his defects , the Russian is evidently slowly civilizing the wild and cruel tribes which once conquered and desolated most of the civilized world . The Turkish blood and Mohammedan religion are so immeasurably below the Sclavonie race under its Christian ideas , that every footstep of advance of Russia among these races is a step of progress ; and this , though in the bitter struggles , such massacres as those of the Kurds by Gen. KAu : ? - MANN occur . Such sudden acts of violence by white men have been known in our own wars with the Indians . They are not to be defended . But they do not necessarily disprove the generally humane influence and dealing of the conqueror . It is only where the Russians come in contact with Chinese tribes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrious people seem , in many of the arts of civilization , to be superior to their more warlike opponent ; and it may be questioned whether Russianizing China willbe of any advantage to the world . But among the Kirghiz ' , the Kurds , and all the related Turkish or Tartar tribes Russia represents law as opposed to tyranny , humanity in place of boundless cruelty , order rather than a state of anarchy or of violence , the arts and ideas of Europe as competing with the torpor and barbarism of Asia . Nor does there seem the smallest danger to England or her Indian possessions in this advance of the Sclavonians . Each square mile gained requires all the expense which supports an invading column  --  provisions , and ammunition , and supplies . The country often can not feed an army . There is no possibility of a long advance unless railroads are made , which is an eventuality far in the future . So little does the country repay conquest , that one of the richest provinces gained by Russia from the Chinese rebels is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but seems scarcely worth accepting . The approach of England and Russia toward one another would be like the approach of two powers on this continent from the Atlantic and Pacific coasts , to meet in the Mormon Territory , without railroads or rivers to help transport . Ambition , as it carried ALEXANDER over this mine desolate region , may carry Russian and British Generals through frightful wildernesses to meet in the wild passes of Affghanistan . But conquest or permanent invasion would be out of the question on either side , and the game would nowhere be worth the candle . England will probably herself come at length to see that the chances of collision in theadvance of each power into Asia are the most remote , and that the competition of interests there is , after all , small . Moreover , the Mohammedan in India , and everywhere in the world , is the sworn enemy of the Sclavonian . They seem destined to a life-and-death struggle with one another . However this fact may color England 's policy toward Turkey , it certainly secures North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throwoff British rule . The more reasonable portion of the British public will gradually see that the alleged jealousy and opposition between Great Britain and Russia are not necessary facts , and may be eventually reMoved by a careful diplomacy .                     