@@741539

txt It is a singular and happy circumstance that , while the discovery of the Sandwich Islands is recalled to memory by the erection of a inbuument to Capt . Coox , the reigning sovereign of that group should be making a friendly visit to the United States . Modern history has been so crowded with adventure by sea and land that COOK and his voyages seem as far off as the exploits of HAICLUYT and MANDEVILLE . The boys of this generation do not linger over the pages of Cook 's Voyages and Riley 's Islarratire as did their fathers and grandfathers . Even the name of Owyhee has disappeared from modern maps , and no longer marks the island that gives its title to the Hawaiian . Kingdom . Yet it is. less than one hundred years since , Cocix sightAd those islands where he subsequently lost Ins life . To be sure , the Spaniards , whose adventurous galleons were on every sea . possessed some knowledge of the group before the tragical death of the great circumnavigator brought it into the notice of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sandwich Islands begins with the death of COOK . When he landed there in 1778 the natives were in a state of barbarism . The population was ruled by feudal chiefs , each of whom had his small . domain and his special jealousies and , quarrels with his neighbors . Internecine wars were common ; paganism and superstition were supreme , and the social condition of the people was as low as can possibly be imagined . The delicious climate and generous soil of the islands met every wish . There was no necessity for exertion , or for provident labor . The earth yielded au abundance for the simple wants of man ; and , but for the ambitions of warring chiefs , the islands , girt about with the warm waves of the Pacific , might have been an earthly paradise . There is no need that we should believe the story that Com and . his companions were devoured by the islanders . The people were bad enough , but it is very doubtful if they were cannibals . This strange chapter in the history of South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a monument ? being set up on the spot near which the famous naviga- tor fell . The change is ' great in the con-. dition of the islands since the world first , learned to know them . Now the natives have not only a consolidated govt eminent , but one ' that is largely elective . Indeed , besides choosing a Legislative Assembly , the people have twice been called . upon to give their suffrages to determine who should be their sovereign . Education is widely diffused ; there is au average of one teacher for every twenty-seven children in the Kingdom . Voting is intelligently conducted , the laws are liberal and well enforced , and religious ordinances and . iu. , titutious are amply maintained . Capt . COOK was murdered . while attempting to seize the person of the island King as a hostage for the future good conduct of his subjects . To-day the lineal successor of that monarch , so far as any line can exist , is traveling in the United States . He inspects our system of material progress and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His eager curiosity is not that of an unlettered barbarian , but of an educated , welltrained sovereign , who visits for the first time a domain greater than his own . And this man is the chief of a people who , less than orte bundled years ago , were steeped in the mere sensuous luxury of existence . Today they export two or three millions of products , are desirable customers in the markets of the world , and rank with civilized nations . We do not forget that the introduction of the Christian religion is chiefly responsible for this remarkable change . Nor need we recall the fact that even this conservative power with difficulty holds back the native population from that lapse into barbarism which is so natural to the Polynesian race . Nor does it seem that the fading out of the native population makes any argument in the case . Coos estimated the population in 1778 to be 400,000 ; it was estimated at 142,000 in 1822 ; but the first official census , taken in 1832 , gave a sum total of only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 51,531 . Contact with foreigners has done this work . Foreign diseases are specially fatal to the race . Living simply and in the open air , they were easily destroyed by . the influences which came with a change of diet , dress , and other habits . But the decrease is not so much due to premature deaths as to the unfruitfulness of the race under its new conditions . This fact has attracted the attention of the reigning sovereign , who has offered a premium to native families whose healthy offspring replenish largely the aboriginal element . Perhaps civilization might have done better for the Hawaiian Islands ; but it might have done worse .                     