@@781891

txt There is great ado over the question of nepotism by the present Adminitration , and the revilers of the President make that the most prominent in their charges against him . This would , perhaps , be all very well if they were honest in their position ; but if it can be shown that they are not honest , then the charge must be regarded as a mere pretext , covering some other fancied . bound of complaint so trivial in itself as to be unworthy of mention , or what is more probable . covering a personal grievance , the publication of which would make the complainant ridiculous . For example , let us take once more the case of the distinguished Senator from Illinois , Mr. TRUMBULL , who has so much to say about the condition of the civil service , and the abuse of the appointing power , and affects to deprecate the interference of Congressmen in the matter of appointments . Mr. TRUMBULL was elected to the Senate for the first time in 1855 , and in 1861 was a candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the State Legislature in Illinois was considered very doubtful . Great uneasiness was felt as to the result , and a liberal amount of money was sent out from the East to be used . in carrying the Legislature , not only that Mr. TRUMBULL might be re-elected , but that the loyal party might have control of that body in the event of a war with the South . The agent having charge of the money went in person to Springfield , and , in looking the ground over , decided . that Sangamon County was the most promising field in which to operate . The result of those operations was to carry that county by a very small majority , giving the Republicans one majority in the Senate . and a somewhat larger majority in the House . The Senator elected in the Sangamon District was Dr. Wm . JAYNE , of Springfield , a brother-in-law of Senator TRUMBULL . Mr. TRUMBULL was re-elected at the succeeding session , and soon after Mr. LINCOLN was inaugurated , and the war began . Mr. TRUMBULL. shortly after the inauguration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his brother-in-law , Senator JAYNE , to an office in one of the Territories . The President remonstrated , represented the condition in which the resignation of Dr. JAYNE would leave the Legislature , the strong probability of the election of a Democrat to fill the vacancy , and the great embarrassment to the Administration in its war measures if the Republicans should have control of that body . But Mr. TRUMBULL was deaf to all such considerations , and Dr. JAYNE was appointed Governor of Dakota Territory , a position in which he could be at a safe distance from all military operations , and at the same time enjoy a desirable official position . The immediate result was . as Mr. LINCOLN bad feared , the election of a Democratic Senator to fill the vacancy , a Democratic majority in the Senate , and great embarrassment to the Administration in its military measures . Tune Misled on and it became not only entirely safe , but somewhat desirable for Gov . JAYNE to return to the States . The war was at an end . Circumstances had combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and among others the Pension agencies bad become very desirable . In the Pension office at Springfield was Gen. IRA J. BLooniFIELD , a gentleman with a most excellent military record , vouehed for by his Corps Commander , Gen. LOGAN , and . his Division Commander , Gen. WALcurr , and by many of his old comrades in arms . Personally he was of unexceptionable character , and . there was a fitness in the payment of pensions by a gallant soldier which everyone recognized . The duties of the office were well performed , and there was no popular demand or desire for a change . But Gov . JAYNE had fixed his heart on the place , and Mr. TRuaturrim demanded it under the rule of the civil service giving the disposition of offices to members of Congress  --  that rule which Mr. TRUMBULL affects to abhor , and . seeks to make a crime . The President recognized the rule , Oen . BLOOMFIELD was removed , Gov . JAYNE was appointed and still fills the office , a standing proof of Mr. TRUMBULL 'S bad faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of appointments . We might atop here , and our illustration would be complete , but a further statement in regard to another appointment , made about the same time , may still farther illustrate the feelings of the distinguished Senator in regard to the civil service . The Major of Gen. GRANT 'S regiment of volunteers  --  WARREN E. Mcllf.A.maN , of Salem , Ill. was a most excellent man and . a good . soldier . He had . been a prisoner during the war , and as such was placed by the rebels under the fire of our guns in Charleston . The hardships to which he was subjected impaired his health to such an extent as to unfit him for the active duties of life . Gen. GRANT knew his good . qualities and his sufferings . and desirous of rewarding him to some extent , nominated him to the Senate as Postmaster at Salem , an office worth something over one thousand dollars a year . The name was sent to the Senate at the same time with that of Gov . JAYNE . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . on the statement of Senator TRUMBULL , and . solely because the incumbent in the Salem office was the political friend and . helper of the Senator . We can imagine that the President was considerably vexed at the rejection of his friend , under the circumstances . He awaited . the adjournment of the Senate , and then appointed the Major 's daughter , Miss EMMA J. McMilesni. as Postmistress , a place she still occupies . These incidents go to illustrate the disregard of Mr. TRUMBULL for military services as against his own selfish ends , and his utter indifference to civil service reform . or to any other consideration save only the advancement of the interests of his relatives and political adherents .                     