@@781512

txt In 1848 , after Gen. TAYLOR had distinguished himself in the Mexican war , his name was suggested by Whigs and Democrats as a candidate for President . Nothing was known of his political principles or antecedents . The enthusiasm which the mention of his name awakened , rendered it certain that should either party make him its n ominee , his success would be inevitable . But the leaders of the Democratic Party , together with its influential organs , repressed the zeal of the younger and . less thoughtful members of their party by saying , " We are in ignorance of the political principles of Gen. TAYLOR . and we can not consent to hazard the safety and welfare of the Democratic Party by taking a candidate who is not known to be of our faith . It is better to be beaten with a candidate whose principles are known to be sound , than to win with one who may prove unfaithful . " The idea , therefore , of making Gen. TAYLOR Democratic candidate for President was repudiated , simply because he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the views and action of the Democracy in 1848 . So rapid , however , has been the demoralization in that once great and enlightened party , that in 1872 they not only ignore the views which influenced them in 1848 , but rush to the support of a nominee whose principles are known to have been utterly and bitterly hostile both to the Democratic Party and . to all the able and trusted men of that party . Mr. GREELEY has not only been steadily opposing the Democracy from the time he commenced journalism , but he has since assailed and denounced every prominent and influential and trusted Democratic statesman throughout the Union . He has opposed . all Democratic measures , and vilified all Democratic statesmen , individually , for more than thirty years . The terms - of the bargain which brings the Democracy to the support of a " United States Bank Whig , " " an Abolitionist. " and . a Black Republican , are creeping out , and reveal infamy enough to overwhelm both parties . If . the American people have not taken leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become unmeaning and obsolete terms  --  this shameful coalition will encounter a rebuke in November so emphatic and indignant as to teach an ambitions apostate on . the one hand .. and unprincipled party leaders on the other , a lessen that will not soon be forgotten . Time is telling against the Cincinnati movement . Many who were inclined ' to vote for Mr. GREELEY have abundant reason , as the canvass. progresses , for abandoning that idea . So , too . with the Democrats , who said that if Mr. GREELEY received an andorsement at Baltimore they would support him . Now , however , many hesitate , and many more positively refuse to enter into th bargain . We meet them among the quiet professional men , merchants and mechanis . These classes say that as steadfast Democrats they can not , even at the beck of the leaders , give their votes to a life-long political opponent . And this mode of reasoning will not only go on , but strengthen as the canvass progresses . The leaders . weary of waiting for office , forsaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of GREELEY , but the very act of taking a Radical political opponent as a representatiVe of the Democratic Party not only demoralizes but disbands the party , leaving individual Democrats to choose and act for themselves . This is being done to an extent which will confound the Seymours , the Hollmans , the Tweeds , the Sweenys. and other leaders of a betrayed and dishonored party .                     