@@741390

txt Foremost among the calamities of warfare , perhaps even more to be deplored than the misery and ruin which attend its actual progress , must be ranked the widespread social demoralization which it inevitably leaves behind it . The history of every country shows in this respect a melancholy uniformity , exhibiting , long after the close of every war , a startlims increase in its criminal statistics , mare especially in crimes of violence . Victor and vanquished alike reap the same bitter harvest of evil passions ; . the same demoralization adds to the burden of defeat , and lessens the satisfaction of victory . Even in our own country we have experienced this result , though for many reasons the war of the rebellion was less likely than most wars to leave a crop of sins and - wickedness behind it . Crimes such as the shocking murders by the BENDER family in Kansas , or the wholesale slaughter of the STELZENRIEDES in Missouri , the system of brigandage prevalentthroughout the West , the decay of commercial integrity evidenced in the continual embezzlements of trusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the dismal legacy left us by those four years of strife and bloodshed . In France and Germany , the same signs are showing themselves - with even more striking clearness . Newspaper correspondents in Berlin are unanimous in representing the social condition of that city as something fearful . Murders of the most atrocious character are constantly being perpetrated with hardly an effort at concealment , and the Police are utterly powerless to prevent them , or to arrest their perpetrators . Poverty itself is no shield against the bloodthirsty propensities of these cut-throats . Poor artisans taking a walk by the canal have . been murdered for the few coppers in their pockets . Tradesmen are assassinated in their shops for the scanty contents of their tills . A peaceable mechanic , returning one evening to his lodgings , was pursued into the house , and his throat cut upon the stairs . In France it is much the same . All through the provinces , the most frightful murders seem to be of constant occurrence . As a sample of their character may be taken that remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , accompanied by the still more remarkable suicide of the postman , LATOUR , leaving a letter in which lie denounced certain of his neighbors as the criminals . LsToun , it is supposed , oppressed in conscience by his knowledge of the assassins , and fearing their vengeance if lie betrayed them , adopted this singular , but , it must be confessed , most effectual , method of satisfying the demands of justice , while at the same time he put himself beyond the reach of the- malefactors . Paris is said to be so satiated with murders that even THOPPMAN would fail to make the faintest sensation . The latest is one that for audacity and mystery may fairly stand beside the Lamous achievements of CALEB WILLIAMS , which DE QUINCEY has i/RMOTtalized . In the middle of the day , in one of the busiest quarters of Paris , a man was observed to come out of a small shop kept by a woman , and run down the street . On entering the place the wonusn was found dead , with her head nearly severed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sake of robbery , for nothing in the place was taken , not even a small sum of money in the drawer . The assassin got clear away , and the most diligent search has failed to discover the slightest clue to his whereabouts or identity . Consequences like these might well suggest hesitation to the rulers who talk so lightly of a speedy renewal of the war  --  that is , if rulers were ever swayed by such considerations . But rulers generally care very little for their people when a great " idea " has to be worked out .                     