@@741270

txt Those who suppose that the agitation for radical changes in the Banking law is merely the result of pressing circumstances , and that it is not likely to he continued , are , as we think , mistaken . The features of the Banking law ** stoma in Ina way or what is coming to be known as free banking interfere with interests which are not only extensive , but are also permanent and pressing . Their effect , therefore , is not temporary . It is not a question of how they operate in an exceptional state of the money market , but of how they operate in those states of the money market which are periodical , and which , if they do not compel attention this year , will remain to claim it next year and the next after that , and so on until Congress has done with reference to them what ought to be done . And ' we believe it is becoming plainer every month that the principle of free banking is the only one elastic enough , and corresponding closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence . It is , if we are not mistaken , becoming more and more clear that the attempt to intrust to any Government official , administering definite powers fixed by statute , the task of making depositors in national banks secure is a mistake . With every turn of the varying fortunes of Wall street , it is more evident that intimate Government supervision is incapable of preventing evils , and . therefore invites them , since it makes the depositors themselves less vigilant , by promising to do what otherwise they would have to do for themselves . A striking proof of what we are saying is found hi the fact -- which few well acquainted with Wall street matters will deny  --  that the gold speculators have been directly aided by some fo the banks within the past two months in operating for an artificial rise in gold . How this has been done  --  how , in fact , it is now being done ? is an open secret . The banks who lend themselves to the speculators advance greenbacks on the security of gold , and then count @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the theory of the Banking law , the reserve consists of assets of the banks in the form of gold . and greenbacks . To count as part of that reserve any 811111 of money the ownership of which is contingent is a violation of the spirit , if not of the letter , of the law . Collaterals are not assets in this sense . The banks might quite as well count as part of their legal tender reserve bonds and mortgages , or railroad bonds , or other bankable securities which they may take as collaterals for the payment of advances made in their own notes , or in currency . Of course , such a use of securities would be a palpable violation of the law , but in essence it is not more so than the counting of gold as reserve when it is held as Security . We are quite aware of the means by which a technical violation of the law is sought to be avoided . It is by the pretense that the gold is bought by the banks . But the gold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possess a clear , unqualified title to the gold , free from all pledges and understandings as to its future disposition . ' We say with confidence that they do not , because there is no inducement for them to do so . The only legitimate use they could put the gold to would be to count it as part of their reserve . In that capacity it would count only at its par ? value . What object , therefore , Could banks have in exchanging greenbacks , which serve the same purpose equally well , for gold , which can serve only that purpose , at the rate of 115 for 100 ? The plea is absurd on the face of it . Nor ought it to be difficult to penetrate the disguises which the banks indulging in this practice  --  and we are prepared to believe that they are few m number  --  naturally throw about it . The thing of which the officers of the Currency Department ought to satisfy themselves is , is there any contingency in the ownership of the gold by the banks ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - with the facts , it becomes possible to tell whether the bank in question has been dabbling with the gold speculators or not . We are informed that the principal coadjutors of the Gold Ring in this matter have been two prominent national banks and two prominent private banking-houses , which we shall , be in a position to name , and . which it may become necessary to name if their practices are not modified . In some cases the transactions do not take even the semblance of a legal form . A speculator , wishing to bid for gold at the Government sale , openly borrows the currency to pay for what he may obtain on his own unindorsed note , with the understanding that the gold . for which the - currency is exchanged shall be handed over , as soon as it is obtained , as security for the note he has given . In this case , of course , there is an appreciable interval during which the bank may be reduced considerably below its twenty-five per cent . reserve , - without even the poor pretense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and particularly since some attention has been called to the matter , more guarded and . roundabout methods have been . employed , but they all reach the same end . We have called attention to these facts as showing that the theory of the Government supervision being sufficient to secure a proper reserve for the depositors is a fallacious one , and that the reserve required by law is constantly impaired by methods which can not easily be foreseen , or if foreseen can not be easily forestalled . There are many other facts bearing on this proposition to which we shall from time to time call the attention of our readers . They all illustrate the principle that in a business like that of banks of deposit , individuals can look out for their own interests better than the Government can do it for them .                     