@@741468

txt There is a lesson for nations , as well as for individuals , to be learned from misfortune . That which France was taught during the German war is threefold . No policy successful without consistency and straightforward progress ; no military organization is efficient without unity and discipline ; no people is strong without sound education and self-reliance . These truths do not seem to have been brought home to the French with equal force : The aspect of the political muddle in which they are floundering does not show that on the first point they are much wiser than they used to be . The remodeling and training of the army is going on steadily , but slowly . Educational interests have been the object of praiseworthy attention and ! activity on the part of some municipalities and private individuals . The University is somewhat rusty and sluggish in matters of reform . There is no lack of talking about it among its doctors , but little has been done within its pale . The work of improving the intellectual condition of the people is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like LABOULAYE , have realized that national greatness can only be promoted by the intellectual development of the people , and who mean to do their share of the task . It was well ascertained during the war that knowledge is more generally diffused among the Germans than among the French . Statistics also show that a largo number of young men , subject to the draft under the old military law , could neither read nor write . Thousands of artisans and laboring men are not much better off . Many have reached manhood without having had the advantages of even a primary education , and for years it has been a matter of no trifling consideration to sweep away these evil consequences of the past , and to remedy their cause in the future . To this effect schools have been established in various localities for the benefit of adults , with a curriculum as comprehensive and as practical as seemed possible . The French call them industrial schools , they are really schools for professional training . To dispense sound and useful ' knowledge to those who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their establishment . But another was to bring together employers and employed , and to unite , in one . common thought of fraternity and . progress , social groups which are often represented as antagonistic . Some of these schools have existed for many years , and have turned out a number of useful men and women . Some have been established only since the war , but all seem to have received an impulse of unusual activity . The school for professional training in Lyons may betaken as an example . It numbered in the year 1872-73 fifty-six classes , with an attendance of two thousand five hundred pupils . This year the number of classes was seventy-one , that of the scholars three thensand. four hundred . Applicants for admission have to ' be refused for want of room . Though the Municipal Council has not been chary in indorsements , nor private purses niggardly , the demand exceeds the supply . New lecture-rooms are opened as speedily as circumstances permit : Thor are generally selected in different ? quarters , so that the inhabitants of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accessible , and the fees are only.nominal . The distinguished naturalist , M. DE QUATREFAGEs , presided at the last commencement of this institution , and the address he delivered on the occasion , gives a far more hopeful presentment of the future of France than the political speeches made at the closing session of the Assembly in Versailles . It is indeed , not through the wrangling the diffusion of knowledge among the laboring classes . It is important to elevate the people to the full understanding of the duties and responsibilities involved in their accession to political franchise and rights . They ' must be fitted for the proper use of their liberty and privileges , and education alone can accomplish that . Education only can give them the light to see their way through the labyrinth of modern democracy , and inculcate in them the desire to know their duties , and the will to perform them . The leaders of the different French revolutions have been too anxious about the rights of men . They have not been sufficiently conscious of - We equally great importance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this subject some " excellent remarks and suggestions , and if a majority of the people will attend them they will go a good way toward settling difficulties and promoting order and peace .                     