@@741532

txt The other day , when a slight earthquake startled the inhabitants of this and adjoining counties , some people said that we now had an admirable opportunity for investigating " this important subject . " Perhaps it is important , and perhaps it ought to be in. vestigated , so that we may learn how to guard against a recurrence of these terrestrial . troubles . But there are so many things - which need immediate and practical investigation , that ' we can well afford to let the earthquake and all its attendant phenomena alone for the present . We shall never be able to prevent earthquakes , whatever we may know about them . It is not a practical matter , though a plausible theory may greatly interest scientific people . Just now , one of our most trying problems is how to get about New-York . The City is in a state of partial blockade . From one end of the island to the other the streets and avenues are filled with snow , slush , and ice . There was a heavy fall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streets and covered the sidewalks . The ordinance requiring the spaces in front of houses and . business blocks to be cleaned could not be * enforced without some hardship . Occupants of warehouses and other commercial buildings were not expected to be able to clear off their sidewalks until Monday . Householders generally waited until the storm was over before they commenced operations , and , when the snow ceased , freezing weather set in ; by sunrise on Monday morning the thick coating of moist snow which had covered the City was an adamantinb , mass of ice . As a rule , the sidewalks are still slippery with it , and , the streets are choked like half-frozen rivers . Not the slightest attempt has been made on the part of the City authorities to remove the snow . It will gradually evaporate , we suppose , and in the meantime be the cause of increased diphtheria , scarlet fever , and other diseases . We suppose the public do not mind  --  if they did they would take measures to compel the authorities to do their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so impeded that foot-travel is dangerous and difficult , and the poor horses which are urged through them are subjects for human pity . From the new Post Office to the Battery , in the narrower , but not less busy streets where commerce crowds , the condition of things is simply indescribable . The sr.ectaele of a vast community . in a wealthy City , boasting of an advanced civilization , so worried and harassed , is certainly a singular one . Of course , popular indignation is at once visited upon the imperfect and inadequate means of locomotion offered by the street railways . As in previous instances , the railway companies " doubled up " their teams and reduced . the number of their cars . The consequence was that these objections ble vehicles were horribly crowded , and persons who have long distances to travel , found it well-nigh impossible to walk . To " foot it " from Wall street to the upper part of the City , in the present condition of the sidewalks , is a really serious undertaking . Whatever may be said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress ought to give us ample facilities for transportation , inside of the City , when we want it . We have nothing of the sort . But leaving the street-car out of the question , ( and we make no mention of our expensive hacks and cabs , ) we are really - wrestling with the problem of the condition of our streets in Winter . It is a great shame that this city , with its million of people , is not able to have clear streets within twentyfour hours after the end of a snow storm . We have an expensive City Government , amply equipped with running machinery , and able to make an impressive display on occasion ; but it can not , or does not , provide any means of making the streets passable iu winter . Year after year , we have the same complaints of inefficiency and the same failure to accomplish anything . It is monstrous that we should , after all our struggles , be obliged to submit to the nuisance and discomforts of streets under embargo and the unwholesome effects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offal of the City . No man can tell how many lives , especially among children , are annually sacrificed to this disgraceful failure to keep the streets clean and clear . The work can be done , and it should be done . If there are no expedients to accomplish this purpose , our civilization is of small account . if there are means of doing this job , and they are not put into operation , our Municipal Government is a failure and an expensive sham . In any event , the sooner we address ourselves seriously to a solution of this problem , the better it will be for us . It is unpleasant to contemplate the great Metropolis of the Republic in such a dismal plight as we see it to-day . If you want to see the full effect of it , look at the mortality returns during the next two weeks .                     