@@741426

txt It has been admitted for several years that the great need of this City is an improvement in the facilities for the cheap and expeditious handling of the commerce - which is poured into it from the West . Owing to our expensive and . clumsy methods , it has for a long time cost more to move grain on shipboard. after its arrival in this City than to transport it hundreds of miles , either by rail or canal , from the interior . This fact has not only been recognized by New-York , but by her rivals , who have promptly taken advantage of it . Montreal , Philadelphia , and Baltimore have been taking our trade from us , chiefly because of our lack of terminal facilities ; yet our merchants have done nothing in the matter , and now that somebody else is inclined to do it for them , we fear that they are somewhat disposed to adopt the policy of the dog in the manger . Nobody , we suppose , will accuse us of an undue liking for Commodore VANDERBILT or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his undertakings which appeared to be intended to serve only the interests of the gigantic corporation of which he is the head , without conferring any corresponding benefit upon the public . The terms upon which the Fourth avenue improvement is being prosecuted are manifestly unfair to the people , and we have often had occasion to say so . Some other of the Vanderbilt enterprises have appeared to us in the same light , and we have not hesitated . to express our opinion concerning them . But it sometimes happens that a corporation in serving itself must also serve the public , and it appears to us that a case of this kind is presented in the proposal of the New-York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company to erect a capacious grain elevator at Sixtieth street and North River . The ground which it is proposed . to take for this purpose is now partly submerged and wholly useless . The plan of the company embraces not only an elevator capable of handling the daily receipts of grain by the road , but extensive docks , and all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from cars to ships . As one means to this end , the terminus of the railroad is to be within the elevator , and all costs of cartage are thus to be avoided . It would seem that the merchants of New York , who have for some time found their trade slipping away from them , would be delighted when anybody offers to meet a want which has so long been apparent . Yet there are many objections presented to the scheme of Mr. VANDERBILT . It is said , among other things , that we do not need a great elevator , for a large number of vessels would be collected about it , hampering each other and creating confusion . There are also visions of the opening of Hell Gate and the concentration of our commerce upon the East and Harlem Rivers , which impel many to oppose any additional facilities upon the North River . New-York is in that condition that it shouldgladly take all that it can get in the way of terminal facilities for commerce . There is no danger that we shall have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time when the whole of our vast water front will hardly be adequate for the trade which will be poured upon us from the West . Mr. VANDERBILT , of course , proposes to serve only the interests of the railroads under his management by his new undertaking . His purpose is entirely selfish , but he can not accomplish it without serving the highest interests of the City . It is , therefore , a matter for public congratulation that the Commissioners of Docks have leased him the ground necessary for his project . The terms appear to be highly advantageous to the City , and eve can not regret that the bargain has been concluded . The greed of a corporation , which has done much to injure this City promises at last to do something to make amends . At the same time , all proper objections to the new plan should be very carefully considered .                     