@@741159

txt Not very long since a " spiritual medium " of this City , who kept spirits on draught , so to speak , and exhibited to his audiences the visible forms of any sort of spirits for which a call might be made , was detected in his imposture and thoroughly exposed . He had supplied himself with a small stock company of artificial ghosts , manufactured of paper , paint , and cheap winding sheets , and whenever a visitor called for his grandmother , wife , father , or other deceased relative , one of these flimsy spectres would suddenly bob its head . out of a hole cut in the exhibitor 's curtain , and as suddenly vanish ; the apparation being accepted as a genuine spirit , by even the best judges of supernatural beings that'can be found in the ranks of the spiritualists . This explanation of a very clumsy and transparent trick , was but one of a large number of equally conclusive proofs of the falsity of the claims made by the average spiritual medium . The medium who takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeatedly exposed  --  in one instance his partner having turned against him and explained the precise nature of the trick . The medium who answers questions sent to him in a sealed envelope , which he is supposed not to open , has been shown to us in the act of loosening the mucilage of the envelope by steam , and thus gaining possession of its contents . The medium who exhibits the name of a spirit written on his arm in red letters , has so often been convicted of practicing a trick , which any person with the slightest knowledge of chemistry can perform , that it is strange that any medium can be found sufficiently impudent to continue to work so commonplace a " miracle . " The medium who reads and answers questions written on transparent paper , or who exhibits scrawls written on a previously prepared slate , or who elevates tables with his leg , or during a " dark seance . " presses the knees of visitors with his foot , has been detected in his simple tricks a score of times . Indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium , which has not been repeatedly proved to be a very cheap and easy trick ? Mr. HOME 'S alleged ability to fly out of a second-story window , not yet having been established by competent testimony , and thus not coming under the head of feats actually performed . Now , there is nothing strange in the detection of commonplace jugglers who lack the skill which renders many of the tricks of HOUDIN and HERMANN inexplicable to the ordinary observer . The curious feature of the matter is , that the ardent spiritualist is not in the least affected by the exposure of the tricks practiced by this or that popular medium . In reply to the proof , that Mr. GORDON 's ghost or Mr. SLADE 'S slatewriting is a stupid imposition , he will possibly admit that the detected medium may be a deceiver , but he nevertheless stoutly contends that the truth of spiritualism is by no means disproved by the deceptions practiced by its professors . And . yet the whole system of spiritualism , as a religious faith , rests upon the credibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the spiritualists ' own theory , be no communication between mortals and spirits . To most reasoning men , the fact that every medium who has gained any reputation , or , in other words , every prominent exponent of spiritualism , has been convicted of shameless trickery , would , be a complete refuta- tion of the theory that spirits can communicate with mon . To the spiritualist , however , this fact has no bearing upon his creed . and he comforts himself with the false analogy that since the hypocrisy of a Christian does not disprove the religion of Christ , so the dishonesty of a medium does not affect the truth of spiritualism . Persons incapable of perceiving the falsity of this analogy are beyond the reach of argument . Of such it would seem that the great body of spiritualists consists . There is , therefore , little hope that this shallow imposture will be speedily exploded . So long as men exist who find it easier to believe in ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS than in the Evangelists , and who prefer the cheap tinsel ghosts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposure of any medium in the country would fail to injure to an appreciable extent the business of arranging interviews between the living and the dead , at the established price of five dollars for each interview .                     