@@743214

txt It is expected that the case of the Democratic election officers who wore convicted at Baltimore of interfering with United States Deputy Marshals and Supervisors during the Congressional election of 1878 will be called to-morrow in the United States Supreme Court , on a motion for a writ of habeas corpus . The names of the convicted election officers are Henry Bowers , Martin C. Burns , Walter Tucker , Lewis Coleman , and Albert Siebold . The petitioners were indicted and convicted at the November term ( 1 878 ) of the United States Circuit Court for Maryland , and sentenced to be imprisoned for 12 months , which sentence they are now undergoing . The ground of the application for the writ of habeas corpus is the alleged unconstitutionality of the statutes under which the prisoners were convicted , which statutes are known as the Supervisors ' and Deputy Marshals ' law . In the brief of the case prepared by the Attorney-General he says that the inquiry arises at the outset whether the prisoners can be relieved by means of a writ of habeas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it appearing by their petition that they , are held in prison pursuant to a judgment of the United States Circuit Court , rendered in a criminal prosecution against them under certain statutes of the United States . In regard to this preliminary question , the AttorneyGeneral argues that the Circuit Court , " having cognizance of all crimes and offenses cognizable under the authority of the United ' States , " had jurisdiction of the cause , and that it its judgment therein can not be re-examined by habeas corpus . In arguing this proposition , the AttorneyGeneral contends that the jurisdiction of the United States Circuit Court in criminal cases is so broad that it is coextensive with the judicial powers of the United States in regard to such cases , and that this jurisdiction extends to all crimes and offenses created by any legislative act of Congress . Hence , in a criminal proceeding under an act of Congress jurisdiction of the cause  --  that is , the right to take cognizance thereof and to decide all questions of law occurring therein , even the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had  --  is acquired by the Circuit Court , simply by the fact of the existence of such an act and the allegation of an offense under it . The power to hear and determine a case is jurisdiction ; it is corm judice whenever a cause is presented which brings the power into action . But , assuming that the constitutionality of the statutory provisions under which the petitioners were tried and convicted in the Circuit Court may be inquired into in a proceeding in habeas corpus , the AttorneyGeneral contends that those provisions are validFirst ? , Because Congress has Lull and unqualified power to regulate the manner of holding elections for members thereof . Second  --  Because the power of Congress to regulate the manner of holding elections for its members includes authority to adopt whatever measures may be deemed necessary or expedient to conducting such elections and determining the result thereof . Third  --  Because Congress can punish any violation of the laws enacted under this power , and also any interference with the officers charged with the execution of such laws . Fourth  --  Because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for carrying into effect the power granted to Congress to regulate the manner of holding elections for Representatives . These propositions are argued at length by the Attorney-General in his brief . The power of Congress in such cases is derived from section 4 , Article 1 , of the Constitution , which provides that " the times , places , and manner of holding elections for Senators and Representatives shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof ; but the Congress may at any time by law make or alter such regulations , except as to the places of choosing Senators . " It is held that from this provision the States themselves derive all . their power to enact laws prescribing the times , places . and manner of holding elections for Representatives in Congress , and that the power given to Congress touching this subject is as broad as the power given to the States . In the grant to the States the language employed would seem to make it imperative upon them to exercise the power conferred , while in the grant to Congress the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that body . Yet this discretion is subject to no restriction whatever . According to the terms of the grant , Congress may " at any time by law make such regulations prescribing the time , place , and manner of holding elections , or may alter any regulations of that character which have been enacted by the State Legislatures , and regulations enacted by Congress pursuant to this grant become , by the Constitution , the supreme law of the land . Therefore , should Congress make regulations covering the whole subject matter of the grant , all State laws on the same subject matter would thereby be rendered inoperative and void . So if Congress alters the regulations of the States , by the enactment of regulations supplemental thereto or otherwise , only such parts of the State regulations would remain valid as were unaffected by the legislation of Congress . The Attorney-General argues , further , that the provision of the Constitution above qnoted gives both to the Legislatures of the States and to Congress the power to make those regulations , and to Congress also the further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such regulations as the States may make . It commands the Legislatures of the States to execute the power with which they are invested , but it confides to Congress the discretion to exercise or not either of the powers intrusted to it at all times . No legislation of the States can prevent Congress from acting on this subject . either in the form of snaking these regulations or altering those of the State Legislatures , nor can the States quality or circumscribe that action in the one mode or in the other , whatever it may be . But Congress , by executing its power to make these regulations , may exclude and wholly put an end to the jurisdiction of the State Legislatures ; or , in exercising its other power to alter the State regulations to any extent , it may allow that jurisdiction to operate within as large or small limits as it may adjudge to be proper ; or it may leave to these Legislatures the exercise of all power over the subject itself by abstaining from all legislation relating to it . But when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to alter such as the State Legislatures may have prescribed , just so far as it does act its authority is absolute , paramount , and exclusive . This character would be imparted to its action by the second clause of the sixth article of the Constitution . In addition , the discretionary power with which Congress is invested to make these regulations , or to supervise and alter those of the State Legislatures at all times , stamps its legislation in the prem. ises with an overwhelming supremacy . The second proposition covers the enactment of laws concerning the registration of voters , the casting and canvassing of votes , declaration of the result . &c.; and it is submitted by the Attorney-General that if a State should neglect or refuse to make any regulations on the subject of such elections , and Congress should in consequence supply regulations of its own , the latter , regulations , in order to effect their purpose , must of necessity embrace the whole process of election . In such a contingency the power of Congress over this subject would be no greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Attorney-General clearly shows that Congress has the right to provide officers for carrying into effect such regulations as it may adopt in the exercise of the Dower referred to , and in support of this proposition quotes the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of the United States against Clayton ( 2 Dill. , 227 , ) where it is said by the court : " Under the Constitution ( Art . 1 , see . 4 ) Congress has the undoubted power to provide its own officers for the holding and conduct of Congressional elections . " In support of the third proposition , it is shown that power is expressly given to Congress by the Constitution to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution all other powers granted thereto . Nearly all the criminal legislation of Congress rests upon that power . As to whether a State election officer at any Congressional election cam be punished for obstructing , hindering , or interfering with United States Supervisors and Marshals in the performance of any duty required of those officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such election , the Attorney-General says : " If Congress , in the exercise of the power to regulate the manner of holding elections for Representatives , can create officers to supervise the voting and canvassing of the votes at such elections under regulations of its own , it can enforce these regulations by means of penalties or punishments . Authority to make law impliedly confers authority to impose penalties for violation of the law . And the penal provisions enacted to the end of enforcing such regulations , it is submitted , may be made to embrace all persons alike  --  those acting with , equally with those acting without , authority or power from any State . In this connection , it is to be observed that the authority or power derived from the State is apparent only , not real , in so far as it comes in conflict with the regulations of Congress and their enforcement ; for these regulations , being paramount , to that extent annul the authority or power given by the State . " As the decision of the court in these cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it will be awaited with unusual interest by all .                     