@@781930

txt The political campaign in Connecticut is now fairly under way , and very soon both parties will enter into the heat of the contest . State tickets have been in the field some time , and by the close of the present week the Congressional nominations will be completed . Both parties seem to be well organized this year , and the Republicans especially are iu a much better situation than they have been for the past two years . Their divisions ire now happily disposed of , and the party organization will be much improved thereby . The Democrats are suffering considerably from disaffectiotis over Congressional nominations , but are reasonably well united as to their State ticket , and will make a strong effort to succeed . The State nominees of both parties are personally unobjectionable .. The ticket presented . by the Republicans is composed of new men in general State politics , who are , however , much better known than were the Democratic candidates when they wore first placed before the people two years ago , and are severally well qualified to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : The two tickets are as follows : GOVernOT ... 4TAMES L.GREEICE , Norwich , Republican ; C. R. INGERSOLL , New-Haven , Democrat . Lieutenant Governo7 ? CHARLES L. gNCLISII , NewHaven , Republican ; G'EORGR G. Sruh Hartford , Democrat . Secretary of State  --  A. H. FENN . Plymouth , Republican ; M. H. SANGER , Canterbury , Democrat , 1'recuturer-0 . B. ARNOLD , Meriden , Republican ; W. E. RAYMOND , New.Canaan , Democrat . Controller  --  R. B. CRAUFURD , Norwalk , Republican ; A. R. GOODRICH , Vernon , Democrat . JAMES LLOYL . GREECE has been Mayor of Norwich for the past eight years , and.is very popular in the eastern part of the State . Ho is a man of wealth , who has all his life been active in business and somewhat active in local politics . He graduated at the Harvard Law School , but never practiced law . The chef objection which the Democrats raise against him is that he fired a salute of one hundred guns over President GRANT 'S Message on Louisiana matters at p , time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really cheered by many things in the Message . He is not represented as an extreme man in his political views , though strong in his convictions and possibly somewhat impulsive in their expression . He was the only Mayor in the country , we believe , who ordered a salute of one hundred guns when President Lixcor issued the proclamation of emancipation . CHARLES L. ENGLISH is a merchant of New-Haven , and brother of ex-Governor JAMES E. ENGLISH . He presided over the first Convention of the Republican Party in Connecticut in 1856 , at which Hon. GIDEON WELLES was one of the Vice Presidents . He has been a member of the State Senate , and , until within a few years , active in politics . Col. ANDREW H. FENN is fa young and rising ' lawyer at the Litchfield County Bar . Ho wentinto the Army during the late war as a private , and came out at , the close with the rank of Lientenaut Colonel . GWEN B. ARNOLD , the candidate for State Treasurer , is a leading banker in Meriden , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Treasury office , while his opponent possesses no knowledge of financial matters . Gen. R. B. CRAUFURD is engaged in the banking business , and of course has a full knowledge of accounts , which is of some consequence in the occupant of the Controller 's office . The gentleman who now holds that office is a physician and a consistent Democrat . The ticket is certainly a good one , and its personal character , together with the qualifications possessed by tho candidates , disarms criticism beyond a favorable consideration of its claims to popular support . It affords more than an even comparison in many respects with that which it opposes . It is to be expected that the issues of the campaign will turn , in spite of everything , toward questions of a national character to a greater or less degree . The Democrats will certainly compel these issues as far as they can , in order to avoid a discussion of matters which are really of greater interest to the people of the State . The Legislature for the first time in nearly a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican , and was turned over to the tender mercies of the Reformers , and a remarkable exhibition they made of themselves . The helping brethren from the Republican ranks , who had joined the party of reform , found themselves coldly deserted in every needful emergency . The record of gross partisanship is too long to be recited . here . It began with the election to the United States Senate of WILLIAM W. EATON , one of the most ' notorious partisans in the country , who during the war called the Union soldiers-who were fighting the battles of their country ? " armed bands of despotism , " and uttered many of the most outrageous sentiments wl'ich made the name of copperheadism odious while the nation 's life was in peril . Next came the gerrymandering of city charters , notably in New-Haven and Norwich ; the appointment of partisan Judges , and other exhibitions of severe party rule , while matters touching agricultural and . labor interests , and other measures of real reform and improvement , were either wholly neglected , or at the last hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With this record , amplified and diligently discussed , the Republicans can put their opponents on the defensive , and absorb public interest in their efforts . In the Congressional districts there is not much probability of change ; the present members will be returned . Gen. HAWLEY must be very sure of a re-election in the First District ; Gen. KELLOGG , with the exceeding good fortune of three victories already won in a Democratic district to encourage him , and with a good record to recommend him , is almost certain of success in the Second , and iu the Third Mr. STARKWEATIIER 'S friends have no doubt , of his return . The Fourth is given over to the Democrats if Mr. BARNUM runs , as the people of that district appear to think that if a man can be a Congressman and remain away from Washington most of the time he ought to be encom. - aged ; at least they have re-elected him several times with a full knowledge of his habits before them . One significant thing about the campaign is the mixieg of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Judges of the Supreme Court of Errors being Democratic candidates for Congress ; and some interesting light is thrown on this subject in the correspondence from Connecticut printed elsewhere .                     