@@741668

txt It is a well-known source of uneasiness among the Democratic politicians of the North , that the leaders of their party iu the South , who will appear next December in Congress , may make some violent demonstration 9f their views and feelings . " Wo shall elect the next President , " said one of the most prominent Democrats in the West the other day , " if the Southerners do not make fools of themselves "  --  a condition about which he evidently Mt considerable doubt . The Chicago nibune recently published an account , from a very intelligent correspondent , of interviews with several fieorgia politicians  --  among them Hon. BEN H. HILL , who has scone claim to be regarded as a representative man in his State . He was elected only last month to fill a vacancy in the Ninth Congressional District . Ile had a Republican and three Democratic candidates against him , and he obtained a majority of some 2,000 over all . The correspondent of the Chicago Tribune says that this signal success  --  HILL is hated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to the fact that his utter-. ances during the canvass were in exact accord with the popular sentiment . " What these utterances were may be gathered from sonic specimens . Mr. HILL insisted that " the South never was unwilling to live in the Union under the Constitution ; " " the South left the Union with regret , and only because she was made to believe that the North would not adhere to the Constitution . " We can gather from this what Mr. HILL means when he says that " if the North will covenant that the Union shall be constitutioual , the South will covenant that it shall be perpetual . " In other words , Mr. IIILL pleases the people of his district by justifying rebellion in the past , and discussing the future existence of the Union as an open question . The views are absurd , and the obstinacy and blindness of their author and his supporters are unfortunate , not to say pernicious ; but we have reason to believe that they are not general enough in the South to do serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the constitutional motive of the insurrection , and his foolish talk about a bargain over the per pe tuity of the Union to Congress , wo are inclined to think that ho will , on the whole , be voted a bore . He may tickle the feelings of the people of North-eastern Georgia with his eloquence on this class of subjects ; but we are mistaken if he does not find , even in a Democratic House of Representatives , that they no longer excite much feeling or claim much attention . They have passed beyond the realm of discussion . The South submitted its motives and its theories of government voluntarily to the final decision of war , and that decision having been rendered , there is every day loss and less wish to debate it . There are other questions in which the South is more interested than in those to which Mr. HILL gives his valuable time . The maintenance of the Federal Government in accordance with the strictest standard of integrity and economy ; the securing to the country of a stable currency , promoting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the remainder of the commercial world ; the adjustment of the burdens of taxation to accommodate the growing industries and interests of the country , the lack of which at present the South feels deeply ; the preservation of the Federal ' Government from entanglement in wild schemes of internal improvement , which will tend at once to weaken and pervert its energies and to corrupt its administration  --  these are purposes to which men of Mr. HILL 'S known integrity and reputed ability can address themselves as representatives of the South with peculiar propriety . These are questions of to-day and to-morrow . They are not questions of the irrecoverable past .                     