@@740813

txt The directors of the Western Union Telegraph Company met yesterday , and voted unanimously against the acquisition of their lines by the Government . They will proceed to draw up a formal protest against it . and will spare no amount of opposition to defeat the project . The wiseacres who saw in the Government proposal a scheme to bull Western Union shares , must , therefore , seek for some other theory to account for its origin . The fact is. that no negotiations whatever have been held between the Western Union Company and the Government with a view to a transfer of its property . Whatever may have been the case with minor companies . the recommendation to Congress to give the Post-Office control over the telegraph lines was , evidently , as much a surprise to the Western Union Company as to the general public . Both Mr. Cawsvgs. ' . and the President have jumped too hastily to the conclusion that the scheme is either feasible or likely to prove of public benefit . The only people who have a tangible interest it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of spurious companies whose existence hangs by a very slender thread , and to whom Government purchase would be a welcome release from impending bankruptcy . The public Treasury would be called upon to assume the liabilities of such concerns , and their promoters would pocket a very respectable share of public money . If the nation is to go into business at all , it can hardly be expected to undertake a commercial enterprise which is so largely tainted with failure . In the United States , there are in operation eight telegraph companies transacting business in competition with the Western Union Company , having about ten thousand miles of line , and represented by an aggregate capital of over sixteen millions of dollars . These companies have not earned their current expenses , and some of them have already incurred debts for a greater amount than their property is worth . Recently , one of the best constructed and patronized of these lines ? that belonging to the Bankers ' . Brokers ' Telegraph Company , whose capital was $1,050,000 ? was sold at auction for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of debt incurred in its operation . The Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph Company , having 3,744 miles of line , and a capital of ten millions of dollars , has recently issued a circular to its stockholders , announcing that the Company has a floating debt of nearly $130,000 , and calling upon each stockholder to surrender and contribute one-fourth part of their stock for sale , at ten dollars per share , for its extinguishment . Even were it probable that under united management the entire telegraph system of the country could be worked at a profit , rafter being acquired at a fair valuation , it can not be too often repeated that our Postoffice is the most incapable of any agency Oat could be selected for the purpose . When sit takes at least two days fora letter to pass from New-York to Brooklyn , and when an interval varying from thirty to forty-eight hours is required to deliver a letter posted above Twenty-third-street and addressed to the lo*er part of the City , we are furnished with the best of all proofs that the telegraph system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be completely and consistently bungled . Mr. CRESWELL lays great stress upon the fact that the British postal telegraphs have been a source of national revenue . To make the comparison complete , the Postmaster-General should have explained why our Post-office Department costs the nation from four to five millions a year . If the Department can not make its legitimate business of letter-carrying pay , it is in the last degree improbable that it could render remunerative the work of telegraphing . It . is not , moreover , altogether certain that the British system , with all its exceptional advantages drawn from density of population and the trifling extent of distance traversed. has been a pecuniary success . A careful examination of the financial statements made up to March 31 , 1871 , shows that a great many charges are put to capital account which ought to rank under current expenses . There are no charges , for example , under the latter head , for repairs and maintenance of line , on which the Western Union Company annually expends nearly one million of dollars . So far , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the most advantageous circumstances , are self-sustaining . They could not . be tried under auspices more unfavorable than those which would attend them here . They would , beyond doubt , prove a permanent obstacle to business transactions , a blundering vehicle of news transmission , and would cost the nation , into the bargain , an exorbitant sum in the shape of purchasemoney. and a large amount every year in the shape of financial deficits . Under these circumstances , the sooner the scheme is shelved the better , and the President , who has obviously been misled on the subject , can not too soon withdraw his recommendation .                     