@@740915

txt In the latter part of March , Mr. GREELEY made up his mind that the time had come for announcing his desertion from the Republican Party . On the Saturday preceding the Connecticut election , he issued a call for Cincinnati , early enough to circulate widely through Connecticut , and intended to influence the result in that State . In this call Mr. GREELEY assigned as the cause of his " departure from the ordinary modes of party action " the " deep conviction that the organization to which he belonged was under the control of those who will use it chiefly for personal purposes , and obstruct a free expression of opinion upon the important matters laid before the people of the United States , " by the original call for Cincinnati . The public were invited to come to Cincinnati , and in a " mass convention , " where all would . be equal , and where " free expression " would be untrammeled , to consult as to the duty of the hour . On these pretensions and promises of Mr. GREELEY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Presidency affords a very striking commentary . The Convention was nothing that it pretended to be , and was everything its managers professed to abhor . It was not a mass convention ; it was not held for " consultation " at all ; there was no free speech , andvery little speech of any kind in it ; it did . not even recognize the need of revenue reform ; it proposed nothing regarding the reform of the civil service , and it made no proposition concerning the proper treatment of the Kuklux question . On all essential matters it prevaricated or was silent . While it thus contradicted every promise that was made for it , it presented , in their most aggravated form , nearly all the evils it was avowedly called to combat . It was a packed Convention . The " delegates " represented . not a constituency , choosing them at home , but only the crowds the managers had brought to Cincinnati on free tickets , or who had appointed themselves to come . Nearly half the States were , by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegations filled by men from other States . The Convention , thus perverted in its constitution , was manipulated throughout by the relentless employment of all the stale political devices to compel an artificial " harmony " in such bodies . Everything was cut and dried . In the organization the hand of the schemers was plain . The Chairmanship of the Convention was given to Gen. SCHURZ , and he was allowed to declaim eloquently for elevated action , but the price he paid for indulgence in the only " free expression " permitted in the Convention was his adherence to its final action  --  and the price was very high . HORACE WHITE , the free-trader , hitherto sans peur et sans reproche , of the Chicago Tribune , was made Chairman of the Committee on Resolutions , in order that he might be compelled to report the wretched . cowardly compromise , which stultified all his more recent record , and made him appear curiously like either a dupe or a victim . A " Committee on Credentials " was invented . It had no excuse for existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none in the nature of the case . But it was sprung on the Convention in the midst of excitement on some other point , and hurried through with a success that must have made JOIN COCHRANE and . ALECK MCCLURE laugh in their sleeves . Once formed , it proved a famous weapon in the hands of the managers . It ruled . out all but a few of Mr. GREELEY 'S opponents in this State , and brought the machine generally into working order with great precision , and with no scruples as to decency or good faith . The way in which Mr. MAHLON SANDS  --  a thoroughly conscientious man  --  and all his friends were suppressed , will not soon be forgotten . From first to last the schemers had it their own way . Mr. FENTON led them , with an energy and tact which fully sustain his reputation . The result is shown in his exultant dispatch to Mr. WarrELAw REID , which that gushing professor of journalism would never have published if he had asked the Senator 's advice . We do not blame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplished . Mr. GREELEY Was not the choice of the men who met at Cincinnati . The ablest and best of them distrusted him , and some of them displayed a feeling little short of contempt for him . He had no " claims . " His record was directly opposed to nearly every profession of the sincere men in the Convention . He has always fought revenue reform . His views of civil service reform are that the " outs " ought to be put in . They are illustrated by his Tammany associations , and his frank admissions that the motive of the Fenton fight in this State is merely greed for office . His statesmanship was a matter tor sneers . His ideas were shared by no one . His popularity was a subject for broad jokes . Yet he was made the candidate of the Convention . Well might Mr. FENTON slip back to Washington between two days . conscious that this " free , " " spontaneous , " " reform " Convention was " fixed . " We may form some idea of the effectiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrath of those who were betrayed . Judge HOADLET has expressed himself on the subject . He says the thing was a " fraud . " He denounces it as a " corrupt alliance of Tammany and FRANS BLAin , " ? Tammany , our readers will observe , being represented - by Messrs . FENTON and GREELEY and BLAIR by Gov . BROWN . He says the success of the ticket " means nothing else than an organized raid of all the corrupt men now out of office on the Treasury . " The Judge was present throughout the Convention , and was an active member of it . though Jonw COCHRANE 'S gag rule kept him from talking much in the open body . He knows what he is talking about . What do the men who really desire reform , and sought it at Cincinnati , think of the prospect ?                     