@@743004

txt Propositions for reforming the taxation of the State are before the Legislature in many forms . The report of the Senate 's special committee is the foundation of a bill now before that body ; the State Assessors ' ideas are embodied in n measure which has not yet made much progress ; Senator HARRIS has a bill aiming at the same objects with some variation in the method ; and Mr. BROOKS , of the Assembly , is the author of another and briefer measure . In addition to these are sundry plans , printed apparently with the view of bringing before legislators ideas duly formulated , in some cases derived from the practice of neig , hboring States . It will not be for want of material , or of advisory help , if the session come to a close without some attempt to remove notorious evils , as regards assessment and taxation , and to impart to both greater uniformity and a nearer approach to equity than at present exist . Neither the special committee 's report nor - the Assessors ' report throws much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its discussion . Indeed , the effect of both documents is impaired by an evident bias in favor of land as compared with other classes of property , and an evident disposition to subordinate the fiscal policy of the State to local interests and prejudices . The Assessors would relieve the land of all State taxes , while increasing the burdens to be borne by traders and manufacturers . The exception which the Assessors would make to this measure of relief for the farmers is in behalf of the State Capitol , the completion of which on a scale that shall render it " the perfection of all that is beautiful and grand in art of the nineteenth century " should , we are told , be paramount to all fiscal considerations . Till this edifice be finished , the Assessors hold that even farmers should deem themselves privileged to contribute . The Senate committee have not put forward any proposition quite so absurd as this . Their desire to aid indebted counties and municipalities at the expense of other parts of the State is , however , as indefensible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pretext for unlimited jobbery and waste . One recommendation in favor of real estate is obviously just . It is that the right to deduct from assessments the amount of indebtedness , now applicable to personal property , shall be extended to owners of real property . The practice is not wholly free from objection , but certainly if tolerated at all it should be extended to real-estate owners as well as to business men and speculators of every degree . On the other hand , the Senate committee sin against reason when they propose to forbid deductions on account of United States securities . The allegation on which the , proposal rests is that a fraudulent use is made of investments in such securities as a means of escaping taxation . A difficulty of this sort is an argument against , the present method of taxing personal property ; it can not justify the punishment of honest holders of bonds who happen to be indebted , or the indirect violation of the national law exempting the bonds from taxation . The system of taxes " upon rental values upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for business purposes , " which the Assessors propose as a means of relieving land in cities and villages , is a partial adoption of the plan suggested by Mr. - WELLS and his colleagues in 1871 : The difference is this : The Wells Commission suggested a tax to be determined by the rental value of premises occupied as the equivalent for all taxation on personal property ; while the Assessors recommend a tax on rental values as another method of reaching persona in business . That the present law regulating assessments of personal property is a scandal to the State and a source of endless frauds and falsehoods , the Assessors admit ; and it is to be regretted that their views in regard to its amendment or repeal are not more clearly presented . The Senate committee leave this important feature of the general question untouched . Both the Assessors and the committee are emphatic in their advocacy of stringent measures for making the great corporations of the State tributary to its Treasury . " Aside from the new Capitol , " say the Assessors , " every dollar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for uncommon school purposes , can be raised from incorporated companies , and be so distributed as not to make taxation in any manner heavy upon any incorporated company of the State . " The Senate : committee submit no estimate of the probable product of such taxation , but they dwell on its justice , and their bill now in the Senate provides with tolerable completeness for the execution of their plan . It is far from being a perfect plan , however , or one that can be upheld as in the interest of the State . Under its provisions , all corporations not specific ally ex-. empted from taxation are required to furnish to the State Assessors information that willenable them to estimate the value of the companies ' property . The Assessors fix the amount for which each corporation shall be assessed , and , where the business extends to more than one c ounty , they apportion the assessment among the counties concerned according to a defined method . Further details are attended to by the local Boards of Sup ervisors . So far , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it vests in the Assessors , who are left to exercise their discretion in a matter which should be determined by the Legislature according to some rule , at once explicit and comprehensive . Equally objectionable is the disposition made of the taxes to be thus obtained . For example , towns and municipalities wich have incurred debt on account of railroads are to receive the proceeds of the assessment levied within their boundaries ; the proceeds of the remainder of the assessments in each county will be divided among the towns which may have paid their debts or have been wise enough not to incur bonded obligations . There is nothing like equity here . The plan , in fact , seems in these particulars to have been framed for the relief of the " bonded towns , " not as a measure for executing any well-considered reform of taxation . SenatorlIARhis 's bill has in view the same general object of taxing corporations , but is more satisfactory in some of its provisions . It intrusts the determination of the taxable value of the property to the Controller , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be submitted for revision . The machinery tor the collection of the tax is also controlled by the Controller , and there is none of the Senate committee 's nonsense respecting the division of the proceeds . The bill , however , has one provision for which no defense can be , found . It appends to the provisions for taxing corporations an appropriation of $4,000,000 out of the proceeds of the taxation , for the completion of the Capitol ! Can it be that the anxiety of the Assessors and of Mr. HARRIS to reform our system of taxation , and to bring great corporations into subjection to the tax collector , is , after all , only the offspring of a desire to obtain the means for further extravagance at Albany                     