@@740823

txt We notice , in an English insurance paper of recent date , an announcement which gives promise of something both new and practical in life insurance . After a year of preliminary preparation , mostly devoted to getting together fifty thousand . pounds as a capital , the " Positive Life Assurance Company " is ready to do business . Most people will think the name selected a rather odd one , considering the lack of positiveness which usually attaches to anything in the life insurance line outside of its self-assertion , and the demands it makes upon one 's purse . But , for once . there is something in a name , and this new Company has a plan which justifies its calling itself " Positive . " Being novel in England , we may safely assume that this plan is also unknown here , and , therefore , we shall enter into a few particulars with regard to it . The opinion has been gaining ground during the past few years in England , that , as at present conducted , life insurance is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very heavy ones , too , ) every little while among the companies , the needless and unfair conditions of life policies , the cloud of uncertainty which overhangs their final payment when due , - and the continual disputes which clog settlements  --  the business of life insurance seems to be going behindhand , and popular distrust is taking the place of the old favor . The unfortunate condition in which the European 's policyholders  --  some twenty-five thousand in number  --  find themselves and their forty amalgamated companies , only adds fuel to this flame of discontent , and now that the European is shown to be four or five million dollars short of being solvent , the public feeling is full of distrust . The new " Positive " Company proposes to change all this , and by a very simple process . It has arranged a system by which every premium paid purchases an absolute , non-forfeitable property , which belongs to the assured , and which is always available to him . As explained by the Company 's prospectus , this kind of insurance is entirely free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It does not necessitate the continuance of paying premiums longer than the assured desires . He can cease doing so at will , and enjoy the Fame proportionate benefits for each premium paid , whether few or many . All this is effected by giving in return for every premium paid a negotiable note , payable to bearer three months after the death of the party insured . The amount of this note depends upon the sum insured , and the number of years during which the premiums are to be paid .. These notes , being made payable to bearer , and each one being independent of those previously or afterward issued , and unaffected by subsequent neglect to pay premiums , are complete instruments , and . transferable by simple delivery . Now , here is no policy fettered by conditions ; no reference to applications ; no chance to dispute or defer payment on account of alleged misrepresentations made years ago , but a clear promise to pay , which can not be , and is not intended to be , repudiated . Could anything seem simpler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this plan to be called " Positive . " The notes represent a fixed value even while the assured is living . Whoever holds them can obtain at any time after three days ' notice . a loan upon them of an amount equal to forty per cent . of the premium paid on the notes . Here , it will be seen , is a point indicating an element of popularity about this plan which no other present plan possesses . There is uo room here for discussing surrender values , and haggling about the worth or worthlessness of a lapsed policy . The insured knows lust what he is doing when he goes into the transaction . He obtains his insurance for a fixed price , for a fixed time , and the note given him is always worth forty per cent . of its face , even if be never pays another shilling . This feature will commend itself without much need of argument . It is proper to add that security is made a speciality . so to speak , of the positive plan , by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom is THOMAS HuGHES ) of eighty per cent , of the premiums which are to be invested in Government stocks ; and these deposits are withdrawable only when needed to pay the notes as they mature by- the death of the insured . This would seem to round off the new plan completely . If there any such " Positive " life insurance company in the United States we have never heard of it , and . if not , what an opening it presents for unemployed talent !                     