@@740920

txt Sir A. T. GALT , in the House , last night , asked whether the Government had taken any steps to have the claims and interests of the Dominion specially represented , in the reference to the Emperor of Germany , of the question of the San Juan boundary . Sir JOHN A. MACDONALD replied that Her Majesty 's Government had communicated with the Canadian Government on the subject , desiring to get all the information that was in their possession In order to make up a case to be presented to the arbitrator . The Canadian Government consequently communicated with the Provincial Government of British Columbia , and an elaborate statement had been prepared under the charge of the Lieutenant-Governor and Attorney-General , from a British Columbian and Canadian point of view . This statement had been sent home to England in time to be incorporated with the case , and in order to prevent any delay in obtaining further information the Government of British Columbia had been placed in direct communication with the foreign cfflee . No special agent had been appointed on behalf of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The debate on the treaty of Washington being resumed , Mr. Mims said he did not believe peace would be endangered if the treaty wet e destroyed . On the contrary , he believed fi iendship with England was necessary to the United States as a check to Russian ambition in tue Pacific with Japan as its basis of action . Sir A. T. GALT was the principal speaker of the evening . He argued from the independence of Canada stand-point , and said that it was a most essential position of Great Britain in the controversy that she should not be weakened by the refusal of Canada to give consent to that portion of the treaty submitted to ber . Ho therefore believed that ( although it might be imprudent to lay documental evidence on the table of the House ) the- Imperial Government bad put upon the Canadian Ministry a pressure they could not resist . The alternative of compliance or separation from the parent country bad been presented , and , shrinking from accepting the latter , the Canadian Government bad consented to take the course now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that peace with the United States is a necessity to Great Britain . Be disapproved of many of the clauses of the treaty , and believed that every concession to the United States was a step toward annexation . He favored the Independence of Canada , which , in his opinion , would be the means of preventing annexation . The position of the Dominion ho held to be one of weakness to the empire . He was prepared to show his loyalty by withdrawing that cause of weakness . So long as Canada was a member of the Empire , he held that she must accept the Imperial policy . He tur:her beileved tuat peace would be endangered if the treaty were rejected , and therefore , in loyalty to the Empire , he should accept the treaty . Ho argued that Great Britain Was bound , if we desired , to give notice of the termination of the treaty at toe end of ten years ; and it at the cud of chat time we were not able to take a position of indepeudence , we must be content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Jolla A. MACDONALD begged to state most distiuctly that no threat or pressure of any kind , direct or indirect , had been used by the Imperial Government In relation to the treaty , and called attention to the Queen 's speech , which showed . that Canada had exercised a free aud unrestricted choice in the matter . He disclaimed all responsibility on the part of - the Government for the utterance of a gentleman who was not a member of the Administration . The debate will be resumed on Monday , and a division will be taken on Tuesday . 