@@740743

txt In that interesting book , the Memoirs of Charles Mayne Young , by his son , there is a striking illustration of the influence of vanity as an element in human motive . During the first French Revolution , LAFAYETIZ , desiring to disperse a mob composed of the most brutal rabble in Paris , ordered a young officer of artillery to load and train on them two guns . Before the command to fire was given , the officer begged to be allowed to try a milder remedy . He was told it was useless to attempt to reason with such brutes . " But I do not mean to appeal to their reason , " he replied , " but to their vanity . " Permission being then reluctantly given , he approached the crowd and briefly addressed them : " Respectable persons will have the goodness to withdraw ; I have orders to fire only on the canaille . " And immediately , as nobody - wished to be considered one of the canaille , the entire crowd proved its claim to be ranked among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The principle here illustrated is one of tolerably wide application . Its increasing influence in causing crime is very apparent . Many of the homicides which are hastily attributed to jealousy might , with greater justice , be traced to disappointed vanity . All over the country unhappy lovers seem to be taking refusal as the deadliest insult , only to be wiped out in blood . At any rate , assassinations of reluctant maidens by ardent wooers are becoming astonishingly frequent . The fact that last Summer there was a series of similar love-fern butcheries would seem to indicate a certain periodicity in this sanguinary passion . On whatever abstract theory the mania may be explained , it certainly seems to exist . In California , a few weeks since , a gentleman familiarly known as Australian GEORGE , being refused by the object of his devotions , displayed his mortification by cutting the throat of his adored as she was returning from church . The neighbors , who were doubtless all comfortably married and so unable to sympathize with his outraged sensibilities , ended his woes by promptly lynching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poughkeepsie lately revenged himself for a like disappointment ; and now Mr. HENRY ELLINGTON , of Indiana , has soothed , in the same manner , his wounded feelings . Last Sunday he avenged unrequited affection with a vigor that must have convinced his mistress of his earnestness , if not of his devotion . First , he threw the young woman down and affectionately stamped on her . Then he took a brick and lovingly beat her on the face and head until he had cut off one ear and broken her jaw . After this display of tenderness , be ran away , leaving her for dead . This fervent lover is now in jail , and the only contrition be expresses is for the incompleteness a his labors . In all these , and a score of like cases which the past few weeks have furnished , vanity seems to have been the only impelling cause of the most brutal and cowardly of crimes . It is a misconception to ascribe them to jealousy , which , however unworthy a passion , is still far too exalted for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is just such brutalities as these that strengthen Mr. Denwpes unflattering hypotheses . This homicidal tendency of the lover of the period must be summarily discouraged , unless we desire to revive that old-time custom of wooing with the strong hand . In the meantime , until the question is authoritatively settled , marriageable young women who do not care to go armed to the teeth would do well to renew another ancient usage , and refer all inquirers on this delicate and dangerous matter to " Papa . "                     