@@742441

txt ward as fast as possible , in order to head off the Texas Pacific people , who are delayed by the unaccountable failure of Congress to guarantee Mr. THOMAS SCOTT 'S bonds in order that he may borrow cash thereupon . , The situation at Fort Yuma is complicated by the anxiety of the Texas Pacific folks . Having built up to the line of the military reservation at Fort Yuma , the Southern Pacific managers applied to the Secretary of War for permission to put their rails on the sacred soil of the reserve . This request was granted , with the proviso that the company should consider the permission subject to the ratification of Congress , and if Congress refused to ratify it the rails must be removed and tile lino abandoned . The builders went on with their work , and were well up to their bridge across the Colorado , when another order came suspending the previously granted permission , as well as any license to cross which might be claimed by the Texas Pacific people . This order was immediately charged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific people . But everybody knows that Mr. THOMAS SCOTT would not take any such unfair advantage of a rival who was building a road while he was waiting to have his railroad bon.ds guaranteed by Congress . Next , the railway builders , under pretext of saving their property , managed to push their work along until only the rails were needed to carry the lino across the river and into Arizona . At this stage of the proceedings the Army stationed at Fort Yuma was ordered to prevent any more labor being done . The Army at that point consisted of a Major , one Sergeant , and one enlisted man . This force was reduced somewhat by the fact that the enlisted man was lying in the guard-house under arrest for conduct unbecoming a gentleman and a soldier . The detachment of Sergeant was ordered on duty during the day , and , with fixed bayonet. , confronted the construction party , except at noon , when his frugal repast was brought to him by the Major 's menial , and he was allowed to break ranks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his ration . As this solitary sentinel could not be relieved at night by a regular detail , the detachment was ordered into the fort . And while the Army slept , the enemy laid rails . The work was well under way during the night of Sept. 29 , when one of the track-layers carelessly dropped a rail . " It rang out on the startled air , " says a local account . Moreover , it woke up the Army , and the Major instantly ordered out his detachment of Sergeant , as before . The weary soldiery , fixing bayonet , commanded the construction-men to stop . This they did for a space ; but the night was dark , the Army demoralized by want of sleep , and the railroad men were in a hurry to get into Arizona . A construction ear came rolling on , threatening to drive the Army into the Territory . In vain the detachment commanded the laborers , in the name of the sovereign Republic of the United States , to stop ; the car came on , and , rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Army of the United States was put to rout by a platform car loaded with iron rails . The track was laid across the bridge , and the construction train was in Arizona before sunrise . It does not mollify our wounded feelings in the least to learn that when the commandant at Fort Yuma learned that the working party had defied his authority and had put the military detachment to flight , he went out and ordered the Superintendent to consider himself under arrest . The Superintendent very cheerfully considered himself under arrest , and went on with his track-laying just as though he had not just won a victory over the entire garrison at Fort Yuma . Why the imprisoned soldier was not brought out to assist is not clear , though it is suggested ' in one account that the Major was afraid that he would run away . But it is obvious that a garrison of which one-half is in the guardhouse and the other half too sleepy to stand sentry all night can not reflect credit on the Army of the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colonels and : Majors , should consider this case , where there was obviously much more Major and much less enlisted man than the exigency required . The Sergeant might have commanded the imprisoned private , even though he could not command a construction train . That the Major really commanded nobody , the sequel shows . By and by people will be asking what has become of the Army . It is not long since that one hundred men in the South would create such an intolerable din that nothing else could be heard in Washington . The vivid imagination of the Southerner peopled the woods with soldiers , and feared each bush an officer . Now there is a general outcry for more troops . Fort Yuma , Cal. , is the latest to suffer from a depletion of its garrison . When the Apaches went on the war-path , and HowARD began that long stern chase which has just ended in JOSEPH 'S capture in Montana , Port Yuma was left desolate . Fort Yuma . on the west bank of the Colorado , at the extreme south-eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is the hottest military post on the continent , and is renowned in Army annals as the fort to which the spirit of a deceased and very wicked soldier sent back for his overcoat . But Fort Yuma has lately become a point of special interest to railroad men . It is at a crossing of the Colorado , which has been selected for a bridge by the Southern Pacific Railroad Company . This corporation is the Central Pacific Railroad Company under another name . The managers are pushing their line into Arizona and thence east- held to be a just debt that the defendant was abundantly able to discharge . Ho had widely advertised his possession of the uncollectable paper , and had created a prejudice against the heiress ' husband by portraying his dishonesty and meanness to a former friend , now in straitened circumstances . So much appeared on the face of the case . For subsequent enlightenment wo must depend on the harangues of the counselors , one of whom was a Colonel , acting for the plaintiff , and the other a Major , acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be genuine , but averred that it had been given to the plaintiff , not in the regular way of business , but in consideration of his securing the consent of a young woman , a resident of Carson City , to be the defendant 's wife . Had he secured her consent , the money would have been promptly paid . But ho disgusted the lady by the manner in which ho performed the part of mediator . He proved treacherous ' to his employer ; he slandered him vilely ; he basely tried to supplant the honorable lover in his mistress ' affections . Such was the language of the eloquent Major , though why a man engaging an agent to put his principal in a matrimonial place should be called an " honorable lover , " is not at all clear to a dispassionate mind . Peoplelivingnear and beyond the " Rockies " have a high-colored form of expression which needs to be considerably seduced in sober translation . " The result was , " continued the Major , " that the lady would hold no communication with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the house . Still , lie has had the audacity to demand payment of a note given him for service which ho has not only never rendered , but which ho has stained with the blackest ingratitude . " The counsel then entered into denunciation of a man who would be willing to take money for furthering a marriage , and inquired pathetically how such a man could expect to be considered " high-toned . " Sundry attempts at interruption had been made by the opposing counsel , who at last got a hearing . Ho pronounced the recital about the Carson City woman a prodigious fabrication , devised to defeat the ends of justice ; that the present consort of the defendant had been won over to him by the tact , management , and address of the plaintiff , who had been sordidly refused $500 after he had gained for his employer real estate , stocks , and bonds worth at a low estimate at least $250,000 . He repelled the charge that his client had degraded himself by consenting to gain a wife vicariously . His client had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do . " In New-York and other Eastern cities , " said the Colonel , r " matrimonial brokerage is a regular and entirely legitimate business . Many gentlemen are engaged in it , and . nobody thinks of criticising them on account of their occupation . Matrimonial brokerage is a branch of industry demanding talent , delicacy , and . energy , and to affect to despise it is snobbish and cantankerous . " The Major , on the other side , asseverated , with many gestures and . much expectoration , that the defendant 's wife had had no personal acquaintance . with the plaintiff before or since her nuptials ; that his client had conducted his own wooing , and con- ? ducted it so prosperously that in a week 's time from his first introduction to her he had " stood at the altar with the one woman of all the world he truly and devotedly loved . " To corroborate his statement ho asked leave of the court to send for her and place her on the witness-stand . Leave was granted , and she arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been awaiting a slum-lions . She is described as handsome and interesting , though , remembering Western gallantry and hyperbole , she may not have been either . She assuredly was not very refined , judging from her reported speech . She denied in terms more energetic than polite any knowledge of the plaintiff beyond a general understanding that he was " a wretched dead-beat and capable of the cussedest sort of meanness . " His assumption of having been instrumental in enlisting her affections for another man she characterized as " a white-livered lie , " the Judge granting her the largest freedom , as much no doubt from the amusement she furnished as from his chivalrous regard for the sex . Instead of being examined , she was permitted to . make a speech , concluding with the remark that she did n't need " any galoot to boss her jobs ; " that she did her own courting and her own marrying , and did n't employ any clerks when she was " on that lay . " The ease seemed plain enough . If the plaintiff had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his counsel admitted it to be such , ) it matters not whether itwas given for a horse or a wife . But the Judge , manifestly influenced by the charms and chatter of the woman  --  gallantry is an illustrious weakness in the far West  --  reserved his decision , and dismissed the court , to obtain an opportunity to flirt with the California heiress , rich , at least , in choice expletives and Pacific slope phraseology . It might be supposed that the principals in the case would have terminated the chapter by emptying their revolvers on one another . But they did not  --  probably because one being German and the other English , they wisely preferred legal to gunpowder redress .                     