@@741364

txt German statesmen and philosophers are busy with problems , some of which are not easy to solve . Emigration is one of these . It has of late taken proportions that seem to be alarming the Fatherland . It has caused a drain on the adult portion of the population which has been the ca use of great anxiety . Some reports before us show ? how genuine this anxiety is , and to what degree it is justified . In the year 1e72 , to which they principally have reference , a larger number of people left Germany ' kir the United Statek than during any previous year . The total number may he set down at two hundred and fifteen thousand , and the movement has not abated since , but rather increased . Germany loses more men by emigration than by war or epidemics . It is a matter , therefore , which the Germans can not look upon without concern , particularly when they reckon what it costs their country ; and they are naturally desirous of penetrating its causes and discovering a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , emigration drains Germany of a part of its riches . Every emigrant takes away with him a certain value in money , clothing , and implements . The value of What each man expo ' is in this way may be roughly estimated ata hundred dollars . It follows that since there have come to this country since 1819 about two million five hundred thousand Germans , there have gone out of Germany during that period two hundred and fifty millions of dollars . This is a high figure , but the loss of work caused by emigration raises it still higher . The men who generally emigrate are of the strong and enterprising class . Their working power is a capital which enriches the country in which they settle . It increases its public wealth and prosperity , and at the same time suggests melancholy thoughts to German writers when they compare it with the condition of things at home . This emigration is not an outlet to the excess of population , for it moves particularly from the least populated districts of Germany , ancrwhere the want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangers of socialism . Peasants emigrate in larger numbers than mechanics , and by taking wife and children with them , they show that they have those feelings which are the most capable of protecting a man against the follies of revolution . This exodus of families alarms social and political economists , the more because the number of unmarried workmen in cities is increasing not at all to the advantage of public morality . Many causes have been assigned for this widespread and . active evil . Some are mat strange and absurd . It has been said , for example , that the German emigrates on account of the philosophical and cosmopolitan turn of his mind . This- might have been the case with a few , in time past , when Germany was cut tip into numberless petty principalities , and was , as a whole , politically powerless . A condition , painful to their pride , might have impelled some to emigrate , as did the Count of SCRLAITENDcw ; who , without motive , left his castle iu Silesia , rode alone to Paris , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before his death he had these expressive words engraved on his tomb : " Here lies a ' citizen who during seventy years has been looking fol ? a fatherland . " But cases of this kind are necessarily extremely exceptional . The true causes seem to be of two kinds ; some external , others inherent in the working of the social and political machinery of Germany .. Among the first may be mentioned . the powerful attraction of this free country , the invitations to come sent to indiViduals and families by relatives settled in America , the comparative facilities for travel , &c.; To the internal causes belong all those accidents and events which suspend or interrupt work , political disturbances , economical embarrassments and war  --  war more than any other . War may please a few ; to the largest number , to the body of the people , it is a curse . They know that taxes will be heavier , even if victory be theirs . When the battle din is over , there will be a harder fight for living , for earning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apespeet is not calculated to strengthen the ties which bind them to fatherland , and they emigrate . In the district annexed by Germany in 1866 , the introduction of the Prussian military law has undoubtedly acted as a strong incentive to emigration . Another powerful cause may be found in a bad land system , which prevents a large number of people from becoming landowners . Being on that account deprived of a. share in municipal adinipistration , they have no public interests or duties  --  in fact nothing that attaches them to the soil . What wonder that they should seek another land , where they will not always work in vain , and where their hands - will not always sow that others may reap ? A noticeable feature in the reports before us is the feeling of complacency with which German virtue is referred to . Speaking of the benefits derived by America from German immigration , the author of one of them says : " While the hand . of our peasants clears and improves the land , German intellect is at work in cities , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief from many abuses through a culture of German tience and of those German virtues  --  love of work and faithfulness . " We hope our people are fully aware of the happy effects of an infusion of fresh German blood in their veins , and do not underrate the - virtue of the fertilizing stream which everlastingly flows from the heart of the Fatherland .                     