@@742320

txt Although the Russo-Turkish war has so far been conducted with signal ability by he American press  --  though perhaps at a athor heavier loss of life on the part of the Russians than was absolutely necessary  --  it . s remarkable that so little attention has been . , paid to the attitude of Greece . We lave been repeatedly enlightened as to the utentious of England , Germany , and Aussie . Wo know that Lord Beaconsfield has iponly remarked that " s'help him Moses , barmy shall be sent to the Heast ; " that 3issancK is determined to crush Franco ust as soon as the excitement on the Danube becomes so great that no one will notice such a trifle as a second siege of Paris , and hat Count ANDHASSY has repeatedly said to the Czar that lie will give him just fifteen minutes by the watch to take those NInscovites out of the Principalities . Still , in spite of this wealth of information con3erning England , Germany , and Austria , Scarcely a word has been said as to the probability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scale in behalf of Russia , or concerning the momentous re3ults that would follow such an event . It ought to be generally known that the Greek Government , in answer to the univer3al demand of the people , is about to order the mobilization of the Army . The military system of Greece is such that its Army can be . mobilized with ease and rapidity . In this respect there is a wide difference between Greece and Roumania . The Army of the latter power is mobilized with wheelbarrows . Every man subject to military duty is seized in his bed at dead of night , placed , securely bound , in a wheelbarrow and wheeled to the camp of his regiment . if Russia had not furnished the Roumanians with wheelbarrows in pursuance of a secret treaty , the greater part of the Roumanian Army would still be hiding behind haystacks and in cellars , instead of proudly confronting the south bank of the Danube at a point where the Turks have hitherto failed to appear . Far different is the process of mobilization in Greece . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though divided into small bands , which occupy eligible mountain caves , and exercise themselves in the art of war raiding upon villages and tourists . While thus employed , the Government never troubles itself about the troops , and rarely holds any communication with them . When , however , the mobilization of the Army is ordered , a supply of foreigners suitable for bait is laid in . Agents of the Government are then directed to take one foreigner each and to display him at various points in the neighborhood of the suspected haunts of detachments of the Greek Army . Of courso , the brave soldiers instantly descend from the mountains to seize the foreigner , and are then informed that the Government is ready to take them into its pay . Thus , in a very brief time , the highways of Greece ate alive with soldiers flocking to the designated camps , and cheerfully stirring up the foreign bait with bayonets . It is estimated that if a sufficient number of foreigners are used , the Army can thus be mobilized in ten days , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British tourists as bait , not more than a week would be needed . So soon as the Greek Army is ready for use Greece will probably declare war against Turkey . The plan of campaign which the Greeks will adopt may be easily foreseen . The object of the Greek strategists will be to place their troops in the rear of the Russians , where they can aot as a reserve . By marching northward through Thessaly and Bulgaria , they can cross the Danube and establish themselves iu Roumania . In case of a Russian defeat they can . then cross the Pruth into Russia , or they can emulate the magnificent strategy of Bum . BAKE by crossing the Hungarian frontier , when they will be interned by the Hungarians , just as BOURBAKlIS Army was interned by the Swiss . If ; on the other hand , the Russians advance victoriously to Adrianople , the Greeks can closely follow them and pick up a good deal of portable property from stragglers . Moreover , there doubtless exists a secret treaty between Russia and Greece , in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chickens in Roumania and south of the Danube . Thus , with a fair proportion of chickens , and the right to every pair of boots that can be captured by Greek prowess , the Greek Army will have every reason to be contented , and will eagerly sacrifice its camp-followers in the cause of patriotism and religion . Of course , the ultimate results of the present war can only be guessed at ; but it is probable that a European conference will . be called to adjust the conflicting interests of all concerned . In such a conference Greece would probably demand that a score or more of rich tourists should be assigned to her as compensation for her war expenses , and that Europe should establish the great principle that whenever a tourist touches Greek soil , whatever is in his pockets belongs to the Greek nation . That rule of international law which asserts that neutral pockets must be respected strikes at the very foundation of the Greek Kingdom . Many a Greek patriot has sat amid the ruins of the Parthenon , and beheld the safe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ten drachma ) in his pocket . Such a sight can not but fill the Greek mind with a sense of bitter , bitter wrong , and the national spirit of independence chafes under the restriction which exempts the British pocket while within the walls of Athens from investigation at the hands of private citizens . If  --  this great wrong is righted , Greece will probably abstain from demanding any concessions of territory . The noble and poetic Greek spurns the low ambition which leads nations to enlarge their boundaries . Pockets rather than square miles of territory are what Greece really wants , and every Puilhollene will hope that the present complications in the East will result in the gratification of this just and laudable desire .                     