@@743019

txt Mr. Amos Townsend , one of the representative Republicans in the ' Ohio delegation , said : " I have just read the article in THE TIMES of yesterday on Presidential candidates . I was surprised to learn that the indications throughout the country for Gen. Grant as the Republican nominee for President in 1880 were so universal and wide-spread . But the unwillingness of the Democratic Party to submit to the legally-constituted authorities An d the expressed will of the majority in the election of Mr. Hayes , and the persistent efforts in some way to prevent his inauguration. taken in connection with the aggressive , defiant , and , sometimes , threatening measures of the majority of the present Congress , Which is largely composed of the same elements , and in . part of the same men , that cost the Government so much blood and treasure have , I believe , alarmed that large class of solid conservative citizens found everywhere , who are not in any sense politicians , officeseekers , or office-holders , but business and professional men , mechanics and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and substantial prosperity . They are beginning to feel anxious about the next Administration . They fear that an effort will be made to do something wrong at that election , and if a Republican should be elected , violent means employed to prevent his inauguration ? in a word , to wrest the Government from the legally constituted authorities . They , therefore , want a strong , brave , resolute man of experience for a candidate , and very naturally turn to Grant as the embodiment of their views . They know that he has been tried ; that he is modest , courageous , loyal , and prudent , and always equal to an occasion . He has been absent from the country for two years , has been out of public life , has escaped unjust and malignant criticism , and his past history and good record have been more appreciated , and have shone brighter and brighter as they have been examined , while other gentlemen , whose names have been mentioned in connection with the Presidency , have remained in active public life , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually bestowed upon prominent public men . Gen. Grant is , unquestionably , to-day very strong , and if the National Republican Convention were to assemble now , he would , as I believe , and THE TIMES says , - undoubtedly be nominated , without much opposition . But no man can forecast the future . Men are made and unmade in much less time than from now to the Republican Convention in 1880 . To-clay , I believe Grant is the favorite . But Grant is not the only man whom the Republicans can elect in 1880 , and it is too soon to determine who will be the favorite . I notice from the THE TIMES that there is also a strong expression in favor of Tilden as the Democratic nominee . This I am not surprised at . Judging from general indications ; there seems to be no organized opposition to his nomination in 1880 , and such as there may be is so broken and fragmentary that it has no force . Mr. Thurman has some following . should be strong , and would be in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongly suspected of being honest , which , of course , hurts him . But Tilden 's well-known reputation for ability to organize a campaign ; his subtle , crafty , and unscrupulous ways and immense wealth , and his willingness to use it freely , make him a great favorite . The Democratic Party has a great admiration for a first-class scoundrel in poltics ? a high-toned fellow , who spends his money like a gentleman , with no scruples about chipping in a few hundred thousand dollars . They like his way of doing things , they like his money-bags , they like his simple-minded nephew , they idolize Tilden , and they will nominate him in1880 , just as your enterprising paper predicts . "                     