@@781908

txt It is during the hot weather that the weakness of the human shirt-sleeve is most . conspicuously shown . The wristband droops over the wrist. , becomes moist and limp , and maddens the wearer as he vainly tries to induce it to retire to the seclusion of its true home in the coat-sleeve . This proneness of the wristband to descend over the hand is due to the inherent viciousness of the shirt-sleeve as at present . constructed . If the sleeve is made long enough to permit the elbow to be bent , it is too long when the arm is straight . So far , human ingenuity has been unable to devise any plan for making a shirt-sleeve which shall always be long enough and never either too lone or too short . It is , perhaps , a mere erbitrary conventionalism which decrees that woman may dispense with any and all sleeves , provided she feels so disposed , while man must always wear at least shirt-sleeves . Could we east our shirt-sleeves to the wind , we could emulate the coolness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but this must not be . There was a young unmarried clergyman in Essex ; Mass. , who , some years ago , after wrestling in vain with his etasperating shirt-sleeves , recklessly cut them off just below the shoulder , and , being a particularly nice and dainty person , with his own hand stitched a lace-ruffle around what we might call the stumps of the amputated arms . What was the result ? At first , coolness and elation of spirits ; but afterward , ruin and remorse . His washerwoman was prone to gossip , and before long the whole village knew that in the clergyman 's weekly " wash " were always to be ' found sleeveless and other garments ornamented with lace . Upon this slender foundation was built a most appalling story of clerical proflig ; ; cy , and , although a clerical court of inquiry explained the whole affair and acquitted the clergyman of the charges of immorality , his usefulness was destroyed ; and he resigned his charge . The most common expedient for preventing the descent of shirt-sleeves is the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ married man long ago decided that if elastic bands would keep some things iu place they would keep other things in place , and , accordingly , he tried the experiment of fastening his shirtsleeves to his arms , just above the elbow . Thousands of men have since followed his example , but with results that are far from satisfactory . The bands will keep the sleeve from falling over the wrist , but the effect is about the same as it would be were the whole sleeve to be made shorter . When the elbow is bent , the wristband vanishes , and might as well have no existence . It is true that the length of the sleeve can be regulated by pulling first at one and then at the other of its extremities ; but this is tiresome . The truth is , the use of elastic bands on the arm is based upon a false analogy . The arm has peculiarities which are certainly its own , and the shirt-sleeve must be adapted to exigencies to which other garments are never subjected . The use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it never has given , and never can give , anything like complete satisfaction . It may be asked by persons who know nothing of physiology , Why should not elastic bands be worn below the elbow ? The answer is that when wore deleted paragraph The editor of a Boston paper , who , in consequence of his bitter hatred of everything approaching to femininity in masculine dress , has never adopted elastic bands for his shirt-sleeves , was a year ago invited to a party in Beacon-street . In enleavoring to put on his other shirt , which had been long in service , the right sleeve suddenly gave way precisely at the elbow , and was so badly torn that the lower part of the sleeve remained attached to the upper only by a narrow strip of about an inch in width . There was Do time for . repairs , and , determined not to be too late for supper , the editor put on his coat and hastened to the party . . To his surprise he found that the torn sleeve was wonderfully comfortable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sleeve , and he was not long in perceiving that he had the clue to the true method of constructing shirtsleeves . The next dayhe tore holes in both the sleeves of his other shirt . Not being full of sweetness and light , he forbore to mention his discovery to his friends . For a whole year he has continually worn shirts with holes in their sleeves and borne unflinchingly the jeers of the wicked . Now , however , the secret is out. , and the editor in question will go down to posterity as the discoverer of the only method of curing the inherent tendency of shirt-sleeves to descend .                     