@@741814

txt The effort now being made on the part of several ladies to induce shopkeepers in this City to abolish the rule which forbids shop-girls to sit down during their hours of employment , commends itself to the approbation of all humane persons . In many  --  though happily not in all our large shops  --  the girls whose business it is to wait on customers are not allowed to sit down one moment through the day , except during the brief interval allowed for luncheon . Now , it must be remembered that , as a rule , these girls , in going to and from their places of employment at morning and at night , seldom obtain a seat in the horse cars . Between the hours of 7 and 9 in the morning the seats in cars going down town are monopolized by men , and the same thing is true of the cars which make the trip up town between 5 and 7 in the evening . The consequence is that the poor shop-girls are usually compelled to be on their feet frog the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That this is a very great hardship , and that it can not but have the most injurious effect upon girls who are not in the most robust health , scarcely needs to be stated . Not many months since a well-known club or society of women " of advanced views " in this City appointed a committee to investigate this very matter . The committee visited mutinous shops , and after conversations with the girls and their employers , made the unexpected report that it was impracticable to give the girls Permission to sit down , because they would take advantage.of it and neglect their duty , and that it really did not do them any injury to keep on their feet for eight or ten successive hours . It is impossible to avoid the conclusion that this report was colored by the unwillingness of the women-reformers to admit that their own sex is physically weaker than the sex which votes and does other things which strong-minded women pine to do . If so , it would not be the first case in which devotion to a theory has conquered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now taken up the cause of the poor shop-girls have , fortunately , no theory of the physical equality of the sexes toy sustain , and they do not hesitate to urge that the shop-girls are , from the very fact of their sex , nimble to endure the same long-coutinned muscular exertion which men find perfectly safe . It is to be hoped that their appeal will be heeded , and in the meantime ineu who secure possession of the seats in horse cars at night and morning ought to remember that , whatever may be the shortcomings of the car companies , a stout and healthy male passenger ought not to permit a weak and tired shop-girl to add her half-hour of car jolting to the hours during which she is required to keep her weary feet .                     