@@742647

txt Subscriptions to the 4 per cent . bonds today amounted to $175,000 . The receipts from internal revenue to-day were $362,204 79 , and from Customs $426,519 53 . Alexander Colyer was to-day appointed Revenue Storekeeper and Gauger for the Sixth District of Missouri . The National Academy of Sciences adjourned today to meet in New-York on the second Tuesday of November next for a scientific session , and will reassemble in Washington in April next . The Signal Service station at Kitty Hawk , N. C. , reports to the Chief Signal Officer that a vessel 's quarter-board with the name " Dan Simmons " carved upon it came ashore during the late storm . The Japanese Minister regards with much anxiety the resolution recently offered by Senator Sargent , . having in view a treaty of amity and commerce with Corea , in North-eastern Asia , with a pop . ulation of about 12,000.000 . Although Corea is tributary to China , Japan some time ago recognized her independence . The trade of Correa is almost wholly with Japan . Intimate friendly relations exist between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be interposed to effect such a treaty as Senator Sargent contemplates . As a preliminary to such proceedings and to induce Japan to take a greater interest in the subject , efforts will be made to have returned to Japan $1,500,000 , now in the United States Treasury , known us the Japanese Indemnity Fund , retaining a small sum only to compensate for actual loss to American citizens , resulting from disturbances some years ago in that country . The , Secretary of the Treasury has transmitted to the House of Representatives a communication from the Bordeaux Ohamber of Commerce , addressed to the President and to Congress . T , , ey say that in perusing the Tariff bill they have been deeply impressed by what concerns the French wines , especially at a time when , to a certain extent , the ideas of free trade and a public financial situation which has become very prosperous had induced teem to hope that the United States would gradually lower their Customhouse duties on the different articles of importation . They think it unnecessary to recall to mind how much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prudence , tends to produce happy results , and how frequently it has happened that such reductions have had the three-fold advantage of developing commerce , of giving satisfaction to the consumers , and , at the same time , of increasing the income of the public Treasury in consequence of the increase of consumption . This . they say , would he a powerful means of contributing to the development and increase of the commercial intercoursebetween the United States and France .                     