@@741815

txt The purchase of the Suez Canal shares is of course still uppermost in the public mind , and the first flush of excitement at the thought of England again playing a bold and decisive part in European affairs is gradually giving place to sonic uncomfortable doubts as to whether the coup , as it is called , is , after all , really eel bold and decisive as was supposed , and whether it is likely to be altogether antisfaetory in its results . A good deal of surprise has been occasioned by the discovery that the transaction gives to England the command of only ten votes at the meetings of the company , and it has also begun to dawn on people that the acquisition of shares in a joint stock company , of which Englaud has just set an example , may establish a precedent which may be dangerously convenient to other powers , as it will enable them to carry on unscrupulous projects under cover of what they will be able to call legitimate trade . The growth of suspicion is farther indicated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a majority of shares in the canal , and the other equally significant report that the Khedive , having worked off his Suez stock at a good figure , is going in for a competing system in the shape of an overland line of railway ? through Egypt , which will dispense with the burning ordeal of the Red Sea passage . It is now known that the idea of this country acquiring a hold on the Saes Canal , though suddenly presented the other day in a new form , is not exactly an original idea . The question of bringing the enterprise under the control of England , in conjunction with ether marine powers , was brought before Mr. Giadetone'e Government , and declined for prudential reasons . During the reign of the present Ministry , there has been also communication with France on the subject ; so that time French can not justly complain of having been taken by surprise , since pro .. eeils were made to them which they set aside . The reports which have just arrived that the Khedive , having strengthened himself by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorously into an aggressive movement not only against Abyssinia , but against Zanzibar , with a view to anpex territory , are no doubt somewhat exaggerated , but they hav ? been sufficient to suggest further doubts as to the expediency of the Government too closely identifying itself witlethat of Egypt . THE PREVAILING SENTIMENT . On the whole , however , the general feeling here still continues to be in favor of the step whit h has bees taken . The reason of this is that it pleases two very opposite classes of people , who look at the question from different . sides . On the one hand . are those who think that all the troubles of the Eastern question have been once for all sot at rest by a financial investment which , even if it do riot prove directly profitable , will keep the peace and help trade . On the other hind , there is another class who are delighted with this trans fiction , not as a final one , but as the beginning of a systemates and vigorous policy of intervention in Ea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned , and who imagine that , now the Government has taken the plunge , they will be committed to swim the whole passage . For the moment these two sets of people are at one ; each is dazzled by its own side of the shield , and without thinking of the other side , sings the praises of Mr. Disraeli , whose magic wand has brought all this about . Sonic day , however , it will be discovered that the Government policy has two aspects , and that if the present investment is regarded as final , it will prove a delusion , while , if it requires to be supported and completed by ulterior measures , it is but the first step in a long and arduous journey which perhaps the country may not be altogether ready to undertake , or at least to pursue energetically . THE GOVERNMENT 'S EMBARRASSMENT . It is this double view of the subject which embarrasses the Government , and makes it anxious to put off explanations as long as possible . Mr. Disraeli is evidently in doubt which theory of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lee roar of the British lion and a lashing of the tail . and boldly avow that Russia is to be bearded m its den , or is lie to adopt ' a mild , pacific tone , and congratulate the peace-at-any - price party on having averted war by the more holy intiuouce of the breeches pocket T Some of the papers say that Parliament is to bo called together immediately ; others that it will not meet till the usual time in February or just before , and the latter will no doubt be found to bo in the right . It would be extremely inconvenient for members of Parliament , especially country members , to come to town just now , when their houses here are all shut up , for a ten days ' session , with Christmas immediately intervening ; and Mr. Disraeli knows better than any man how to ingratiate himself into the weaknesses of humanity . Not for worlds would he interfere with the sacred rites of the domestic hearth , or disturb the family life of the country . At the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand to he forced too soon , and to have to declare precipitately in what light he desires his policy to be viewed ; and , indeed , not much good would come just now flora any discussion . The country requires time to know its own mind , and to realize how far it is prepared to go . The Government may fairly plead that it knows what , in its own opinion , is for the best , but that the avowed adoption of a bold policy must depend on the support which it is likely to receive from the nation , and this must be ascertained before , in such a delicate game as foreign politics , it reveals its play . THE OPINION OF COMMERCE . The Economist , the chief organ of the commercial classes , has an article to-day on this question , which perhaps means a good deal more than is actually said . It is significantly headed " The Suez Canal Purchase , as far as We yet Understand it . " At first , the writer says , the energy and novelty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the advantages seem to decrease and the price to increase ; and it is very important that the evened should know the reasons of the Government , supposing them to be satisfactory ones . Then he goes on to show that what has been bought Is the dividends of the company at the end of nineteen years , ( this income having been surrendered by the Khedive for that time , ) and in the meantime five per cent . a year from Egypt . The Khedive is in a chronic state of embarrassment on account of Lis extravagance , and it is very , difficult to say whether ho will be able to meet the obligations which he has undertaken ; and a new loan for Egypt is , for the present , out of the question . Consequently , the English Government will be kept in constant anxiety about Egypt . This will lend to missions and intervention , and will be perilous as regards our relations both with Egypt and with other powers , especially France . " The Khedive , " the writer adds  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as One of the most confirmed speculators in Europe , and it is much to be feared that he now has the blank indorsement of the Englisli Government , and that the money-lenders of Europe will again begin to lend to inn at MUrions rates , which they had just ceased to do . " As to the Canal shares as a new commercial investment , the Economist hops that , it that were all , England would be much better without them , es-en apart from dividends , and looking only to the use of the Canal to commerce . There will , it is pointed out , be a constant and vital difference of opinion in the management of the canal between the English Government and other shareholders . The former will be satisfied if it pays in the long run , and will be anxious to keep it . in good repair ; the others will set themselves against expenditure . and be Milieu for dividends . And in this contest the Government will be in a helpless minority , with everything it proposes suspected and distrusted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India " to lie secured 1 The purchase gives no additional rights against in enemy to England ; and as to showing what we mean  --  if we mean war , is it wise to say sof If we do not mean war , is it wise to suggest the suspicion ' The whole question is thus summed up : Are ? the shares worth four millions sterling , together with the jealousy of France and the necessity of interfering in Egypt f It will be seen that there are hero some very pretty nuts to crack . THE BRITISH ARMY . The scheme for the mobilization of the British Army is another stroke of policy which is no doubt intended to have effect abroad . Certain bodies of troops are to be distributed through the kingdom in well-considered strategical relations to each other , and ready at short notice for any emergency . The regulars will , of course , be liable to go abroad , and the reserve forces and volunteers will then at once take their place , according to settled . regulations . I need not trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the system . At each station fall information will be provided as to roads in the district and all matters ' elating to tactics and strategy for the guidance of commanding officers , who will be bound to study the subject at each station where they happen to be posted . On the whole , the arrangements seem very practical and judicious . and it is said that they will he at once carried out . The serious question is , however , how far the Government has an active and efficient army qualified to do justice to such a plan . At present ; this may be doubted , for the regalar battalion are seriously weak , and the reserves have practically no existence except on paper . Here . again , we must wait to know whether the Government is bold enough to carry out its schemes to the full extent , and there are many people who believe that this can not lie done without something in the nature of a fonseription or universal service . THE SEASON AND THE WEATHER . In London the weather has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , besides being wrapped in a black , impenetrable fog . Locomotion is suspended , and even the few cabs which were in the forenoon seen staggering along the stiffening roads hive disappeared . FINANCE IN THE CITY . The Stock Exchange has been rather holding its breath this week in fear of a great smash , or series of smashes , at the settlement , It is known that various speculators . including , it is said , Mr. Albert Grant , have suffered badly from being on time losing side of the market with Egyptians , and it was feared that some of them would collapse . But somehow they have tided over the evil day .                     