@@740763

txt In spite of the somewhat unusual , and apparently unnecessary , display of mystery about the result of the proceedings of the Grand Jury , there appears to be no reason to doubt that true bills have been returned against JACOB H. VANDERBILT , JAMES W. Brieisamn. and Hamm Romrisoisr for criminal negligence in connection with the explosion of the boiler of the Staten Island ferry-boat Westfield . On its own merits , the disaster was terrible enough to make it a great public necessity that no miscarriage of justice should allow its perpetrators to escape the full measure of their responsibility . Considering still more recent examples of the appalling consequences of the penuriousness or negligence of common carriers , it has become , still more imperative that the rights which corporations owe to the public should be fully vindicated . The terrible tale of slaughter at Revere and Point Clear gave their awful emphasis to the lesson of the Westfield , and it is encouraging to find New-York leading the way in pointing out the line of punishment - which reckless corporations , and their ignorant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is for the interest of railroad and steamboat companies themselves that it should be clearly established that their unchecked license to kill and mutilate their passengers should . once and.for all be brought to an end . Already the traveling public begin to exhibit a vague distrust of all means of public conveyance , and it is only by swift and certain justice being meted out to the offenders now on trial that the growth of a feeling approaching to panic , and a consequent diminution of the volume of travel , can be prevented . On the District-Attorney of New-York and his political masters there now rests a grave responsibility . They have shown that they lacked the courage ta bring the criminals of the 12th of July to justice , and they have deliberately held out an encouragement to their political supporters to repeat the outrages of the last Irish riot . With regard to the indictments now in their hands , the public will be still less tolerant of any attempt at " pigeon-holing . " Recorder HAcmErr spoke boldly and well , iu his charge to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future action upon the result of these deliberations does not correspond with their opening , the entire proceeding will be judged to have been a sham and a pretense . The District-Attorney and his friends can defeat the ends of justice by impaneling a rpacked jury , and by bringing party pressure to bear upon the Court , It would be useless to appeal to their sense of principle to give the present case a fair trial . The public can only hope that the dictates of self-interest will induce them to allow the men now under indictment to obtain no advantage which would not be accorded to criminals without political influence or social standing . The Ferry Directors are quite able to secure every possible benefit which the best legal counsel in the City can afford them . Any indirect influence which may be exerted in their favor will be resented by the public as a betrayal of the most momentous of trusts , and will excite such a burst of indignation as will more than outweigh any advantage to be gained from the side of the criminals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind , that should they escape justice here , they can be tried again in Brooklyn , and , notwithstanding the action of a Brooklyn Judge in the Foster case , we hardly think that the Courts of the Second Judicial District would be likely to fail in their duty in this matter .                     