@@740889

txt The Massachusetts Board of Railway Commissioners has made its annual report , in which certain plans for the prevention of railway accidents are proposed . The Board advises the adoption of safety-brakes controlled by the engineer , of a system of carcoupling which will prevent the " telescoping " of cars , and of a safe and comfortable mode of heating and lighting passenger-cars . To these might have been added the recomn:ondation of steel or steel-capped rails , and of a better method of laying rails than that commonly in use . No intelligent man is ignorant that this " telescoping " ? of cars is entirely the result of parsimony on the part of railway managers . There has been iu use for five or six years on certain lines a method of coupling combined with an improved form of platform which renders this peculiarly horrible accident impossible . The invention is , howover , subject to a royalty to the patentee , and consequently costs more than the old and dangerous style of coupling . It is a delicate matter for a journal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so doing it is exposed to the suspicion a interested motives . For this reason , probably , the Press has not insisted . as it should , that all railway lines should be compelled to adopt this device for the safety of their passengers . It is only the strict truth to say that not one of the many se - ) r es of victims who have been crushed by the " telescoping " of cars would have been injured had the safety coupling been in use on every railway-car in the country . So , too , with safety brakes . There are two or three different systems by which the tweed of a train can be almost immediately checked by the engineer . The steam or atmospheric brake , and the Creamer spring brake will either of them stop an express-train almost within its length . Probably onehalf of the railway accidents of the last year would have been prevented had one of these safety-brakes been at the command of the engineer . To decline to use them , and to depend upon the inefficient old-fashioned wheel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the parsimonious railway company , which prefers to save a few dollars at the risk of its passengers ' lives . If the recommendations of the Massachusetts Railway Board in regard to brakes and couplings should be adopted it is true that the inventors of these valuable safeguards will be profited , but it is also true that the passengers on Massachusetts railways will be far safer than they now are ; and it is yet to be shown that the success of an inventor is an evil to be averted at the hazard of people 's lives . As to the horrible coal stoves which are placed in passenger-cars , to choke the Inmates with their fumes , and to roast them in case of accident , these , like the explosive coal-oil lamps , are utterly indefensible . The Board ought to have considered the question of the use of steel in some form for rails . and might very properly have decided upon the safest form of the " chair " on which the ends of each rail rest . By so doing the danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ massacres resulting from this cause in frosty weather avoided . As it is , however , the action of the Board is strongly to be commended , and . it is earnestly to be hoped that the Legislature will give to its proposals the sanction of law , and that the executive officers of the State will see that it is sternly enforced .                     