@@742562

txt Apparently , the only department of the Government in which any systematic effort is being made to carry out the principles of civil service reform enunciated in President Morns ' letter of acceptance and inaugural address is the Department of the Interior . So quietly and unostentatiously has this been done that most people are doubtless unaware that any different plan has been adopted in this dep artment than in the others . It is , nevertheless , true that ever since the 23d of October last an intelligent system of competition has been enforced . in all appointments in the Interior Department falling within the scope of the rules . These rules are founded upon the regulations of the Civil Service Commission , though somewhat modified in detail . They provide for admission to the clerical force of the department at the lowest grade only , after fair competition among all applicants presenting the requisite evidence of age , health , and character for probationary appointments in the first instance for a term of six months , during which the practical efficiency of the probationer maybe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grades above the lowest , except in cases of conspicuous merit in the performance of special duty , by competition among all the members of the next two lower grades . They also very properly provide for the examination of applicants in any specialty , proficiency in which may be of benefit to the service , and for the examination of . candidates for promotion , not only as to their general clerical qualifications , but as to their knowledge of the duties of the branch in which the vacancy exists . It is plain to any one who has given thought to the methods of improving the civil service , that these rules embody what must be the essential features of any effectual plan of reform . Admission only to the lowest grade , upon open , impartial competition , the practical test of actual trial at the desk , and the filling of the higher grades by promotion from the lower  --  these are fundamental conditions of reform upon which all of its thinking friends , are agreed . In one respect the rules  --  are an improvement upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the higher grades to the members of the next two lower grades , instead of throwing it open , as the civil service rules did , to all of the subordinate grades . The latter plan , althoug:i theoretically just , was found in practice Lo , create so much bitterness and opposition as to neutralize its good results . A certain consideration is awarded to . seniority in every business and ' profession . The novice , however great his talent , can not expect to lean at one bound to the top of the ladder over the heads of his seniors in age and experience , and Secretary SCHURZ has done wisely , we think , in limiting the range of promotion to two grades at the utmost in each examination . Conspicuous talent is sure to rise under a system of fair competition , and even were the advancement at each step limited to a single grade , the best men would not be long in working their way to the highest grades. , We should have been glad to see the same or'a similar system applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now excepted from the operation of the rules . It is a fact not generally known , that it is at this point that the greatest abuse and extravagance exists among the mere clerical appointments . The employment of women in the departments is always controlled more by sentimental than business considerations , and , as might be expected , the needs or " claims " of the applicants are more considered than the needs of the service or their fitness , for their places . Under any system of appointment , a man must show some sort of prima facie qualification for the place he seeks , but women are employed by the Government in absolute disregard of their qualifications , solely because they are destitute , or have lost relatives in the war , or sometimes , we fear , because they are fair to look upon . The competitive system was applied to women-clerks under the Civil Service Commission with the very best results , but it soon broke down , simply on account of the sentimental prejudices with which it came in conflict . Tile very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clown . Possibly , Secretary SCHURZ was warned by this experience and did not care to attack the prejudices which the attempt to establish competition for female clerkships would be sure to arouse , until the system should be more firmly established . The ease with which the competitive system has been introduced in this department , and the success with which it has met , are full of eneourgement to the friends of reform , and show that the fancied obstacles to reform vanish before an intelligent determination to improve the service . The chief trouble with the old civil service rules was that their enforcement was intrusted to unsympathetic , if not unfriendly , heads of departments , who were not unwilling to see them made ridiculous . With the head of the department in intelligent sympathy with them , as is now the case in the Department of the Interior , their triumph overthe obstacles interposed by selfishness , prejudice , and ignorance , is assured . It is not a little remarkable that the man of all our prominent statesmen who has been most condemned as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration , should be the only member of the Administration to make an honest practical effort at civil service reform . It suggests the thought that theoretical knowledge may not be an utterly useless acquirement , or incompatible with practical administrative capacity . At any rate , his action in dealing with abuses in his department furnishes an example which many of our so-called " ' practical men " would do well to emulate . The question naturally arises , why , if reform measures have been so successfully and easily put in operation in the Department of the Interior , they have not been extended to other branches of the public service 7 There is nothing in the character of the service required in that department which renders the application of the methods of reform to it easier than in any other , and we can conceive of no good reason why the same regulations should not be applied to all the other departments of the Government . If the measures are judiciously devised and salutary in their effects , they ought to be impartially applied to all similar positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to be tolerated at all . In the light of the President 's repeated declarations on the subject , it was not to bo expected that he would permit the question of the enforcement or non-enforcement of reform measures to depend upon the judgment of individual members of his Cabinet . The country was justified in expecting that he would put in force a harmonious and comprehensive scheme of reform which would extend to all departments of the Government .                     