@@741185

txt If the only purpose of the gathering of Western Congressmen. at St. Louis is to enjoy the extreme pleasure of being the guests of that hospitable city . no possible objection can be raised . to the project . And if the promised festivities are interrupted by some attention to serious business ? of which there seems to be a little fear in various parts of the country ? we do not think that harm must necessarily come of the interruptions . The demonstrative Westerner has for many years been accustomed . to descant upon the natural resources of his section , and to discuss projects for their development  --  which is the serious business threatened  --  without doing any damage , and we are sure he can do it again with a like result . In fact , the sturdy common t sense and resistless energy which have created a mighty empire in the West while a few have talked concerning what might be done , can be trusted to continue doing while the talk goes on . To the professed. object of the St. Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the West is crippled . by inadequate and . costly transportation to the markets of the world . We all know that the problem presented in this fact is one that must be satisfactorily solved , or the whole nation will be injured . We all desire , as one means toward the profitable consumption of surplus productions . that the manufacturing capacities of the West shall be increased . There will be rejoicing everywhere over every line of transportation which is added to the existexisting ones . There will be only honor and ing to the public benefactors who accomplish these things by practical work . Both may even be due to those who only ' make suggestions in after-dinner speeches , and in this view of the case the St. Louis Convention may do a public service . But we must protest against the method which is proposed by some for accomplishing these things , and to the tone in - which that method is urged in some quarters . The West is made to say practically , by some of its indiscreet friends . that in connection with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ musthe dug and its railroads constructed by the National Government . This may not be explicitly demanded by the projectors of the proposed convention ? , but such is certainly the spirit which has been made to pervade the call as read in the light of some of the public comments upon it . - We do not believe that it is necessary to say to the great body of the Western people that it is not the business of the General Government to dig canals nor to build railroads . We went into this business to a certain extent in connection with the Pacific Railroad , and the result wee eorruption which has done us almost irreparable injury . The Government can not engage in such enterprises without almost certainly meeting a credit mobilier scandal , or even more serious evils in the end , and it should be restricted in the future to the exorcise of its legitimate functions . It will hardly do to say that as the Government furnishes light-houses to the coast of the East , and improves its harbors , it must help to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty of Government which it can not evade . and the performance of which confers no benefit upon individual interests ; the other has been considered foreign to the purpose of Government , and even if it were not so , is of doubtful propriety . And we object chiefly to the tone in which these demands upon the national treasury are made . Judging from the language of some of the advocates of/this movement . there is a disposition to advance in behalf of the commercial interests of a section the slave-holder 's plea that might makes right . There is always danger in sectional action upon sectional interests ; out of that came the gigantic war from which we have scarcely emerged . We are not convinced that any considerable portion of the people have any desire to raise issues which may threaten the peace of the nation in the future . The more zealous advocates of tie St. Louis movement might adopt a better policy to secure the relief the West needs and . should receive . Instead of agitation and combinations to secure governmental action . they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual resources within the nation are amply sufficient to do all that is necessary for the West , and there is no more doubt of their willingness than of their ability . The idea that seems prevalent in the West that the capital of the East is sullenly locked up against their enterprises , has no foundation in fact . Capital goes where it will meet with a fair return , and the East is as fully interested , in the prosperity and continued development of the West as is the Westitself . Instead , then , of threats that are dangerous , if they are not silly , let those who are agitating this matter show the capital awaiting employment that their enterprises are feasible , will yield . a fair return , and will attain the desired end . There will then be no necessity for venturing on the hazardous experiment upon which some of the exponents of public opinion in the West seem determined .                     