@@781816

txt It is amusing to see how distressed our Democratic friends are about the possibility of the Republican nomination for Governor being a weak one . Gov . Dix gives them a great deal of trouble of mind . His age , his position on the temperance question , and his " general unpopularity " seem to the Democrats fatal objections against his nomination . Really , it is very kind of them to point out in advance the weakness of the candidate whom they consider most likely to meet them in the field . But is it not bad strategy f If Gov . Dix is such an objectionable candidate for a Republican nomination , the converse of the proposition ought to be true . He should be also a highly-desirable candidate for the Democrats , who should desire nothing so much as to meet in the canvass a man whom they affect to consider so very vulnerable . Would it not be just as well , then , that our opponents hold their fire until the general and the squadrons are set in the field t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the marvelous mathematician of the World , who has always figured a victory out of the most convincing defeat , some of the Democratic journals are ciphering away at the returns of the election of 1372 , with a design to show that Gem Dix was then very unpopular , anti ran far behind his ticket in the State . It is boldly asserted that Dix was led in the general canvass , and that he ran far behind his ticket in particular counties . This is a bald untruth so far as the net result is concerned ; and it is also untrue in particulars . According to the official returns of the election of 1372 , GRANT 'S total vote in this State was 410,746 ; GREELEY 'S was 337,221 ; GRANT 'S majority , 53,525 . Dix had 445,132 votes ; KERN AN , 391,257 ; Dix 's majority was 53,451 , or 1,926 more than GRANT 'S . This our Democratic jugglers call running behind the ticket ! Perhaps , however , it is meant that he ran behind the State ticket . Even there we find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's majority , as we have shown , was 55,451 ; ROBINSON 'S , for Lieutenant Governor , was 46,757 ; STROUD 'S , for Canal Conunissioner , was 43,746 ; GRAVES ' , for State Prison Inspector , was 46,575 ; TRENIA IN 'S , for Congressman at Large , was 37,759 ; that is to say , no candidate on the State ticket came within 6,000 votes of Gen. Dix 's majority . Really , our Democratic statisticians will have to try again . In sonic counties the State ticket ran behind the Presidential ticket , and the World has seized upon this fact to give color to the statement that Gem Dix fell behind wofully in all those counties . For example , it says that ho was 1,462 behind in Erie . The fact is that the whole State ticket was behind in that county ; Gen. Dix was just 511 behind GRANT , instead of 1,462 . In Oneida , it is further said the Republican candidate was 1,150 behind ; Gen. Dix was only 463 behind GRANT in that county , and in Oswego , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic account , ho was 267 , the whole State ticket being also behind the Presidential . As every tyro in politics ought to know , individual counties , picked out here and there , prove nothing whatever in a general canvass . The only safe conclusion is that drawn from the aggregate figures  --  the sum . total . Therefore we may dispel the anxiety of our Democratic friends on the subject of Gen. Dix 's run in the canvass of 1872 . He led the candidates on the National ticket ; he led every candidate on the State ticket , receiving nearly 2,000 voted more than any other man on either .                     