@@742938

txt When we look back to the first centuries of the Church , we are struck at the extraordinary change which has taken place in the relation of Christianity to what are termed tho lower classes of society . It was to these classes , at the outset , that the Gospel made its most earnest appeal . To the poor , to slaves , to the afflicted and , oppressed of every sort , the Apostles and other early preachers principally addressed their teaching . By this multitudinous class they were heard with the most sympathy and from their ranks the primitive churches were filled . Christianity first established itself on the lower strata of the populace . The early Church was the Church of the catacombs . It burrowed underground before it emerged into daylight and climbed to high places of power . The heathen writers of the first two centuries scarcely allude to the Christians . When they are referred to , it is as an ignorant and despised class . The rich , the powerful , the cultured , if they noticed them at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to defend the Christian cause against the accusation of being a religion that started from " barbarians , " and sought acceptance among the vicious and unlearned . Christianity was the religion of the people , and so it continued to be through the Middle Ages . In this last period , it is true that all classes , the high and the low , were gathered into its fold ; but among them were the humblest in worldly rank . Witness the Crusades , which were a mighty popular movement for the rescue of the sacred places . Every peasant felt the enthusiasm that spread like a contagion from land to land . At present , we hear the question raised on every hand , How shall Christianity be carried to the masses ' I How shall the Christian faith be kept alive in the huge multitude who are devoted to manual toil , and how act as an antidote to the restless passions which threaten the stability of Governments and , menace society with convulsion ? This question implies that a considerable portion of ' the working class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are alienated from the Christian faith , rebels against its authority , careless alike of its restraints or . its hopes . Why this difference between these later and ' the earlier ages of the Church 1 How is it that a religion that found its heartiest welcome in  --  the class by whom the comforts , not to say the luxuries , of existence were possessed in a scant measure , is now spurned , to any extent even , by the corresponding portion of modern society I With reference to this problem , we have here only two suggestions to offer . The first is that in the ancient Roman Empire , when Christianity was struggling for life and for conquest , the lower class bad no prospect of relief and solace from any other source . Especially had they no hope of altering their condition by attacking the authority of the State . Revolutionary violence against the imperial power that nominated the world-was an impracticable thing . A Communistic revolt would have been an act of madness . In the Middle Ages , Roman imperialism had passed away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of the Church and affected its priesthood were adapted to enlist the sympathy of the common people . Over against the monarch and feudal lord stood , the hierarchical order , which the humblest might aspire to enter , and which not unfrequently interposed a shield for the protec- : tion of the common man against the tyranny and exactions of his lay superiors . In the present age , the Church has more frequently been on the side of secular authority . Christianity has been made a prop of despotism . In the great monarchical reaction in Europe , after the wars of Napoleon , " the throne and the altar " were the watchword of the assailants of liberty . In this double interest the Holy Alliance trampled on freedom in Spain and Italy . Meanwhile , at the same time that the people have been conscious of losing the sympathy of their ecclesiastical rulers and teachers , the spirit of democracy has been growing , and has been infusing a , consciousness of power into the minds of the less favored class . The effect of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hostile political theory . To gain their ends by the ballot or by armed revolution is deemed practicable by the disaffected . They seek for a remedy and a consolation on the earth , and not through a spiritual deliverance that must wait for its fruit until they have passed beyond the confines of this life . The second suggestion we have to make is that in Protestant countries , where the democratic theory of government prevails , there has been a tendency to make religious worship and teaching the privilege ? we might almost say the luxury ? of the few , while nothing is left to the lower orders but the crumbs that fall from the rich man 's table . The Church is turned into a religious club , and the religious edifice is parceled out to its owners . There are mission churches and mission schools , to be sure , and all praise is due to those who establish and conduct these enterprises of charity , but then they are enterprises of charity , and democracy engenders a pride that makes the poor unwilling to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find fault than to suggest remedies , to point out abuses than to explain how they may be removed . But he who will devise a plan , and make Christians adopt it , by which the poor and the rich can be brought together for common worship will contribute something to the healing of social discontent . Of course , all practical exemplification of the spirit of the Gospel , in the form of sympathy and liberality on the part of the capitalist and employer , tends strongly in the same direction . To make the laborer feel that his employer is not separated from him in feeling , but is conscientiously disposed to further his rights and interests , and to put him in possession of a reasonable share of this world 's goods , , is a plain dictate of Christian principle .                     