@@743054

txt The Robeson substitute for the Democratic bill fairly states the Republican position with reference to the use of the Army at Federal elections . It is an effective answer , moreover , to the Democratic attempt to identify the President and his Party with a policy upheld by neither . " We have at least succeeded in committing Republicans to the principle of military interference , " is the consolation addressed by a leading Democratic journal to those of its friends who mourn the discomfiture occasioned by the veto ; and in other quarters the same pretense is observable . That the pretense has not even the merit of plausibility , need hardly be said . Mr. GARFIELD 'S speech struck the key-note of the discussion , and certainly it afforded no warrant for a charge implying the willingness of Republicans to sanction a partisan use of the Army . Mr. HAYES 'S argument is still more conclusive evidence . His veto rests , not upon a desire to retain control of the movements of troops with a view to their possible use at the polls , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against their presence except when necessary for the preservation of the peace , and that any further prohibition on the subject would render the National Government unable to perform its duty . Mr. ROBESON 'S measure was not necessary , therefore , as a vindication of Republican regard for the supremacy of civil authority , or of the Republican desire to restrain military power within the narrowest limits compatible with the efficiency of the Government . Its introduction , however , served the purpose of defining the Republican position with a clearness that leaves no chance for misrepresentation . The presence of troops at an election is declared to be unlawful , unless their employment be required to enforce the provisions of the Constitution or to put down resistance to laws enacted in pursuance thereof . If the Democrats were solely desirous of preventing the exercise of partisan influence by or through the Army , they would have accepted the ground thus offered as that on which a compromise might be honorably effected . Their rejection of it proves that the confinement of executive authority within strictly constitutional limits is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive powerless for the maintenance of freedom and order at the polls , however urgent the call for his intervention . So far as the employment of the Army is concerned , then , the voting down the Republican alternative offered by Mr. Roessorr explains the animus of the Democratic majority even more plainly than the terms of the measure to be forced through the House by the arbitrary exercise of a rule for the suppression of debate . Other circumstances exhibit quite as conspicuously the determination of the majority to make a second attempt to coerce the President into the approval of a measure in every particular as objectionable as that which called forth the veto . Every one of his reasons for refusing to concur in the addition to the Army bill is applicable to the present measure . So much of it as is not mischievous is not necessary ; the rest is a distinct embodiment of ideas that were before conveyed only inferentially . Instead of a vague prohibition of the use of troops , we now have an explicit declaration that troops shall be used only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State where the force is needed . As the probability of interference being rendered necessary exists only in States where neither the Legislature nor Governor would be willing to frustrate Democratic methods of achieving ; suecess , the proviso in the bill is obviously inoperative . Inserted for appearance sake , it reveals more clearly than the former measure the hostility of the Democratic Party to Federal supervision in any practicable form , and its disposition to magnify State authority at the expense of national authority . For this reason it is not possible to believe that the President will approve of a bill which reaffirms most offensively the points to which his objections were mainly directed . The attempt at coercion is , indeed , more glaring than on the previous occasion . Engrafting the measure upon an appropriation bill was excused on the ground that time would thereby be saved . That was not the real reason , as everybody knows , but it was assigned again and again . If there were no other , why is the Army Appropriation bill now withheld until the fate of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer publicly made , because Democrats can no longer trust themselves to ' speak of their plans . But the retention in committee of an appropriation bill . which as regards its legitimate provisions has already received the sanction of both houses , must be regarded as a menace to the Executive . It is an indirect notification that the refusal to sign the partisan bill may be followed by a refusal to vote the necessary supplies . Every fresh move in the game which the Democrats are playing increases their difficulties and strengthens the certainty of their humiliation and defeat . They began the contest with a great show of energy and decision . There was boldness , if nothing else , in the original plan , which tied the partisan projects to the appropriations , to float or sink together . From the Democratic point of view , it had the additional advantage , that it threw upon a Republican President the onus of deciding whether the Government should obtain supplies or not . Adherence to this plan required of the majority a , summary , . termination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifest . But the pluck of the Democrats was not equal to the emergency . After all their threatening they did not dare to stop the supplies . When they consented to separate the repealing clause from the Army bill they virtually gave up everything . And the puerile trick by which they hurry forward a partisan bill while keeping back the appropriation bill , can not help them . ' Since the President did not hesitate to veto the appropiation bill because of its rider , he is not likely to pause before vetoing the obnoxious measure in a form apart from the appropriations . What will the Democrats do then 7 They can not plead that the appropriations have failed because of the President 's action . Either they must submit to the humiliation of passing the appropriation bills , with their partisan measures omitted , or they must wreck their party by assuming the responsibility of a direct refusal to provide the means of carrying on the Government . This is their dilemma , and King Caucus can not extricate them .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     