@@781479

txt Prince DONDOUKOFF-KORSAKOFF is said to have declared that the execution of the treaty is a sheer impossibility . The Commissioners for making the boundary between the two Provinces have returned , unable to overcome the obstacles to their progress . Finally- , the Commission of Organization has suspended its labors till the Spring . A military force has been organized for both Provinces , with a strewth of nearly fifty thousand men , all Bulgarians , although the treaty said it should be " mixed . " The situation presents an interesting case of the array of the principle of popular sovereignty against dynastic plans , and in this light deserves the attention of Americans . Some may ask whether the Bulgarians deserve , and are capable of maintaining , the independence and unity they are striving for . It may help im answer the question to remember that fly years ago they were the most oppressed and the most depressed people in Europe ; the t their first school-book , a primer , wan published in 1824 ; and that their first popular school deleted 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The division is wholly arbitrary , and is contrary to all principles that pretend to regard t ho affiliations of the people . Northern Bulgaria does not constitute Bulgaria any more than any one of the thirty-seven lute German States constituted Germany . The Bulgarians are as wide-spread , predominant , and intense in national feeling in Eastern Roomelia as they are in the late Maya of the Danube . The people of both Provinces have recognized the fact , and acted upon it through all their history . The Russians recognized it soon after they began the late war , and threw the - hien , of a division of the country out of their Flans . Count SHOUVALOFT informed Earl Derby , in June , 1577 , only a few days after ho had told him that the Czar would agree to such a division as the treaty of Berlin has provided for , that his Government had reconsidered its plans , and had decided that it must insist upon Bulgaria remaining - a single province ; otherwise , the must laborious and intelligent population of that nationality , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would remain excluded from the autonomous institutions . The Russian plans , as embodied in the treaty of San Stefano. gave the Bulgarians more than they had a right to claim . The treaty extended their territory so as to make it include several Creek towns outside of its proper limits , and gave it a front of some fifty or sixty miles on the " Egean Sea , while the predominant Bulgarian population does not extend to that semi . This was vexing to the people of the Greek communities , for it placed them under a foreign jurisdiction to which they would prefer even that of the Turks ; and it was extremely hard upon Turkey , for it cut its European territory in two , dividing the parts by a considerable interval under foreign jurisdiction . It would have been only an act of justice for the congress , if it had done no more , to have trimmed the territory thus recklessly cut out so as to remedy the faults of the cutting . Its action wont , however , further than this . From the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Russians seemed to act or not to act , as the case might be , so as to induce a miscarriage of the determination respecting the division of Bulgaria . They had the advantage of a long start , for Prince DWNDOLTKOrt , ' - 11 ( 012SA1COFF had been at work ever since the death of Prince TormukAnsta , and t he latter ever since the Russians had entered the country , to prepare for the organization of Bulgaria as a whole . The Berlin adjustment did not contain any order the t could interfere with their operations immediately , and they did not desist from their proceedings or change their method in consequence of it . A protest against the division of the Province , signed by the head men of forty or more villages south of the Balkans , was sent up to the diplomatic agents in August . Agitation on the subject was stimulated by the leaders , and was not repressed by the Russians , till the mass of the Bulgarian people had committ ed themselves in favor of national unity , and as decidedly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission of organization was appointed and ready to go to work , it found that much had been accomplished contrary to its objects , and . that it had a strong antagonistic popular feeling to encounter . The Commissioners were told that the sentiment was not against them personally , but watt one of " profound and irreconcilable hostility " to the work they were called on to elaborate , and that if they would regard the matter impartially , they would find that it arose from a deep-rooted instinct of self-preservation in the Bulgarians . Prince DoiainouKorF declined to surrender his functions upon the demand of the commission , pleading in support of his action valid proviEion of one or the other treaty , and conditions which had not been fulfilled by the party of the other part , by which it was given a color of legality , and went on with his own work of organization . A petition signed by 50,000 Bulgarians of East Ronmelia and Afacedonia was presented to the Commissioners on the 2Stlkof October , expressing astonishment at the injustice the powers had done the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done , and declaring that , after having experienced deleted 25 lines                     