@@743279

txt The Commission appointed early in the Summer by the National Board of Health to visit Cuba and make investigations regarding the production and exportation of yellow fever at the principal seaports of that island has submitted a preliminary report , giving an outline of its three months ' work and some of the general conclusions that have been reached . This is published as a supplement to the National Board of Health , Bulletin , but the full report threat .. ens to be a voluminous affair . Enough may be gleaned from the comparatively brief advance statements of the Chairman and Secretary of the Commission to season our wonder at the prevalence of the scourge in Cuban ports and its constant transmission abroad . Havana appears to be peculiarly adapted for the production of an interesting variety of diseases , and its capacity in this respect is sedulously cultivated by a population not otherwise specially distinguished for enterprise . It succeeds in attaining an annual death-rate of about 44 in the thousand . Its attention is by no means exclusively devoted to yellow fever , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a flourishing export trade in the malady . It cultivates phthisis and dysentery with even greater success , but these are chiefly for home consumption , while small-pox and miscellaneous fevers are produced in considerable abundance . ? Nature has done much for Havana , but the people have not failed to use their advantages to the utmost for the production of diseases , epidemic , endemic , and far exportation . The climate of Cuba , as is well known , is almost continuously warm and afflicted , first and last , with a good deal of moisture . The soil , especially where the principal seaports are located , is somewhat thin , laid over a peculiarly porous coral rock , and interspersed with mangrove swamps . The supplies of fresh water have been carefully placed at a distance from the large cities . Havana enjoys all these advantages to an exceptional degree , but they are not alone sufficient to produce a luxuriant crop of yellow fever , as is proved by the fact that it did not show itself at all there until 1761 , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The people have filled up the adjacent mangrove dswamps with refuse and garbage , and built ivellings upon them , thereby constructing excellent hot-beds of decaying and fermenting matter for the propagation of fevers in variety . The only available water-supply being a river about four miles west of the city , they have judiciously kept it there , only taking enough through an open ditch , into which all manner of pollution is cast without restriction , to keep the people alive for disease to feed upon . The chief use a the population is to serve as sustenance for sickness . Water for cleanliness is by no means to be had . As wide streets and spacious houses would be conducive to health in such a latitude , most of the ' been narrow , and the houses are chiefly one-story dens packed together on a level with the roadways , and without cellars . Drainage has been religiously avoided , and all manner of filth is accumulated in and about the habitations , until the atmosphere is fairly loaded with sickening exhalations . The harbor , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plied with pollution , and under a fierce tropical sun , alternating with spells of mild and penetrating moisture , it may be easily imagined that the city and its surroundings have gradually attained a remarkable fecundity in the matter of diseases , and particularly of the variety of fever popularly known as yellow jack . The commission which , during the Summer months , gathered this interesting information about Havana , appears to he under the impression that this particular branch of Cuban industry ought to be checked , and that a vigorous protective policy should be adopted by the United States , amounting , if possible , to prohibition of the trade in yellow fever . The authors of the report cut out a cheerful bit of work for the Spanish authorities when they suggest a reconstruction of streets and houses , paving , cleansing , and draining of thoroughfares , cleaning out the harbor , the introduction of an abundant mater-supply , the reform of the habits of the people , and the systematic enforcement of all the sanitary measures that science and common-sense can suggest . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remind us that it would cost an enormous number of millions of dollars , and that the people are already burdened and taxed to that extent that it matters little to them whether they live or die . The reform of the sanitary condition of Havana and other Cuban ports , and the material lessening of the home production of yellow fever and other virulent maladies , being well-nigh hopeless , foreign countries can do little more than put rigorous restrictions upon the importation of the seeds of epidemic to their own seaports . Even in this they do not have the co-operation of the Spanish authorities . The act of last January , " to prevent the introduction of infectious and . contagious diseases into the United States , " which provided , among other things , for a Sanitary Inspector at Havana , is rendered nugatory by the refusal of the local powers to allow its enforcement . Havana is determined to remain the great market for yellow fever , and it behooves the civilized nations to consider whether an international sanitary code can not be constructed and enforced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption by her own people and for their destruction .                     