@@781495

txt There is a very agreeable fairy tale which , more than most fairy tales , embraces the character of a parable . It relates the adventures of a certain cat who , by magic arts , was suddenly transformed into a Princess . In spite of the natural embarrassment attendant on such a change , the ei-derant tabby performed her new part to admiration , manoeuvring her train and carrying her coronet with a grace and dignity unexcelled by any of her sister Princesses of the bluest blood and the most extensive quarterings . But one unlucky day , while she was seated with the other royal Highnesses , after dinner , embroidering blue dogs with pink eyes on a yellow ground , or abusing their intimates , or laughing at their absent lovers , or indulging in some other of the artless diversions of maidenhood in and out of fairy land , there suddenly sprang into the lovely circle a mouse . Of course , the other Princesses fainted with the utmost correctness on the spot , or shrieked and sprang upon the chairs and tables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for our hapless heroine instinct proved too strong . She flung herself at once upon the intruder , who , it need hardly be said , was the malignant fairy in disguise , gobbled him up before the eyes of the petrified assemblage , and instantly changed back into a cat . We live in fairy land no longer , but even in our matter-of-fact days , the unwary Princess is sometimes reconverted into her feline original . The other night at the Maison Doree , a striking realization of the fable was offered by a distinguished gentleman of high repute in Democratic councils . The statesman began life under difficulties , but successfully conquered them all . He went to Congress , and it must be owned that he behaved there a great deal better than many men of greater pretensions . But , on a certain fatal night , some wicked fairy brought him into conflict with a rival statesman and Ex-Honorable at the Maison Doree . Into the details of that stupendous conflict we do not propose to enter . When the Titans of Tammany Hall join issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold.their breath , or at most to pray , tremblingly for a dens ex maeltina from the nearest Police beat . Rumor bath it that these two rival statesmen were moved over their cups to exchange such familiar Democratic endearments as " liar " and " gambler , " of course with the appropriate Democratic embroidery , and that thereupon the transformed one smote his brother in the eye , raising upon that organ what in his unregenerate days he would have termed a " mouse . " Need we continue the harrowing tale ? At sight of that fatal animal , the magical illusion vanished into thin air . The Princess returned to a cat , the gentleman changed back to the prize-fighter , and the two distinguished statesmen punched and mauled and butted each other as heartily as though they had never known what it was to be gentlemen or members of Congress at all . The tale is sufficiently sad . But worse , it is to be feared , remains behiud . That noble triumvirate of Johns must now , alas , be dissolved . And we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woes that must follow upon this most unhappy dissolution , the brok-en heads , the broken promises , the broken . English , the pitiful waste of blood and whisky , we can only conjecture . We are dealing not with the epic , but with the moral aspects of this mournful history . And the moral appears to be that cats who wish to pass for Princesses had better keep away from mice .                     