@@740636

txt Among the objects of legislation at Albany the insurance companies are not overlooked . A large number of bills , some of them farreaching in their scope , have already been introduced . Some of these bills are frivolous and uncalled for , originating in distorted views or crude opinions , and are . little likely to assume any definite shape beyond their mere introduction . Others , however , promise to become laws , and will prove useful to policy-holders , it not entirely satisfactory to the companies . One bill , which has passed the Assembly , enjoins the fire ' insurance companies from the issue of policies whose conditions- are pri ited in smaller type than that known as " small pica . " It also provides that all the terms of the contract shall be so placed in the policv as to he above the officers ' signa- tures . There is a manifest propriety in regulating these two features of insurance contracts , considering the fact that there are companies in this City whose policies are rendered illegible to most persons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so full of conditions as to defy comprehension . In other instances these conditions are merely referred to very slightly in the text , and then made to fill the whole of a foolscap page on the other side of the sheet . That they are quite complex in their character , and one-sided in their application , is matter of notoriety . It is , therefore , proper to protect the public by legislation against those corporations whose contracts have the double fault of prolixity and illegibility . The effort made last Winter by some of the New-York companies to restrain the operations of the English companies , under the specious pretext of bringing them into equality of position with companies chartered by this State , will be renewed at this session . Last year the scheme went through the Legislature , but was killed by Gov . HOFFMAN , who declined to sign the bill . In accordance with the suggestion of the Governor , a new bill has been prepared , whose provisions are said to be agreeable to both parties , and thus a bitter and costly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while a just uniformity of practice and equality of privileges will be secured . Several propositions , looking to the requirement from life insurance companies of a more adequate deposit for the protection of policy-holders , are before the Legislature . The recent failures have given this subject considerable interest , and , although one of the exploded companies had a sufficient fond at Albany to reinsure its policies , the other company can not make its deposit cover more than a fourth of its policy liabilities . It is not clear as yet whether the legislation in this direction will increase the deposit requirement from $100,000 , as at present , to $300,000 , or will do a wiser thing by requiring the deposit to be made large enough , in the first place , to discourage useless incorporations , and then be supplemented by additions which shall keep pace with the increasing liabilities of the companies ; in other words , compelling the companies to keep at Albany a sum equal to the reserve ' necessary to reinsure their risks . Had this been the law , the policy-holders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their misplaced confidence . There is also mention made in insurance circles of a projected law to require the registration of every life policy and renewal , issued by any New-York company , in the office of the Superintendent of the Insurance Department . It is even said that some of the prominent life companies are in favor of such an enactment . It is not very easy , however , to see the advantage of thus doubling up the machinery of life insurance . If policies arenot trustworthy without being recorded at Albany , there is very little additional confidence derivable from their registry there .                     