@@741144

txt A serious disaster has just been narrowly escaped by American science , nor is the danger even yet entirely passed . When the subject of the support of the coast survey for the ensuing year came up before the Congressional Committee , an effort was made to have the geodetic work of the survey transferred to the army . The scheme was concocted with profound secrecy , the plans were carefully laid , and when presented it was pushed with great vigor , but thus far , we are happy to say , unsuccessfully . On what precise grounds the movement is based , we have not learned ; possibly it is pressed as an economical measure , but more probably it is only a new manifestation of the spirit which inspires certain circles of naval and military officers , who desire to arrogate to their own branch of the public service the control of every important national enterprise . But any such transfer as that proposed would certainly be a great mistake and misfortune . The character of the work requires that it should be directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talent , and under the lamented BActiv , and the present distinguished superintendent , PEincE , such has always been the case . There is no nation in the world which can show in its public surveys work of a higher order than that of the coast survey during the past twenty years . The number of our army officers who are anything like competent to take part in the prosecution of such a work , to say nothing of its direction , is extremely small ; so that the immediate consequence of a transfer of the coast survey work to military control must be either a great degradation in its quality , or else its prosecution by scientific civilians placed in the false and uniust position of underlings to military officers , often inferior to themselves in everything but military rank  --  civilians doing the work , ( as in the survey of the north and north-western lakes , ) while shoulder-straps maintain the dignity , and take the largest portion of the pay and credit . The army is good in its place  --  essential indeed  --  and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But to hand over to military control any portion of our civil service , and . especially , in a purely scientific work , to recognize military rank as conferring superiority over scientific experience and attainments  --  this seems to us extremely unwise and unrepublican . If there are army officers who are fitted for geodetic work , by all means let them in future , as has frequently been the case hitherto , be detailed for service on the survey , taking such positions as they are entitled to . but subordinate to the civilian officials charged with its direction . As to the question of economy , we have not the data for a comparison of the cost of doing the work under military management with that of the present system . We do not believe there would be any gain in this respect , but even should it appear that there is , we should still quote the old proverb ? " the best is cheapest . " One thing is quite clear  --  such a change as that proposed , involving the substitution of new and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life-work , and the alterations that would be compelled in plans of operation carefully laid out , and already partly accomplished , must be accompanied by enormous expense and waste . The scientific men of the country , without exception so far as we can learn , are bitterly opposed to the movement , and from many of our colleges and higher schools of science . indignant protests are already on the way to Washington . Every man who takes pride in the past achievements and present position of our national science , and feels an interest in its future progress , will , we are sure , add his voice and influence in the same direction .                     