@@741375

txt The so-called " Woman 's War " in other States has served to stimulate the temperance people of New-York City to increased activity , and to render them more zealous in advocating the policy of total abstinence , and the suppression of the traffic in intoxicating beverages . The question is beginning to attract the attention of a large class of our citizens , and during the present week it is expected that a regular temperance campaign will be commenced here , though upon a different scale from that inaugurated in the West . The statement published in some of the newspapers yesterday , that the ladies connected with the Church of the Strangers were about organizing for the purpose of holding prayermeetings and in front of saloons in New York City , was entirely premature . While some few , it is understood , are found who are willing to undertake the task of visiting and praying in the various places where liquors are sold , there is authority for stating that a majority of the temperance women who have interested themselves in the public meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. T. , Chairman of the Union Temperance Prayer-meeting , which is held each Sunday in the chapel of the Church of the Strangers , says that a committee of ladies and gentlemen is now laboring with the intention of establishing , at an early day , prayer-meetings in different sections of the City , which shall be conducted by ladies , but to which all are welcome . Special prayers will be offered for the suppression of the liquor traffic , and for the promotion of the cause of temperance . Mr. said tliat ho anticipated grand results from the movement they were endeavoring to inaugurate in this City . He did not , however , favor pursuing a campaign here such as the ladies were carrying on in the Western towns and cities . lie did not think such a movement could succeed in New-York . It was not the intention of the ladies contiteteit with the meetines - which he had presided to make any onslaught upon the saloons in this City , but to pray earnestly to accomplish good results . Ho said if he were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose of visiting and praying in the liquor-saloons , he was confideut two thousand or more would soon respond . But lie did not favor such a movement , and would not . When it was necessary to visit saloons , men would be appointed to do so , not women . The women could , however , lead the prayer-meetings , got signatures no pledges , and accomplish great and good results in a quiet way . Mr. also desired it stated that this new temperance movement was not connected with the Church of the Strangers . The Union Temperance Prayer Society was an entirely in. dependent organization . They had held their meetings heretofore in the chapel of the Church of the Strangers , and Rev. Dr. Deems had at times participated , but did not control the meetings . Several ladies and gentlemen connected with the Seventeenth Street M. E. Church , between First and Second avenues , have just organized a Temperance Alliance , and will for the present hold weekly temperance prayer-meetings in their church every Sunday afternoon . The ladies will also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment and carrying on of additional meetings throughout the City . On Thursday night a grand temperance mass-meeting will be held in the Forsyth M. E. Church . Rev. W. C. Steel , Pastor of the Beekman Street M. E. Church , and Rev. George J. Mingins , Superintendent ot City Missions , and others , will speak . Mr. has not succeeded yet in obtaining a ball for a mass-meeting on Saturday evening , on which occasion it is expected Dr. Dio Lewis , who has been doing so much for the temperance cause out West , will visit the City . He expects , however , to have everything in readiness for the reception of that distinguished gentleman in dim season . The regular Monday evening temperance meeting , under the auspices ot Fidelity Division , No. 46 , Sons of Temperance , was held in Cannel Chapel last night . The hall was crowded with ladies and gentlemen . Mr. R. Walpole presided , and in addreseing the assemblage expressed his gratification at witnessing the increased interest that was manifested in this City in behalf of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man for forty years , and during that period had never craved a drop of liquor as a stimulant . He did not agree with a certain minister up town who , in a sermon on Sunday night , said he favored temperance , but did not favor total abstinence . He thought temperance and Christianity should go together , and the only reason that the former cause had not been signally.successful was because Christianity was not unanimously with it . He believed that more people bad gone to heaven the last forty years , since temperance was inaugurated , than went there for two hundred years before . Mr. Walpole concluded by introducing to the audience a new convert to the temperance cause , Rufus Andrews , Esq. , who spoke at some length . He had , he said , been himself intemperate in other days , and might now appropriately be , called a reformed drunkard . He hoped the great temperance revolution which was now agitating sections . of the United States , and . ? Continued on Fifth Page , THE TEMPERANCE CRUSADE . Cent*wed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England , would produce grand results everywhere . He favored the most extreme measures to further the movement . It was unpopular a few sears ago to talk about the abolition of slavery . Only a few men led the movement , but after a straggle of twenty years they brought the people to think one way , and four million souls ' were freed from bondage . . ICovr the country has a greater evil then slavery to deal with ? an evil which spreads poverty , disseminates crime . fills our penitentiaries , and sends men to the gallows . A great moral revolution was now sweeping over the country . He hoped it would not end until our legislative halls were fine , " with temperance men , and until ixatlic in strong drink among the rich and the pool ' was entirely suppressed . A large number signed the pledge , after which the meeting adjourned . 