@@781878

txt There is probably no country in the world in which quackery thrives so well as it does in the United States . It affords a refuge tor thousands of men and women who have failed in all the regular occupations of life . The half-educated " eclectic , " unable to find practice through the methods employed by the reputable IfielabC1.8 of the medical profession , " throws his banner to the breeze , " or , in other words , coins a name for a simple compound , and announces , with a grand flourish of trumpets , that it is a sovereign remedy for every known disease . The halt-crazy dreamer , who has ' spent half his years in longing for some means of occupation that shall afford him the largest possible amount of money for the least possible amount of work , finds at last , with the help of a friendly spirit " wejum , " that hid place is among the " magnetizers , " and that his mission is to heal the multitude at as much per head as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the responsibilities of home life , and wants to be an independent member of society , after one or two visits to the charmed circle , in which Quoch-Quech , Shark Ear , or sonic other familiar Indian spirit is supposed to do light porterage , finds her mediumistic powers undergoing such rapid development that it only takes a month or six weeks of sitting with the presiding genius to prepare her to take rank with the PALMEIIS and the other great clairvoyants of the day . It makes no difference , as we have learned from the evidence in the Beecher trial , whether husbands object to have their wives disposed of in this kind of way , If they do n't like it , the divorce court furnishes an easy means of escape . A few days ago there was an extract published in THE TIMES from a paper read by a Col. KINNE before the Microscopical Society of San Francisco , which very forcibly illustrates this kind of quackery . COL KINNE told of a charlatan who professed to relieve the worst form of neuralgic toothache without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steaming process , by which , after an application of a few minutes ' duration , he was able to show his patient worms which he declared had been drawn from the teeth . The most astonishing part of the story is that the " worms " were so well formed that they actually stood the test of microscopic examination . The light thrown upon the matter by Col. KINNE would leave room for doubt as to whether the dentist was really a quack or a much-abused man of science but for the t , , stiniony of a Dr. TisnKNEss , who states that , having carried the investigation of the " phenomena " further than the Colonel , he d isvered that the " worms " were produced by the action of heat , onion-seed , and butter . The fact that the process described actually did stop the toothache was sufficient in itself to serve the purpose of the charlatan , and of course that was all he desired . Dr. HARKNESS is of the opinion that the cure was effected by convincing the patient that there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dyspepsia , although ho may be under treatment by his family physician , no sooner sets eye on the quack 's glaring yellow letters on the fence-rail or the curb-stone than he makes up his mind to try a bottle or so . In the meantime he discontinues taking the prescription of the family doctor , and argues himself into the belief that the quack 's stuff is doing him good . There is doubtless something in it which stirs him up , and to his mind any change seems for the better . Some years ago , a well-known firm got out a medicOes for weak lungs which the victims thought was rescuing them from the verge of the grave . It consisted of extract of onion and liquid salt , and was put up in rosewood cases of such fine workmanship that each one seemed to be worth the five dollars which was dethauded for medicine and all . A glass tube accompanied a set of bottles , and the directions were that the liquid should be applied by pouring it through the tube into the ears and eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can imagine the effect which would be produced upon the eyes by extract of onion and salt . But , of course , the greater the pain the more a person with weak lungs would parsevere , and the more hopeful he would become . We are not prepared to say that some cures had not actually been effected , when a quarrel among the members of the firm caused an exposure of the trick . For if anything could keep up the head of a weak-lunged man , and give him thorough exercise , salt and onion extract in his eyes might be expected to do it . The tricks of the clairvoyants are still more attractive to the credulous . The flummery of the trance has enough of the mysterious element in it to make many believers . It is only necessary for the clairvoyant to assure ladies that their physicians have been treating them for other diseases than those which afflict them to bring thorough conviction to their minds , and to induce them to begin to swallow compounds made up from the most expensive patent medicines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discouraging to Physicians who love their profession ; but the dittietalty is to find E remedy . Even if every person practieins medicine and dentistry was required to ex. hibit a diploma , it could not be stopped , fie it is a lamentable fact that thousands 01 men and women who live by quackery art fully provided in this respect . The fruit is. that so long as the number willing to bc hninbug , ged for the sake of change continue ; so large as it is at the present day , chariot , awry can not be suppressed .                     