@@741351

txt The message of Gov . Dix to the new Legislature contains much information which that body might study with advantage , many sound recommendations , and some important ones . The condition of the State , as described by the Governor , is certainly , in the main , satisfactory . There is no doubt that the people of the State are , for the most part , prosperous , and exempt from serious social or moral disorders of a kind to attract the attention of the Legislature . Char State debt is light , our taxes are not relatively onerous , our savings banks are numerous and strong , our colleges and academies are reasonably good and are very numerous , and our public schools show a very encouraging attendance and a steady ; rowth . But the condition of the Government of the State in respect of many important matters is by no means flattering . Our Treasury has been mismanaged . There is a heavy defalcation to make up by taxation . The sinking fund . has been greatly impaired by iegicaative appropriations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of the Constitution . Our prisons are wastefully and expensively managed . Our public buildings are erected in an extravagant manner , costing four times the amounts contemplated when their construction was authorized . Oar system of internal improvements is still awkwardly and , we fear , to a great extent , corruptly managed . And worst of all , the State Legislature is shown by the Governor to do its work carelessly , to frequently enact violations of the Constitution , to multiply private legislation , to neglect serious evils in the operation of existing laws , and to so frame the most important bills that the Governor is compelled either to sanction unjustifiable expenditures , or to stop the machinery of the Government . With the experience of last year before him , and with his knowledge of the past history of the Government , we should say it must have been a somewhat thankless task for the Governor to enumerate as faithfully as he has done the matters which it is his duty to call to the attention of the Legislature . Those of them which require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of them , novel . The Governor 's recital of them is , for the most part , an old story . Take , for instance , the condition of our prisons . The shameful mismanagement of these institutions , and the heavy burden their support imposes on the people , when they might , instead , be a source of income , have been known for years . So have the causes to which these evils are due . Nearly every Governor during the past decade has called attention to them . But they have not been reformed because the petty politicians who profit by the evils make it to the interest of other petty politicians in the Legislature to sustain them . In the same way , the habit County Treasurers have of using the money collected from State taxes for their own use , loaning it to local banks and pocketing the interest , while the State , on its part , is paying interest for money to meet current expenses , is no new thing . But the County Treasurers who practice it , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have blocked the way to any thorough punishment of the offenders or correction of the abuse . As for the derelictions of the Legislature itself , the private bills , the jobbery , the log-rolling , the overloaded Appropriation bills held back to the last moment , the haste in great matters , the confusion in small ones , the difficulty of forcing through good measures , and the ease with which the lobby slips through bad ones  --  all this is a tale not twice told , but many times . Nevertheless , since the Governor has had the patience to go carefully through with a great variety of recommendations , we shall hope that the Legislature may have the grace to take up some of them . The most important are unquestionably those relating to the amendments of the State Constitution and . to the canals . The amendments to the Constitution are well advanced toward adoption . They were carefully mar " led by men of known judgment and skill lit public affairs . They have been approved by one Legislature . They do not propose any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to alarm conservative minds , while they are judiciously framed to remove some acknowledged and serious evils . Their main purpose is to increase the efficiency of the State Government by simplifying its organization , and to confine the Legislature . as far as possible , to dealing with public affairs . There is every reason to believe that , if adopted , the amendments will serve this purpose , and the Legislature can not do anything more likely to make itself kindly remembered than to promptly indorse them . The Governor discusses the condition of the canals , and their capacity , - with considerable earnestness . His recommendations are negative rather than positive . He disapproves any present attempt to undertake a ship-canal between the lakes and the Hudson Elver , and he thinks that when the Erie Canal is dredged to its full depth , provided with double locks , and traversed by steam-boats , we shall be able to control the trade of the . West . We believe these measures are all necessary , but they should be supplemented by low tolls , which only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will secure . There are a number of minor recommendations of the Governor , to which we may have occasion to refer as the session progresses . Meanwhile , we may say that the people of the State will , as a body , thoroughly appreciate his sound views on finance and the currency , and heartily respect the temperate and elevated tone of the message generally .                     