@@742581

txt A prolific source of extravagance and abuse in the expenditure of the public moneys is the practice of making appropriations hi a lump , without imposing any sufficient restriction upon the manner or rate of their expenditure . Nearly every abuse in the civil service which has recently been unearthed , if not directly duo to this practice , has been in greater or less degree fostered by it . The expenses of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing , in which such gross extravagance and mismanagement were brought to light , are paid out of a round appropriation . Neither the numbers to be employed , the salaries to be paid , nor the amount to be expended in any week or month , is specified . If the Secretary of the Treasury chooses , he may expend the whole sum in a single month . For all the restrictions that the law imposes , he may erect Hera of shelving in every room and pack them tight with the protegOs of Congressmen . It was in direct consegeonce of this systen1 that an appropriation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiscal year , when , as subsequent investigation showed , only one-fourth of that sum was required . While Congress was spending weeks in squabbling over a saving of a few thousand dollars in the salaries of department officers , already underpaid , this enormously-excessive appropriation slipped quietly through , almost , witluut comment . Had the number and salaries of each grade of officers and employes been fixed by law , as they unquestionably should have been , the disproportion between the amount asked for and the work to be done would have been apparent to any one who chose to look into the subject . As it was , the extravagance of the appropriation was concealed by the fact that the sum was in gross , and that no details were given to which criticism could be directed . The method of appropriating for the expenses of collecting the revenue from Customs is still worse . This belongs to a class known as permanent appropriations . Under an act passed in 1871 , and embodied in the Revised Statutes , what is known as a " permanent " annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this purpose , in addition to the amount derived from fines , penalties , and forfeitures , which amounts to $1,000,000 more . - It will be seen that the appropriation is'not only for a gross sum , but that it derives its vitality from an act passed seven years ago . No action whatever is required by Congress , and it is doubtful whether the average Congressman has any definite idea how the Customs service is provided for . The way in which the money is permitted to be expended is quite as bad in principle as that in which it is appropriated . The expenditure is made almost at the ? absolute discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , both as ' to the purposes to which it is devoted and the rates ptiid . The salaries of a very few chief officers and of some of the subordinate grades'Of employ are fixed by law , but so far as the . great mass of officers is concerned . the rower of the Secretary is ilbsolute . He may authorize the payment of a salary of $100,000 a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a clerk or a tide-waiter . While Congress is haggling over the pay of a few $1,200 clerks in Washinton , he is left free to pay the clerks in the Custom-houses any sum he chooses out of the lump appropriation placed in his hands . As a matter of fact , there are officers in the Custom-house in this City , who are mere clerks in the eye of the law , that are paid salaries in excess of the highest which Congress can be induced to grant to the most important heads of bureaus in Washington , and but little less than those which members of the Cabinet receive . Some of these incongruities have , we believe , been corrected upon the recommendation of the Jay Commission , but the system which permitted them still remains in force . The same indefiniteness characterizes the purposes to which the appropriation is to be devoted . It is simply appropriated for the expenses of collecting the revenue from Customs . What proportion shall be paid for ' salaries , for rent , for stationery , for supplies , or for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It depends solely on the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , who must in turn depend upon the representations and the judgment of others . A similar , though not so great an indefiniteness , characterizes the appropriations for the internal revenue and postal services , as well as many other branches of the public service . It requires no argument to prove that such a system must inevitably lead to extravagance and abuse . It is the constitutional duty of Congress to make appropriations for the support of the public service , and this duty is but half performed by the appropriation of gross sums for the various branches of the service . The law should fix the amount applicable to each specific object of expenditure  --  such as salaries , rent , and supplies  --  as well the number and salaries of each grade of employes . The only objection which can be made to this plan is that it would involve a great amount of labor . But the labor required would be inconsiderable , compared with the result achieved. - It would only be necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of expenditure , and for Congress to make these estimates the ground-work of its appropriations . A score of clerks would be ample for the whole work . Congress would be required to devote more time and care to the appropriations than heretofore , but most people will think that the time may readily be taken from other objects of Congressional discussion without public disaster . The scrutiny and discussion to which each item of expenditure would be subjected , as contrasted with the present secrecy and uncertainty , could not fail to be fruitful of good results . A great share of the appropriations , including those for most of the regular force in the departments in Washington and for the Army and Navy , are now made in the way proposed , and there is no good reason why appropriations for the whole service should not conform to the same rule . The first blow has been struck at the evil by a bill ( House of Representatives , 2,282 ) prepared at the Treasury , and introduced by Hon. CHARLES FOSTER . It absolutely repeals all laws making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the interest on the public debt and for the refunding of the debt , and requires the Secretary of the Treasury to submit annual estimates for the objects heretofore provided for by these appropriations . These include the expenses of collecting the Customs revenue , and of arming and equipping the Militia , as well as a largo variety of claims , the payment of which , notwithstanding the " permanent " appropriation therefor , Secretary Summix has wisely suspended , awaiting further action by Congress . If Congress will pass this bill , and follow it up by requiring of the departments detailed estimates of all appropriations required , ana by making the appropriations with equal detail , a reform will be accomplished which will result in an annual saving to the people not measured by less than millions of dollars .                     