@@781888

txt The firm reserve of the Federal Government has again averted . the threatened riot from New-Orleans . Mr. CARTER , on learning of the presence of Gen. EMORY 'S troops ready to protect public property and to put down any armed oonflict. concluded not to march to the State-house , and dismissed Ins adherents . Meanwhile the House of Representatives . after an acrimonious debate , has ordered its Special Committee to go to New-Orleans for the purpose of investigation , and hinted to it that the conduct of the Federal officers will be first in order . Will the Senate never get to action on the merits of the Amnesty bull It has been been , that body-now ever since the opening of the session . One unimportant amendment has been made to it . The remainder of the time has been spent on Mr. Suateeit 's amendment . embodying his Supplemental Civil Rights bill , a measure of doubtful relevancy , and of still more doubtful expediency as an amendment to this bill , and quite likely to kill it in the Senate or House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants the United States to buy Cuba . and thinks now is a good time to try it . His seasons for buying the Leland are not novel ; they- are the same old reasons that bare done faithful service in buncombe resolutions , and platforms , and stump speeches for the last forty years . But his grounds for supposing the present to be a good time to open negotiations certainly are novel . They are that Cuba is not necessary to Spain , and that its cession to the United States would be of great commer6 lines deleted Whatever people may think of Mr. BOUTWELL 'S policy , they believe him both conscientious and scrupulously observant of the law . There will be little surprise , therefore . at the report by Mr. DA.wes , from the Committee of Ways and Means , made to the House yesterday , exonerating the Secretary from all blame in connection with the negotiation of the five per omit . loan . Mr. Dawn , who is famous for his fondness for exposure and denunciation , expressed the decision of the Committee that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country . nor incurred expenditure contrary to law " ? these being the offenses attributed to him . The Brooklyn Union calls upon the directors of the Union Ferry Company for an explanation of the assault made by the pilot of the Columbia upon one of the passengers by the 13ii A. M. trip from New-York on Friday last . The occurrence was fully reported in the TIKES of Saturday , and duly noticed by the Brooklyn papers of the same evening . As remarked by the Union , the fact of such an outrage ' having taken place without either inouiry or redress is disagreeably suggestive of the risks which are incurred by passengers on these boats in the middle of the night . We agree with our Brooklyn contemporary that there should be on every ferry-boat an officer of Police . From the moment a passenger enters the wicket at New-York , to the time he emerges from the one at Brooklyn , he is practically beyond the protection et the law . In fact , if he makes a complaint , he is , as proved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more likely to be clubbed by the officer outside of the Ferry-house than to have his wrongs redressed . The Directors of the Union Ferry Company must not be allowed to shirk the investigation which the public have a right to demand , into the outrage in question . A pilot who has no more control of himself than the one in charge of the Columbia on Friday morning , is not fit to be intrusted with the safety of handreds of passengers . We received yesterday the following additional contributions for the Children &; Aid Society : " J. P .. " 34 ; " Little Ne wy and Eva , " $20 ; " A , " $5 . The Committee of Seventy propose an act to accompany the City Charter , intended to secure greater responsibility on the part of the officials of the City and County . It makes all deleted 5 lines                     