@@741861

txt It is known that Mr. Cave , who was sent out last month by the English Government to . investigate the financial position of Egstpis will soon he home again , but the report that he has been recalled on account of the failure of mission is contradicted . It is stated that . in point of fact , he has not been recalled at all , but is simply returning because be has gut oiruugll ins work , and that it was never intended that he should make a long stpy Egypt . Moreover , it is announced that when he quits Cairo , " two gentlemen conversant with financial affairs " will be sent by the English Government to hold office under the Khedive , at whose own request this sten is taken . These statements must , however , be accepted with some qualifications . It is true , no doubt , that both Mr. Cave and the Government have come to the conclusion that there is very little use in his remaining any longer at Cairo . Indeed , his presence there has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on account , we are told , of the state of expectation and excitement which his being there is calculated to keep up . All this , however , only comes to this , that Mr. Cave 's mission was neyer a very hopeful business , and that it is now given un as useless , Nothing can bo more absurd than to imagine that in the course of a few weeks a foreign agent can possibly have got to the bottom of Egyptian ' finance . Mr. Cave has probably already got about as far as he is ever likely to get , but that is a very small way . Egyptian book-keeping is one of the chief mysteries of that mysterious land , and though plenty of figures have , no doubt , been produced for the edification of the English Commission , the latter has no means of testing them thoroughly , and can only accept the accounts putt before them for what they are worth . To go through all the intricacies of Egyptian finance . to compare the published income and expenditure with the actual amounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget , cooked for show , would take years instead of weer s . There is no sort of comparison between the way in which the finances of Egypt are managed and the treasury arrangements of a constitutional country , where all expenditure is under strict regulation and supervision . if the dive 's private cash account happens to do overdrawn , he has no difficulty in diawlets upon the national funds on one pretext or another ; and it is also a necessary consequence of the confusion which prevails in the ameqnstration of such matters in Egypt that Viere should be wide-spread corruption . Apart from this , and the natural desire of the officials not to be found out , the Egyptians are a very sleepy , easy-going people in all their ways , and are certainly not given to over-exertuig themselves or doing anything in a hurry . Under such circumstances the pretense that Me . Cave has really Rot any information , worth goins for . in the course of a few weeks is obviously a mere farce . All ho can have got must be just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can have been no time for any indepeu dent inquiries or searching tests . That the two Treasury clerks who are to be sent out by the English Government , in order to bold stied under the Khedive will be more successful than Mr. Cave can hardly be exnected , for they will be simply the Khedive 's krvautte closely fenced about and sat upon by Lis other servants , and without any of the rank and authority with which Mr. Cave was invested . CONTINENTAL FINANCIERS AND THE KHEDIVE . ? Much alarm is just now felt here at the Continental financiers , who are again beginning to gather round the Khedive , and who , it is feared , may tempt him into a further series of loans . The Khedive is known to be extremely self-willed and unscrupulous , and ready to do anything that seems to serve his interest at the moment . Like Louis Napoleon , he has never got over the doubtful circumstances of his early life , and the taint of the gambler and adventurer still clings to him . There is a story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wellknown Alexandrian banking-house , being one day met by a friend , who ; notieed that lie was looking very glum , and who asked him the reason . " Ah , " he said , " my son was playing with the Pasha last night , and has lost much . That fellow is such a cheat . " Another ground . of uneasiness in regard to the fulfillment of any obligations which the Khedive may take en himself is that there is no saying now long he may remain Khedive , the Sultan being master , or who , at his death , will succeed him . He has himself nominated his young son us his successor , and has purchased from the Porte , by an almost fabulous douceur , a kind of recognition for him ; but it is very doubtful whether the Prince will ever be allowed to enter on his inheritance . lie is exposed to dangerous competitors , and no one can foretell what might be the result of any sudden turn-up in Egyptian affairs . PARLIAMENT . It seems to be understood that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very first night of the session , to open tire on the Ministry for its policy in regard to Egypt . No attempt will be made to rescind the transaction , which must now be regarded as a fait accompli , the money having been paid over , by order of the Government , by Itothsehilds , whdmust , of course , be repaid . It is true that in assuming , tide responsibility the Government went beyond . its legal authority , but practically its act can not be repudiated , nor is there any thought of proposing such a thing . All that the Opposition will attempt will be to inflict as much damaging criticism on the Ministers as possible , leaving them to make the best of the difficulties into which they have plunged . There can be uo doubt that the Government will be very much embarrassed to deiend itself for the simple reason that its tongue is , to a certain extent , tied . Lord Derby has distinctly repudiated the political designs with which the purchase of the shares was originally identified , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language in the , House of Commons . What the Government will have to do , therefore , will be to take its stand mainly on the purchase being a good counbereial investment , irrespective of political considerations , and even if it succeeds in this it will not be worth much . Practical men of business already cue how many risks  --  lin in the was of the Khedive 's fulfillment of the bergaiii ; but eyea. if it could be shown to be a sound and profitable it would excite no enthusiasm . What really pleased the people ' when the thing was first announced was its apparent boldness as a declaration of foreign policy , and unless the impression can be . kept up that this is really the meaning of the transaction , the gilt will be rubbed off the gingerbread . Accordingly , what the Government will have to do is to hold to the position taken up by Lord Derby , but to suggest , as it were , by nods and winks , that if it were only prudent to speak out at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; only , while the game lasts it must conceal its hand . This is a lino of play which will have great attractions for Mr. Disraeli , and possibly he may come out brilliantly ; but all the same , with the Turkish question in its present phase , it is full of traps and pitfalls . On the other hand , however , I believe that the Government will be assisted in a largo degree by the feeling which , will probably be excited that the Opposition are behaving ungenerously and unpatriotically in trying to create difficulties on this alibied . There is no such enthusiasm now about the purchase as there was at the first , but there is still , so far as I can judge , a very general feeling that the Ministers did the best they could at a difficult moment , and ought to be supported , if only on account of their good intentions . Possibly before this reaches you you will know the tenet of the debate , but what I have said will help to explain the relation of parties to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absurd paragraph appeared in the . World the other day which may , perhaps , have crossed the Atlantic . It stated that in the highest circles there wore serious apprehensions that the Queen , on her way to open Parliament , might have an tinfavorsVsle reception , and that the Police had been instructed to " place themselves in contact with " the people , in order to ascertain their feelings in regard to her Majesty . It is obvious that nothing would be more likely to stimulate bad feeling than the starting of such a question by the Police , and it is , perhaps , hardly necessary to say that there is no truth whatever in the story . With a certain section of the community the Queen is , no doubt , not very popular . It is thought that if she finds it necessary for personal reasons to lead a life of seehision , she ought to band over . to the Prince of Wales her functions as the representative of the country on State ocetiAnS , and with these duties also a sufficient portion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenses which would thus be thrown on him . The course which has been taken in regard to the running down of the Mistletoe by the royal yacht , and the conspicuous favor bestowed on the officer who was clearly responsible for the disaster , has also produced much dissatisfaction , as it is regarded as a violation both of law and moral justice that such an offense *mulct be screened from punishment . These views , however , are held by people who are not disposed to go and hoot or hiss in the streets , and they are held , moreover , more in sorrow than in anger . The general body of the , population is still animated by good-will to royalty , and if it were only for the sake of encouraging the Queen to appear more frequently , she is sure to have , at the least , a goodnatured reception . That there would be anything like enthusiasm is , of course , not to be expected , but , on the other hand , it would be very dangerous for any one to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wales , though it is understood by no means pleased at having to quit her parents so soon and to return to England , where she will probably be confined to dull Sandringham till the Prince comes home , has accepted the Queen 's offer of a seat in the royal chariot at the opening of Parliament , and will arrive from Copenhagen at the end of next week . THE ROYAL AQUARIUM . For some time past great expectations have been held out in regard to a grand Royal aquarium which was to be opened in the Westminster District of London , under distinguished patronage . It vas to include not only an aquarium , but a concert ball , theatre , a picture gallery , skating rink , Winter garden , drinking bars , restaurant , and a hair-dresser 's shop . A long list of so-called Fellows of this society was published , in which the names of a few persons of rank and distinction figured oddly among a swarm of actors , professional musicians and third-rate men of letters ; and it was announced that this wonderful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to widen the scope of knowledge throughout the country , to give visitors to the great metropolis an opportunity otattentively considering some of the most marvelous of the works of creation , and to aid the advancement of science , literature , and art in all its branches , " - with more buncombe of the same sort . The Duke and Duchess of Edinburgh , who are supposed to ? be very anxious to get a platform in public life , were easily secured as patrons of the institution , and the Duchess also undertook to open the building . The latter arrangement was , however , given up for reasons not known , though suspected to be that her Royal and Imperial Highness could not have the Horse Guards for an escort and other-accessories of state , and possibly , also , because it was beginning to be seen that there was a screw loose somewhere about the project . Tho Dube of Edinburgh , however , took the Duchess ' place on Saturday , last , when the Royal Aquarium being opened with magniloquent addresses from and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was then discovered that the building was still in a very unfinished state , that the tanks for the much-boasted aquarium contained neither water nor fishes , and that the general emptiness of the place was ' weakly disguised with colored calico and shrubs . It is said , of course , that by and by the exhibition will be got into proper order , but for the present the . two.guinea season ticket holders feel themselves swindled , and are making a fierce outcry . The position of the Duke of Edinburgh iu this affair is particularly humiliating , and he is said to be flinch annoyed that he allowed himself to be entrapped into appearing as sponsor for each a piece of humbug . It is reported that the colupany has not enough money in hand to go on with , and hence the necessity of catching subscribers first , in order to get the means of buying . fish afterward. necessarily imply any assumption of the con-. trosiertibility of a monad into either vegetable or animal organisms . This theory had , met , hitherto , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific world , the bal. once of existing authority being largely in favor of the doctrine of the permanency of existing types . A NEW NOVEL . The first volume of George Eliot 's Danici Derondahas just appeared and is very whetting to the appetsto both of romantic and intellectual readers . The heroine is Givendo ! th Harleth , ? vicinity o , deep study of female character . Gweudolon , who is introduced playing eagerly at a roulette-table , in sea-green robes and silver ornaments , . with a pale sea-green feather fastened in silver , falling backward over her green hat and light brown hair , does not at first appear in a very prepossessing aspect . Indeed it is suggested that evil was predominant in her character , since the effect on others Was " that.of unrest rather than of undisturbed charm , " and that " the wish to look at her again felt as coercion , and not as ' a longing in which the whole being consents . " She is a spoiled child , half educated , willful , selfish , heartless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain unusualness abort her , a decision of will which made itself felt in her graceful movements and clear , unhesitating tones ; so that if she came into the room ou a rainy day where everybody else was flaccid , and the use of things in general was not apparent to them , there seethed to be a sudden , sufficient reason for keeping up the forms of life . As a child she refused to get out of bed to fetch medicine for her sick mother , and had wrung the neck of a canary because it sang too loud . She was , in fact , always ready to saerifice others to herself . This cold , hard nature was , however , subject to curious fits of spiritual dread ; and here is probably indicated one of the issues of the book . Given such a woman , will the evil be finally subdued or Will it triumph ? Of Daniel Deronda , the hero , we have only a glimpse as a " dark-haired young man . " 