@@741357

txt The union which is to take ' place to-day between the imperial families of England and Russia is an event of very little direct political importance . ' No cause is threatened by it , no complications will arise out of it . or be solved by it . But it has assumed a more than ordinary interest , partly from the novelty of the alliance , partly from the favor with . which it has been received by the English people , and partly from the power and historical renown of the two houses . But it ie not unprecedented . IVAN IV. , one of the most liberal-minded rulers that Russia has had , was extremely anxious to take to wife the virgin Queen of England , ' and if his suit had . been successful , it is more than probable that the subsequent history . of . ' Europe would have been very different from what it is . But a little more than eight hundred years ago , the daughter of an English King did become Queen of Russia . After the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to solicit the protection of King SWEYN . Not only was the favor granted , but the King found her a husband also , in the person of WALNEMARUS , or JARISLAUS , King of Russia . In those days such unions were usually of seine significance . Yet five hundred years elapsed before any active effort was made by the Russian Emperor to open up intercourse , even with Britain ; and that effort was the result of British enterPrise , which , through . a company established for the purpose of maritime discovery , first reached the White Sea . IVAN VASSILLE WITCH first sent an Ambassador to the British court " with presents and gifts as a manifest argument of a mutual amity ? , to be - Made and . continued between their Majesties and subjects for the commodities of both realms and peoples . " But the perils of the sea were great in those days . The expedition went in four ships . Two of these were wrecked on the coast of Norway , another went to pieces on the rocky shores of Scotland , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the mouth of the Thames . The prospect , therefore , was not- encouraging , and although the Russian Ambassador was well received at London , and MARY sent back munificent presents to IVAN , the endeavor was , commercially speaking , a failure . There are many reasons why a connection between the ruling houses of Russia and England should not have taken place before . The reader of history will readily understand them ; but it has been evident for at least a quarter of a century past that those causes have been fading away . The event , therefore , which takes place to-day , even if we regard the political aspect of the subject , need be no cause for surprise . The influences which hitherto held England and Russia apart have ceased to exist , and . the English nation hails the union of the two royal families as a good omen for the future . Next to the marriage of the Prince of WALES with a Princess of DENMARK , nothing in the history of the Queen 's children has beenmore popular . German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FRIEDRICH VILHELM was accepted by them as a suitable husband for the Princess VICTORIA , who thereby became prospectively Queen of Prussia , and . now Empress of Germany . But Prince LUDWIG of Hesse was little cared for , and the disposal of the Princess HELENA to Prince CFIRISTIA.N ' was more than unpopular . Should any cause for disagreement arise between the two Governments , it is quite , out of the question to think that the fact of the Princess MARIE having become Duchess of EDINBURGH will exert any influence whatever upon the settlement of the dispute . But it may tend indirectly to lessen the Probabilities of any such disagreement . It will certainly exercise a moral influence , even though ' it can be of no political import . It brings the two nations more closely together . It tends . to increase social intercourse between them . It will give to each a better understanding , and thereby a better appreciation , of the other . And this is a great advantage gained . Although so much is beard from alarmists about the contest between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be thought inevitable , it is a matter of tolerable certainty that the interests of the two nations are not so antagonistic in the East as they are often represented to be . It needs but a better mutual understanding between the peoples to make this a conviction in the minds of both . And anything Which promises even remotely to further that knowledge must be a blessing to them and to civilization . It is in this light that the event which is to-day the cause of rejoicing throughout the wide domain of the two greatest empires in the world must be regarded . Then , the true import of the marriage will be understood , and then , too , we venture to predict that no more hearty wishes for the prosperous issue of the occasion will go up from any of the Queen 's or the Czar 's dominions than those which the true American will be ready to accord .                     