@@741834

txt It is said that Mr. WoOd is.very much exercised over the fact that the " little tea party , " . as he is pleased to term the gathering at his residence of last Saturday evening , has been represented as a conference for the discussion of political questions . Notwithstanding his ( tumid there is no doubt of the fact that " the little tea party " was nothing more nor leas than a conference between leading men of different sections , both Senators and members , to patch up some sort of a financial policy for the party . It.was a queer coincidence that all the Democratic members of both the Ways and Means and Banking and Currency Committees should have been brought together at this time , and that the Speaker of the House and other leaders should by chance have been invited to terrapin and wine at the same time ; and . stranger still , that by chance the features of two bills , one prepared by Mr. Wood and the other by Mr. Payne , should have formed the principal subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Mr. Wood always provides for his guests , and that theta , two bills should have been introduced into the House soon after . It is interesting to note that with his denial comes the statement that nevertheless the policy of the leaders is just such as THE TIMES dispatch stated had been agreed upon , and a double-leaded editorial on the bill said to have been regarded most laver-ably at conference shows the unusual importance of the occasion . The Senate had a short session and there was little or no business done . Mr. Cooper , of Tennessee , formally announced the death of Andrew Johnson , and Mr. Morton followed Mr. Cooper with a eulogy upon his life and character . Mr. McCreery followed Mr. Morton in an eloquent and extended speech . Ho alluded to the fact that he was the only Senator now in that body who had voted against the impeachment of Mr. Johnson . The eulogies throughout were strong and eloquent . Messrs . Bayard , Key , Merrimon , Paddock , Bogy , and Jones , of Florida , were the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion of ' Mr. Hill 's speech , and , after the memorial speeches there , that body adjourned till to-morrow . The House Judiciary Committee to-day agreed . upon a bill directing the Secretary of the Treasury to pay all claims already adjudicated by the Alabama Claims Commission . The present law provides that none of these claims shall be paid until all the claims presented have been finally adjudicated . The committee also agreed . to hold an open meeting on Friday next to hear argument from counsel touching the claims of insurance companies to participate in the Alabama award . A bill limiting the Presidential office to one term was considered to-day by the House Judiciary Committee . The committee is unauiMous in favor of recommending a bill limiting the office to one term , but there is some difference of opinion as to the length of the term , and the eligibility of a person who has been once President after an interval of one term . A majority of the committee favor six years as the length of the term , making the incumbent for one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution for an amendment of the Constitution embracing these features will be reported at an early day . The House Committee on Indian Affairs todaY considered the resolution referred to them by the House , providing for an investigation of the Indian Bureau , and appointed Messrs . Wilshire , Lane , and Tufts a subcommittee to make the required investigation . The brief contest in the House to-day over Committee Clerks ' pay and duties developed the fact that a great deal of inequality very unjust and inexplicable , had been made in the compensation and division of labor , and the pretense of reducing the number turned out to bo a reduction of only one for the regular committees , though there were eight or ten more temporarily employed by special committees last . Winter than have been authorized this time .                     