@@740802

txt Olive-street , between Wyoming and Washington avenues , in this city , was sunk several inches this morning , in consequence of a cave-in in the Pine Brook shaft . within five squares of the main street . Neatand comfortable dwellings have been put up on Olive-street , walks built , shade-trees set out and all the surroundings of pleasant homes provided , but no sooner has this outlay of money been made and these improvements completed than out goes the bottom , cracking the surface like splintered glass , breaking open the foundationwalls and twisting buildings out of all reasonable shape . The occurrence has naturally created the wildest excitement , for now that we are following the example of Hyde Park . people begin to Wonder if the coal mines are going to drop us into mother earth . The fact is that the *hole mining region is alarmed , as it is known that in scarcely any of the mines is proper care observed in placing props in the galleries and shafts . TIM confession of a man at Grand Tunnel as being one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least sensation in this city two weeks ago . An Irishman died in Bellevue la this city who , before expiring , ieiterated the very same confession . The general public do not place any reliance upon the statements made : The following is the story as told by a Wilkesbarre correspondent of the Republican : " Since the loasluf the Avondale coal-breaker by fire , and the additional terrible loss of 100 lives from the effect upon the ventilation of the mine , there has been endless and fruitless speculation as to its cause , and while the story which reacheslus comes from no authoritative source , it is still so generally circulated that we feel justified in giving it for what it may be worth . A man who lived somewhere near Grand Tunnel . died from the effects of small-pox last Friday night . In his last moments he said to those about nim that there was something on his mind which troubled him , and he could not die at rest with himself until he told it . He went on to say that the Stenben @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but that he was one of a party of six who fired it . Then , giving his own name , he undertook to give others , but could only articulate what was understood to be " Mienael , " wnen a fainting fit attacked him , from which he did not rally . dying shortly after . It will . of course , never be known what he intended to divulge , but he has certainly left enough behind him to confirm the belief of some who have held that the burning of the breaker was through foul means . and it may open the way to find out whether there is really any foundation for the belief . "                     