@@741416

txt The Committee on Transportation of the Agricultural Congress to-day reported a resolution declaring that , while recognizing the value of railroads and the necessity for their farther extension , they deem the cost of transpotting crude products of the field , forest , and mine so disproportionate to the cost of water carriage , as to render it the imperative duty of the United States to improve the rivers in the interior and connect them with the ocean by artificial water ways , giving the Mississippi Valley continuous water transit to the sea-board . Adopted unanimously . A resolution that the Agricultural Congress be . lieves it is within the power of the people to reform the corporate transportation system by the same agencies which created them , viz. : State legislation controlled by public opinion ; and that " we oppose any legislation under the plea of regulating commerce between States , which interferes with the authority heretofore ' exercised by the State over railroads , entirely within or passing out of its borders , " was adopted unanimously . Mr. D. Wyatt Aiken , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject of revising the Patent laws . The Committee on Scientific Industrial Education reported , recommending that the Government appropriate one-half the net proceeds of the sale of public lands to the Agricultural Colleges organized under the act of 1862 , which was unanimously adopted . The , Committee on Tax on Tobacco recommended that the Government reduce the tax on tobacco to a uniform tax of twelve cents per pottni , and that articles used in the manufacture of tobacco come duty free . Adopted . Committees were appointed to present the various subjects to Congress . Gen. Jackson was re-elected President and C. W. Greene Secretary amid enthusiasm . J. S. Grinnell was elected Vice President . Cincinnati was agreed upon as the next place of meeting . The citizens of Atlanta gave the Congress a complimentary chive to the fair ground . C. W. Greene , Secretary , resigned , and George E. Morrow . Editor of the Wisconsin Farmer , was elected in his place . The next meeting of the Congress will be held on the second Wednesday in September , 1875 . Adjourned sine die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            