@@741574

txt The report of the Senate Judiciary Committee as to the legal obligation of the Government to carry into effect the contract with the Pacific Mail Steam-ship Company for the semimonthly China mail service is signed by Senators Edmunds , Carpenter , Wright , Thurman , and Stevenson . After reciting the law of 1872 , and the advertisement , proposals , and contracts made in accordance therewith , they say : In order to provide for the performance of this contract on the part of the United States , the act of March 3 , 1873 , appropriated the sum of money necessary to make the agreed payments from the date at which the steam-ship company was to provide the stipulated ships and begin the carrying of the mails under the contract , namely , Oct. 1 , . 1873. to the close of the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1874 , being V75,000 . The steam-ship company did not furnish the ships and did not begin the service required by the act of June 1 , 1672 , and the contract and the appropriation lapsed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no action on the subject has been taken by Congress , although one or two committees of each House have reported on the subject against annulling the contra ot . It appears , however , that on the 8th of July , 1874 , the company notified the Postmaster General that two ships , the Tokio and the Peking , - were ready for inspection under the contract , and on the 8th of August , 1874 , the ships having been inspected , &c.,; at New-York , and being then there , and not at San Francisco , the Postmaster General , under advice of the Solicitor General and Attorney General , accepted the vessels . Leaving out of view all question respecting the means by which and the influences under which the act of June 1 , 1872 , and the contract , may have been procured , and in respect to which no evidence is before us , and upon - which we express no opinion , the question is whether the United States are bound in law to go on with the execution of the contract notwithstanding the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly a year after the time required by the act of Congress and by the contract . We are of the opinion that the question mast be answered in the negative . 1 . We think that in respect of executory contracts for the delivery or use of movable things , or for service to be performed , the law is clear that the party claiming the benefit of the contract must tender performance not only in the manner but within the time stipulated , and failing to do this , his right to demand performances ceases altogether . The result is that the Postmaster General was , when the ships were tendered on the 8th of August , 1874 , under no obligation to receive them or to take any steps upon the subject . 2 . We are of the opinion that the Postmaster General had no lawful power or authority to accpt the vessels under the circumstances , or to bind the United States in the premises . The measure of the power of the executive officers of the Government is to be found in the acts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how and when they are to do it .. ( Floyd Acceptances . page 7 ; Wallace , page 13674 To hold that an executive officer of the Government , authorized by law to enter into a particular contract may enter into another and different one , or dispense with the performance of the one lawfully made , would be not only against the rules of law but dengerouo in the extreme to public interests . The time at our disposal does not allow us to go into extensive reasoning or citation of authority upon the subject . 