@@741680

txt It is difficult to see how any disaster could be more utterly inexcusable than the one which ' took ' place on the South-side Railroad on Monday . The entire management of the road with reference to those precautions which would have prevented such an accident , has been blundering and ignorant from beginning to end . That such precautions do exist , and are generally adopted with success , . , every one in the slightest degree acquainted with the progress of railway management is well aware . It is inconceivable that the officers of this road should have been ignorant of them . That they should have known them and not carried them into effect fastens upon them a terrible responsibility . The precautions to which we refer are of two kinds . The first are required to prevent , as far as possible , the occurrence of collisions ; the second are necessary to render collisions , if unhappily they should occur , relatively harmless . Of the first class is the careful preparation of timetables , the explicit instruction of all persons employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discipline and subordination among the employes . These precautions are in the alphabet of railroad management . They are the suggestions of common sense , and apply to small roads as much as to large ones . There is no palliation for officers who neglect them ; yet it is certain that some of them were neglected in the melancholy case of Monday . The Superintendent says that the eastward-bqund train had lost the right of way , and ought to have waited for the one coming in the opposite direction . What the conductor of the train thought we can never know . He is dead . Whether , if he were living , he would contradict the Superintendent we do not pretend to say . The engineer of the eastward train also , whose testimony might be interesting , has disappeared . The officials of the company will shortly hunt him up . Meantime , it seems that they are content to let the blame rest on a conductor who is dead and an engineer who can not be found . This arrangement has its advantages  --  ior the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is another precaution against collisions which is invaluable . It is the use of the " train brake , " that is , of a powerful brake operated by compressed air , and so constructed as to be instantaneously applied to the entire train , including the locomotive , by a single rapid movement of the engineer 's hand . The Superintendent says that no such brakes could have stopped these trains , so close were they together when their engineers first saw each other 's train . That may be true , and yet the use of the train brake might have prevented all loss of life , because it might have so far lessened the speed of the two trains that when they did strike each other , no serious injury would have been given or received . The westward train was moving very slowly ; the eastward train was going faster , but not , according to all accounts , very fast . But we are not inclined to accept the Superintendent 's estimate of the power of a train brake . It is at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought them nearly to a stand-still before they struck . But , in addition to the safeguards against collisions , which railroad managers who care for human life can easily take if they choose , there are others which will deprive collisions of nearly all their terrors . These consist in the strong construction of cars , and especially in the use of improved platforms , which , on strong cars , make it nearly impossible for such cars to undergo the terrible process known as " telescoping . " Telescoping is the forcing of one car over or through . another , as one section of an ordinary spy-glass passes over or into the next one . This was precisely what happened on Monday , and was the cause of much of the suffering and loss of life whirl followed . Strong cars and improved platforms would also have prevented , to a great extent , the absolute smashing into fragments which occurred to several of the foremost cars . Under these circumstances the " accident " at Far Rockaway appears to us to have been , as we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to waste any epithets on the men who are responsible for it , but we will give the wounded survivors and . the heirs of the killed a hint The managers of the Southside Railroad Company have been guilty - of gross negligence of the safety and lives of their passengers , because they thought that it paid to be so . Show them that it ( toes not pay . Combine together , and , as energetically as possible sue them for the largest damages obtainable . It will be the most wholesome lessen in prudent railway administration that they can possibly receive .                     