@@781735

txt San Francisco has the credit of originating the term " hoodlum , " as applied to a class of idle , dissolute , and rowdy youth . A gang of bad boys , associated together in that city for purposes of plunder , finally organized a sort of secret society , with uncouth signals and a rude jargon of their own . They contrived a den , or series of dens , by burrowing under wharves and sidewalks , in which they hid their booty , held their orgies , and usually lodged . In their thieves ' argot , their band was known as " hoodlum , " A member in good standing was " hoodlum , " the word being used as an adjective , rather than a substantive . But from this nonsensical phrase , which was purely an invention , and destitute of any real meaning , it has come to pass that a young ruffian is called a hoodlum ; and we have actually . heard , an American Consul in distant foreign parts , of an irregular mode of life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to a certain extent , taken root in our badly-used language . Unless the vicious deleted 1 line invention , and which it describes , becomes reformed out of existence , there is danger that generations to come may waste learning and ingenuity in vain attempts to discover the root from which is derived a word which represents nothing but a boy 's freak of fancy . In the city where the hoodlum had birth the class is a cause of much anxiety . Californians appear to be unhappy unless they have a largo social , political , . or economical grievance . Sometimes it is a pending scheme of law , or a statute already on the books , or the Chinaman , or convict labor , or a question of water=works , or the hoodlum , which convulses society and keeps the newspapers busy . At the present moment the hoodlum and John Chinaman about equally divide public attention . Indeed , by a judicious turn of local argument , these two unsavory characters are made , as one may say , to interdepend . Rather , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigration . The superficial observer , who knows that the San Francisco hoodlum finds his chief joy in stoning the Chinamen , or ( guided by a consenting public sentiment ) in bombarding the humble dwellings of the Chinese , may conclude that the hoodlum is called into existence because the Chinaman must have persecution . It is very likely that the more rabid anticoolie people consider that the hoodlum is a survival of the fittest ; but some of the witnesses before , the Joint Congressional Committee on the Chinese , lately in session in San Francisco , go deeper beneath the surface of things . They say that the idle and vicious boys called hoodlums become idle , and , therefore , vicious , because the Chinese usurp the employment which youths would gladly engage in if they were permitted . It is possible that this explanation of " the hoodlum problem , " as our Pacific friends somewhat grandiloquently call that nuisance , is correct . But unfortunately , though the California Chinese evil . is local , the hoodlum is not . The , Chinaman is confined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continent. , New-York has but one QUIMBO APPO ; it has a swarm of bad boys , who commit robbery , , arson , and murder . Very likely , the presence of the Chinaman in San Francisco , so offensively inoffensive is he , provokes the hoodlum to unusual and peculiar brutality . Otherwise , the American young ruffian , however called , does not appreciably vary in badness . with the different degrees of latitude over which he is scattered . It is true , however , that these youths , wherever we find them , are vicious because they are idle . We prefer not to believe that they are idle because they are vicious . Wickedness may he , as some theologians aver , the state into which the nat . ural man ( or boy ) most readily drifts . With a strange perversity , the men who are fiercest in their denunciations of the intruding Chinamen are , most rigorous in their ex-clusion of boys from trades . In no State in the Union , probably , have there been more severe trade rules against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unaccountable selfishness , men who are fathers of boys have legislated in such a way as to confine the trades to the hands of the smallest possible number of grown men , and to reduce the number of young learners to the lowest minimum . How true this is of New-York and other States may be learned from the condition of the youth . Because boys can not learn trades , they crowd law-offices , telegraph stations , drygoods stores , and all other places where they may make themselves , to use that miserably suggestive phrase , " generally useful . " Out of this class may sometimes come few useful member , of society . The maths of them grow up without acquiring any trade or profession which is of the least value to themselves or society . Though these may not be vicious , the chances are that they will reach maturity without securing any visible means of support . But what can they do R They must , as boys , find employment of some sort . The vague pursuit of being " generally useful " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we consider how many boys have not the influence which is needed to push them into even this poor apology for an occupation , we must see how readily the ranks of the hoodlum are recruited . We may even leave out of account the class of boys who would sooner be idle than employed  --  sooner be vagrants than workers . It is still true that thousands of friendless little fellows are shut out of trades by trades unions , and that vagaboudage is constantly reinforced by , the selfish policy of grown men .                     