@@742177

txt Where is the evidence of life insurance mismanagement to end I How many more failures are to occur before the public realize the futility of State supervision as a guaranty of solvency , and the wisdom of concentrating responsibility upon those who are directly intrusted with the administration of companies ' affairs ? The record of the last few years in this State alone justifies those who are insured , or who contemplate insurance , in demanding satisfactory answers to these inquiries as the conditions of future confidence . As things now are , we know only that many of the returns published under the authority of the Insurance Department are untrustworthy , and that companies may with impunity continue the transaction of business long after they have become insolvent . It is an ugly fact , and one that may well cause apprehension and anxiety in the minds of policy-holders ; but there will be no adequate remedy for it until it be recognized in all its enormity , and until dishonest corporate management be put on a level with more vulgar crimes . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquisition of business , by pretending to issue policies which were never issued . That was a fraud which should have subjected its perpetrators to criminal punishment ; for the intention and effect were to enable the company to obtain new premiums , and a renewal of old premiums , by false pretenses . The company disappeared , and the parties responsible for the misrepresentation went unpunished . More recently , we have seen worthless companies absorbed by companies no stronger or better than themselves , the stockholders and officers making money by the amalgamation , and the helpless policy-holders invariably the victims . We have seen , too , companies pass into the hands of Receivers , their scanty assets swallowed in litigation and expenses , and the contributors to the only bona fide funds the companies ever possessed left without hope of redress . Still , the Insurance Department has gone on printing statements and reports with as much solemnity as though they were veritable assurances of good management ; and the companies , in turn , have cited the indorsemsnt of the department as proof positive of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has helped to dissipate this delusion . The weakness of the company was a matter of notoriety to those who watch the progress of insurance affais . It was , ou its own showing , practically insolvent at the date of its last return to the department , whose officials , nevertheless , allowed it to bid for public support , to receive premiums in consideration of . promises which its managers must have known they could not fulfill , and to carry on its operations iu London solely on the strength of the apparent approval by the department . It is not necessary to consider the fate that awaits the policy-holders , who should have learned enough , by this time , to render them distrustful of overtures which are in any manner connected with the late management . The moral of the failure is that which most concerns the community . And now , worst of all , comes the failure of the Security Life Insurance and Annuity Company . We characterize it as the worst , not because of the magnitude of the interests that will suffer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . disastrous ; but because of the disgraceful facts which the imperfect examination already conducted has revealed . Reverses resulti ng from errors of judgment may be regarded leniently ; those proceeding from a universal business depression may be accepted as inevitable . A systematic falsification of accounts is a criminal act , and one which the administrators of law can not overlook without being indifferent to their duty . The cash assets have been overstated to the extent of nearly one hundred and fifty thousand dollars , while the liabilities have been understated . Policies have been returned as lapsed which wore actually in force , the object being to understate the reserve fund required . Other policies were returned as surrendered which had been terminated by death , the intention as manifestly being to keep down the amount of pending claims . We say nothing of the enormous overvaluation of cal estate , for that may be attributed by those concerned to a difference of opinion as to values . But the misstatements we have cited are obviously fraudulent . They wore designed to mislead the department and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose insolvency was yesterday demonstrated before Judge BRADY in the Su ) Court . What will strike most peo , ple as peculiar is that not a word was said in court with reference to the most damaging circuinstauces which Mr. McCALL 's investigation has brought to light . The insolvency is bad enough , but the presentation of sworn and false accounts is an aggravation which ought not o be allowed to end where it is . It would be unjust to hold all connected with the company to a reckoning for this violation of law . There are members of the board whom no one will suspect of complicity in the wrong-doing , and to them the present aspect of the case must be painful . All that can be expected of them , just now , is that they shall probe the matter to the bottom , and make no attempt to screen the officials who may be proved to have tampered with the accounts . Unless justice be vindicated in a case so flagrant as this , the publication of accounts will become little better than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that every figure is accurate ; and if items may he " doctored " with impunity , the companies can not hope to retain public confidence . In their interest , therefore , not loss than in the interest of the public , the affairs of the Security must be subjected to close scrutiny , apart altogether from that which the Receiver may be expected to institute . Something more will have to be done before the popular faith in life insurance management can be restored . Uneasiness , not to say distrust , among policy-holders is at this moment almost universal . Unfounded , to a great extent , it may be , but it is certainly not unnatural . Vague boasts of strength and prosperity will not be accepted as an antidote to suspicions generated by recent events . The really good companies must prepare themselves for a much more minute and more carefully-authenticated statement of their affairs than they have been accustomed to transmit to Albany . The season is near when these accounts will be prepared , and if they are to carry the weight which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an audit and a valuation wholly independent of those formally made by the companies ' officers . The remark applies particularly to the mortgages held , for these are the assets about which misgivings are widely and reasonably entertained . To determine whether their value is equal to the figures presented , a revaluation of the properties would seem essential , to be made , moreover , by parties about whose capacity and independence of character no doubt can bo entertained . The process should . also be applied to other securities possessed by the companies , and to their accounts generally . If the strain thus applied be too much for certain companies , the public will have no reason for complaint . Tho solvent , well-managed companies will suffer no real inconvenience , and will be rewarded substantially when the cloud which now darkens the business of life insurance shall have passed away .                     