@@741661

txt Mr. NATIIAN APPLETON , of Boston , a gentleman who has from time to time discussed the business interests of the country in the press with considerable penetration and good sense , writes to the Boston Globe a letter , in which he expresses the conviction that " in the present condition of the United States panics may at any time be looked for and expected , from the simple fact that its tremendous business is done upon comparatively small capital . The available cash fund , " he adds , " of persons engaged in ordinary active business of any kind here , is strikingly small for the business transacted compared with that similarly employed iu the older nations of the world . " There is undoubtedly a basis of fact for this observation of Mr. APPLETON 'S , though we are inclined to think that it is more correct iu its abpoluto than in its comparative statement . The amount of cash kept unemployed , and for current use from day to day , in this country is actually small . But we arc of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in Great Britain , which is the only country whose business methods are susceptible of any very accurate comparison with our own ; and there is seine reason to conclude that the panics to which our country is exposed arise not so much from the smallness of our capital as from the defective organization we have for its employment , and want of certain important regulating and steadying instrumentalities which exist iu other countries . Any country in which credit is extensively employed is liable to sudden panics , because credit is nothing but a contrivance for buying goods without immediately paying for them . When this is done , the temptation is great and constant to buy more than can profitably be resold . Each man and each body of men engaged in trade goes on trying to push sales at every point until business is generally overdone : Then and only then can there be a serious panic , because only then can there be any general cause for alarm . Doubtless when alarm once begins , it spreads faster than there is real occasion for it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men . But the panic can not start unless there is a general feeling among merchants That they may not be able to pay , and cousequently that others may not be able to pay them . Now , the credit system requires the most delicate and complete organization for its safe and successful operation . One of the main purposes of this organization is to enable dealers in every department of business to understand , by some conspicuous and easily-interpreted sign , when trade is being pushed too far , and to conduct themselves accordingly . Auother is , when trade has been pushed too far , to furnish some means of making all the resources of capital available , in order that ? alarm without basis may be checked , and the consequences of overtrading be confined to those who are really responsible fur it . There is no organization of trade in the United States that renders the attainment of either of these objects readily attainable . Thanks to a complex system of usury laws , haring various developments in almost every one of the thirty-eight States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guide to the condition of credit iu the country . Indeed , it often happens , so imperfect is tie organization of our financial system , that a rise in the rate of interest in Wail street can be effected by arbitrary combinations without being in any way justified by the condition of business . But if there were nowhere any restriction on interest , and ( which is a perpetually present factor in all financial problems ) if our curroucy were based on specie , any real disturbance of confidence would he almost instantly felt , and warning given to all classes , from the importer in New-York and Boston to the grain speculator of the North-west , or the cotton buyer of New-Orleans . On the other hand , if banks were allowed to charge what money is at any time actually worth , they would of necessity so combine with each other that they could almost invariably " stave off " a panic , because they could make it possible for any one who had really good securities , though he paid a high price for money , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most valuable office performed by the Bank of England . There are many critics of that bank , at home and abroad , who can easily pick flaws iu its system , and who can accuse it of serious defects . But every one who has any business connection , however remote , with the vast concerns of which it is the centre , knows that if worse conies to worst , the Bank of England will carry the entire mercantile community , of Great Britain , so far as they are substantially sound , on its shoulders . No one can calculate the enormous influence of this fact on the business of that country and of the world . The great inconvenience and danger to which the United States are subjected arise , in our opinion , in the first place , from the want of complete organization , which , , in its turn , is due to the comparative newness of the country , and to the really small relative influence exerted by its business men upon its legislation . We have no desire to suggest a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All that is necessary is the removal of the legal restrictions which now hamper our business men , and the organization would gradually be produced . In the second place , a still more important , but we hope a temporary , source of danger lies iu the use of an irredeemable paper currency of arbitrary amount . This , at least , must be removed before any permanent improvement can be looked for .                     