@@781616

txt The Pall Mall Gazette the other day contamed a Reuter telegram from New-York , announcing that " Gen. SHERMAN " had delivered a powerful speech in the Senate in favor of the resumption of specie payments . This reminds one of the London newspaper which , at the time of the Parkman murder , asserted that " DANIEL WEBSTER , the great American statesman , " had murdered " Judge PARKER . of NewYork . " The Pall Mall Gazette ought to supplement Its dispatch by pointing out the distinction between Gen. SHERMAN who addresses the Senate and Senator SHERAIAN who commands the United States Army . Another Pacific Mail steam-ship has met with an accident . The Idaho has been forced to put into Acapulco with a broken shaft , and is to be towed to San Francisco  --  if the company can find a steamer that will perform the ( duty without breaking down . Within six months , the Pacific Mail Steam-ship Company has totally lost four steamers , and five more have broken down . At this rate the company will soon use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charter , and to it will belong the credit of having proved more destructive to American shipping than were all the rebel cruisers put together . Of course , the company asserts that its disasters were the result of pure accident . What would the English or American public say to such a plea were the Cunard line to have nine ships lost or disabled within six months Y Accidents of this sort do not occur with such steady regularity to well-managed steam-ship companies . The English Press is congratulating itself upon a new form of railway accident . Collisions , boiler explosions , and other customary dangers of railway travel , have become so frequent that they have , in a great measure , lost their interest . Recently , however , a railwaytrain , near Cork , ran off the track , and the rails , having become bent , forced their way through the floor of the carriages , and narrowly escaped impaling the passengers . And this the Englishmen call a new style of accident 1 In the days when fiat rails nailed on to strips of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a curved and displaced rail was called , was continually surprising the peaceful traveler by rising under his feet and neatly is impaling him . It is only an old and discarded sort of American railway accident that the English papers are now pluming themselves upon as something particularly testr and interesting . A correspondent , who has had an opportunity of testing the merits of the system employed by the Commissioners of Charities and Correction in the government of the Charity Hospital on Blackwell% Island , sends an account of his experience . which goes far to prove that the system permits some grave abuses . He asserts that the gang of attendants is composed of ignorant and brutal men , ' who eat up the choice portions of the provisions supplied for the inmates , leaving the latter without a requisite amount of nourishment . The dootors , be deolaree , do not trouble themselves to institute inquiries into complaints . Medicines are presoribed in an apparently reckless manner , and the patients are compelled to swallow them . A system of cruelty which will appear with particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " We were obliged to sit in a current of cold air until we were chilled so thoroughly as to b. scarcely able to stand . Indeed . everything was done to our annoyance and disoomfort , and every effort seemed exhausted in planning means to increase our wretchedness and misery . " It is evident that the management of the Charity Hospital on Biaokwell 's Island is not the best in the world . Of course , notbingln the way of reform need be expected Of the present Commissioners , but much city safely be looked for from their successors . The people of Manitoba appear to have now greater reason than ever to be dissatisfied with their treatment by the Canadians . Tneir causes for complaint may be enumerated as follows : No hail for the administration ? finstioe ; no Parliament house ; no Goveinment buildings , and no house atoure enough to be worthy of the name of jail . Le Metis , a Journal published in the proviuoe , in an article calling attention to this subject , says : " Our petitions remain unanswered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem as if people were as much interested in the inhabitants Ot the moon as in those of Manitoba . " While grievances like these remain unredressed , agitators of the Riel and- Donaghue stripe succeed in gaining sympathizers , from whom trouble of an inconvenient nature may some day be expected if the present niggardly policy of the Dominion Government is not speedily changed . " The London Times is responsible for the following statements in regard to the late Lord : Every one must have been made aware or the advertising columns of the Press that another novel by him is announced tor publication , and it le some consolation to know , as we happen to do , that he had himself expressed the very highest opinion of its merits . But we believe it will be a surprise to every one to learn that it was Lord LYTTON who was author of the Coming Race , as well as the sparkling " Parisians , ' now coming out in Blackwood . and happily , as we understand , left nearly finished . The authorship of the Coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ date of the appearance of that rather remarkable book . It is some comfort to know that there is now no danger of its becoming one of the distressing problems of the Junius class of literary mysteries .                     