@@742594

txt The Secretary of the Interior began last Summer to investigate the condition and es tont of the well-known depeedatiors upon the timber lands belonging to the United States . His efforts to protect the property of the Government have resulted in the manner that et already well understood through publications in THE TIMES . At first little difficulty was encountered in enforcing the law , chiefly , perhaps , because the depredators expected the Secretary 's zeal to be short-lived , cud the larger interests of the public lumber speculators hoped to escape any visitation . Thu affair has now grown to one of great consequence , and he s already made its appearance in politics , and the Senate has treated the execution of the law in a way that can not be sustained . The subject is not , of coarse , well understood in the States where the Governinent no longer owns land , and the business of eoingupon Government land to cutoff timber is confined eb jelly to the Gulf States , particularly Florida , Louisiana , and Mississippi , to a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weft of the one hundredth meridian . The conditions under which the depredations are committed are quite different in the South and the West , but it is probable that necessary and justifiable trespasses occur in both sections , though 1 cm not familiar enough with the condition of affairs in the Gulf Staten to make a positive statement as to that section . I will show regard to the West exactly the extent of such necessity , which I presume is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior . The original settler in New-York , New-England , and the Atlantic States had no temptation to trespass on the public lands for limber . The forests on whatever acres they acquired were to be subdued with great labor , pursued dillie.ent1Y year by Year , and at last the " wood-lot " was left , and each farm as it was . cleared up bad , and generally retains , sundry acres of woodland from which the owner obtains his annual supply of fuel . The timber was a nuisance . It was felled in large tracts when the trees were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Autumn , and the logs remaining from this conflagration were drawn together in heap : and completely burned , to clear the ground which was , under the physical conditions of the Eastern States , useless , tilt this destruction of the ' ? forest primeval " had been accomplished . quite different is the situation in Kansas arid Nebraska , for instance , on the vast grassy prairies , where the owner of a " quarter section " can not find trees enough on his land to build a log cabin , no ' discover an opportunity to filch lumber within the space of a day 's journey . Still different is it . in Utah , New-Mexico , California . and the entire Western country , where settlements , farms , and villages are made in the open desert many miles from a tree , but still with the mountain slopes , at a greater or less distance . covered with forests inviting the axe . The timber lands are good for nothing after the trees are cut off . The agricultural lands almost never have wood upon them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timber tracts , which are upon high elevations . Federal and municipal laws have provided means by which title to the arable , inhabitable hinds may be acquired , and the water rights , which in all that country are more valuable than the laud , are protected . But title to the timber lands will not , and probably could not , be taken under the Homestead or Pre-emption acts . There is no law providing for the sale of this public , , timber , and the settler must take it in violation of law  --  must steal it , in short , or go without it . If he can not get a certain amount of wood from tlui public domain he must abandon his settlement . So ho takes what he wants for his own use . Perhaps he makes a house or shelter of some nd , and his u ; ; o of lumber for that purpose is not likely to he extravagant . Perhaps he makes his house cheaper of dried mud bricks , called ' dobes . Ho cuts enough wood for fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount required is considerable . If he lives in the South the amount used is very small , and you may be sure you will never find a month 's surplus at his door . What is done by the individual ranchman is , of course , done by the people of villageseimilarly situated , and hero the division of industries common in a community leads to the fuel being supplied by some persons who cut it and sell to others who remain at home . But in either case the wood is taken from the public land in violation of law . Now , in such cases , what is to he done ? It must be remembered , in considering the question , that the supply of timber is not inexhaustible . Mr. Blaine tells of a case told to him by a remarkable man named , said to live in Montana , a man whom Mr. Blaine knows better than ho knows Mr. Schurz , where the wood cut to save the poor people of Helena from perishing from cold was seized by the Government , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasury of the United States . The depopulation of a flourishing Western town was thus prevented . I do not know the other side of this pathetic tale , but I venture to suggest that the department found a lot of wood in the Possession of contractors who had cut it unlawfully op the public laud , and the Secretary dealt with the contractors and not with the people of Helena , and that the interest of the latter in the matter was purely incidental , and somewhat exaggerated . The charge of $1 a cord few stumpage in one particular case would no doubt be exorbitant , but , considering the amount the contractors bud cut and sold before without any payment , : t can hardly be said they have suffered injustice . They had the privilege of submitting the case to a court , but preferred to pay the dollar ' , either than let the people suffer with cold , says the legend of . It is , of course , possible to execute the law harshly in such a case , but even int @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , it hardly justifies the action of Congress in breaking clown the execution of the law everywhere . The fact is that the es ample is one of thousands , so far as the conditions of supplying this town with fuel are concerned , and Congress , instead of carping at Mr. Schurz , ought to fulfill its long-neglected duty , and provide a means by which the Western settlers and villagers , and miners may procure timber in a legal manner by making , in some form , a proper compensation io the United States .. Where timber is cut by individual settlers , and in moderate quantities , near small villages , for local consumption , it would be a hardship to iheneenla .. to .. enforre .. e.s.isk else .1. aW , ntulproh. , . ably the Government has not at its disposal the means for attempting to carry the enforcement of the law to this extent . But when it becomes a business to enter upon the public domain with organized and united capital for the purpose of making money by supplyinglarge towns with fuel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other general dealing in lumber and wood , so that the trespass is by corporations and speculators for their own advantage , the law should be vigorously applied and the depredators made to pay . It is largely due to the opposition of this class of enterprises that Congress has failed to provide a legal and legitimate mode of acquiring the right to cut public timber . Stealing as long as the law is not enforced is cheaper than buvfng . The profits of these trespassing lumbering companies are often enormous , and every opportunity is taken to form them , ? though there are also large risks to be encountered . In Southern California the progress of the Southern Pacific Road introduced several lumber compas nies that will show how the business is sometimes managed , The law granting right of way through public lands to all railroads provides that timber may be taken from the public lands adjacent for the construction of such roads . The road , instead of going into the mountains by its own agents to take the timber , made contracts for it to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave the contractors a right to go upon the public lands to get the supplies for the road . Therefore , large companies were formed , who went into the best timber tracts to be found near the line of the road , built long , expensive flumes in some instances , and got out immense quantities of wood and lumber . It wasaised by the road , and was sold everywhere . After the completion of the road to Fort Yuma the depredations continued the same as before , though the pretended right to cut timber had passed away . Sometimes the money invested has been doubled or tripled in a few iweeks , and in some instances the adventurers engaged have taken advantage of such " luck " to take possession of the assets , and decamp without much attention to liabilities . In fact a large number of such enterprises , throughout the West , have been organized for swindling . It is certainly a curious and anomalous condition that contractors in the West can not , as a rule , furnish fuel to United States troops without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite different , physically . But the principal facts are the same . Vast quantities of timber grow on the public lands . No legal method of obtaining the right to cut it exists , and it is stolen . Probably there is not often the justification of necessity . It is a regular , speculative trade in lumber . Perhaps it would be more correct to say that taking logs from the public lands has grown to be a part of the regular lumber-producing , lumber-trading business of those States . If any of the lands upon Which depredations are committed are fit for entry and settlement under the land laws , then the outrage is so much the greater , Ono of the objection s made to the enforcement of the law in Mississippi is that a great number of people are thrown out of employment . To deprive of such labor amiable and unsuspecting depredators on property not belonging to them , is almost as bad as freezing the people of Helena . The fact is that the valuable timber owned by the Government has been shamelessly cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The depredations have become so extensive and systematic as to present graver questions than that of mere less of property to the Government . Under the present system the choicest and most accessible tracts are culled over first . In some localities accessible timber is becoming rapidly exhausted . In the grab game all general and common rights of the masses of people interested are disregarded . Government interference alone can protect these rights and provide against a condition in the future when there will be no timber left to protect and none worth the trouble to steal . Congress should not make the subject a matter of personal politics , but if it finds existing laws can not be enforced without doing harm , then let Secretary Schurz be thanked for demonstrating that fact , and let proper laws be at once enacted . 