@@741355

txt AN OBBTLVATE ILL USION : A feeble attempt is being made by some of the Democrats in the House of Representatives to raise some sort of party issue in connection with the subject of cheap transportation . The direction the attempt takes at present is opposition to a through freight railway to be built by the National Government , the leaders in the movement hoping in this way to give their party the benefit of its former prestige as a party in favor of State rights and a strict construction of the powers of the Federal Government . The project is very desperate , and will end , as every similar one has ended for years past , in failure . One insuperable obstacle lies across the path of these political resurrectionists . They can not unite their own party , or even a controlling portion of it , on their views , and if they could they would not find the controlling portion of the Republican Party opposed to them . Though they might , therefore , make a little party capital in small sections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national one , and would lose by it fully as much as they would gain . It is surprising to see the tenacity with which a large number of Democrats cling to the illusion that they can ever again dispute the supremacy of the country with the Republicans on any question arising out of the old theory of State rights . Doubtless , the degree of power which the National Government should exercise will long be an interesting subject , and may exert considerable influence upon contests that may arise . But that it can be made a national question , determining the possession of the Government , and affording an . opportunity for the return of the Democracy to power , is wild notion . The circumstances wider which the doctrine of State rights was , able to unite a large body of voters in an organized political party , no longer exist , and nothing like them is likely to occur again within a period for which it is either interesting or profitable to discuss political prospects . It should be remembered that it was not as an abstract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voters . It was only ae.a doctrine , the prevalence or rejection of which would affect the interests or prejudices of large portions of the Community . In the days . of JEFFERSON , when , the doctrine originated , its supporters believed that unless they carriathe day the country would . be ; given over it , some formof gOvernment , either monarchical or akin to mon- archy , and against such a possibility all the powerful passions aroused by the conflict with the Royal Government of England . revolted . To the influence of the feelings thus aroused was added that of antipathy to the English on the one side and ardent sympathy with the ? French on the other . The men who gave to Mr. JEFFERSON and Mr. MADxsot , and especially the former , their great power as ' party leaders were animated by ? sentiments so fervent and so deeply rooted that the modern Democrat 's enthusiasm for similar ideas appears in ' comparison a mere dawdling affectation . They held to their view not froth an intellectual conviction of.iie constitutional authority , or of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as powerful as men ever felt . With the fading of the immediate associations of the revolution the hold of the doctrine of State rights on men 's minds was loosened , and it would probably have soon passed into the limbo of forgotten political excitements if it had not been revived by the slavery contest . That contest not only revived it , but made the advocacy of and opposition to it ten-fold more bitter and more obstinate than ever before . The 110Ctrine itself , as a proposition in constitutional interpretation , had neither gained nor lost in validity . Little new light was thrown upon it , and the arguments used for and against it were almost identical with those which were advanced at the beginning of the century . But a new set of interests and passions were appealed to , and the people to bo influenced by them were more numerous , and , as a political community , far more important . The jealousy of England and the sympathy with France were no longer powerful . But on the one hand . the slaveowners were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggressive energy of the North , and on the other hand the opponents of slavery were zealous for a moral reform , and profoundly afraid of the effect of slavery on the prosperity of the country . It was the arraying of these feelings against each other which made State rights a matter for effective political dispute . We should suppose that it would be evident . to any half-informed student of our politics that no such forces can be now called into play by the discussion of this doctrine . It is extremely improbable that for many years any circumstances will arise to make the doctrine even remotely controlling . That the Democrats cling to the hope of reviving it is due partly to their utter poverty in every other resource , and partly to a tendeney , . not unusual in old age , to seek to recall the things of the past . We have repeatedly said that it is a great misfortune that the Democrats insist on thus turning their heads forever away from the present , and walking backward in the midst of all the important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our day . But we confess we see little hope of a change until a new generation shall have come up of men who are able to see things as they are , and as they are likely to be , and who shall not be continually trying to rally a lot of indifferent followers around questions that have long since lost all living interest .                     