@@741372

txt It was only the other day that our State Senators were greatly disturbed when suddenly reminded of the existence of an instrument known as the Constitution of the State of New-York , which positively prohibited certain action on which they had determined . Something similar occurred in the House of Representatives on Thursday , when Mr. KASSON , of Iowa , informed his Republican colleagues , in the course of the debate on the bill to revive the franking privilege , that the Republican National Convention of 1872 declared " the franking privilege ought to be abolished , and the way prepared for a speedy reduction in the rates of postage . " It was cruel in Mr. KASSON to thus confront the members who were anxious to revive this abuse with the pledge of their party that it should not only be abolished , but should remain abolished , in order to prepare the way for a speedy reduction in the rates of postage . Not content with this , Mr. KASSON exhibited to the House the vast vile of petitions from the people asking for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nature of public sentiment in regard to it . This performance was somewhat dramatic , perhaps , but it was effective , for the House was so perturbed that Mr. KAssoN was denied the usual courtesy of an extension of . his time . Thus far , the debate on the bill to revive the franking privilege in a modified form has given the public some reason to hope that a majority of the members will not favor the measure . It is hardly possible that the sharp attacks which have been made upon it by such strong Republicans as Mr. KASSON , Mr. SCOFIELD , of Pennsylvania , Mr. TYNER , of Indiana , and Mr. GARFIELD , of Ohio , will not have some effect . That many of the members secretly desire to revive the privilege , and would do so if they were not afraid of public opinion , we can readily believe . Debate on the bill , therefore , is its death , for it is sure to call forth the sentiment of the country in such a form that it can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mails public documents printed by authority of Congress , seeds furnished by the Agricultural Department , exchanges between newspaper publishers , and the free circulation of weekly newspapers within the county of publication . It will be seen that it comPrises the entire abuse , with the oxeeption of , the letters of Congreasmen .. The free , tribution of public documents was , in fact , the worst feature of the system , for it not only burdened the mails with a vast amount of matter which could only be carried at great expense , but it largely added to extravagance in the public printing . It will not do for Congress to revive this abuse . If the members act upon the fallacy that their constituents are yearning for public documents under their franks , they will find the delusion a costly one for themselves . All that may be done is to provide for the free circulation of weekly newspapers in the county where published , but let exchanges continue to pay postage as under the present law . These journals should . have whatever encouragement there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not think willhe much , but , on the other hand , the postage upon them is not a very great sum . Mr. GARFIELD , taking a sensible view of the question as a whole , we are sorry to add , uttered a good deal of nonsense in relation to the newspaper phase of it . But the discussion of this matter does not properly belong to the question . If Congressmen feel that they must serve local interests by granting free local circulation to the county papers , let them do it ; possibly it may do them some good , and it can not do much harm in any way . But at this point let the Republicans in Congress stop if they desire to retain public confidence . Mr. TOWNSEND , who is a Republican from Pennsylvania , said on the floor that he thought the last Congress made a mistake " in repealing the franking privilege in obedience to an artificial public sentiment . " Let him and a majority of his colleagues vote on the pending bill as he talks concerning it , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the reverse of artificial . The distribution of public documents always was and always will be odious to the great body of the people . It conferred no general benefit , but favored the few at the expense of the many . If these documents are necessary to anybody they are worth paying for , and those who want them should buy them . There is no more reason for Congressmen giving away the books of the Government than there is for their parceling out the public lands in gifts to their particular friends and supporters . When this bill comes up tomorrow , as unfinished business , we hope the Republican members at least will have been convinced by reflection that it is one for which they should not vote .                     