@@742369

txt Combinations have been made and are in progress among the Democratic members of the Forty-fifth Congress , which clearly indicate that there will he a very determined straggle over the organization of the next House . The contest will not end with the selection of a Speaker , but will he continued with great bitterness for the selection of other officers to be named in caucus . The most formidable of the combinations is one which seems to have been entered into by the members from the Gulf States , embracing the ' Democratic Representatives from AThhama , Geo - gin , Louisiana , Mississippi , North Carolina , South Carolina , and Texas . These seven States furnish 40 Democratic members whose titles are undisputed , and it is the purpose of these gentlemen to capture one of the principal offices for their section . They argue that the extreme South is not represented among the principal offices , while the border States tinier the last Congress had the Clerk of the House , who is from Kentucky , and the Postmaster , who is from Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Doorkeeper . They concede the Speakership to the North , one of the principal offices to the border States , and claim another of the chief places for their section . The two men who .. re put forward from this section are John H. Caldwell , of Alabama , who was a member of the last Con ' gess , and who is making a canvass for Clerk , and James G. Payne , at present the chief clerk of the folding department , who is put forward as a candidate for Sergeant-at-Arms . This combination has agreed in a contingent way to support Stewart , ? the present Postmaster of the House , who is from Virginia , accepting him as one of the two representatives of the Southern States . They will endeavor first to have Mr. Caldwell nominated for Clerk , in place of Mr. Adams , and , failing in this , will fall back and make a determined staud to secure the selection of James G. Payne , of Georgia , as Sergeant-at-Arms , in place of John 0 . Thompson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last-named office , although they will inaugurate their campaign by pushing Mr. Caldwell for Clerk . It is believed , however , that Mr. Adams , being possessed of certain peculiar advantages because of his opportunities under the law in making up the roll of the House , will be able to effect such arrangements as will secure him a renomination for his present office . The Democratic caucus will consist of about .150 members , 75 votes being necessary to secure a nomination from that body . Of these 75 the Gulf States have 40 votes . This is a formidable number to start with in a contest of this kind , and it is more than likely that they will be able to secure the additional votes necessary to control a majority of the caucus . They expect to unite either with the friends of Adams or of Thompson , as circumstances may require , their purpose being to secure either the Clerkship or the post of Sergeant-at-Arms for their section rather than to compass the personal defeat of Adams or Thompson . If they can combine with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such a combination will be promptly made ; but if it be ascertained that a combination which will assure success can be made with Mr. Adams , they will not hesitate to throw Mr. Thompson overboard . In the event of the Democratic Representatives from the Gulf States failing to secure either of the two places mentioned , they may fall back upon the OffiCA of Doorkeeper , although that is a contingency which has not been seriously considered by them . They have no itoubt of their ability to secure either the Clerkship or the Sergeant-at-Arms ' position , and they will concentrate upon the candidate who will present the greatest certainty of success . This Gulf States combination divides the country into three geographical sections , North South , and border , and they claim that by reason of the large preponderance of Democrats from the South , that section is equitably entitled to two of the four offices . In this distribution they will agree to include Virginia , which now has the Postmaster , as a Southern State , provided the Clerkship or the office of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave two offices to be divided betWeen the Northern and the border States , and including the Speaker , which they concede to the North , it would really give the border and Northern States a majority of the principal officers of the House . The effect of this combination , if it call be held resolutely together , will be to make a bitter and determined tight between the friends of Messrs . Adams and of John G. Thompson , and may possibly create divisions which will determine the contest for the Speakership . Leaving out of view the Speakership , it is very probable Thompson would achieve an easy success , and should Ohio be carried by the Democrats in October next , Thompson , who is Chairman of the Democratic State Committee , will come to Washington with an ? clat which will be irresistible . On the other hand , Adams , who has the manipulation of the roll of the House , and who is vested with all the powers of the Speaker pending the organization , will most assuredly improve all the opportunities to secure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made prior to the organization of the House , Mr. Adams may be said to be master of the situation so far as the succession to the Clerkship is concerned . It will be seen that ? both Adams and Thompson possess elements of strength , independent of their personal following , which will not be easy to overcome , and should the friends of both these officers combine it is probable that the Gulf combination would be forced back upon the remaining offices of Postmaster and Doorkeeper . At the present time the indications are that the fight for the Speakership will be confined to Messrs . Samuel J. Randall , of Pennsylvania , and S. S. Cox , of New-York . Mr. Sayler , of Ohio , is virtually taken out of the race  --  first , by the candidature of John G. Thompson , who comes from the same State , for Sergeant-atArms , and second , by the fact that he has very little hearty support from the members from his own State , and . no support worth speaking of from members outside of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morrison , of Illinois . The candidacy of Mr. Buckner , of Missouri , is a stragetic movement in the interest of Sam Randall , that gentleman standing in the same attitude Morrison stood in when he was a candidate at the time of Mr. Randall 's selection to succeed Speaker Kerr . Morrison then was in the field in order to prevent votes going to candidates other than Randall , and Buckner has brought himself forward to ? hold the Missouri delegation in order that at the proper time it may be turned over to Randall . , Mr. Blackburn , of Kentucky ; Mr. Tucker , of Virginia , and Mr. Hooker , of Mississippi , are all candidates of the embryo order , the contingency to which they are looking being the Forty-sixth Congress . It is conceded by the . South that the Speakership of the Forty-fifth Congress must go to the North , but the Representatives from that section are laying their plans with a view to securing the Speakership of the Fortysixth Congress for their section , in the event of the House being controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , of the gentlemen last named is entirely with a view of bringing themselves forward and placing themselves in training for the Speakership of the Forty-sixth Congress . While the Southern members all agree that the Speakership of the next Congress should be given to the North , they are just as unanimous , and even more determined , that the Speakership of the Forty-sixth Congress must go to the South , if the Democrats control that body . Mr. Randall . according to the best advices which can be gathered , will be the choice of the majority of the Southern members , and it seems to he pretty sure that at this time he has a sufficient number of positive pledges to make his nomination a certainty . It Is possible , however , that the contest for Clerk , Sergeant-at-Arms , Postmaster , and Doorkeeper may exert an influence on the canvass for Speaker which will change its present aspect .                     