@@740674

txt The President of the Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners , in Brooklyn , has friends of more discretion than those of our own imperial " Boss . " Wishing to convey , in a delicate way , their profound appreciation of his virtues and attainments  --  more especially of the latter  --  they do not proffer him a statue that he would be compelled to publicly decline ; they tender him the more modest and practical , because literally acceptable , gift of a superb service of silver and gold . We have no space in which to follow the local Press in its bewildered . enumeration of the articles comprising this splendid gift . It is sufficient to note that their number and richness show that some of the recipient 's services have only needed to be understood to be thoroughly appreciated . It is just possible that he is not more grateful for this than for the fact that his whole career is not generally so well understood or appreciated . This accomplished gentleman stands the official head and active superintendent of a combination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and . powerful as that administered by the Caesar of Tammany . It is only due to the protecting shadow of the towering infamy of New York that the ruling dynasty in Brooklyn has not attracted the amazement and execration of the Metropolitan Press . Like the parent cabal upon this side of the East River , it has gained absolute control of the local Democracy ; 1 has enthroned that Democracy behind impassable bulwarks of tremendous fraudulent votes and majorities ; has occupied all of the executive offices with the partial exception of the Mayoralty has stripped the legislative bodies of so much power that ' what remains is only fit for the possession of venal tools , and . has thrown up formidable defensive works by means of the Judiciary on one flank , and the Tress upon the other . Thus fortified , the Brooklyn ? Regency have extended their operations in every possible direction , with a pertinacity and courage that confound respectable citizens . The horror with which their tax bills are regarded is only surpassed by the despair with which they contemplate reform . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the gradual extension of the water supply , for the erection of the storage reservoir , and for the completion of the intricate and costly , however necessary system of sewers . They see it clothed - with discretionary and irresponsible power in the laying of certain pavements , which , though luxurious at first , and , if well laid , valuable , have proved deceptive shams , mere barefaced pretexts for the enriching of contractors and the official accomplices of contractors . They see the splendid GrnDET stone , which only the imperative necessities of Broadway warranted the New-York Ring in laying , placed on Fulton-avenue , where the travel is not one-fifth that of Broadway , and on Atlantic-avenue , where it is not one-fiftieth . They see the influence of the Regency also distinctly traceable in the great bridge , all the contracts for which pass through the hands of a silent partner of the official firm . They see them obtaining from a super-serviceable Legislature means to control the monopoly of the gas supply over the extended territory now occupied , or soon eventually to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the political conspiracy , which has resulted in the almost complete triumph of the Democratic Ring in Brooklyn , will suffice to show that it embraces all the most offensive and dangerous attributes of the personal government inaugurated in its worst form in New York by TWEED , SwEENY and HALL , and sustained before public opinion by the corrupt advocacy of the Presq . And bad as this despotism is in New-York , it is in some respects worse in Brooklyn . New-York has the income of nearly one thousand millions of property , of which forty-one per cent . is assessed as:personal property . Brooklyn has only a little more than two hundred . millions of property , of which less than ten per cent . is assessed as personal . The burden , therefore , falls in Brooklyn largely on the homes of the population , for Brooklyn is chiefly a city of residence , and this burden tells directly on the growth of the city . The result is that the more wealthy men of Brooklyn are brought into more intimate and oppressive contact with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New-York.                     