@@743201

txt Strong as it is , the Southern Democratic organization : encounters a risk of disruption in more than one State . Power misused , confidence not justified , the hold upon the better classes of its supporter 's weakening , ? such is the condition of the party in various districts in relation to State affairs , and here and there in relation also to the Congressional representation . Georgia is one of the States to which this description applies . For some time past disintegrating forces have been at work in directions so various that the ultimate effect upon the Harty could not be mistaken . Disaffection has manifested itself where it might have been least expected , and though the immediate result has not been satisfactory to those who imagine that Democratic division should imply Republican success , the general tendency has been hopeful . A point is gained when the dictation of the dominant Ring is successfully resisted . A good example is set when a caucus nomination is disregarded , and a man of character is elected in spite of the machine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholesome spirit , whether they intended to do it or not , when they inculcated the lesson that mere Control of a party organization does not carry with it the right to trample on the manhood of the party and outrage its intelligence . The Independent movement may not be always traceable to a clear perception of this principle ; but the movement could not have attained to its present proportions had not the principle been cherished to an extent not dreamed of by the arrogant leaders of the Democracy . Necessarily , too , a movement of this character soon expands . The revolt , in the first instance local , extends over the State , bringing together influences not uniformly harmonious , but sufficiently cohesive to destroy the sway of the old party organization under circumstances peculiarly significant . The Georgia revolt has been greatly strengthened by exposures affecting the personal integrity of Democrats connected with the local machine . The impeachment of prominent State officers on charges which carry the mind back to Tammany and TWEED ; the probability that the Governor will himself be similarly dealt with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of the Ring thieves ; the certainty that the State Government , high and low , is tainted with corruption , ? are considerations not lost upon the Georgia tax-payers . There may be room for difference of opinion as to the guilt of individuals in office ; there is none in regard to the responsibility of the machine Democracy for the laxity and dishonesty which have made possible the present condition of affairs . The effect of the exposure , imperfect as it yetis , may be imagined . Distrust has been converted into a resolve to rid the State of rulers who have played , with variations , the game long familiar to New-Yorkers . The Independent movement is no longer local . Emboldened by success , its promoters are preparing to make general efforts that have hitherto been confined to certain localities . Our correspondent , a well-informed and careful observer , foreshadows some of the features of the attack which at the next opportunity will be made upon the regular Democratic organization . For all the principal State offices , the Governorship included , an Independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nine Congressional districts , ? every one will have its Independent candidate . In every part of the field , in fact , where State and Congressional nominations are to be made , the rotten organization which until recently has been supreme in Georgia affairs , will be assailed by adherents of the Independent movement . Although we have not equally specific information from other parts of the South , facts enough are within reach to prove that the phrase , " the solid South , " is not literally correct , so far as it seems to indicate the unity and unchallenged supremacy of the Democratic organization . Georgia is not the only Southern State that has its imitation of Tammany ; nor is it the only one in which the young men , and the men of character of all ages , are disgusted with the profligacy of local rule and the expedients employed to perpetuate it . Murder may check Independent agitation , as in Mississippi , but only for a day ; the blood of the victims becomes the seed of an organized opposition to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , disintegration proceeds from other causes . So widely diffused is the Independent spirit that the thick-andthin advocates of the party can not conceal their uneasiness . They can not hide the proportions which the movement is assuming . They can not deny that in many places it derives special importance from the standing and character of its leaders . They see , moreover , that though it is in the meantime confined to State affairs and Congressional elections , its natural tendency is to go further and further in the same direction . Once cut loose from the old organization , it is not easy to check a movement of this kind . The power , in other conditions formidable , is broken , and independent voters quickly learn to act for themselves in everything . It is admitted that these results are more or less dependent on the course pursued by Southern Republicans . For example , in Georgia , as our ? correspondent points out , the success of the Independents , on the broad scale contemplated , is contingent on Republican support . Let this be withheld @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will remain masters of the situation . Let the support be granted , and be rendered additionally effective by a judicious use of the influence wielded by reputable Republican leaders , and the Democracy of Georgia will be revolutionized . In. the Presidential contest , it will still be the Democracy . On national topics it will still uphold the Democratic policy . But these considerations , though they must moderate Republican exultation , are not reasons for Republican indifference to the progress of the Independent movement . That gain would be substantial which only involved the overthrow of the the old Democratic leaders and the destruc. ? tion of their machine . Rid a Southern State of these by the methods projected by Independents and the conditions of party contests will be radically changed . The Mississippi plan will go down with its authors and . agents . Free discussion will be au established right . Freedom of the franchise will be a reality . These points secured , all else may be safely left to time . A movement which tends to produce such results , whether it be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help of Republicans wherever their own party organization lacks the conditions essential to strength and usefulness .                     