@@781509

txt In the case of GEORGE W. CHADWICK convicted during the last term of the United States Circuit Court of having altered a United States five-twenty bond of the denomination of $10,000 , but whose sentence was postponed on affidavits tending to establish his innocence , with a view to institute further inquiries into the matter , his counsel , Ex-Judge FULLERTON , said that in connection with Mr. Wm . RICHARDSON . of Brooklyn , and Mr. DUTCHER , Supervisor of Internal Revenue , he investigated the charge in the indictment . These gentlemen were under a strong impression that he was not the guilty man he was supposed to be , and that a careful investigation might develop facts that would establish bis innocence : He continued these investigations until compelled to go to Virginia to attend his wife in ber illness , but he bad produced a number of affidavits which would stagger any unprejuidieed mind with reference to his guilt in this transaction . He asked for a further week 's delay to institute additional inquiries , observing that the ease for the prosecution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prisoner .. and the motion would really extend the term of his confinement . He explained that he entered into the defense of the prisoner from motives of humanity , and nothing else , convinced by his investigations and the statements of CHADWICK that his story was at least probable . There was a person in New-Jersey who was in possession of facts very material to his defense , and until it was concluded he did not think it unreasonable that his application should be acceded to . District-Attorney Davis , on the part of the Government , denied any intention of dealing with undue harshness in regard to CHADWICK , his only purpose being the conviction and punishment of criminals . Affidavits were put in his possession contrary to the statement of counsel , but until he had submitted ' written affidavits. lie did not think fit to bring them under the cognizance of the Court , as he did not wish extraneous considerations should influence unfavorably the sentence to De imposed on the prisoner .. Judge WOODRUFF remarked that the case of CitADWIek was an extreme one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? would prejudice his chance of being put before the Court in a proper light . He agreed with Mr , FULLERTON that a delay would not affect the case of the Government , as it would only prolong the imprisonment of CHADWICK . He stated that he had received numerous letters , written by the female relatives of the prisoner , dictated in the fulness et their hearts and appeal  - -  ing to his humanity for mercy . He considered this conduct very unfair , yet could not blame them for the feelings which prompted them . In view of the whole case he granted a further suspension of sentence until next Saturday*. directing that the affidavits in favor of the prisoner should be placed in the hands of the District-Attorney before Wednesday .                     