@@742991

txt The session of the Senate to-day was short , but it was a very ? busy one . An unusually large number of bills , petitions , memorials , and resolutions were introduced , mostly of a private nature . Mr. Beck seemed to take the responsibility for the political legislation , and reintroduced his bill of last  --  session providing that hereafter no person shall be required to take the iron-clad oath as a condition , precedent to holding office . He also ievived the bill known as the General Amnesty bill , which removes the political disabilities of all persons . who engaged in the late rebellion , or gave it aid and comfort , and tvhich was imposed by the third section of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution . Mr. Saunders reintroduced his bill of last session authorizing the President to transfer the custody , control , and management of any of the : Indian tribes from the Interior to the War Department temporarily , whenever in his judgment he shall deem it advisable so to do , either on account of actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , or in case of difficulties between such Indians and settlers , It also authorizes the President to detail any officers of the Army to act as Indian Agents or inspectors or in any other capacity in the Indian service , as in his judgment he may deem advisable , such officers to exercise the same powers and be subject to the same rules and regulations as are now provided by law for officers in the Indian service , Mr. Burnside brought forward the Army Reorganization bill , which contains about 700 sections , and is in the shape of a volume of 300 pages . The bill to distribute the remainder of the Geneva award fund was also introduced to-day in the form in which it passed the House . Two financial propositions of the last session were also revived to-day in the Senate . The flrst . was by Mr. , who introduced a bill to authorize the local taxation of legal tenders . It provides that any State or Territory of the United States may provide for including in the valu  --  ition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States legal-tender notes denominated ? lawful money , " owned or held by any person or corporation , in assessing taxes imposed by the authorqy of such State or Territory , and may impose a tax thereon ' ? but the tax imposed on any such legaltender Treasury notes shall not he at greater rate than is assessed or imposed upon gold or silver coin of the United States in the hands a individual citizens or residents of such State or Territory . This is the same bill which was introduced by Mr. last January . It received no consideration from the Committee on Finance of the last Congress , but the committee as now constituted will be more kindly disposed toward measures of this character . The second financial proposition came from Mr. Saulsbury , of Delaware , and was in the nature of a resolution asking the Secretary of the Treasury to furnish the Senate with a detailed statement of the entire refunding operations of the since 1862 . Mr. bury wants to know what amounts have been paid for commissions , and to whom paid whether interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that interest was accruing on bonds sold to redeem those called ; how much was so paid , and to whom ; whether the money received for bonds has been permitted to remain in deposit with any bank pending the call of bonds ; specifying the names of banks , and the length of time during which proceeds of the bonds sold have been left on deposit with each bank , and a variety of information of a like character . This resolution was introduced last January by Mr. Saulsbury and received no attention from the Committee on Finance , for the reason that everybody except a few men in Congress are well informed as to the refunding operations of the Government , and for the additional reason . that to require the Secretary to prepare such statistics as are required by the resolution would withdraw a large force of clerks from important duties , and put the Government to an unnecessary expense . 