@@743276

txt In the Senate today the joint resolution introduced by Mr. Hill , of Colorado , relative to the removal of the Utes from Colorado , was reported , with amendments from the Committee on Indian Affairs . The original resolution authorized the Secretary of the Interior to enter into an agreement , either through a commission or by direct negotiation , with the peaceful Utes for the extinguishment of their title to their reservation in Colorado , and to obtain their consent to removal and settlement in the Indian Territory or elsewhere . The amendments proposed by the committee struck out the provision for obtaining the consent of the Indians , and also the reference to the Indian Territory . Mr. Allison , who reported it , urged its immediate passage . It was very important that the required authority should be granted before the holiday recess . Mr. Cockrell objected , on the ground that the resolution allowed the Utes to be removed to the Indian Territory , and persisted in his objection after it had been explained that the reference to the Indian Territory had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had never been known to withdraw an objection after he bad once made it . Mr. Teller tried to induce him to establish a precedent in this case in regard to such withdrawals , but in vain . Later in the day Mr. Cockrell decided to withdraw his objection , and at the same time offered an amendment specifying that the Utes should be removed to " some suitable place not in the Indian Territory . " This , and the committee 's amendments were adopted , and the resolution as amended passed . Those who wished to except the Indian Ter . Titory from the places to which the Utes may go , say that it would not be right to put those troublesome Indians among the peaceful inhabitants of the Territory ; but the Utes who have not been engaged in hostilities are probably no worse than many of the ' Territory 's residents . An effort will be made to induce the Utes to abandon their claim to their present reservation , and to accept 160 acres for each family on the land in Colorado which contains no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Utah , are also mentioned as places to which they may be removed . Senator Hill and Mr. Belford , who are working earnestly and in concert to secure a peaceful , satisfactory , and equitable arrangement for the speedy removal of the Utes , do not object to the Indians reMaining in Colorado , provided they are excluded from the occupation of mineral lands . These gentlemen say the people of Colorado have no feeling of enmity toward the Utes , but simply want those barriers removed which prevent the settlement and development of their State . It is probable that the House Committee on Indian Affairs will substitute Senator Hill 's bill for that introduced in the House by Mr. Belford , which is now before the committee , and report it to the House before the holiday adjournment . Los PINOS AGENCY , Cot , Dee . 10 . ? Chief Ouray came to the Agency yesterday with one of the Indian prisoners called for by the commission , and turned him over to Gen. Hatch , remarking that the others would be surrendered as soon as captured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will recommend that the White River Agency be abolished , and the Utes of that agency distributed between the Los Pinos and Southern Agencies ; that the loss of property occasioned by the outbreak be paid for out of the Ute fund now on deposit at Washington , and that the portion of the reservation formerly occupied by the White River Utes be ceded to the Government .                     