@@742940

txt The increase in the freight traffic of the Erie , in consequence of the nar. row gauge , surpasses any previous experience of that road . The motive power of the road is being worked to its utmost , and has been found entirely inadequate . ' More particularly is this the case on the Eastern Division . Trains over the Delaware Division on arriving at this place are divided into three trains each for transportation over the Eastern Division , and owing to this fact , although the motive power Is pinch greater than on the Delaware Division . freight ac. cumulates in the yards and switches , forming block . ades which are gradually extending far west . Nearly all of the 30 50 ? ton narrow-gauge locomotives which were being constructed at Paterson previous to the completion of the third rail have been re . ceived , and are now in operation . Notwithstanding this addition to the motive power , the force is yet not sufficient for the demand . The greatest impediment to the successful carrying of the greatly-increased traffic of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jersey City . Nothing but the carrying out of the proposed plan of enlarging the yard at that end of the road , and the erection of the pro . posed grain elevator with a capacity of 1,000,000 bushels , as well as the building of extensive docks at that place , can save for the Erie the immense business of which it is now but experiencing the beginning . All along the line of the Delaware and Susguehanna Divisions , and a great portion of the Western Division , the freight block extends , and at the present rate only a short time must elapse before it reaches Buffalo . In ease the blockade reaches that point , the result must be disastrous for the Erie shippers would then secure transportation over other lines in preference to having their shipments stand upon switches along the line of the Erie . Cars loaded with stock , grain , oil , and like freight are given the preference over the more imperishable shipments , and are being run through with the least possible delay . Tho officers at this place are en @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expeditiously as possible . Last week it was feared that a complete blockade in the yard hero was imminent , and was only prevented by an order issued to detain freight further west . Trains are thereby still kept moving , and the trainmen are kept constantly on the road . On Friday of last week , during the afternoon and night , 1,000 ears of freight were received at this place . Owing to the narrow-gauge the Erie now handles freight heretofore entirely untouched by that road , and trains made up completely of cars from far Western roads are now continually running over the narrow-gauge tracks .                     