@@741316

txt The Canadian Ministry has resigned , because it foresaw that it would be beaten on the vote of censure appended to the reply to the speech from the throne . Its defeat has been duo not to any shifting of opinion in regard to the questions which have heretofore divided it from the opposition , but to its conspicuous offenses against political morality and against constitutional right . It is a matter of very little interest to anybody outside of the Dominion to trace the origin of the jealousies between Upper and Lower Canada , and to show how these were intensified by the granting of the Pacific Railroad contract to the great Lower Canadian capitalist , Sir HUGH ALLAN . Nobody treated those sectional squabbles with greater contempt than Sir HUGH ALLAN himself Like OAKEs AmEs , he was solely bent on placing his money " where it would do most good , " and , " on a calm view of the situation , " he convinced himself that with the late Sir GEORGE CAnTrnn , and his solid French following of forty-five members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public contractor , with an enormous job on hand , would desire to have settled in his favor . As this party had held the balance of power between the " other factions , " as it had kept the Government in power for five years , and as the defection of half.or two-thirds of its number would at any time put the Government out of office , Sir HUGH ALLAN soon made up his mind " what was the best course to pursue . " In regard to that course , and the benefits to be expected from it , the Government and he appear to have had a perfect understanding . They wanted money for the elections , and Sir HUGH ALLAN , " or his company , " agreed to furnish the money on condition that it would , in some way not definitely explained , be " recouped " to them . In regard to the " company , " there has been a good deal of patriotic ferment in Canada , on the ground that the Government had been the means of selling out the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the matter seems to be that Sir HUGH ALLAN 's contract was an exceedingly profitable one , the concessions it involved on the part of the Government being nothing less than prodigal . Rich as he is , Sir HUGH could not float the construction company unaided . The process of inducing English capitalists to join him was too slow for his taste , and he accordingly placed the business before a few Wall street financiers , who were shrewd enough to see the enormous profits to be derived from it . The American capitalists were doubtless prepared to be bled to a limited extent for " preliminary* expenditures , " but when this assumed the rather startling figure of $350,000 , without any tangible return , the gentlemen in Wall street wanted to know where this process was to end . To be told that $100,000 of the preliminary expenses had been paid to the Prime Minister of Canada , that Sir GEORGE CARTIER had got $50,000 , and that other prominent Minesterialists had drawn sums of $10,000 , mad $15,000 , was not quite reassuring to the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made for the building of the Pacific Railroad began to be replaced by wondering I speculation over the cost of Canadian elec. tions . The consequence was misunderstanding and recrimination between Sir I HUGH ALLAN and his partners , the publication of the correspondence between him and . leading members of the Cabinet , and the ultimate fall of the Ministry which was reported yesterday . Sir Jorm A. MACDONALD and his colleagues certainly exposed themselves to deserved censure in conspiring with a public contractor to pack the Canadian Parliament , whether it was for purposes of power or plunder . They committed an equally grave offense in taking the investigation of the charges against them out of the hands of a committee of the House , to whom it properly belonged , and intrnsting that investigation to a royal commission virtually appointed by themselves . The House of Commons met in August , to hear the report of its own committee on the connection of Ministers with the Pacific Railway contract . It is charged that , by collusion with the accused Government , a large number of members staid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is certain that the business of the House had hardly begun when it was interrupted by the usher of the black rod , bearing the Governor 's writ of dismissal . The scene that then ensued inflamed popular indignation as well as party rancor to great intensity , and the amount of discussion which has raged throughout Canada during the last three months must render the present crisis a positive relief to the combatants on both sides . That the policy of the party  --  variously called " Grit " and Liberal  --  which is now in power will tend as much to the material progress and consolidation of Canada as that of the Conservatives , may fairly be doubted ; that it will , for a time at least , strive after a higher ideal of political purity , is tolerably certain .                     