@@742978

txt An effort will he made at the approaching session of Congress to revive the Senate bill of last session to prevent the introduction of contagious diseases , which was defeated in the House by the extreme State rights men of the South . There is a very decided feeling upon this subject in those sections of the South which were afflicted with the scourge last Summer , and Messrs . Hooker and Chalmers , of Mississippi , and those Southern Representatives who acted with them in defeating the Senate bill , are being severely criticised for their stupidity by the press and people . Mr. Wright , editor of the Vicksburg Herald , a Democratic paper , who is now here , in conversing with the TIMES correspondent , said that the people of the Mis ? ifissippi Valley have a far deeper interest in legislation to prevent the introduction of contagious diseases than in the preferment of any particular man for Speaker or in the repeal of the Federal election laws , and that in the coming elections the action of their representatives . on that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their action on the repeal of the election laws , about which , he says , the people really care very little , Mr. Wright also said that the Republicans in the last Congress , who worked and voted to pass the Senate bill , are better representatives for the people of the Mississippi Valley than the men whom they sent hero , and he declared that he would proclaim this belief in his journal , and exert all his influence to call public meetings of the citizens of Vicksburg and other cities in that section . to thank the Republicans of the North in Congress , for their wise and patriotic efforts in behalf of the people who suffered so terribly by the ravages of the plague . Independent of its value as a means of preventing the introduction of contagious disease , Mr. Wright said the Senate bill would have been worth millions of dollars to the section lately afflicted , and liable to be again afflicted , because it would have restored confidence among the people , and would have been the direct means of reviving business . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights , " said Mr. Wright , " and particularly when the so-called rights of the States mean death and desolation to the people . In this particular instance , " he continued , " I regard it as the most unblushing nnpertinence to ask the National Government to appropriate money and insist that the State officers'shall have charge of its disbursement. "                     