@@743244

txt The long list of political crimes that have disgraced Maryland during the past two weeks was augmented to . day by the unprovoked murder . in this city , of William A. Robinson , a young , respectable , and prosperous colored farmer , of Anne Arundel County , by George Trust , a baker in the City Jail . Robinson bad come to town with his parents to sell produce . Trust was coming down Light-street , the principal thoroughfare of South Baltimore , and meeting Harry Gray , colored , asked him , " Are you a Democratic or Republican nigger ' ? " Gray did not answer but saved his life by running . Just behind Gray were Robinson and his father , and Trust put the same question to young Robinson , who answered that ho was a Republican . Thereupon Trust , without the slightest , provocation other than that Robinson was a Republican " nigger , " whipped his revolver out of his pocket , pointed it at Robinson 's head , and , with a terrible oath , fired . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the ground and died almost instantly . The stricken parent followed the body to the station-house , whore a large crowd of colored men collected , who gave earnest vent to their indignation at the shamefulcrime , but were orderly , and offered no violence to Trust , who was quickly caught and taken to the station . At the hearing , the above facts were given , and Trust was held for the action of the Grand Jury . Trust is a prominent politician of the Fifteenth Ward . In 1873 he was a Sergeant on the Police force , but was finally discharged for drunkenness . His political influence was great enough to secure him another position , and ho /was appointed baker in the City Jail , a position he still holds , although little of his time is spent at his work , and frequent complaints of drunkenness are made against him . Last election day morning he spent driving colored voters away from the South Baltimore polls by intimidating and flourishing a pistol , and when he got too drunk to be of service to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jail till sober ; then released . The revolver with which he intimidated voters and shot Robinson carried a 4-ounce ball , and was stamped " Baltimore City Jail , " being the property of the city . After he was arrested he pretended to be very drunk . He had never seen Robinson before , and a deadly hatred of " Republican niggers " is the only cause for the brutal crime .                     