@@743262

txt The proposition to make some provision by which the attachment of extraneous legislation to appropriation bills can be made impossible is once mbre in order . The Secretary of the Treasury makes the suggestion that each house of Congress shall adopt rules " limiting appropriation bills to items of appropriation , and excluding legislative provisions . " At present . the rules of both branches of Congress only forbid the attachment legislative provisions except those which are designed to save money to the public Treasury . But rules may be suspended at the pleasure of the majority in power . Aud the facility with which the majority have always suspended the rules whenever a political point was to be gained gives us no reason to suppose that the excellent rule proposed by the Secretary of the Treasury would be the least hindrance to any party in power when political legislation could not be forced through Congress without its suspension . In times of high political excitement , even the most stringent rules may be evaded or trampled upon by a determined majority . The next best remedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment to the Constitution . It is gravely proposed that two sections be added to the fundamental law of theRepublic , the first of which provides that the general appropriation bills shall embrace nothing but appropriations for the ordinary expenses of the different departments of the Government and the interest on the public debt . This would not only cut off special legislation in the form of " riders , " but it would stop the vicious practice of tacking legislative jobs to the general appropriation bills . Another clause of the same section provides that " all other appropriations shall be made by hills containing only items of appropriations relating to the subject-matter of the bill . " This would be a death-blow to the " Omnibus bills , " in which are usually Packed all sorts of schemes , not one of which could possibly go through Congress on its individual merits . A second section of the proposed amendment provides that the President may veto or disapprove any item or items of an Appropriation bill without prejudice to the remainder of the bill . It seems a pity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appropriation bills to appropriations can not become operative unless embodied in an amendment to the Constitution of the United States . The privilege of tacking legislation obnoxious to the minority to bills to provide ways and means for carrying on the Government is enjoyed by the majority . It often happens that they can in no other way force the passage of measures , or the repeal of existing statutes , except by adopting this wellworn device . Republicans have used it . The Democrats have employed it with great freedom . When , as now , the majority in both branches of Congress are hostile to the Administration , the managers of the dominant party can say , with a fine show of fairness : " Pass this bill with its riders , or let your officers go on without their pay . " The trick of " starving the Government " is an old one . But it must be admitted that this plan of worrying a minority has never . been resorted to with so much pertinacity and with so much unreason as it has been lately , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since we can not ' expect that the dominant party in Congress , ' whatever may be its politics , should provide for rules ( which it will not evade ) for the destruction of a valuable party privilege , it is certain that we must ultimately resort to the more ponderous machinery of a constitutional amendment . If the Democrats were sure to remain forever in ? power , we might well despair of any action by Congress initiating the proposed amendment . They could no more bring themselves to pass such a bill than they could adopt a rule adequate to the occasion , ' and stick to it . And we do not claim that we should look for any more magnanimity . and self-surrender from the Republicans , should they happen to be in power , than from Democrats in similar circumstances . But the time will come when the sceptre of Congressional power will pass into other hands than these which now wield it . This is in the nature of things , and is hi accordance with inevitable laws . Republicans should be patriotic enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all candid men admit is wise and necessary . It is no longer needful that anybody should point to the evils which have been wrought in the legislation of the country by the ' overloading of appropriation bills . There must be some system devised for the checking of extravagance and the vicious confusion of laws with appropriations . This is a good time to begin . The follies of the extra session are fresh in the memories of all men . Strife and confusion may be avoided by fixing in the fundamental laW a. provision which no mere temporary majority can upset . Both parties have hitherto profited , as they have thought , by a doubtful expedient . Both parties may sound a truce , and bury this ancient weapon forever .                     