@@781591

txt A paragraph recently quoted in these columns referred to the career of Mr. JAY COOKE 'S friend , Mr. PULESTON , M ; P. , President of the Loudon Safe Deposit Company , as being strangely checkered , but we are now indebted to the Omaha Republican for the record of a far more remarkable and romantic personal history . That journal received , " at a late hour last evening , " information that a lady , " with just enough African blood in her veins to class her among ladies of color , " had . become the proud bride of a ducal coronet , in prospects at least . The bridegroom , Col. Roan , M. D. , who " is in direct succession " to the coveted golden strawberry leaves , is , like Mr. PULESTON , at once an Englishman , an American Colonel , and a medical man . He further enjoys the distinction of being " of the Cheyenne Agency , D. T. , " and hero we wish that our contemporary had told us a little more , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind with a signification which we can never permit ourselves to associate with a gentleman of antecedents so illustrious as those of Col. Dr. ROBB . But to give his career in brief . After the young ideas of this gallant and learned gentleman had . been taught to shoot at the Blnecoat School in . London , he graduated at the University of Oxford . Science soon afterward seized him for her own . He embraced the medical profession , and presently attained the grade not merely of M. R. C. S. , but the higher distinction of F. R. C. S. Having no doubt probed the depths of this profession , the Colonel , a sort of Admirable Crichton , sighed for fresh fields to conquer , and obtained a commission in the First Life Guards . After a glorious Indian campaign , he fell from his high estate ; and hero the chronicle becomes somewhat obscure . He committed , we are told , an , of-. fence against the rules of the British service . Probably the blood of the Plantagenets  --  for it is of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of the absurdity of being subordinate to anybody , and hence an offense against what his inferior superiors call discipline . Whatever it - was , # dire punishment awaited him . Sentence of death was passed upon him . But Plantagenets and heirs to dukedoms do n't die easily . No doubt aristocratic influence again stepped in , and his sentence was commuted to fifteen years ' banishment from the British Empire . So , as our good luck would have it , he repaired to this country , threw himself into the Northern cause , and came out a full-fledged Colonel . With a rare versatility of talent , he has since prosecuted three different avocations ; now an M. D. , then a Cheyenne agent " D. T. , " and again a C. E. Our contemporary observes with much force : " Some idea of the rank of his father may be toned in the fact that when the Princess Louisa was married to the Marquis of LoaNg the newly married couple spent their bridal night at one of his parent 's country seats . The family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fall succession from the Plantagenets . Some few years ago , when the dissipation of the Prince of WALES made him unpopular throughout Great Britain , a movement was set on foot to establish the Plantagenet family on the throne , and had this movement succeeded , the Colonel-Doctor would have been , in the regular succession . His marriage to this colored lady will cause more surprise among the nobility of England than even In this section of the country , where he is so widely known . " Surprise among the nobility 1 Good heavens This is mild language . Why it is enough to make " that young thing Queen IticTqnri quake in her shoes in the Tower of London . " But what a wholesome warning is here offered to those wild Guelph Princes , of whose misdoing &; we have heard so much . - Is Unless they mind their Ps and Qs there is no saying how soon Dr. Col. ROBB , M. D. , D. T. , may not stop down and up to the throne , assisted , no doubt , by Ins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an opportunity to revenge himself for all slights from his brothers-in-law . For our own part , we can not but regret that a marriage could not have been arranged between this scion of the Plantagenets and that interesting young lady who used periodically to drop in. on Mr. Consul General ARCHIBALD , to inquire whether a legacy , " passing sweet , " of nineteen millions sterling  --  it might just as well have been twenty  --  had come to hand through that distinguished official . The heiress to that fortune could not , we rest assured , have fallen ' into more suitable hands than this versatile and accomplished Plantagenet .                     