@@741676

txt The case of John James Cole vs . William P. Cole , Jr. , executor of the last will and testament of John R. Cole , deceased , brought to recover the amount of a $5,000 note claimed to have been given by John R. Cole , the father , to the plaintiff . a few years before his death , the defense to which is forgery , is developing some startling facts that have created considerable interest in this county . John R. Colo was a gentleman who resided in liarbletown and was a heavy landowner , being worth something over $100,000 in real estate . Ile had a large family of children , to whom he made handsome gifts as they arrived at man 's estate , and started out hi business , with the exception of William P. Cole , Jr. , the youngest son , and the defendant in the present case , The old man died in March , 1872 , and loft the bulk of his property to the defendant . This created it groat deal of feeling among the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an open rupture . At the time of the settlement of the estate . before the Surrogate , John James presented to his brother the note before mentioned , demanding payment . This being refused , he brought his action in the Supreme Court to recover the amount with interest from its date , Dee .. 31 , 1870 . The case was tried at the last April Circuit . The evidence was most conflicting on every point in the case . A large number of witnesses were sworn on each side , who testified in direot contradiction of each other ; the professional exports , as usual in such cases , being equally divided in opinion in regard to the genuineness of the signature , and during the whole trial great bitterness of feeling was manifested on each side . The jury rendered a verdict for the plaintiff . Dofendant'e counsel then asked for time to make a motion for a now trial on the ground that now evidence had been discovered . The affidavits on this motion were served on the 2d inst. , and are to the effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term of imprisonment for forgery in the Sing Sing Prison , John James Cole , the plaintiff , came to hint in the lime quarries and hired him for the sum of $10 to simulate the signature of John R. Cole , the father of the plaintiff , to a $5,000 note . Canter , who was an expert , executed the signature to the note when Cole left for borne . Cantor was pardoned before the expiration of his term , and now makes an affidavit to the above facts , being corroborated in some particulars by the affidavits of Fordyce L. Latin , at that time State Prison Inspector ; Henry S. Van Etten , Superintendent at the limo quarries , and Casper C. Childs , at the time of the alleged forgery a clerk in the prison . The opposing affidavits to be read on the motion , which will be made at the City Hall in this City on the 10th inst. , before Judge T. R. Westbrook , of the SUpreme Court , it is claimed , will bo in direct contradiction to those above mentioned @ 