@@781569

txt New York Clonrsu ( 18i.nacNew , Vght . JO , 2 , 1871 , ProQuest Historical Newspapers The New York Tunes ( 1851 - 2004 ; pg . 4 Elabeas Corpus in a New Light . In all countries where the common law is recognized , the writ of habeas corpus is rightly regarded as one of the chief bulwarks of personal liberty . Yet occasions may , and often do , arise when its suspension becomes necessary for the public welfare . And . it is safe to say that the real capacity of a people for freedom is tested not less by tenacity in guarding this inestimable privilege , so long as it may properly be exercised , than by its readiness in resigning it the moment that step becomes necessary for the common weal . So we are glad to see that in two States of our Union , . not always credited with their full share of such intelligent citizenship , this just and discriminating regard for the writ of habeas corpus has lately been strikingly exemplified . While Kentucky has shown a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her liberties , to Tennessee belongs the honor of submitting to its suspension , with a cheerfulness that betokens a truly law-abiding people . It is worthy of observation , too , that in both instances the tedious formalities customary in old-fashioned communities , wedded to idols of precedent and tradition , have been boldly disregarded . Like Texas , Kentucky and Tennessee , as we have often before been called on to observe , appear to be not less peculiar in their notions of law than liberal in their construction of individual liberty , and . their manner of serving legal process still savors of the simplicity of the golden age of border jurisprudence . For instance , one THOMAS SCROGGINS Was lately confined in a Kentucky jail for what malevolent persons would call the murder of a negro . Here was a clear case for a writ of habeas corpus . Should an American freeman be permitted to moulder in a dungeon for so trivial an error as this ? The question could have but one answer from any rightthinking Kentuckian . So the friends of Mr. SCROGGINS assembled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7corpus on the jailer , and took away that martyred hero in triumph . To be sure , they omitted the trifling preliminary of going to any Court for their writ . That would have caused some delay , and . in the meantime Mr. SCROGGDZS would . have mouldered . So with admirable promptness these disciples of a new jurisprudence simply marched to the door of the prison and served their process with an ax . That is how habeas corpus is enforced . in Kentucky . The manner of suspending it in Tennessee is scarcely less original or touching . A young lady of the latter State , of the mature age of fifteen , became convinced that her future h appin ess dep ended on her immediate union - with a certain young man . So she ran away with him to Knoxville and they were married . But hardly had the nuptial knot , been securely tied , when Nemesis appeared in the person of the cruel father , who carried off the shrieking bride from the very arms of her disconsolate lover . To that unhappy swain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , came the joyful inspiration of a habeas corpus . So he returned to Knoxville , procured the necessary papers , and on meeting his wife and . fatherin-law in the street attempted to serve them . The enemy , however , resisted , and at one() suspended the writ by a brisk though indecisive discharge of pistol shots . The injured husband 's aim proved more effective than his litigation , the father was wounded , and the entire party arraigned before a Justice of the Peace . That rural Solon , apparently conceding that the virtue of the husband 's writ was really suspended by this novel exercise of individual authority , sagaciously decided that the young - woman should go with whichever party she chose . Woman-like she sided with the wounded man , and went home with her father , leaving her baffled spouse to meditate on the uncertainty of the sex , and the exaggerated reverence paid to this particular judicial remedy . As we have said , these are gratifying evilences that the people of Kentucky and Tennessee , wpatever may be said to the contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law-abiding people . And there are many points in their system of litigation which commend themselves to the judicious ) bserver . It is prompt , it is decisive , and it ; ayes the expense and trouble of keeping up useless apparatus of Courts and Judges . Why should weliot introduce this easy and inexpensive system here ? How much bet%r it would be , for example , if Mr. Fmk were permitted to grant own injunctions , and to enforce them with all the embattled errors of the Ninth Regiment ? Things night be lively for a while , but who can ioubt that in the end a speedier and more mbstantial justice would . be attained than through the devious ways of a pliant attorney and a corrupt Judge t                     