@@742931

txt Gov . Hoyt to-day appointed ex-Gov . Hartranft to be Major-General of the National Guard . Upon the official announcement of the appointment in the Senate , that body went . Into executive session , and unanimously confirmed it . This is an unusual compliment , and must be gratifying to the distinguished soldier thus honored , as , under the rule , executive appointments must lie over , and a single objection would have prevented the suspension of the rule . Speaker Long to-day announced the standing committees of the House . Those of the Senate were announced yesterday , so that both branches are fully oratpited for the serious business of the session . Gov . Hoyt has not yet announced the names of his Secretary of State and Attorney-Genetal , and it is stated that he will not do so before Monday . Much interest is felt in political circles in the State , although the long delay has served to abate somewhat public interest in the matter . It is stated on excellent authority that the first tender of the Secretaryship was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beaver was at first ' inclined to accept the offer , but , having an ambition for something higher , he finally yielded to the advice of friends , and declined the proffered honor . A Philadelphia afternoon paper today contained a statement that Gov . Hoyt , who was in that city lastnight , bad decided to make M. S. Quay his Secretary of State . Immediately upon this statement becoming known in this city , Mr. Quay was visited by a reporter , to whom ho said that there was'no truth in the statement ; that ho had not been appointed , and that the matter had not yet been settled . Willie on the subject of the Pennsylvania Cabinet , it may be well to mention a somewhat startling theory , at least to Pennsylvanians , which was suggested to-night by a gentleman who for severel years has been intimately associated with public affairs in this State . According to this theory , the delay in the appointment of the new Cabinet is the first phase in ' ' contest between the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and Its rivals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will be remembered that the losses of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company in the riots of 1877 aggregated about . $6,000,000 . No one for a moment imagines that the company can over secure compensation for its destroyed property from Allegheny and the other places where the losses occurred . Pittsburg and most of the other places involved are already so heavily burdened with debt as to experience difficulty in meeting their payments of interest . To ask them to assume the $6,000,000 of losses would be a waste of time . Therefore , some other source of reimbursement must be found , and what source so accessible as the State Treasury 7 In fact , it is assorted that a bill providing for the payment of these losses by the State is being prepared . To further this scheme the railroad company desires the assistance of Mr. Quay as Secretary of State . The railroad influence in Gov . Hoyt 's portion of the State , ( that of the Lehigh Valley and the Reading Companies , ) acting in the interest of Vanderbilt , are staving ' to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scheme mentioned and thereby crippling the great Pennsylvania rival of the trunk lines connecting New  --  York and the West . This theory may be pronounced wild and visionary by persons interested , but no one pretends to doubt that an attempt will be made to saddle the riot losses , actual and constructive , on the State . This promises to bo the most interesting question the Legislature will have to act upon this session . 