@@741689

txt The trial now in progress in Utah , whatever comes of it , is likely to be a curiosity in criminal jurisprudence . The crime of which the defendants stand accused was committed nearly twenty years ago ; the original and surviving witnesses of the deed have grown from infancy to maturity , the number of defendants , though still large , has been reduced by the ordinary process of time , and the indictments have been changed since the trial was opened . Moreover , the leading defendant is a Bishop of the Mormon Church , and an adopted sou of BRIGHAM YOUNG , and the entire hierarchy may be considered as involved in the result of this case . The story of the massacre of Mountain Meadow has been told , to the wrath and indignation of . the Mormons , for nearly twenty years . To-day the alleged perpetrators of that horrible crime are on trial . In September , 1857 , an emigrant train from Arkansas , consisting of about one hundred and fifty people , men , women , and children , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and . sixty horses and mules , passed through the Salt Lake region , bound to California . Their property was valuable , the proceeds of it being afterward declared to exceed $30,000 . , The numbers and strength of the party afforded protection to a train of disaffected Mormons , who took . this occasion to flee from the horrors of Salt Lake Valley . On the 10th of September , while camped in Mountain Meadow , about 320 miles west of Salt Lake City , the emigrants were attacked by a band of white people painted and . dressed like Indians . No assault from Indians could have been expected , as the wild tribes of that region are harmless , degraded . creatures , only a few degrees above the root-diggers of the Pacific States . The emigrants defended themselves with spirit after the first dash , in which they lost ten or twelve men , was made by their assailants . Behind their barricade of wagons they kept up such a vigorous fusilade that after a siege of five days the enemy withdrew . The canip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and containing JACOB HAIGHT , then one of the Presidents of the Mormon Church , and JoRN D. Lee , a Mormon Bishop and also adopted 6011. of BRIGHAM YOUNG . These men professed to be on good terms with the " Indians " and offered . to act as mediators in the interests of peace . It was proposed that the emigrants should march out from camp , leaving everything behind , including their guns . The Mormon emissaries agreed to furnish a guard . thence to the settlements . These conditions were accepted . The little procession began to move when it was fired upon by the guard , the so-called " Indians " joining . The men were first killed ; the women and children ran on a few hundred yards and then fell . The plunder was taken to Salt Lake City and the adjoining settlements ; and divided . Mr. J. FORNEY , Superintendent of Indian Affairs for Utah , testified that the Church dignitaries alone received property estimated to be worth $30,000 . The skeletons of one hundred and twenty persons were ' subsequently collected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one mound . A pile of rocks marks the spot , and on a huge cross , erected . as a monument , was placed the inscription , " Vengeance is mine , saith the Lord . " At that time the United States troops were marching to Utah by direction of President BUCHANAN . Bishop PRA.Tr had just been killed in Arkansas by a man whose- wife he had attempted to abduct , and . the Mormons were in a high state of excitement . They had readily embraced the theory . that the earth and . its fullness belonged to the Lord 's saints , and that they were the saints . The lapse of years has only deepened , the conviction that the murderers were Mormons sent out by command from the heads of their ecclesiastical government . The Indiana living south of Salt Lake circumstantially related . all the particulars of the affair , implicating President HAIGHT and . Bishops HIGBEE and LEE . Some of the Mormons engaged in the massacre subsequently . confessed their guilt ; and numberless corroborative facts decided the whole chain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Territory , was a weak , vain man , and . failed to ' give the United States Court , any support in an attempt to ferret out and . punish the murderers . Judge CRADLEBAUGH , then one of the Associate Justices for that- circuit , opened court and endeavored.to brink to justice:the guilty men , who were , notoriously CoUSDicUOUE iu Salt Lake City . ; The Grand Jury refused to indict their own brethren ; and when the indomitable Judge , dismissing the jury , issued bench warrants for the arrest ? of the accused persons , they fled to the mountains until the trouble had . " blown over . " There were about forty men included in the list of persons ordered . to be arrested . in CRADLEBAUGH 'S warrants , in 1859 . Ten of these have now been indicted in the United States District Court sitting at Beaver , Utah . Of these Bishop DAME and JOHN D. Lau are the chief . LEE led the assailing party at the time of the massacre , and Damic issued orders to Lain . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed by those familiar with the subject that the orders for the massacre were issued on the strength of a " revelation " received by BRIGHAM YOUNG , telling him to follow and extirpate " those Gentiles . " LEE is ready to confess , provided he shall be held harmless ; but his confession can not extend beyond DAME . Unless , thou , the responsibility for this monstrous crime can be traced beyond one or two of its active perpetrators , the proceedings instituted at this late day will not avail much . It is well known that the Mormon hierarchy , in its earlier defiance of the laws of the land , never hesitated at bloody measures when they seemed : desirable . The band of Thugs , known as Danites , or Avengers , were not the creatures of au excited imagination , but the emissaries of a cruel priesthood , which covered revolting crimes with a thin veil , of religion . Polygamy remains , though many of the wicked practices which once excited the abhorrence of the civilized world have disappeared . since light has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reluctantly submitted themselves to the acquaintance of the outside world , and have given up their dream of national independence , they have been regarded . as an odd sot of fanatics , with loose notions about the marriage relation . It should not be forgotten that their original creed was bloody ; that the idea of human sacrifices was early familiar to them , and that countless deeds of violence have been justly laid at their door . It is not likely that any satisfactory result , so far as condign punishment is concerned , can now be reached by the trial of DAME , LEE and others ; but enough may be brought to light to fix where it belongs , and beyond all controversy , the guilt of the massacre of Mountain Meadow .                     