@@742394

txt Nature has so constructed the ordinary girl ( filia domestica ) as to enable her system to harmlessly assimilate needles when introduced into the stomach by way of tho esophagus ? or , in short , when swallowed . Girls have been known to swallow dozens of needles in small successive doses without experiencing any unpleasant effects . Needles , when thus introduced into the stomach , quietly meander through the interior avenues and lanes of the swallower , and ultimately emerge in the most unexpected localities without having given rise to ally perceptible symptoms . Why girls ever swallow needles is a mystery ? as , indeed , is everything that every girl ever does . Still , they do swallow them , and are none the worse for it ; a fact that is the despair of inquisitive scientific persons . On the other hand , a needle , when inserted into a girl through her surface , creates more disturbance than is created by twice the number of needles thrust into double the quantity of young men . If a young man unwarily prinks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrounding universe the Calvinistic theory of the future state of the unregenerate , and then says no more about the matter ; whereas the girl who finds herself pierced by an unexpected needle , devotes the remainder of the day to nerves , doctors , and patent painkillers ; and cherishes a lively anticipation of lock-jaw for several consecutive weeks . We may not understand tho reason of these things , but we know that they are so . Hence , when a girl swallows noodles , wo simply look at her with wonder , love , amazement ; but when a needle breaks into her system by some other and irregular way , we hasten for doctors and pincers . The experience of a young lady of Adelaide , South Australia , in the matter of inserted needles , deserves to be brought to the attention of the American public , both because of its scientific value and of the ' beautiful lessons of fortitude which it conveys . In an unwary moment this young lady was pierced by an accidental needle to an alarming depth . In fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tol vanish completely from sight without leaving oven the slightest al:parent wound to show its precise locality . Of course , the young lady knew in a formal Way where the needle was . The pain caused by it extended over a large area of her person , but she could indicate pretty nearly its position . Still , as in tho case of the traditional skipper , who , passing the palm of his hand over the lower half of the chart of the North Atlantia , remarked to his admiring mate , " Now , we 're somewheres hereabouts ; " , there was an undesirable vagueness in the young woman 's description of the location of the needle . In these circumstances the attending surgeon announced that ho would be compelled to prospect for the needle by sinking a series of shafts and driving galleries and trenches in different directions . Ho assured the patient that in time he would certainly striko.tho needle and exhume it , but that mere aimless digging hero and there would be grossly unscientific , and would probably fail to find the desired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there is no real ground for suspecting the young lady 's small brother of any share in the disaster . Of course , every one knows that the small boy is addicted to strewing the chairs of school-teachers and large clergymen with pins bent in such a manner as to present the point upward ; but as needles can not be bent without breaking they are never put to a similar use . Moreover , the Adelaide press is unanimous in asserting that a " settee , " and not a chair , was involved in the affair in question . Now , no small boy , however good and intelligent ho may be , ever places sharp instruments of torture on a " settee "  --  a term believed to be synonymous with sofa . Tho element of uncertainty would enter altogether too largely into such a plan . The small boy could not possibly tell upon what precise part of the sofa his intended victim would seat himself , and ho would never prepare for himself the bitter disappointment of seeing a fat clergyman sit down upon one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed for him at the other . While these arguments go very far to show the improbability that the young lady 's brother was the final cause of her disaster , the fact that sho had no brother whatever definitely settles the question . Probably she herself dropped the needle on the settee and forgot all about it until circumstances brought it sharply to her notice . No sooner had the surgeon made his diagnosis than he produced his excavating tools and his bottles of chloroform , horse liniment , and other palliatives , and took , off his coat with a view to immediate action . But to his astonishment the young lady peremptorily declined his services . She was ready , so she said , to have the needle properly extracted , but she declined to be viewed in the light of a mining placer , and to have her surface rendered rough and unsightly with mounds and excavations . Whereupon the discomfited surgeon packed up his hnplements and departed with much dignity , assuring her that the needle would soon find its way to some vital organ , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks that unfortunate young lady kept her bed , lying in a constrained and painful position , but never once showing any evidence of the suffering which she endured except by howling and , tearing the sheets and pillow-cases . Every one said her patience and sweetness were more than human , and that she was more of an angel than quite a number of distinctively lumngelic persons . At the end of the three weeks a happy thought occurred to the young lady 's father . He suggested that the exhibition of a largo magnet would possibly bring the needle to the surface . Accordingly a magnet of enormous size was procured and placed in contact with the young lady 's surface , in the supposed neighborhood of the needle . Three days later the needle yielded to the attraction ; gently forced its way out , and clung to the magnet as though overjoyed at its release from imprisonment . The young lady rose up from her bed and enjoyed , with a zest which she had never before experienced , the luxury of sitting in a rocking-chair , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full account of her remarkable cure . This story teaches the value of magnets and the beauty of patience and fortitude . Let us hope that other young ladies who read it will feel strengthened to go and do likewise .                     