@@740800

txt There is certainly no one matter so im disapproval . portant to the future relations of labor and capital in this country . as the form which cooperation shall take in various branches of production , between employers and workmen . ' Co-operation of laborers alone , - we fear , will seldom succeed in this country , except in certain occupations which are readily learned , and in which success depends entirely on individual enterprise and courage and . economy . Such pursuits are whale-fishing. or piloting , or various branches of fishery . Combination of individuals here have been very successful . But when we come to any complicated branch of manufacture , such as cotton-spining , or woolen manufacture , the success depends much more on general management , on knowledge of the market and of financial matters , and on judgment as to public taste , and the probable demand . Many working men are not likely to possess this skill and knowledge . Moreover , such occupations need the " oneman power ; " their ventures must be made Promptly and often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wield this power . Should they delegate all executive and . financial power to one of their number , and he wereicompetent to the task , they would be compelled in their salaries to compete with the large companies which are always ready to pay such talent at the highest rates . For associations of working men would not be willing to pay one of their own number such salaries , as factory superintendents of first-class ability easily command , and if they selected second-class men , their co-operative mill would soon " come to grief p in competition with better managed mills . Even if they had taken from their ranks a man of marked talents , and paid him well , they would find it difficult to ? submit to hirat.in doubtful and secret ventures , where he must be the sole judge . We are aware that a few of the English experiments in co-operative manufacturing have been an eminent success . But there the men had no doubt enjoyed a long training in the preparatory school for co-operative production , the " industrial partnerships " between employer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groceries and commodities . In these . they had learned the self-control and the wisdom and skill which would give them success when they combined for production and manufacture . Moreover , we have always had the suspicion that the working men leading these remarkable . associations for manufacture , were not acting a thoroughly business part  --  that is , that they gave to their fellow-laborers abilities which could command far higher recompense elsewhere . A noble course of action , it is true , but which takes from the value of the cooReration as a business venture . In these few English instances , the laborers happened to have first class abilities given them beneath the market rate , and thus succeeded in their commercial enterprise . However that may be , the hopeful direction for co-operation in this country is evidently in associations for " distribution " ? that is , for purchasing and selling necessities among laboring men themselves , and in unions between masters and workmen , made by giving the latter a share in bike profits and perhaps in the losses . The societies among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeeded in this country , but there seems no reason why they should not . They merely need a higher self-control and more judgment in purchasing than such associations have thus far manifested . There ought to be hun- dreds of " co-operative groceries " in New York . In the field of " industrial partnerships , " we have already indicated a very interesting experiment of the Messrs . Bitawsuge , carriage-makers , who have voluntarily given their employes ten per cent . of the Profits of their business , payable semi-annually . Our attention is now called to a similar trial of the principle by the Messrs . CAMERON , engineers and manufacturers of machinery . This establishment employs in its works , at the foot of East Twenty-thirdstreet , some one hundred and fifty workmen . Ten per cent . of all profits are divided among those workmen , in proportion to the amount of wages received by , each man , in addition to his regular full wages . Up to this time , two full annual divisions of the wages have been made among the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about four and a half per cent . of the wages paid to him during the year . Of the aggregate amount paid in this way we have no Information . This liberal system is working well , and producing far more economy and efficiency in the manufacture than formerly was the case . The " leakages " and the " loafering " are cut of/ to a most encouraging degree . The generosity of the arrangement is felt by the men , as the business is a successful one ; and there are considerable royalties paid by the &riven; the various patents used , and . the employers themselves do not deduct their salaries from profits . Moreover , the workmen do not share in the losses . The only apparent defect in the plan is that the Messrs . CAMERON have made themselves the sole judges - whether each workman is worthy of this additional compensation . If in their judgment he is not , the share in the profits is not allowed him . The combination is thus not between the laborers and employers , but between the employers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a device , and a liberal arrangement by those gentlemen to get better work done and have less leakage  --  a very proper and useful thing in itself , but not quite of the character of the arrangement in the factory of the Messrs . BREWSTER , ROT bringing the experiment under the full category of efforts for co-operation . To be a cooperative experiment , the division of the profits must in no degree depend on the likes or dislikes of the employers for the workmen . It should be based entirely on production , and . the proportional share of each laborer in it . and should be a thing of absolute rule , not of personal approval or disapproval .                     