@@781917

txt Mr. S. S. Cox is credited with the authorship of the report in the case of Doorkeeper Frrznuan , just presented by the House Committee onRules . The report is said to be very full , as well as historical , which facts confirm the general belief that the temporary Speaker is responsible for its production . There is , however , no excess of courage in dealing with the delinquent Doorkeeper . In effect , the committee say to him : We do not feel warranted in proceeding against you as an incendiary , a black-mailer , or a larcenous person . Will you , however , oblige us by getting out of office ? You are not fit to be our Doorkeeper . This representative Democrat , as he calls himself , was elected Doorkeeper after a hotly-contested canvass . If he had been appointed out of hand , as it were , there would have some excuse for this sudden discovery of his unfitness . But , as he represented the Democracy of Texas and Kentucky , and was warmly supported by the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was a stranger to them . After holding office nearly six months , it is all at once found . that he is unfit to be Doorkeeper , and a committee of his own party friends admonish him that he ought to be dismissed . " So wags the world , " moralized the philosophic FITZHUGH , when he glorified himself in his now famous letter to a friend in Texas . As long as he was an humble citizen of Austin , poor and iu distress , he was scoffed at ; but no sooner was he in a place where he-had patronage to bestow , than all the members " make a break for him , " as he proudly complained , so that he could not set foot on the floor of the House without having statesmen informing him that he was " bigger than old GRANT . " Now , as soon as it is known that he is boasting of his power and pomp , his enemies conspire to take him down , Mr. Cox , as temporary Speaker , leads the hapless Frrzfluon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had better go . Farewell to the spanking team of Government horses which erewhile took the proud Doorkeeper and his sou to their frugal breakfast ! Farewell the pages who rushed to take his hat and coat ! Farewell the junketings and " frolics " with Senators and Representatives ! Farewell to the blandishments of aristocratic dames with whom he was a " favorite , " while he had offices to bestow . No . more shall he urge his Texan cronies to " come on and have a big time . " No more shall lie complacently say " some difference between here and Austin , " as he contrasts his high estate with his heretofore humble lot in the far Southwest , where " bigger " is spelled with one g , and the verb persistently refuses to agree in number or person with its nominative case . Farewell the brief authority . DrzouGHIS occupation 's gone ! Nevertheless , while Mr. Cox was about it , why did he not make clean work with this boasted representative Democrat ? The rules of the House declare that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointed . It is not necessary to impeach the incumbent if he should happen to be accused of firing a hotel or stealing bed-spreads and towels . If the Com- , mittee on Rules believe that this man is unfit to be Doorkeeper , why not recommend that the House go into a new election ? When another Doorkeeper is appointed , Mr. FITZHUGH 'S term of office has expired . But with that enrions weakness which has characterized the present House in everything it has undertaken , they say to FiTzHumi : " We do n't want any scandal . Get out of this ; there 's a good fellow ! " But what if he does not get out ? The next move , it is said , will be to legislate him out . The position which ho holds will be " temporarily consolidated " with some other , and this sly dodge will drop the unpleasant Doorkeeper . Then , as Boon as he is fairly out of the way , the consolidation can be dissolved and the House can fill the vacancy with the serene consciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . There need be no scandal , as in the ease of the rascally Republicans whom the Democratic Investigating Committees are bound to pursue with mud and other missiles . The whole proceeding can be hushed up in the family . If this man had not been protected by the Democratic majority in the House , lie would have been exposed long ago . If he had been a fourth-rate clerk holding office under a Republican appointment , the vials of wrath would have been poured upon him , and he would have been pilloried as a vulgar , ignorant , and wholly disreputable person . As it is , he is led out by the back door and dismissed with infinite chagrin .                     