@@743232

txt Superintendent Walling yesterday completed the Police arrangements for the election to-day . There has been an increase of 100 in the number of election districts since the last election , and no corresponding increase In the Police force , and as the law requires that at least two patrolmen shalt be stationed at each of the 678 polling places , the Superintendent found it difficult to furnish the men required for duty at the polls , and still keep a sufficiently large force on reserve for emergencies . In addition to this , a force of Police had to be provided for the races at Jerome Park . The entire force will come on duty o'clock this morning . The Inspectors have been charged with the preservation of the peace in their respective districts , and the details and disposition of the detachments under their command have been placed in their bands . Precincts weak in force have been strengthened by the temporary detail to them of detachments from other precincts that could spare the mon , and every precaution has been taken so far as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There will be reserves stationed at the City Hall and Police Head-quarters , and ateges will be in readiness to convey the men to whatever point may be threatened with disturbance . The election returns will be transmitted from the various stationhouses to Police Head-quarters by telegreph and mounted patrolmen . The figures on the State and County ticket will be called off by the Superintendent , as usual , in the court-room . The Board of Police will be in continuous session during the day for Me purpose of disposing of election matters , removing negligent Inspectors of Election , and filling such vacancies as may occur . Tho Police Board held a meeting yesterday , Commissioner in the chair . The resignations of a number of Poll Clerks and Inspectors of Election were received and accepted , and the places thus made vacant were immediately filled . At an adjourned session , late in the afternoon , the following resolution was adopted : Resolved . That the Superintendent issue the following general order : Officers of the Police detailed to do duty at polling-places on the 4th-inst . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inspectors of Election and Poll Clerks to section 47 of the Election law requiring the casting and canvass of ballots to be in the presence of the public and of the persons designated by candidates to witness the canvass , and that such persons are to be allowed to be near enough to see whether the dillies of the Inspectors are faithfully performed ; and to section 54 of the Election law , requiring the Inspectors securely to paste or attach to each statement of the canvass one ballot of each kind found to have been given , and to state in words at full length immediately opposite such ballot , and written partly on such ballot and partly on the paper to which it shall be pasted or attached , the whole number of all such ballots received ; and to sections 49 , 60 , 51 , 52 , and 53 of said law , prescribing the method of the canvass . Officers of Police so detailed will state to the Inspectors of Election and Poll Clerks thut no payment will no made to : my Inspector of Election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the requirements of law relating to his duties , and that the Board of Police will cause information to he given to the Grand Jury of any violation of the Election law committed , or suffered to ? he committed , by any Inspector of Election or Poll Clerk , to the end that the prson so offending may be punished accord . ing to law . 