@@741944

txt When a brave and noble man displays in a conspicuous way his hatred of crime and his zeal for its punishment he deserves to be admired and . praised . Such was undoubtedly the philanthropist who recently caused the arrest and conviction of an atrocious ruffian in the shape of a newsboy who had robbed him of ten cents . The noble man in question was passing through Park row when he noticed that a ten-cent stamp was slightly protruding from his pocket . At the same time he saw two newsboys with their united gaze fixed upon the stamp . Knowing the depravity of small bays he immediately suspected thea those desperate villains would rob him if he wore to give them a fair opportunity . With an utter fearlessness which can not be too greatly admired , this noble man paused and . gazed . in an abstracted manner at the roofs of the neighboring houses .. The boys seized the opportunity offered by his apparent idiocy , and promptly stole his ten cents , whereupon he captured one of the robbers and handed him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was tried for highway robbery , . and being found guilty was sent to jail for a year . The more one reflects upon the conduct ' of this excellent man , the more praisewor thy does it appear . Had he been careless in regard to his duty as a citizen and a . Christian , he would , on perceiving that his money was visible , have quietly pushed it into the secure recesses of his pocket and gone on his way , leaving the covetous newsboys guiltless of robbery and safe from punishment . Being , however , a devoted friend of morality , he not only captured the boy who robbed him , but he astutely induced . that hardened wretch to commit the crime for which he is now ! serving out his sentence . To capture a thief , provided he is a small boy , is something of which almost any man whose pocket has been picked is capable . To bring about the theft by deliberately furnishing a boy with an opportunity to steal is a very different thing , and it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Serve the public . It is pleasant to be able to state that the incident above narrated is not without precedent . Indeed there are quite a number of noble men in this City who take great pains to tempt boys to display their suspected . criminal propensities . These men leave bank notes  --  previously marked for identification  --  in the way of their office boys , or provide them with postage stamps , and employ a detective to ascertain whether ti such stamps ate subsequently and dishonestly sold . In this way it is not uncommon I for an active moralist to win the prowl triumph of inducing his office boy to rob him , and it is needless to say that when such a man has succeeded in being robbed , he is sure to leave no stone unturned to secure the ariminal 's punishment . If our Police authorities would . only follow the example set by these ardent enemies . of crime , they might vastly increase the number of arrests now made by them . If a man is suspected to be quarrelsome and bloodthirsty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drunk and to furnish him with convenient victims . For example , a detective might be detailed to ply the man with liquor ; to furnish him with a knife , and to bring about a private interview between him and his wife . In all probability the man would kill the woman , and he could then be triumphantly convicted and . hanged . In like manner ? it would lie easy to tempt desperate men to rob apparently unguarded houses , to steal horses abandoned in the streets without visible owners , or to pass counterfeit money which a cunning detective had carefully inserted in their pockets . If this system were thoroughly carried out , not only would the annual number of arrests be at least doubled , but the number of crimes annually committed would . be proportionately increased . This " increase , however , would be solely in the interest of morality , inasmuch as it would be brought about exclusively with a view to the subsequent punishment of the cri:minais , which punishment would clearly tend to the improvement of public morals . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the idea of inducing a man to commit murder , they can not deny that the act would be precisely as defensible as that of tempting boys to steal postage stamps and to pick pockets . If the noble philanthropist who induced the newsboy to rob him of ten cents in order to enjoy the lofty pleasure of sending him for a year to the penitentiary deserves to be applauded , still more applause would be due to the policeman who should inveigle a drunkard into wife-murder in order to vindicate the majesty of the law by bringing him to the gallows .                     