@@781549

txt Nikopolis burned , Rustehult fast becoming untenable , the Danube crossed at four different points , 15,000 Russians threatening MUKIITAR Pasha 's rear , Batoum hard pressed if not actually taken , Greece holding menacing language , the Army of the Upper Danube separated from that of the Lower , and the quadrilateral about to be severed in its turn . This is a black beadroll for Turkey ; but the last item is more ominous than all : " Tho Bulgarians are arming against the Turks . " Should this movement be at all general , its importance can hardly be overrated . The ablest and most ruthless of the French commanders in the Peninsular War was wont to say that he needed " one army to light the enemy , and another to keep down the natives . " Few Generals commanding an invading . army can not confirm from their own experience the trenchant dictum of Marshal MnssENA . What the friendship of the natives gives to an invader is a secure line of march , ready supplies , constant information respecting the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unguarded points of attack , shelter for the sick and wounded , aid to victory , safety in retreat . What their hatred has power to inflict upon him is constant molestation , night alarms , severed communications , destroyed forage , choked wells , spies upon every movement , sharp-shooters behind every hedge  --  an unseen , deadly , all-pervading hostility , more formidable than the hardest shock of actual battle . ' For an example of the former , it is sufficient to name WELLINGTON 'S career in Spain ; for a fearful proof of the latter , to recall the sufferings of the Allies who invaded Prance in 1792 , and of the " Grand Army " in the Russian campaign of 1812 . It must be remembered , moreover , that the national rising has in this case more than more abstract patriotism to urge it on . The Bulgarians must bo more or less than men , could they.ever forget the cruel experiences of the past twelvemonth . Burned villages , rifled homes , murdered children , outraged wives and daughters , are memories not easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face to face with a man in whose heart such memories are glowing ! " He whose house is burned , " says the old proverb , " must become a warrior ; " and a strife waged by such warriors is wont to be bloody indeed . Nor are the " Bolgari " wholly unmindful of their ancient renown in war . Benumbed as they have been by centuries of oppression , they have still in their veins the blood of the fierce soldiers who turned to flight the disciplined armies of the Greek Empire on many a hard-fought field . ? In the Fall of 1870 , when the news of Sedan reached a little town in Central Bulgaria , the whale population exulted as one man over such a feat of arms , and one hulking fellow exclaimed in a glow of holiest . admiration , " What brave fellows these Germans are ! They must have Bulgarian blood in them ! " That Russia will eagerly avail herself of the help thus offered there can be no doubt whatever . The foreign complications which hinder her open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and the tone of the Czar 's manifesto , in which a call to arms is thinly disguised by stereotyped professions of moderation ; shows how thoroughly the Russian Government appreciates the situation . At the same time it must not be forgotten that the Bulgarians will probably expect to be rewarded for their services by the erection of their country into an independent Principality ; and should Russia , as is likely enough , be indisposed to concede this privilege , her advantages at the present moment will be counterbalanced by very embarrassing complications hereafter .                     