@@781906

txt The arrival of Mr. KEARNEY , the distinguished anti-Mongolian agitator , for a tour of proselytism in the East , and the coming of the Chinese Embassy for establishment at Washington , will inevitably bring the Chinese questipn before this part of the country as it never has been brought be : fore . It is probably well forus to get both sides of the question together  --  bane and antidote . Certainly , if there is need of a Chinese Embassy anywhere in the world , it is at Washington , both with reference to the commercial and the political questions growing out of our rapidly-extending Chinese relations . When our foreign commerce , after the war , began to seek channels for revival , no part of the world offered brighter prospects for it than China and Japan . The opening of the Pacific Railroads and the growth of the Transpacific carrying lines gave this trade a stimulus which the new European route to Eastern Asia by way of the Suez Canal did not neutralize . The chief counterpoise to national zeal for a vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigration to California , which , with some immediate benefits to cheap labor , brought a train of undoubted local evils , and soon made the Chinese name and race odious to a considerable part of the population of the Pacific slope . Nevertheless , the predominant foreign trade of San Francisco , the metropolis of the Pacific coast , is Chinese trade . The year before last that trade at Sau Francisco in eluded exports of merchandise alone to the value of nearly $3,000,000 , besides the specie ; and last year the total exports to China , of all sorts , were more than $20,000 , - 000 . This trade has almost wholly grownup in the last ten years . It is a trade , also , that interests the whole country , for it includes exports not only of flour and sugar , but of many products of mechanism . The exports of merchandise and specie from San Francisco to China last year were one-half greater than those to Great Britain , and greater than those to all other foreign countries combined . It is thus clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is capable of great and valuable growth ; and it is also clear that this commerce is hardly less important to the country as a whole than to the Pacific slope . It is true that the Chinese import trade to San Francisco is much greater than the export ; but the imports at least bring in a heavy duty , and out of a total of $6,692,432 paid in Custom-house duties last year at San Francisco , the Chinese merchants alone paid $1,756,505 , or over one-fourth . It might be added that , as usual in foreign trade , the Chinese of San Francisco put down large sums annually for warehouse rent , wharfage , and fire and marine insurance  --  upward of $400,000 . Besides this important matter of commerce , the Chinese Embassy will find abunant occupation in considering the future treaty relations between China and the United States , and in protecting the rights of resident Chinamen . The course adopted by Congress last Winter on the former subject permits the Embassy to establish itself at Washington with self-respect , which would not have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sundry demagogues been perpetrated . The present attitude of the Government is simply that Congress has in moderate and dignified language declared that the provision of the Burlingame treaty allowing unrestricted immigration might wisely be modified , and has called the attention of the President to the subject . It is said . that the new Embassy is satisfied with the treaty as it is ; but it is hardly probable that the Embassy would resist such a fair modification of it as would do no wrong to China , and would benefit ourselves . In aiming to protect the Persons and pronerty of the resident Chinese ' from the many outrages inflicted on them , both with and without the sat etion of law , the EmbaE. sy will have a difficult task , because the Chinese , not being naturalized , ' can do litde to protect themselves , They have to dual with the fact that from 100,000 to 120 , - 000 of their countrymen are here , a proscribed race , and without that right to the ballot which usually procures at least some legislative championship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .... , m9n have been naturalized and allowed to - .7o. ; e , but the bulk of judicial decisions is the other way , . and , above all , in the only region where it is a matter of practical importance . Not long ago , in the United States Circuit Court at San Francisco , Judge SAWYER decided that Chinamen are not entitled to become citizens , and this decision has not thus tar been reversed by the United States kupreme Court . Thus , the Embassy has to care for a peoplo in the country but not of the country ; a people who herd together for protection , and are then blamed for not mixing with Caucasians ; who pay a poll tax , but can not vote ; who pay school taxes , but are not admitted to the public schools , mid are abused for despising education . It is true that the Chinese have had a curtain sort of championing hitherto . Tiny have been largely protected in person and property , and also defended iu their good name by men who have profited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Central Pacific and Southern Pacific Railroads ; working the extensive mines of California , from which they have taken out scores of millions of dollars ; reclaiming the once worthless tule or marsh lands , of which they have redeemed a million acres , and so on . They have also found many defenders in factory and other employers , and here and there a Congressional lover of fair play , like Senator MORTON . They have had the faithful support of the Six Companies and their salaried attoneys or agents . No trade organization , however , nor any individual lawyer or Congressman could e:cpea to command . the attention and the respect at the seat of government which are due to the Embassy of a great foreign power .                     