@@743165

txt A certain society that used to send out missionaries to India decided that only married ones would answer the purpose . On one occasion , a bachelor presented himself for the service , and said he was ready to marry , if the society would provide a wife . They issued a circular announcing that a lady was wanted as the wife of a , missionary . Within a few days they were overrun with applicants , and a mate for the missionary was quickly found . During the present year , EDISON , the inventor , has put the efficacy of circulars to a severer test , with equally good results . He wanted platinum . A rough calculation had convinced him that the entire yield of that metal from all known mines was not enough to supply this city alone , if it was to be ligh ted by his.newly-devised electric lamp . So he sent a circular to the ' proprietors of several gold and silver mines in the Rocky Mountain region , asking them to search for platinum . This was a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a result , large quantities of the rare metal were found in various localities . The gravelheap of a single mine will , it is said , yield more platinum than all the rest of the world does now . Specimens from several , of the new sources of supply ware exhibited at Saratoga last , week . It is easy to be wise after the fact , and it was remembered that iridium is usually found with California gold , and hence other metals of that class wore likely to be found in association . ? But there were other surprises in store . Very few of the many investigators who have studied the subject of electric lighting believed that the experiments at Menlo Park would prove important . EDISON , it was supposed , had walked into a cal de sac , where others had preceded him , and found no thoroughfare . A considerable amount of pity , both here and in England , was wasted on the ingenious man who had gone beyond his depth . Not having been properly educated in early life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properties of matter . He was trying to obtain the electric light by incandescence . Poor fellow ! Some well-informed friend ought to have apprised him of the hopelessness of the attempt . Everybody knows , or ought to/ that if you connect the terminals of a powerful electric current by a slender wire , that wire will become hot and give out light . But everybody should also know that when the wire gets hot enough to yield plenty of light it melts , and there is an end of its brightness . When it was currently reported that EDISON was experimenting with a carbon lamp , all the wiseacres raised their eyebrows and said , " I told you so ! He has found that the incandescent light is an ignis faults . " What they did not know was that EDISON had discovered a property of matter , and especially of platinum , hitherto unstispected . Ho examined with a microscope the wire that had been nearly melted , and found it penetrated with fine cracks . These , ho assumed , were made by the rapid escape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the metal . It struck him that if the air could be removed during a very slow process of heating , the metal might not crack . The wire was put under the roc elver of an air ' pump , the air was exhausted , and the heat of the wire slowly raised , the experiment lasting several hours . By this operation he obtained a wire of singularly dense metal , which would not melt or change when heated to vivid incandescence . The insuperable obstacle was overcome . and EDISON 'S electric light blazed out of the chaos of uncertainty . All else that may yet obstruct the path of this invention is only matter of detail , Doubtless , there are mechanical difficulties in registering the flow of electricity . in the con struction of lamps , and the like ; but these can be managed , if they have not been already . As a specimen of the ingenuity brought to bear on the subject , there has been devised a method of coating the wire so that it can be used in spiral form , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the helix . By such moans the light can be concentrated ; and the wire used be no thicker than the human hair . Newspaper interviews have latterly brought this inventor into some discredit . He has unbosomed himself too freely to reporters , and they have bespattered him in print with praise and prophecy . Electricity may never be wholly substituted for street gas , and will not be , probably , to any very great extent for several years . The incandescent light promises to take its place in the front rank of illuminators . Time will develop its good and bad points . It should be cheaper , purer , more convenient , more wholesome , and less dangerous as regards fire , than gas or oil . If these promises are fulfilled , its inventor will be a benefactor of the human race .                     