@@743278

txt Mr. JOHN JOHNSTON is a Swedish literary man , translations of whose stories and poems have frequently appeared in our magazines . He has the habit of spelling his name BJORNSTJERNE BJORNSON , but such an affectation deserves no countenance , and should be sternly frowned down . His countryman , Mr. CHARLES HENRY BOYESEN , who , with unblushing effrontery formerly spelled himself HJALMAR HJARTH BOYESEN , saw the error of his ways when he found that no American could pronounce his name except by seating himself in a chair and hitching himself along the floor . Mr. JonxSTON should heed the experience of Mr. BOYESEN , and spell himself in a simple , straightforward way , if ho wishes to win the respect of the American people . The present King of Sweden , King OSCAR II. , has a very easy situation . His kingly business does not occupy him more than two hours a day  --  excluding Saturdays , when he closes an hour earlier than on other days  --  and it yields him a fair income . Nevertheless , he likes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he can indulge , without being extravagant , in choice cigars and Christmas presents , and he therefore employs his leisure time in writing for the press . His book reviews are careful and discriminating , his musical criticisms are by no means devoid of merit , and he occasionally does a picturesque report of a boat-race , a fire , or a prize-fight in a way that is warmly appreciated in the city department of the leading Stockholm paper . It is estimated that ho thus earns from twenty to thirty dollars a week  --  a sum by no means to be despised by a small country King . Some time ago the editor of a Stockholm monthly magazine sent the King two seats for a first representation of a new play by Mr. JOHNSTON , with the request that he would give a fair criticism of it . In his note the editor remarked : " The manager of the theatre withdrew his advertisement last month , and while I want you to tell the exact truth about JOHNSTON 'S play , it would be a good . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have all the way from two stickfuls to a column , if you will only make it lively enough ! " The King , of course , understood what was expected of him , and , taking his wife with him , went to the theatre , saw the play , and wrote a criticism that delighted the editor . He said that , on the whole , no worse play had ever been offered to an insulted Stockholm audience . The plot was weak , the dialogue contemptible , and the acting unworthy of notice . The house was , he asserted , a thin one , and principally paper at that , and the orchestra Was not much better than an average itinerant street band . " It is a curious fact , " remarked the King , in conclusion , " that when a theatre through incompetent management is reduced to the lowest ebb , the manager always produces one of JOHNSTON 'S plays . It is the managerial method of hari , kari . " When the magazine containing this criticism appeared , Mr. JOHNSTON was naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the office of the magazine and thrashing the editor , but he remembered that the editor had been selected with a view to holding interviews with indignant authors , and was more than a match for any man in Stockholm at single-stick exeicise . He also knew perfectly well that the King was the writer of the criticism , and that if he complained to the editor , he would refer him to the King for satisfaction . He accordingly kept carefully away from the office of the magazine , and wrote a note to the King , saying that he was at a loss to account for the attack upon his play . " I can not find , " he said , " that you have been treated with any want of courtesy at the box-office . The manager assures me that he never refused to give you seats when that on the first night of my play there were cigars and whisky for the gentlemen of the press in his private , room . Why , then , did you find fault with my play ? Lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and discover that by judicious pruning , &c.,; it has been made a brilliant and successful piece . " The King answered the note coldly . Ho sent back the check which JOHNSTON had inclosed , for ho was too upright a man and too old a critic to be guilty of the weakness of taking a check which would have to be indorsed with his name , and ho informed Mr. JOHNSTON that he had written what he considered a just and true criticism , and that his only motive was a love for art . Mr. JoHNSTON thereupon sat down and wrote a demand that the King should either apologize for his insulting criticism of his play , or should immediately fight a duel with him . The King replied by sending a policeman who arrested the unhappy dramatist on a charge of treason , and locked him up in the station-house . Ho has since boon indicted and will be tried in the Court of General Sessions next January , when to add to his exasperation , the King will report the trial for the Stockholm Gazette . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason for feeling irritated , his conduct toward the King admits of no excuse . The independence of the press must be maintained . If , every time a King writes a criticism , he is to be liable to a challenge , there will be no such thing as independent and unbiased criticism , If Mr. JOHNSTON does not want King OSCAR to write criticisms , let him induce the Swedish people to raise the King 's salary , and thus put him beyond the temptation of writing for the press . Mr. JOHNSTON will probably be found guilty of treason , and be hanged and quartered . Let us hope it will be a warning to him not to quarrel with his critics , and that while there is yet time he will abandon and repent of the wanton and offensive way in which he spells his name .                     