@@741570

txt The most remarkable thing about pester .. day 's proceedings in Congress is that there should have been any proceedings at all . Nothing but the pressure of very important business could . justify Congress in refusing to show respect to what ought to be considered . one of the most binding of legal holidays . The best that can be said about the unimportant business transacted yesterday is that it has been taken out of the way of the important subjects on which action is demanded . The ' House did . some service to the cause of good government in finally passing the bill in regard . to the impaneling of jurors in the District of Columbia , which is intended to facilitate the indictment of WILLIAM S. KING for perjury in his evidence dur- ing the Pacific mail investigation . still better stroke of business was the refusal of the House to set apart Wednesday evening for the consideration . of Tom Scorn 's Texas Pacific Railroad bill . This vote is regarded as the virtual defeat of the job , though It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure action on this favorite measure of the gentlemen of the lobby . By way , apparently , of doing something associated with the day to which they paid such scant respect , the House passed a bill naming a commission to restore the writing of the original Declaration of Independence , with the signatures thereto . If that was appropriate legislation for WASHINGTON 'S Birthday , we can not say as much for the passage of several appropriation bills before any revenues have been provided to meet them . The Secretary of the Treasury has already announced his intention of leaving the river and harbor appropriations unpaid should he be compelled to discriminate about the application of resources left at his disposal . Now that these appropriations for the next fiscal year have been duly authorized by the House , there ought to be a fresh reason for promptly providing for the deficit in the revenues . The expression of thanks by the Senate Chaplain for " the anniversary of him who stood first and foremost among the founders of the Republic " was quite thrown away upon the upper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of agreeing to a motion to adjourn . Their proceedings certainly offer a , more slender excuse than those of the House for devoting the day to business . The bill providing for the distribution of public documents was passed , " divested , " as we are assured by Senator ANTHONY , " of all objectionable matter , " and not in the least complicated with any revival of the franking privilege . The same can hardly be said of the motion to print 230,000 copies of the anual report of the Commissioner of Agriculture . These certainly never will be distributed under the existing law , and as any modification of that law ought to be considered out of the question , the obvious duty of the Senate was to withhold their consent from any such wholesale production of official literature . ? Leaving that question unsettled , the Senate proceeded to show in the debate on the Postal Appropriation bill that they did not consider the revival of the franking privilege beyond the reach of legislative possibility . A minority of twenty-five , composed of nine Repub licans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ROBERTSON 'S motion to restore the franking privilege iii its entirety . Though Senator THURMAN is reported to have said during the debate over the recommendations of the Printing Committee that he was opposed to the franking privilege , he is found voting with the minority against the motion to lay Mr. ROBERTSON 'S resolution on the table . Further , he is found proposing to provide for the free transmission by mail of the Congressional Record , and accepting as an amendment to that the proposal to allow all public documents already printed to pass free on the frank of any member of Congress up to Dec. 1 , 1875 . This modified restoration of the franking privilege was agreed to by the Senate . It is to be hoped that the amendment will be struck out when the bill comes up on its final passage . If it is not , we shall have the next Congress tacking on the franking privilege in all its old dimensions to the Postal Appropriation bill of next year . In fact , if the same proportion of Republicans in the next Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great difficulty m escaping it in any case . The necessities of the Presidential campaign will by that time have a still greater claim on the attention of Democrats in Congress than they have at present , and the majority of the House will only be too ready to provide for them . As if to leave nothing undone to improve the Democratic chances next year , certain Republican Senators who ought to know better showed a disposition to shilly-shally over the repeal of the Pacific Mail subsidy . Mr. MORTON must have an extraordinary degree of faith in the purity of members of Congress , if he is unable to conclude that the subsidy was procured largely by purchased votes . If the Post Office Department made a blunder in consenting to survey the iron steamers which were built long after the time contracted for , that does not relieve the Senate from the necessity of breaking through an agreement ovntsacted in fraud and carried out in bad faith- The report of the Judiciary Committee on the q.uestion will be presented to-day , when it is to be hoped the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentiment dictates by approving of the House resolution canceling the contract .                     