@@742422

txt During the coming Winter , which is certaM to be a severe one on the laboring classes of this City , there will be many proposals to employ the hard-pressed working people on more or less necessary public works . They will all have but one effect , and that the least expected by their benevolent authors . Being artificial means of aiding one set of workers at the oxponso of another , they will attract in laborers to this City to enjoy this new distribution of money . Every one familiar with the condition of New-York is aware of what an evil is the distribution of our charitable means each Winter . They call in a procession of the idle , the weak , the worthless , and the unemployed , who live through the cold season on the public and private alms of our citizens . Nothing complicates the problem of charity like this sudden inflow of thousands of the poor each year into this Metropolis . Benevolent institutions are crowded ; private beneficence is taxed to its utmost ; an artificial competition is introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and taxation greatly increased in this City . Any plan like that recently suggested by Mr. RoosEvEur adds to these annual difficulties ten fold . The news that the public authorities of New-York wore about to " provide work for the miememployed " would attract hundreds and thousands of this class from all the neighboring States . Nothing could prevent their migration . It is true that when they reached the City they would find the work allotted to the friends and followers of the Aldermen and politicians ; still , their number , added to the thousands of our own unemployed , would seriously complicate all the dangerous questions between capital and labor and add to the heavy weight already pressing on our tax-payers . Its effect would be like that of those artificial " ' protective " duties which attract capital and labor where they never repay , and finally leave the laboring class to suffering . The only true direction for any remedy of our evils in New-York is in that which will further the foundation of new industries or which will scatter our workers . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the recovery of production . But in the line of the second , private and , indeed , public charity might . work to great advantage . We have in this City too great a concentration of labor , while in many districts there is a want of it . The United States is so vast a country that the MUM economic conditions do not at once pervade it . Many portions of the agricultural West and South are now very prosperous and demanding more labor . This is particularly the case in portions of the Southern States , where the blacks have preferred to work on their own little farms , and will not servo their old masters , or where they have flocked to the cities and towns , and loft the fields . comparatively unfilled . There is in many of the Southern States a considerable demand for white labor . Good land , too , is cheap . The white laboring class fare as well as the small farmers . The climate is favorable and there is altogether a very fortunate chance offered to working people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the somewhat poor food and . house accommodations offered to laborers compared with the West , and the fewer advantages of civilization  --  such as schools , churches , and an intelligent social tone . These defects , however , are being remedied every day . The laborers ' families which have removed from this City during the past year have succeeded wonderfully well . They were here in extreme poverty and distress and with no prospect for the future . They have found comparative comfort and plenty of work there ; they are buying land , and their children are rising in the world . To a limited degree , the same thing is true of the West . Though Western cities are now overcrowded with unemployedmen , there are yet many districts where laborers are very much needed , and would at once add to the production of the country . Female labor is in especial demand in the West . The true direction of effort for benevolent men , such as Mr. ROOSEVELT , is to encourage and enlarge efforts for forwarding industrious and needy laborers , resident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country where their work is needed . Some $50,000 is spent each Winter by the Commissioners of Charity in " out-door relief , " apart from their expenses in almshouses and hospitals . It is generally admitted that this outlay is mainly thrown away . Yet , if judiciously managed , that sum would put 5,000 laborers where they would have work in plenty and never be a public charge again . Or , if there be objections to this use of public moneys , how easily could a considerable sum be raised among the well-to-do of the City for the purpose of removing poor and industrious families to places of work . Let us first faithfully follow the natural laws of this country in the distribution of labor before we adopt the Commune 's precedent of providing labor by the State .                     