@@741343

txt We have never seen any reason to change the opinion , formed on a careful examination of the facts , that the so-called " reserve " of forty-four millions of greenbacks was not lawfully within the control of the Treasury Department . Circumstances have . however . so changed since the question was first brought to public notice , that it would no longer be reasonable or just to blame the Secretary of the Treasury for acting on the view which he entertains , that the law places this sum in his hands to be used at his discretion for the current expenses of the Government . He is sustained in this position by the fact that after the matter was explicitly laid before Congress , that body deliberately declined to take action in regard to it , although it was understood that the Treasury Department would act on its own view of the case unless otherwise instructed . The department has , moreover , been to such a degree compelled to resort to the use of these notes , and Alias shown in its conduct throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter and spirit of the law , that it would not be right to criticise it for the exercise of a a power which seems to it clearly its own , and which Congress refuses to dispute . We agree with those who think that it is most unfortunate that any room should have been left to an executive efficer to imagine that ho possessed such remarkable discretion . It is an evidence of the confusion into which our law-makers have fallen of late years , that they should decline to take cognizance of a case of such great importance , and . should leave to inference the exercise of a power such as no free Government has ever before tolerated except in moments of extreme necessity . But since this is actually the case , is it worth while to expend our censures upon the executive officer , who is undoubtedly acting conscientiously , reserving none for the legislative body that takes so loose and dangerous a course as Congress has taken . in this matter ? And it is to be remembered that the Secretary now asks Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his annual report he says : " In view of the uncertainty which exists in public sentiment as to the right of the Secretary of the Treasury to issue United . States notes in excess of the minimum , and the conflict of opinion as to the policy of doing so , conceding that he has that right under the law , I respectfully recommend that Conpress set these questions at rest by a distinct enactment . " This Congress ought to do . The Secretary points out , what expetience has taught plainly enough , that unless this is done  --  unless his power over the reserve is limited , and the manner in which it shall be used clearly defined ? be will constantly be subjected to pressure first from one side and then from the other , at one time for expansion , at another for contraction . He asks that the reserve , if authorized by law , he devoted solely to the ordinary demands of the Treasury , and for the redemption of the fractional notes , " the amount so issued to be returned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall warrant it . " That the Secretary should . be allowed reserve to-meet transient emergencies is but the dictate of common sense . The receipts or the Treasury and the demands upon it are , of course , generally to be determined nearly enough , but they can not always be calculated exactly , and it is absurd in a business of such dimensions to suppose that a cash reserve can be dispensed with . As long as the only substitute for cash we have is United States notes , the reserve must be iu these . Whether the reserve should betaken from the $350,000,000 , which is the amount fixed by the law as read by the Senate Finance Committee , or whether it should be taken from the $400,000,000 which Mr. RICHARDSON-believes to be the maximum allowed , it is quite plain that it must be taken . It is equally plain that it should be limited to the uses designated by the Secretary , and required to be faithfully called in as fast as that is possible , as the Secretary also recommends . " As it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " says the report , " to increase and diminish the amount of legal-tender notes from time to time , according to the condition of the money market , and for the sole purpose of affecting that market , I think it would be unwise to authorize the reserve to be issued , except for the purpose and in the manner which I have suggested . " In. this the Secretary is clearly right , and we hope Congress will at an early day take his recommendations into consideration .                     