@@743100

txt As one of the signs of a break in the long period of depression , London journals note a reviving disposition to speculate in securities not deemed of the first class . Judging by the telegraphic dispatches which come continually , any expression of hope based upon merely speculative operations would.seem to be premature . The constant recurrence of failures may not possess any peculiar significance : they may represent merely the culminating effects in individual cases of causes for which full allowance has boon made in **26;27;TOOLONG of the immediate future . But the information received suggests the presence of unfavorable influences whose immediate mischief may be averted , but whose existence forbids sanguine expectations of early deliverance from anxiety . When an advance in the price of cotton is assigned as the source of relief from an apprehended crisis at Liverpool , we may be sure that the unsoundness is broad and deep . And when similarly accidental circumstances in another direction are reported as mitigating fears occasioned by the relations borne by banks to firms and enterprises of questionable strength , the natural inference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restoration to financial and business health is not finished . In certain branches of trade there are , undoubtedly , evidences of improvement . The misgiving which the dispatches excite refers only to the completion , in England and Scotland , of that process of selection which rids trade of its weaker instrumentalities and tests the vitality of those that remain . And yet the renewal of speculation which the last few weeks have witnessed in London has some value as an indication of better feeling on the part of the public . Hope is sometimes as baseless as fear ; both may be fostered by occurrences that are untrustworthy as guides of conduct . It is not more certain , however , that depression and speculation can not coexist than that specu- , lotion only becomes possible when the public have so far recovered from depression that they entertain brighter views in regard to the future . In the present instance the brighter outlook as regards England is evidently partial .. Although consols have slightly receded from tho point to which , for the first time in almost a quarter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are still so unproductive as an investment that their price proves the continuance of distrust among a large body of investors . French Government securities and our own 4 per cents afford other indications of the same drawback . The difference between the financial situation then and now lies ' in the fact that this distrust has ceased to be universal . A willingness to incur risk has reappeared . People begin to inquire for profitableness as well as security , and to venture in directions at which , three months ago , they would not look . The Saturday Review adduces , as illustrative of the altered disposition , the large advance that . has taken place in Russian bonds , in spite of revolutionary developments and other things not favorable to the credit of the Empire . Even less intelligible is the rise in Mexican bonds , whose intangible basis precludes the idea of aught beside speculation as the cause of change in price . The value is so near nothing that it can not change . The upward movement extends to ordinary railway shares , whose higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? to bank shares , notwithstanding the prevalence of disquieting rumors ,  --  and to gas shares , whose holders appear to underrate the possibilities of the electric light . None of these changes may , of itself , possess any special significance . Taken altogether , the rise they exhibit shows an abatement of the distrust which has been one of the most formidable obstacles to improvement on both sides of the Atlantic . In this country , fortunately , we are not constrained to seek for tokens of improvement in the mazes of the Stock Exchange . The fact of improvement has at last become so well attested , and its ramifioatipns are so wide and diversified , that it is no longer in dispute . Even the politicians who prefer the dark side of things are constrained to recognize the change and to rearrange their tactics accordingly . Here , too , as compared with England , the channels for the profitable employment of money are so much more numerous , and so ready of ac- cess , . that stock speculation can not be , ticcepted as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is often as mysterious as its cessation , and its workings are quite as capricious as any brought to light by London writers . We have no Mexican bonds in this market ; but in Wall-street the measure of speculative availability seems to be , as in the case of Mexico , in an inverse ratio to value . The nearer to worthlessness the stock the better it serves the purposes of speculators . The fact is so well understood that the observer who would carefully study the indications of confidence or distrust , as causes , general in their operation , will give little heed to Wallstreet speculation . Another circumstance which here renders this class of securities less attractive to the saving classes grows out of the inflated condition even of those railroad properties which should offer attractions to investors . Of the enormous losses on account of railroads , there have been too ; many proofs during the last five years . And any one who examines the published statements in regard to companies now in operation will find himself unable to believe that the embarrassments are over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leaving embarrassed companies out of the account , however , and omitting also , for the moment , the excess of burdens which companies , in their anxiety to become " systems , " have assumed , it is clear that the shrinkage in railroad values is far from finished . Other forms of property have permanently declined . Good real estate will rise again , but there is no likelihood of its regaining the point reached when inflation was at its height . Within certain limits , the shrinkage is a fact , not to be reversed . Thus in regard to houses and other created property , value bears a. certain relation to the cost at which similar property could now be produced . Before railroad stocks can be accepted as eligible for general investment , the same merciless process must be applied to them . Instead of estimating the value of railroad property at its cost in the era of inflation plus the speculative " water " injected into the stock , the law of adjustment requires that the water shall yield to the pressure which shrinkage implies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its equipment shall sustain a reasonable proportion to the cost at present prices . The reduction will be resisted , of course . But sooner or later it will come , if only as an element in the solution of the problem of cheaper transportation which Western expansion renders inevitable . Thoughtful investors do not ignore this contingency in their appraisal of relative values .                     