@@741559

txt When the Centennial Commission was first constituted , many of its members recognized the importance of making the proposed Exhibition of 1876 a means of extending American commerce and influence over the Pacific and . in Eastern Asia . Both before and since that time , we have frequently called attention to the wide field that exists for the development of American enterprise in those regions , from Australia and NewZealand in the South , to Japan in the North , and from Tahiti to the limits of Hindostan . In that part of the world is u vast population waiting for foreign trade , besides mateterial resources of practically boundless extent which have to be developed . The completion of the Pacific Railway . too , was expected to effect the realization of all our hopes in accomplishing the desired object , and under vigorous management it may yet succeed in doing so . Meanwhile it can not be doubted that , although from our geographical position and the advantages offered by our Western sea-board , the greater part of that Eastern commerce should be controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flag does not hold the position it ought to have on . the Pacific and on the seas of Eastern and Southern Asia . When the Centennial Commissioners first recognized the grand opportnuity that was presented to them for making the occasion in which they are immediately interested a means of pushing American interests in the East , the appointment of a special commissioner to the nations of India and the Pacific was under consideration . But the plan proposed was not acted upon , although the pecuniary cost would have been but small , and . the subject is now left to the ordinary impulses of the people . Whether this was quite wise is a point which persons well acquainted with the East may be disposed to question ; more especially if , in addition to the knowledge thus possessed , they can foresee the advantages to American industry which would . accrue from a full commercial development of our western sea : board . For , from the activity that is being displayed in Europe , it is very evident that we ought not to place too much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplishing all that is needed . Europe was quite ready to take advantage of the facilities which : these offered for . communicating with the East , but European merchants Lind capitalists have not been slow to find other means for attaining the same end . We may take the one subject of mail communication with Australia in illustration . There are four routes by which this is how effected : one by San Francisco , another by the Red . Sea , a. third round the Cape of Good Hope , and a fourth by way of Singapore and Torres Straits . The first of these is that which , from our point of view , is most desirable . Once , too , it promised to be the quickest , but it has now fallen back very considerably . A new company , recently formed in London , is competing for a contract under an engage-. ment to carry the mails round the Cape by powerful , steamers , some of which are already built , in forty-five days . According to . returns issued by the British Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ route in less than forty-eight days . In three instances the time was fifty-two days , and in one it extended to fifty-eight days . It may be urged that the company referred to can not do the voyage in the limits specified . It is worthy of remark , however , that one of their steamers made her first voyage in fifty days , and that the Great Britain , which has been running between Liverpool and Australia for many years , although only an auxiliary steamer , has made an average of fifty-five days throughout . But this is not all . The Peninsula and . Oriental Company have for twelve months succeeded in delivering the mails by the Red Sea route to Australia in forty-four days . On one occasion they did it in thirty-nine days , and by lessening the time lost in coaling and stoppages on the way , they expect to be able never to exceed forty or forty-one days . It is with efforts such as these facts indicate that we have to compete . The population of the Australian colonies is small , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last year for which the returns have reached us , amounted iu value to $44,542,925 , and it is increasing rapidly every year . To divert any more of this to American ports , we must either ' secure more rapid means of intercommunication , or we must adopt some special measures for promoting the interests of American merchants and manufacturers on the spot . What applies in this consideration to Australia applies with equal force to all the nations within the limits we have indicated . But wide as the field is , European nations are busily at work in it already , and if American enterprise is to be fully represented there , a temporizing policy on the part of the people must not be followed .                     