@@741167

txt Among the many services which Sir JOHN LUBBOCK has rendered to the science of arcbteology , there is none which will more endear him to the heart of the genuine antiquary than the bill which he bas brought before Parliament for the preservation of ancient national monuments . This measure proposes to put in charge of a commission ? to be composed of the present Inclosure Commissioners , the Master of the Rolls , the Presidents of the English , Scotch , and Irish Societies of Antiquaries , and the keeper of the British antiquities in the British Museum ? all monumental remains , such as circles . cromlechs , camps , mounds , round towers , and the like , to be found within the three kingdoms . Over these the commissioners are to have almost absolute control . The persons on whose estates one of these monuments may exist is hereafter only to hold it in trust for the benefit of the State . He may not deface it or take ' other liberties with it , but be may sell it to the commissioners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to buy also the adjoining land within a radius of fifty yards , and the right of way from the nearest road . Snob are the main features of a bill for which that famous antiquarian New-Zealander , when he arrives on English soil , may find reason to bless Sir Joan LUBBOCK 'S memory . Undoubtedly there are people whom it will not please . It will not excite the unbounded admiration of landed proprietors , whose reverence for the most imposing and shapeless cairn or tumulus is generally far less than their respect for proprietary rights . Nor will it , on the other hand , altogether meet the views of the more zealous archaeologists . who would desire to see every dolmen and cromlech inclosed in a glass case and watched over night and . day by an armed guard of honor from their own number . But in the main , so far as can be judged from the brief abstract which has come to us , the purpose of the bill appears to be praiseworthy . We call attention to it here chiefly because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ocean . The vast extent of our , own continent is covered with-ancient monuments even more interesting and . valuable than the Druidic remains . Of these , the Indian mounds scattered through the Mississippi Valley are familiar examples , and , still more remarkable , the traces of ancient civilization and an extinct race found in what are popularly , but perhaps erroneously , known as the Aztec ruins of New-Mexico . We are not aware that in any of the States or Territories certain provision is made for the preservation of these interesting records of the primitive history of the continent . Nor , indeed , is it probable that any concerted and efficient action could be taken for the purpose , except by  --  the General Government . Whether the end in view could be most properly attained by such a commission as that Sir Joan LUBBOCK proposes , or through the agency of the Interior Department , is matter for further consideration . In any event it is safe to say that any commission appointed for the purpose should be an honorary one . The scope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scenic beauties of the country from the vile ravages of the patent medicine peddlers who have made the Palisades an eyesore and the White Mountains as obscene as a quack doctor 's almanac .                     