@@781508

txt Judge BEDFORD , in addressing the Grand Jury yesterday , animadverted with consider= able warmth on the conduct of those members of the bar who bring the profession into disrepute . He expressed the hope that " these creatures would . be disbarred . " Many readers will naturally be curious as to whom the worthy Judge could have had in his eye when he used this strong language . He only referred to what are elegantly called " shysters . " The big fish as usual , escape all notice . We do not say that it was Judge BEDFORD 'S duty to drag them forth yesterday , but it is some one 's duty to see that they do not get off , while the small fry are ordered up for punishin ent . At present that duty seems to be neglected all round with wonderful unanimity . Even the World pretests against the proposal to make Parriiles Day a legal holiday . From this a discerning public may conclude that the ruse has been a very shallow one indeed , and that Irtslmien themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will find it expedient to disavow a more than usually impudent bid for the Irish vote . If TWEED &; Co. wish to introduce an annual series of festival days not recognized in our national calendar , we fear the annals of Christian saints will hardly yield them appropriate materials . It is true that CARLYLE somewhere alleges that St. George of Canpadocia was guilty of swindling There is a story told of a stone-cutter , who was employed to inscribe upon the pediment of a place of worship the quotation , from Mattbew xxi. , 13 , " My house shall be called the house of prayer . " but who , having conscientious scruples against defective quotations , added the somewhat uncomplimentary remaining clause of the sentence . We have no desire to make illnatured reference to Plymouth Chapel , but we understand that several of Mr. BEECHER 'S hearers , last Sunday evening , were disagreeably reminded of the Joe Millerism by being subjected to the attentions of sundry enterprising pickpockets , who had transferred their scene of operations to the crowded aisles of his church . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inviting manner so frequently adopted by the sex , were relieved of their pocket-books , and so listened to pulpit eloquence under depressing circumstances . Could the courteous managers of this popular place of worship not add another to their many claims on public gratitude , by inducing the Brooklyn Chief of Police to station an occasional detective at the door , with a view to mitigating , if possible , a nuisance so unfitted to the place . The Methodist preachers have spoken wisely and well on the subject of city grants for sectarian purposes . " Appropriations to Prot. eatant institutions are calculated , if not Intended , to silence the Press and the Pulpit , white it opens the door for the prodigal waste of millions upon the Roman Catholic Church . " If the Methodist churches and institutions follow the advice given them to keep their hands pure from the unclean thing , by neither asking nor accepting such appropriations , they will command the respect and gratitude of the friends of liberty and good government of all denominations . Let coal consumers rigidly adhere to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike or no strike , rates will moderate . It has been confidently stated that there is no fear of a coal famine . in any event , for the next three months , and as the confederate monopolists of railroads and operators , as well as the rival claimants to a share of the spoils , represented by the Working Men 's Union , are getting seriously alarmed at the storm they have evoked , an early adjustment of differences may be anticipated . Meanwhile . if the Forty-second Congress must begin its work of legislation now , they could not make a more promising commencement than by passing , as it Is believed they will , upon the coal duty once more . If free trade fanatics in the Senate make another league with the extreme protectionists. and again refuse to sanction the repeal , the country will at least have the satisfaction of knowing where to place the blame of resisting the advance of a moderate and graduated system of revenue reform . the state scab reference to certain contracts . But we know of no other among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who could , even by report , be shown to be a fit tutelary for Tammany . St. Patrick , in spite of the absurdities that have been perpetrated in his name , has an untarnished historical record , His great achievement , moreover , of ridding Ireland of venomous reptiles , is a peculiarly inappropriate performance to be celebrated under the auspices of a City Government that thrives by the diffusion of such pests under a different form . On the whole , TWEED had better revert to the old pagan calendar , where he will find tutelar divinities disreputable enough for his purpose . Lest this branch of inquiry should be beyond his comprehension , we recommend him to make a start with a festival dedicated to Mercury , who is set down as " the god of ingenuity . cunning , artifices , tricks , strategems , fraud , and even of perjury  --  he is also invoked by thieves . " The leaders of the New-York Democracy are resolved if they can to get the State elections conducted without the embarrassing supervision of Federal officials . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the November election a month earlier than heretofore , except in so far as it relates to President , Vice-President and members of Congress . What are the Democrats afraid of Honest voters can hardly dread the interference of United States Marshals . The charges of repeating and ballot-box stuffing have been repudiated by the immaculate organs of Tammany . The clamor against the United States Election law was intelligible only on the ground that it interfered with these time-honoreddevices , and the present desperate attempt to restrain its exercise could only be made for a similar reason . A druggist who should sell a phial of poison , without labelling it as such , would be guilty of a misdemeanor subjecting him to fine or imprisonment , or both . If any one died from the consequences of this neglect , surviving friends have a further claim for damages upon the vendor . What is made criminal by a private individual can be no less criminal in a civic board . It seems that the Board of Health employ inspectors who distribute poisonous disinfectants , but who confess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acids . One of these intelligent officers left a bottle of carbolic acid for disinfecting purposes in a house in NewChambers-street . The poor woman who took the stuff could not read , but the inspector believed he had done his duty when he left with her certain printed instructions , without giving herklie ! lighteat hint that the bottle contained deadly poison , and without departing from the the usual practice of the Board , of leaving the bottle without a . warning label . " There was enough for two times . " the officer said , and so there was , for it was only by the merest accident that the unfortunate Mrs. May , after taking a dose that poisoned herself , did not administer the rest to her baby . A jury bas censured tie Board of Health for their neglect . Is that all the satisfaction a bereaved husband and a helpless family will ever get for the sacrifice of a wife and mother . The Express , in its eagerness to apologise for Mr. BROOKS , in Congress . denies what via did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the repeal of the income tax , but that be resisted the reduction of eighty millions of taxes in the session of 1870 , because he could not dictate the , items to be reduced . That was our accusation against Mr. BROOKS . We sail . further , that the income tax would ere now have been abolished but for the determination of Democrats to oppose any reduction of taxes not in the direction of free trade , and that the coal tax has been kept in existence by the Democratic threat to talk against time to prevent its repeal . The Express knows well enough that in the last hours of a session a resolute minority may avert the completion of business , which at other times they would be unable to control . 