@@742924

txt The Congressional aommittees , appointed to inquire into and report upon the proper means of preventing the introduction and spread of epidemic diseases were expected to throw light upon the origin of the yellow fever scourge and to make suggestions for anylegislation that might be practicable for the prevention of such visitations in future . But it was hardly supposed that they would undertake the erection of a new Government Bureau for the regulation of the sanitary condition of the whole country . They have , nevertheless , inspired a bill substantially for this purpose , which has been introduced into the Senate by Mr. MATTHEws and promptly'referred to the special committee of that branch having the subject in charge . It is not easy to see how a bureau of this kind , constructed as proposed , can , within the limits of national authority , be of much more use than Mr. LE Due 's ornamental . Department of Agriculture , so prolific of reports and garden seeds , but so utterly powerless to do anything useful . The proposed Health Bureau might possibly gather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of statistics more or less comprehensible , and diffuse them broadcast at the public expense . But we are inclined to think that the education of the public mind on sanitary matters can be quite as effectually promoted by other means . Agencies for such a purpose need to work ' among the people , and a national bureau , with bulky reports that nobody reads , would probably prove a clumsy contrivance for not doing it . So far as concerns sanitary regulation and  --  the enforcement of measures for promoting the public health , or even preventing the spread of epidemics , Congress has no authority to legislate beyond the province of its power to regulate commerce , and , of course , . a national bureau could only operate within the limits of national legislation . The power to regulate commerce has been uniformly held to involve the right to maintain quarantine , for the purpose of preventing the introduction of infectious diseases , and this might perhaps be extended to any necessary interruption of intercourse between States . But , beyond mere quarantine regulation the National Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it is very questionable whether it is a thing to be desired . Matters affecting the general health of the people , causes of disease and their removal , are ' in the strictest sense local , and can be most effectually dealt with by local agencies . Progress in sanitary science , and its practical application , has thus far been almost wholly confined to large cities . It begins where conditions most emphatically show its necessity , where local interests demand ? attention , and where knowledge and skill can be directly brought into requisition for its purposes and supported by a general sense of their need and their utility . From centres of activity and intelligence it spreads , with more or less effect , and in several States , including Massachusetts , Rhode Island , and Connecticut , and a few in the . West and South , there has been a sufficient diffusion of knowledge on the subject to lead to the establishment of State Boards of Health . These are of value , owing to the fact that local authorities in the smaller towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and those of the larger cities are powerless to exercise jurisdiction even over their immediate surroundings . States are entirely competent to deal with the matter , and can do it to far better advantage than the nation . The Quarantine laws might very likely be made more stringent and more widely and effectively operative . It is possible-that they could secure a complete exclusion of epidemics of foreign origin , and prevent those that have a foothold in the country from being carried from one State to another . But the conditions which breed pestilence within the country or promote its spread in our cities and towns are beyond national control . They must be dealt with by the communities concerned . The loss and expense incurred through the yellow , fever epidemic of last Summer teach us that the whole people have an interest and a very practical concern in the matter , and they are justified in any effort to bring Southern cities and Southern States to a sense of their duty to themselves and to the country . They may promote enlightenment and urge action which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can not compel them to cleanse and purge their streets and habitations . It is for these and other cities , and the States in which they are located , to provide for their sanitary improvement and to establish regulations to prevent epidemics from springing up and spreading within their jurisdiction . The Federal Government can only protect them against the introduction of such plagues from without by the exercise of its authority . over commercial intercourse . For this there is no need of a National Health Bureau , but only for a revision of our quarantine legislation and provision for its vigilant and effective execution , in accordance with the requirements of circumstances . Something might also be effected by international concert of action with those countries from which infection is liable to be brought .                     