@@743171

txt TAMMANY HALL BOLTS . The backbone of Tammany Hall was broken , and the Secretary came forward to call the roll . The end had now come . The long contest between Tilden and Tammany Hall , the contest which was begun years ago , and which in to-day 's convention was fought out during a continuous session of eight hours , could be continued no longer . One side or the other would have to give way , and it was a foregone conclusion that John Kelly would be obliged to yield . The rollcall was begun , and with it all confusion ceased . The silence in the hall was almost painful . " Albany County ! " called the clerk , and one after another the delegation from Albany voted for Lucius Robinson . The call went on , and it began to be Whispered about that after all Tammany would not bolt ; that John Kelly had , never been sincere in his threats ; that he would remain in the convention and acquiesce in the nomination of Robinson . ? The men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor far between , were sadly deceived . The clerk called the ' Second District of Cattaraugus , and before any response could be made Mr. Schell arose from the seat he had occupied by the side of John Kelly . At once all eyes were turned upon the Tammany Hall delegates . They were as silent as the men of Kings County had been during the time of Dorsheimer 's appeal . It was not necessary for the Chairman to ask for order . Mr. Schell 's lowest tone was heard in every part of the hall . In simple , and because of their simplicity all the more impressive , words , he began by saying that the warning given by Tammany Hall had not been given lightly nor with any purpose to deceive . Tammany Hall had declared that under no circumstances would it again support Lucius Robinson . It had now become apparent that the nomination of Mr. Robinson was to be forced upon the convention , and the 72 delegates from Tammany Hall , though they were prepared to support all the minor candidates who migat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give no support to its head , and in accordance with the fair warning which had been given to the Democracy of the State , were about to withdraw from the convention . So saying , Mr. Schell , together with John Kelly , David Dudley Field , and Lieut. - Gov .. Dorsheimer , turned their faces toward the door , and the men of Tammany Hall arose to follow them out , cheering wildly as they went . For a moment the country delegates could hardly believe their senses . Cheers , hisses , yells , and shouts greeted Mr. Schell 's announcement and the action of his fellow-delegates , but neither cheers nor hisses could keep the Tammany menin the convention . One by one they loft the hall , the.blue badges of the wigwam disappeared from the crowd , the seats of the great organization were vacant ; and there was silence , not unmixed with consternation , in the hall . It was broken by the appearance of John Fox and his Anti-Tammany followers , who , in accordance with an announcement previously made in THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the outgoing delegates . Then the roll-call went on until New-York County was reached , when Mr. Peckham moved that the reading of the names of the delegates from that City be dispensed with . This was ruled out of order by Mr. Jacobs , and the roll-call went on in silence . Mr. Cowan , the irrepressible , made one effort more to bring forward his candidate , but no attention was paid to him . The roll was completed , - and John C. Jacobs announced that by a vote of 243 to 58 for opposing candidates , Lucius Robinson was the nominee of the Democratic Convention . Of the other candidates . Gen. Slocum received 56 votes . Horatio Seymour 1 , and Clarkson N. Potter 1 . So et ed the day 's session . When the announcement of the nominate was made , the delegates left the hall , and t most remarkable political contest New-Yc has known for years was , for the time , at end . 