@@742880

txt It is to be hoped that Congress will at the present session take some action for the final adjudication of the rights of claimants to the Geneva award , There is now remaining in the Treasury about $9,000,000 of the amount originally received from Great Britain . That so large a sum is undistributed is due to the provision inserted in the law regulating the adjustment of claims , to the effect that no insurance company or insurer should receive any portion of the award , unless it could be shown that the losses for which compensation was claimed were greater than the profits received by the claimant during the war from what are known as war premiums . Substantially all the olaims to which this restriction applied are those of mutual insurance companies . It is difficult to understand how any member of Congress who had a clear idea of how the business of mutual insurance is carried on , could fail to recognize the essential injustice of the provision of the law to which we have referred . The members of these companies are at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fund from which losses are paid in.proportion to the value of their property insured . When the risk of loss was made greater by the war , the ratio of the subscription was raised . Congress has . said that if they subscribed enough to ' the common fund to pay the losses incurred and to leave an equal sum remaining , they could not have any of the money received from Great Britain for the reimbursement of those identical losses . The law calls these surplus subscriptions profits . They are not so in reality . The excess of subcriptions , if there be any , goes back into the , pockets of the company of insured . It is not denied that the loss occurred , and that it was borne by the very men whom Congress bars from participation in the award . Under the mistaken idea that it is restricting the gains of corporations which have already made a profit from the war , Congress forbids the distribution of the award among those for whom it was expressly intended . This is the case as far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is very far from being the whole case . It is not only the rights of claimants that are involved , it is the good faith , the dignity , and the reputation of the nation . The e losses which Congress now refuses to pay were presented at Geneva . Their reimbursement was demanded from the British Government . They were never directly or indirectly excluded from consideration . They unquestionably formed a part of the basis of the award , and they were never discredited or qualified by the representatives of the United States by any reference to profits from war premiums . That they were acted on by the Tribunal , as much as any other portion of the losses claimed by the United States , and not disallowed , will be plain from the consideration of a single fact . The Commission of Arbitration was allowed to decree  --  if any damages were adjudged due from Great Britain  --  either the payment of a gross sum , or the appointment of a Board of Assessors , who should consider all claims and adjudicate the amount due on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointed , they must have considered the losses now barred . out by Congress , and any objection that those who suffered them were not entitled to relief because they had received war premiums in excess of their losses would certainly have been promptly refuted by the United States representatives . Yet the money having been paid in gross , and Congress having assumed the duty of regulating the disbursements which would otherwise have been fixed by the Board of Assessors , it makes exception as to payments which our Government would certainly have insisted , on before such a board . The position in which our Government is thus placed is a most unfortunate one . It has demanded , and received compensation from Great Britain for losses which it now disowns . For the action of Congress is substantially that of disowning the losses . The property was destroyed . The original owners have been paid for it by the insurance companies , and are not the losers . The losses were not paid by the Government iu any form , and it can have no title to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to whom should the award be paid ? Congress says that it shall be paid to no one , but shall remain in the Treasury . The Government is made to act like an attorney who , having collected a claim , coolly pockets the money and assures his client that he has no right to it because he has already received from other debtors in the same business more money than was ( his him from the one who was sued . It should be borne in mind that all that is enacted by the bill now before the House is that unpaid . claims on the award shall be submitted to the Court of Claims , with the right for either the claimants or the Government to appeal to the Supreme Court , in order that the questions involved may receive adjudication from the highest and most competent and impartial judicial tribunal in , the land , a tribunal , moreover , which is particularly charged with the application of the principles of equity which underlie the transactions of the Government with other nations . What fairer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain that neither of the houses of Congress nor any of their committees can be presumed more capable of rendering a just decision in such a matter , or one more conservative at once of the honor and the interests of the Government ; than the Supreme Court . We can not conceive of any reasonable excuse for Congress assuming to decide the question in a manner highly prejudicial to the national honor , while refusing to allow it to be considered and decided by the court .                     