@@741476

txt The people of Alabama are to-day in a peculiarly unfortunate position . The extremists , - who have always given tone to the Democratic Party of the State , bid . fair to nullify the little progress made since reconstruction . Excited by false hopes , and . counting on the sympathy which they expect to arouse at the North by assuming the Ale of down-trodden victims , these extremists have raved against the negro and the white Republicans of the State , until the old tactics of political assassination , proscription , and ostracism have been renewed in many of the counties in the cotton belt . Free speech has been repressed , peaceful meetings of voters have been broken up , and a policy of intimidation of the blacks has been mapped out for the campaign now close at hand . The extremists in the Radical Party have doubtless also been , in some degree , indirectly instrumental in bringing about the recent outbreaks in Alabama . Ent the sensible Republicans , who , headed by lion . LEWIS E. Pansoss in the Montgomery Con- , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partisans , and to place before the voters of the State a just , moderate , and earnest declaration of principles , to which no fair-minded men can object , are in no sense to blame for the disturbances . All who are respectable in the Republican Party of Alabama have firmly opposed any policy of retaliation ; have counseled moderation , firmness , and reliance upon the law . They have refused to be goaded into anarchy ; and even the idle and dissolute negroes who throng the counties in the " cotton region " of the State , and who might readily become agents for supreme mischief , are thus far vastly more sinned against than sinning . The census of 1670 divided the population of Alabama into 521,354 whites and 475,510 blacks . That the numbers of both races within the State have been largely decreased by emigration since that time there is little doubt . Great masses of the poor whites have departed for Texas ; thousands of negroes , to escape starvation , have migrated beyond the Mississippi , to the cotton fields of Louisiana and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ' the State , which has almost boundless resources of every variety scattered . over its extent of fifty thousand square miles , were likely to be entirely deserted . Occasional material prosperity has been more than count erbalanced by several successive crop failures within the last few years . White planter and black laborer have alike suffered from the total breaking up of the old labor system , and the lack of a well-planned one to replace it . Early in the current year several thousand negroes left Central Alabama , and found work on Mississippi cotton plantations . In some sections of the State , notably in the country around Montgomery , the capital , and other towns in the cotton belt , the outlook has at times , during the past two years , been Very depressing . Idle negroes and discouraged " all-cotton " planters thronged . the towns ; the fields were devastated by caterpillars , and rendered unproductive by incessant rains ; sheriffs with active hammers swarmed throughout a score of counties ; mortgage sales were the only gatherings at which there was anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of negroes upon the charity of the whites , who were themselves in wretched condition . The schools , which had been organized by the reconstruction Governments on a good , although rather expensive basis , were entirely suspended , except in the principal cities . Neither laborers nor employers had any ' ready money . The planters had mortgaged . their crops in advance , in order to get the coarse supplies with which to feed the laborers . When their crops failed each planter was penniless and iu debt . The State Government has for some time been overwhelmed . with indebtedness . The experiment of constructing important lines of railroads , mainly by State credit , proved . a complete failure . The indorsement by the State of the bonds of the Alabama and Chattanooga , the Montgomery and Eufaula , and the Selma and Gulf Railroads was reckless . The theory that a road , while in process of construction , could pay the interest on the bonds issued to build it , was of course shown to be false , and when payment of that interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was obliged . to acknowledge herself in default . As a natural consequence , the market value of her securities of all classes was seriously impaired , and since 1870 her bonds have been unsalable at anything like good rates . The railroad laid down across noble mineral lands and through rich agricultural regions are of but small avail in aiding the State 's development in the present deranged condition of labor and finances there . The evils from which the people of Alabama , as a whole , suffer most at present illiteracy , and a persistence in the old , narrow methods of agriculture . The ignorance in the State is dense , and but little progress has been made against it since the war . Nearly four hundred thousand persons about one-fourth of whom are white --  are unable either to ' read or ' rite . ' Thialacli of education accounts for the ease with which a few extremists ' have been able to excite the . white people of whole sections by the bugbear of " negro social equality . " The D emocratic papers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . assassination in language that , although guarded , is unmistakable , print hundreds of stories concerning negro insolence and incendiary speeches by blacks ; and . these stories , repeated . among the ignorant masses , who have never ? ceased . to regard the negro with suspicion since his emancipation , are greatly exaggerated , and never fail to produce the desired effect . The blind adherence of the majority of the people engaged in agriculture to the old system of planting one staple only , and buying all supplies in the North and . West , has reduced to beggary thousands of men who - were prosperous iu the days of slavery . If all the planters in the State would become farmers and make cotton their surplus crop , they - would , with successful harvests , get a little money into their ' pockets , which it is to be hoped . they would in due time invest in the establishment of the home manufactures so much wanted . Alabama does not need to make agriculture her permanent mainstay . Her mineral region , which spreads over fifteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continent , and a fine railway system gives it an easy outlet to the West and . South . Not more than half the available cotton lands are yet under cultivation , and the mighty timber region , which contains the material for a grand commerce , has been hardly invaded . The negroes do not know how to develop the State ; they have little if any idea of commerce or manufactures ; and many of the whites are equally ignorant . The capable native Alabamians are mainly unreconciled to the new regime , and - will do little to aid the intelligent colored. or white Republicans in developing the State . Nothing but au extensive immigration can ever build up Alabama. , but no immigrants will go there so long as the unsettled condition continues .                     