@@743198

txt The determination of The Hon. Charles P. Thompson not to stand as the candidate of the regular Democrats for Governor has occasioned a rearrangement of toe slate for next Tuesday'sFaneull Hall Convention  --  the seventh of this campaign , prolific in conventions  --  and has for the moment strengthened Butler 's position . Thompson is " the man who beat Butler . " His election to Congress was through a coalition of Democratic and anti-Butler men of the Essex district , against Butler , and resulted in driving the latter out of that district and into the Lowell district ; and it was believed that if he were nominated by the regu'ars this year he would draw from the Butler strength , in Essex especially , and hold together the better element in the Democratic Party , he being one of their most popular men . From the fact that he had a long interview with Butler yesterday afternoon , and that the Butler men had been scheming to prevent his standing , and that after this interview it was given out that he would not stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entered into a bargain with Butler  --  he to decline to run at the head of the regular ticket , the General to turn his strength next season in Essex for Thompson for Congress , as it is understood he has agreed to do for Tarbox in the Lowell district . This Thompson deities to-night with emphasis , and Insists that his interview related to legal matters , and not to politics . He declines to run , he says . because he does n't see any reason why Abbott should not run . Thomp , on shows some temper , giving the impression that efforts have been made to make a sacrifice of him . There seems to be much hesitation on the part of Democrats with aspirations to lead the Democratic forlorn hope against Butler . Chairman Reuben Noble . who has Mr. Thompson 's letter , and has withheld it from the public , thinking , perhaps , that Thompson might withdraw it , arrived in the city late tonight . and there will be a conference of the regular Democratic chiefs to-morrow . Much depends on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he takes the stump . Ho begins his speech-making with one in Faneuil Hall on Wednesday night , and will continue to the end of the campaign . Meanwhile , the Republican campaign is proceeding with spirit and vigor . Meetings are held nightly , and many prominent leaders , including the Senators and Representatives in Congress , are on the stump . 