@@741565

txt In the Thirty-seventh Congress , while the House had under consideration the venerable claim of sonic person who had supplied beef to the-Army , during au Indian war , OWEN LOVEJOY made a good hit . He recalled the picture of the Continental Army , starving and short of ammunition , during the darkest days of the Revolution , when a claim agent , with a similar demand , went roaring through the camps ? " Beef ! beet ! beef ! " The Revolutionary claim agent 7as a type of all that have come after him ; he owned a demand which he bought " on a speculation , " and he urged it in season and out of season . No matter what were the circumstances of the country , the Army , or the Treasury , to him there was but one object in view  --  beef . Last Saturday an obstacle furnished by the claim agents blocked the way of necessary legislation in the House , It is called a bill to equalize soldiers ' bounties ? a taking title , and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a just principle for its basis ; and we would not pretend now to say one word as to the motives of the framers of the bill . But we do know that the best authorities are of the opinion that its passage will take one hundred millions from the Treasury ? when there is so much money there to be taken . Furthermore , it is well known that most , if not all , this money will go into the hands of claim agents . In fact , most of these claims which have money in them are owned by second or third parties . A plea was made the other day in favor of an Indian claim which called for the appropriation of a few Millions to the Choctaws and Chickasaws . Members who ought to have known better grew eloquent over the Wrongs of the poor Indians , and the shamelessness of breaking the national faith . It happened that the only Choctaws and Chickasaws who cut any figure in the case hung about the green baize doors of the hall of the House , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were claim agents , in fine broadcloth and wearing diamond shirt-pins . So , when a proposition is made to take a slice from the Japanese indemnity fund and distribute it as prize-money , it would undoubtedly be found that , with few exceptions , the real sharers in the gift ? if it should be made  --  would be speculators who have bought up the " claims " of men now scattered to the four winds . One discouraging feature of these insolent demands is their pertinacity . The beef claim which so excited honest OWEN Low , - JoY 's ire was one of great antiquity ; it was the legacy of an old Democratic Administration ; but it had grown with years , each successive presentation of it showing a steady advanceon past figures . One of these claims is like that brought by some disappointed spinster in damages for a breach of promise of marriage . She asks ten thousand dollars for blasted hopes and blighted affections , though she may at first have been willing to make it fifteen hundred . An original claim of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Congress , and if that session does not see it paid , it is expanded in like proportion at each successive rebuff . The explanation of this is that it gets out of the hands of first holders , who were ready to take a small percentage on their original claim . Aud the worst of it is that , sooner or later , it sneaks through Congress , and the speculators divide the spoil . In a moment when the dreaded watch-dogs of the Treasury relax their vigilance , the long-deferred bill is rushed through. , and the patient waiting of many years is rewarded at last . A good haul is made from the Treasury ; but the original claimant has long since lost all interest in the case that bears his name . Of course , many of the claims which demand so much of the attention of Congress would never be heard of if the Government were more prompt in its payments . The very fact that these bills have not been paid , however , should cast a suspicion on their character . Not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late civil war , the two Democratic Administrations just previous to that of LINCOLN were prolific in occasions for claims . The Mormon war , the Kansas raids , the Indian disturbances on the Northwestern frontier , and various other occurrences of that nature , may be said to have spawned a vast brood of claim agents . These men , with well-worn " vouchers " from Quartermasters , Indian agents , and politicians , have infested Congress like a perennial cloud of locusts . Bills having for their titles " For the relief of ? , " or " To indemnify hang on Congress as the noble army of camp-followers tag on the flanks of an invading army . The Court of Claims relieves Congress of some of the final responsibility for paying these demands . But a Congressional reference is often a quasi indorsement of a claim that should have been summarily kicked under the table on presentation . So well is this known that the lobbyists , when all else fails , ask desperately that they may be sent to the Court of Claims with their job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but this is better than nothing ; and nothing is exactly what they do not want . The amount of legislation done for claim agents may be partly estimated by a glance at the docket on a " private bill day . " But the ? big jobs are tacked on to appropriation bills , or they are boldly put forth in independent propositions . To prepare and manipulate these requires the maintenance of a considerable force of men . Washington is full of claim agents . They are decayed Congressmen , retired clerks , and sharp lawyers . The departments are besieged by them ; and Postmaster General JEWELL found it necessary to make war upon them immediately upon his entry into office . We do not know how he has succeeded in carrying out his plan to refuse payment to claims presented at second or third hands , bait his fulmination on the whole subject of agents , attorneys , and assignments of claims had a good effect for a time . In Congress the case is quite different ; good-natured members are found ready to present doubtful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressmen are quite as ready to vote for them . Valuable time is wasted , and the money , in a multitude of instances , is eventually voted for claims that have only a speculative value . Just now , while the country is absolutely suffering for prompt and intelligent legislation concerning the national finances , all demands on the Treasury , however speciously formed , should be rigorouslv put aside .                     