@@742711

txt The season of college Commencements is not only characterized by the turning loose upon society of a large number of more or less " liberally educated " young men , who , in too many cases , have no definite idea of what they are to do with themselves , but is prolific of " learned " degrees , which are not always indicative of any considerable degree of learning . The multiplication all over the country of petty institutions for the " higher education , " under the name of colleges and universities , in which the education to be attained is little , if any , higher than that of a first-class academy or public high school , has made A. B.s and A. M.s as " plenty as blackberries . " As a natural consequence , the significance of these degrees is in an inverse ratio to their number , still , they carry with them a certain recommendation and a presumption of learning , which , in many cases partakes of the nature of a false pretense . Applicants for positions which require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin and bearing the imposing seal of some college , when in point of fact the bit of parchment does not necessarily indicate any exceptional degree of intellectual training or acquirement . Perhaps it is not practicable in a country which is at least nominally free , to prevent any endowed school from calling itself a college , and conferring degrees which are presumed to be indicative of high scholarship ; but it is nevertheless an evil , which should be rectified , so far as possible , by a careful discrimination as to the source of the diploma . " A. B. , " or " A. M. , " written after a name has become almost as meaningless as " Hon. " written before it , and one can judge of the man 's qualifications only by inquiring how he came by the title with which he makes such a flourish . It is unfortunate that . ' institutions of learning in this country can not be more carefully graded , and that there is not a more definite distinction made between colleges and universities . If every considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an excellent thing for the village , but it should be content to call the institution a high school . If every populous county is favored , through the munificence of some enterprising native who has gone elsewhere to acquire fame and fortune , with a liberally-endowed academy , in which some progress may be made in classical and scientific learning , it is a lucky thing for the county , but it should not put on airs and call its nursery of local talent a college . A slight proficiency in Latin is no excuse for dubbing a youth of moderate attainments Artium Baecalaureus and sending him into a " learned profession , " when his place is on a farm or behind a counter . The wide area of this land of ours , and the magnificent distances that lie between the chief centres of population and of commercial activity , make it desirable that institutions of learning of a very respectable grade should be comparatively numerous and thereby accessible to all the ambitious and gifted youth of the country . Where wealth and a generous public spirit see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale , an institution that is really equipped as a college and gives thorough and complete instruction in the various departments of science , ' literature , and philosophy , preparing young men in the best manner for professional life , it is but just that it should rank as a college and confer degrees thatcarry with them its certificate of proficiency . But among the scores of schools calling themselves colleges and granting diplomas , there are very few that are entitled to the rank they assume . The highest and broadest results of university . culture should still be distinguished from those of even ' the best these " fresh-water " colleges which have sprung up , and continue to spring up , in all sections of the country . They are to be secured only by mass ing together the resources of learning and of education , and accumulating through time and large expense the appliances which the domain of letters affords . A real University must be , not a place in which young Men may spend four years with some degree of profit in a common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cre four years aid an indefinite period beyond may be devote ? ? to a single departme at , if desired , and the , fullest results of intellectual achievement  --  in that field may be completely mastered . Not one department or a few departments merely , but the whole broad domain of human knowledge should there be open and furnished with every facility and appliance that the student may need . Such a university this country does not yet possess , and it never will possess it until its people cease to scatter and " squander abroad " their resources , and shall concentrate their efforts and their contributions upon some one institution until it has reached a full development . When such a university has been built up , it may confer degrees that mean something and are worth something , and to - which a distinction will be attached that can not be conveyed by every parcel of Professors that chooses to call itself a college Faculty . It will also relieve our young men who have the means and the , disposition to become scholars from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their studies . Meantime , there is another evil deserving of notice , besides that of cheapening degrees " in course " through their being conferred by inferior institutions . That is the practice , now common with even our best colleges and so-called universities , of giving honorary degrees for no sufficient reason . The title of LL.D. , for instance , ought to have some significance . It should convey an ? assurance of distinction won by deep study or high achievement in some department of intellectual effort . But it has become so common for a college to confer it upon every small celebrity , whose only claim to distinction is derived from official position gained by political skill , or from the delivery of a very creditable address at some college anniversary , that it has lost its meaning . Harvard University has for some years been in the habit of making LL . D. s of the Governors of Massachusetts and any members of the President 's Cabinet who might happen to be guests at the Commencement dinner , regardless of any pretension to superior scholarship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduate , and has been in the pulpit ten years , is dubbed a D. D. by his Alma Mater or some other institution with whose President he has a friendly ' acquaintance , though he has done nothing whatever to earn the title , The consequence is that those who have studied and labored and really won a title to distinction in some department of learning have nothing to distinguish them . College authorities owe it to themselves to be somewhat more chary of their honors , lest these cease to be honors.                     