@@740627

txt Music Hall was partially filled this evening with an assemblage desirous Of Congratulating Italy on the success of the recent movement for union . Ex-Gov . WAsunritNE presided , and the name of Gov . CLAPLIN beaded the list of 150 Vice-Presidents , gentlemen of prominent public and private stations . Rev. Dr. WEBB offered a prayer . The President , on taking the chair , rejoiced that it was his privilege to announce that the purpose of the meeting was to extend the congratulations of the people of Boston and its vicinity to the friends of progress and free opinion everywhere . that Italy , ? so illustrious in history , so dear to the heart of every scholar , is again united in the bonds of a common nationality . American hearts were gladdened with the sight of a people holding a share in the Government under which they lived , with one hope , one destiny , a nation born , in contrast to a picture of down-trodden . divided States and Provinces . She had thus given an earnest of man 's equality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearty rejoicing in whatever tended to disenthral the human mind in the bloodless dissolution of the sovereignty of the Pone. asserting that the assumption of infallibility in moral and religious affairs logically made necessary the claim - Of Papal sovereignty in secular affairs , and giving birth to the whole family of tyrannies , congratulating Italy on her free Church and State , her union and popular education , her patriotism and enterprise , also VICTOR EmmANHEL , and the nation that she is again taking a place among the great nations of the earth . Rev. F. H. HEDGE , D. D. , of Brookline , said this was an age of political revivals . Greece , Germany and France had undergone transformation since the century begun , and it was fitting that America should tender congratulations to the ' country of CoLtnuntrs and AMERIGO VEsruccr . The world was indebted to Italy for impulse and guidance in almost every province of life . She was the custodian of the treasures of the old civilization and the pioneer of the new . It was she who first awoke from the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide to the light of the day which dawned with the thirteenth century . Her commerce was on the ocean before Britannia ruled the wave , and . when Holland was under water , her trade with India was large . Before a Portuguese vessel doubled the Cape of Good Hone , Italian influence , if literature was in former tunes what the German in Florence was now . Take from SHAKESPEARE and MILToN the Italian ingredients , and a great gap would be left . The Italian mind combined the sobriety of the English , the idealism of the German and the clearness of the French , and Italy was now the freest of those nationalities . Ho did not see that the title of the Government of the Italian States differed much from that of NAPOLEON III . to the crown of France ; all such claims rest on robbery ; it was not a question of religion , but of politcal equity . The Roman Church existed without temporal power for nearly a thousand years , and the deprivation of it now could not be fatal to her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to such an extent as was evident . Whatever became of the Roman Church . the speaker hoped that Italy would prosper in her new career . Letters were read by the Secretary , A. B. ELY , from Vice-Presiden Colfax , Senator Pomeroy , of Kansas ; President Stearns , of Amherst College ; John P. Whittier . Chickerim , of New-York ; Dr. Bellows , Prof. J. R. Lowell , and Rev. E. Hale , indorsing the object of the meeting . Rev Jos . FREEMAN CLARK , D. D. , pictured Rome while the great change was taking place , the men of science , students , litt  --  rateurs , artists , returned exiles , old and young , the Roman soldiers of EmAasuEL 's army , the laborers , the citizens of the Leonine City all joined the triumphal procession to vote for the union of Rome with Italy . He was not present to find fault with his Roman Catholic fellow-citizens , he rejoiced that they were here to enjoy their religion undisturbed , but he din not like to have them misrepresent the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American , he did not believe in an ecclesiastical government of the people , but a government of the people by the people . Italy had regained her independence , and could now go forward with all her charms and associations , which had been admired by all intelligent minds . America and Italy would join hands to go forth on the great march of freedom . Mr. EDWIN WIlIpPLE said it was impossible that Americans of whatever creed could hesitate to bid " God-speed " to United Italy under a constitutional government . Every drop of American blood should unite with free and regenerated Italy . If ho felt the passionate dislike to Romanism which filled many Protestant breasts he should regret the dethronement of the Pope . As it was , he believed that act of deprivation of his temporal sovereignty would tend to increase rather then diminish his spiritual power  --  the only influence Protestantism had reason to deride . The Pope 's inability to govern a few millions of Italians temporarily had been used as a strong argument against the Roman Church . The almost uniform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence . She had shown her ability to deal with the mind of the savage as well as that of the savant , and had made religion visible and palpable in spiritualizing the senses . She bad been instrumental in producing every variety of human genius and virtue . The speakiir believed that every religion bad been injured so far as it had attempted to govern States as well as direct souls . The temporal sovereignty of the Pope had long been the scandal of political science . The virtues of the priests wore vices , when they attempted to govern States . The assertion was as true of CALVIN or Land . as of Pope or Cardinal . He could not conceive why the Roman Catholics of the United States should object to the Roman Catholic Italians taking possession of what was their own . The revolution was not in favor of Protestant doctrine , nut of constitutional ideas . EDWARD ATKINSON referred to the freedom of the citizen established in Italy by the revolution , and was glad that the sentiment that was gaining ground in Europe recognized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own way , so long as he did not interfere with the rights of his neighbors . Rev. Picaaars BROOKS said that unity and liberty belonged together in the American idea , and were the standard by which Americans judged sister nations . He thought that we could ? recognize Italy with propriety and hon-estyThe resolutions were adopted , and a hymn written for the occasion by JULIA WARD HOWE was circulated in the balls . Meeting in Buffalo  --  Friends of the Pope Present . BUFFALO , N. Y. , Feb. 23 . In response to a call of the American Protestant Association , a large meeting was held in St. James ' Hall , tonight , to congratulate VICTOR EirmAlMEL OR the completion of the unity of the Italian nation . A large portion of the audience was composed of friends of the Pope . who attended from curiosity . The meeting was addressed by several clergymen of the city , and resolutions were adopted in accord with the spirit of the call . 