@@742959

txt The Senate narrowly escaped from an al  --  night session on the Post Office Appropriation bill . The event was only prevented through the fear of the advocates of the Brazilian subsidy that if they attempted to force an all-night session against the wishes of many Senators friendly to the measure the latter might take Offense and retaliate by voting against the scheme . The viciousness of the practice of engrafting extraneous legislation , which under no circumstances ought to be considered except as separate and distinct propositions , was never made more apparent than during to-day 's . debate . If the Post Office Appropriation bill had not contained the Brazilian subsidy clause it would have been disposed of in half an hour . The legitimate portions of the bill gave rise to very little discussion , and , indeed , were readily concurred in . But when the subsidy section was reached a long and elaborate debate took place which continued until 6 o'clock , and which promises to extend far into the night tomorrow . The discussion was opened by Mr. Beck , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised the point of order that the amendment in question was not relevant to the bill . Dir . Whyte sent to the Clerk 's desk the Senate Journal of May 23 , last , in order to show that when this identical point of order was interposed to the consideration of a similar proposition to subsidize a Brazilian mail steamship line , as an amendment to last year s Post Office Appropriation bill , the Senate , by a vote of 32 to 23. sustained the point of order . Despite this precedent , however , the Senate . by a vote of 39 to 22 , overruled Mr. Beck 's point of order . Then Mr. Edmund s raised the point of or der that the subsidy amendment was in the nature of general legislation ; and under Rule 92 could not be added to a general appropriation bill . Mr. Edmunds , in submitting his point of order , contended that the precedents established by the Senate regarding the construction of its rules , should obtain the same respect , and be regarded equally as effective , asthe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the judgment of'the Senate should be reversed in less than a year after its decision had been rendered by precisely the sane Senators . One of those long wrangles over parliamentary questions for which the Senate is so famous ensued . Mr. Blaine , who is the most ardent and enthusiastic advocate of the subsidy . called attention to the fact that the phraseology of the present amendment was different from the one excluded by the Senate last session , and that it was so framed as not to come under the inhibition of Rule 02 . Mr. Hill agreed with Mr. Blaine and said the amendment was wholly unobjectionable . Mr. Beek charged that the object of riding this subsidy ou the bill was realty to force upon the Senate the alternative of consenting to the donation of $4,000.000 to one man , or of permitting the bill to fail , and thus stop the not.tal . service of the country or make an extra session of Congress necessary . The uipporters of the subsidy appeared to be afraid to present the proposition as a separate measure . They did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The 1-louse had sent to the Senate , a clean bill , free frOM all irrelevant legislation and containing only the necessary and legitimate appropriations ' for conducting the business of the Post Office Department . Lie warned the Senate that by loading down the bill with this subsidy it was jeopardizing one of the most important bills . The discussion upon Mr. Edmunds ' point of order consumed over two hours , and was finally overruled by a vote of 33 to 26 . The consideration of the merits of the bill was then begun . Mr. Eaton moved to reduce the amount of the appropriation from $200 , - 000 to $100,000 . This wgs rejected . Mr. Eaton next moved to change the time of the duration of the contract from 10 to 4 years , which was also rejected . Mr. Bailey moved to make the time 5 years instead of 10 . Pending the discussion on this amendment the Senate went into executive session , and then adjourned . The friends of the subsidy announce that they will force a vote to-morrow . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meas. ure will pass the Senate by a majority of not less than v , and the majority may reach 15 . John Roach 's agents , who are experienced lobbyists , have their forces well in hand , and are masters of the situation . so far as the Senate is concerned . The opponents of the subsidy are determined to make a bitter resistance , and will try to divest the measure of its most objectionable features . After its passage by the Senate , the bill will go to a conference committee . It is understood that the House Appropriation Committee will never concur in the scheme , so that unless the Senate recedes the bill will fail .                     