@@741179

txt The directors of the North shore Staten Island Ferry Company have once more succeeded in " killing off " an opposition enterprise , and in rendering their monopoly stronger and more obnoxious than ever . During the first few weeks of last Summer , the boats of this company ran with ordinary regularity , and made landings at convenient points from New-Brighton to Elm Park . After a very short notice , the running of the boats to Elm Park was discontinued , under the pretext that the traffic was not great enough to pay for the fuel consumed in the passage . Relying on the good faith of the company , quite a number of families had removed to Elm Park from New-York and . elsewhere . Some had purchased , and others had rented , houses for the year , so that none could leave precipitately without suffering a loss they could not afford . At the time , it was pretty broadly asserted " that the directors owned property at Brighton and West Brighton , and stopped the boats from running to Elm Park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter village and the villages in which they were interested . This assertion was soon considerably strengthened by a change of the time-table in so far as it related to Port Richmond . In spite of the fact that the residents of Port Richmond had done much for the company when it stood in need of help , they were suddenly compelled to get along as best they could with about half the usual number of trips . It was shrewdly calculated , no doubt , that , while this move would not materially reduce the receipts for passenger traffic , it would have the effect of inducing intending real estate purchasers not to look beyond the Brightens for safe investments . The hotel-keeper at Elm Park , who , as it so happened , was the the chief individual sufferer by the schemes of the directors . chartered a steam-boat at his own expense , and ran her in opposition . The people would have been willing to sustain her if she could have made landings as conveniently as the boats of the North Shore Company , or , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting to New-York in as good time . No allowance whatever was given for the obstacles incident to a new enterprise , and the result was ' that the hotel-keeper , finding his purse becoming lighter day after day , without a reasonable prospect of making up the deficit , at last canceled his contract with the owners and withdrew from the field . In a few months after the hotel-keeper 's experience , " indignation " meetings were held simultaneously at West Bith ton and Port Richmond , and a project agreed upon which took shape in the charter or purchase of the Thomas P. Way , a favorite steam-boat of the Newark and New-York line . In November last this vessel began to run . It was calculated , and with good reason , that if the scheme could be made to pay expenses in Winter it would produce a handsome profit for the stockholders in the Spring arid Summer . There was a " mistake " made in selecting the managers . The Thomas P. Way has recently been withdrawn from service , upon the pretext that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by agreeing to run their boats regularly to Port Richmond . The Thomas P. Way ran the whole distance to Elm Park , and made all landings . This the North Shore Company , as will be observed , does - not propose to do , so that in point of fact the cause for grievance is just as great as ever . The North Shore Company only desires to have the track clear for the Spring and Summer traffic . To this circumstance is doubtless due its indifference to the running of the opposition boat in the " dead season . " There is a crumb of comfort , however , for those who have suffered from the grasping policy of the ferry company , in the prospect held out by the directors of the Staten Island Central Railroad , who promise to begin the work of building a line from West New-Brighton to the extreme west end of the island within thirty days , and to establish a steam ferry between port Richmond and Bergen Point , to connect with the Central Railroad of New-Jersey . Some of our readers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt in August last to establish a ferry connection of this nature . Although the entire cost was not to exceed $30,000 , the scheme remained unperfected down to a few weeks ago , when the Central Company went to the rescue , end took charge of it . returning the deposits on stock to the different subscribers . What is being done at present looks like business , and for the sake of all concerned it is to be hoped that there may be no more of those discouraging delays which hitherto have been a bar to the substantial progress of the island .                     