@@741481

txt Now that their political excitement has partially subsided , the people of Missouri are stimulating their nerves with a new sensation , somewhat vaguely described al3 " the alleged materialization of departed spirits . " It is no member of the noted club of speculative philosophers in St. Louis who has invented this new pastime for the credulous , but a plain man living in an obscure village in a remote county , whither many visitors are latterly flocking . This humble citizen has impressed goodly numbers of his townfolk that when he is in the proper mood he can summon spirits from the unseen world , bid them take on the shape in which they appeared while living , human beings , and compel them to converse with such friends as may be present . The local newspapers still remain a little incredulous , and one of them is bold enough to venture the suggestion that the medium who pretends to effect these wonders is a humbug . The testimony of the medium 's neighbors , however , is remarkably clear and circumstantial . Men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , assert that they have seen their acquaintances who died many years ago , and . have conversed with them . One impulsive witness grows eloquent over the mysterious appearance , at the medium 's high behest , of a defunct Confederate General , who peered out , from the dark cabinet in which the master of the mysteries was imprisoned , and politely said , " Good evening . " Another witness testifies that hearing himself called . by name , he went forward to the window of the cabinet , and there saw a friend whose form he had followed to the tomb many months before . The conversation which he and others held with this " materialized spirit " was rather prosaic , but apparently quite convincing . Many other loved and lost ones , we are told , came and . held communion with the circle of believers at different times , and even wrote them notes , and we are asked to believe that departed Mothers returned to pat their sons upon their heads . All this , we are informed , took place while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the-cabinet , whence poured . the'procession of re-embodied spirits . This is " monstrous sad . " Who can hereafter draw his parting breath in peace , when reflecting on the horrible possibility of being interviewed after death ? And . in view of the wonderful disclosures of the Missouri medium , ' what have the materialists to say ? Is " George Eliot " doomed to renounce her longing for the " choir invisible , " and to stoically make up her mind to be summoned one day back to earth to settle some dispute as to the price of her copyrights , or give her opinion on the literature of some future generation ? Wiii1x31 SHAKESPEARE to rob us of our dearest idol and ideal , by appearing in " his habit as he lived , " and bringing his real face to set PAGE mad , and to drive sculptors to despair ? Will the " peerless HELEN " . come Out of the night of time and the half-forgotten siege of Troy to show us that she was at best but a half-grown girl , and niayhap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Will all the buried bores in Christendom take advantage of this " materialization of spirits " to come back and ply their wonted tortures on living victims ? ' The thOught is too terrible . The Missouri medium is an ' enemy to tradition , to romance , and to peace . If there is anything more incredible than the story of the medium 's exploits , it is the statement that there are people foolish enough to believe in them . The awe-stricken pilgrims who gather in crowds about the domicile of this rural impostor really believe that men and women who have passed into the " infinite gloom " beyond us come back to peep , like puppets from a showman 's box , and to exchange commonplace familiarities of speech with mourning friends . The medium has admitted , at one of his seances , that there are some spirits which he is unable to " materialize , " and Ins believers will , therefore , breathe the more freely than if his power were illimitable . But he already has tricks enough to give him a wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a host of scurvy imitators , who will cover ' the land with their nauseous exhibitions of blasphemous trickery . Perhaps if some of the Missourians in the medium 's neighborhood recover their senses , they may give the presumptuous fellow the freedom of a horse-pond . It might place a sudden check upon his wild career as a " materializer of spirits . "                     