@@741483

txt It is the good fortune of the Republican State Convention , in its meeting to-day , that it need . not ask for the confidence of the people on mere promises , nor is it compelled to build itself up solely by accusations against its rivals . Three years ago the people recalled the Republican Party to power so far as it was then possible . A year later the Government was entirely given over to its charge . In the coming election the party has the opportunity  --  and recognizes the duty - eof resting its claims on the manner in which it has done its work in this State . Of course , the election has a national significance , and a certain national importance . It will determine the political character of Mr. ** successor in the Senate , and its result will , to some extent , show whether the current of public opinion in the largest , and , on the whole , the most important State , of the Union , is favorable or unfavorable to the National Administration . The fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Governor and the Assembly will bring national issues more or less prominently into the canvass . But the election is essentially a State election , and must necessarily turn , to a great extent , on the popular idea of the character of the State Administration . That this fact is generally appreciated is shown by the powerful public sentiment in favor of the renomination of Gov . Dix . He is held in high esteem , and his return to his present office is so emphatically demanded , simply because he is the head of an administration which has been conducted with energy , integrity , and success . As the head . of the Administration , his merits are generally recognized , being at once solid . and . conspicuous . No one , however , would . more promptly than he recognize the fact that his efforts have been heartily seconded by his colleagues , and . that the Republican Legislatures to which he has addressed himself have shown , on the whole , a spirit in practical sympathy with his own . The work which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the management of State affairs was a very heavy and a very difficult one , and . the machinery . which it had at its command to accomplish this work was by no means perfect . The Democracy , under the inspiration and guidance of Tammany , had . introduced not only corruption but confusion into every branch of the Government . Several of the executive departments , were conducted with a degree of heedlessness , a neglect of the requirements of law and a subordination of public interests to private greed that have never had a parallel in our State . Our readers have not forgotten the condition of things which it became our duty to expose in the Insurance Department  --  an exposure which drove the then head of that department into private life . The trial now going on at Albany of a subordinate in the Treasurer 's Department for one of the most impudent and . easy robberies of the State Treasury ever known , shows how careless , if nothing worse , was the administration of affairs there . That the canal business was largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who , by their patronage and plunder , were able , in the interior , to rival Tammany in New-York , and to establish a partnership in theft and . politics , is a fact for which we have the word of JOHN KELLY , who was an active member of one branch of the combination . The Judiciary , as we all rememberawas disgraced and embarrassed by the presence of BARNARD and . CARDOZO , and . by the success with which unprincipled members of the Bar , led by such men as FIELD and SHEARMAN , had perverted the courts to the selfish purposes of corrupt and greedy clients . When we remember that the cases here mentioned were but the more conspicuous examples of a demoralization that had been spread throughout the whole State administration until officers , with rare exception , from the Governor down to the page boys of the Legislature , looked on their duties in a false light , and tried to serve themselves rather than the people , we can form some idea of the task which the Republican Party assumed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performed creditably , so far as time and circumstances have allowed . That the work is not complete is obvious enough ; that is one reason why the people will do well to keep the Republicans in power ; they are the only party that can finish what they have begun . Certainly a great deal has been done . The Judiciary was promptly relieved of its objectionable members after a struggle which , in the vigor and skill with which it was conducted , reflects the highest credit on those to whom it was committed . The executive departments have been very generally reorganized . The canals have been managed . with exceptional energy and . honesty . New safeguards have been placed about the transaction of the financial business of the State . The sinking funds  --  the most sacred of trusts to any modern State  --  which had been depleted by the recklessness of the Democrats of six millions and a half , have been re-established ; fifteen millions of dollars are now standing to their credit . and they are steadily being put in such shape that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uses to which they are by law devoted . Great changes for the better have been made iu the manner of conducting business in the Legislature . The lobby has been shorn of much of its power . Methodical and intelligible forms have taken the place of the purposely confused and careless style of management that prevailed under TWEED , and though much remains to be done , two Republican Legislatures have successively recommended to the people constitutional amendments which , if adopted , will make greater reforms practicable and reasonably certain . It is impossible not to recognize in these facts the generally just and upright spirit of the Republican Party and its fidelity , as a whole , to the trusts reposed in it . Either the men whom the party has elected have performed their work well because they are themselves in earnest in it , in which case the party must have the credit of selecting such men , or they have done the work in order to keep in favor with the party , which is a very practical proof of the disposition of the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Republican Administration has come , in part , from both these motives . We do not pretend that our party is without poor instruments among those it has chosen . But we think we can safely say that the average character of its instruments is better , and the average character of the party itself is higher , than in the case of its opponents . We have a right to be judged on the evidence . We do not ask anything more . And we have sufficient confidence in the candor and good sense of the community to believe that the confidence which is due to the party will not be withheld from it .                     