@@741601

txt The present condition of the mining districts of Pennsylvania shows the combination of evils which may arise from the abuse of the union system . That system is acknowledged by the laws , and it is founded upon a principle which has come to be accepted as legitimate and sound . Men have a right to sell the labor of their hands just as they sell any tangible property that they possess . They have the right to get the highest price for it that they can ; and also to refuse to give it for a lower price than they themselves may think it worth . In this respect a working man stands in exactly the same position as anybody else who has anything to dispose of . The error he commits is in supposing that he has privileges which belong to him exclusively . A grocer or a baker may sell his goods at any price that he pleases to fix , if the public will take them at that price . But he can not go to his neighbor in the same trade and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or take the alternative of being shot . If any storekeeper were to adopt such a line of proceeding , he would very soon find himself in the power of the Police , and he would either have to learn that there is some force with the law in such cases , or be locked up as a lunatic . The evil that has come from trades-unions is not a consequence of their legitimate use , but of the gross abuses to which they have been applied . If a combination among the bakers existed by whichsuch a case as that we have mentioned were possible , and violence were appealed to in order to maintain a high price of bread , the working , men  --  the same who are now members of trades-unions in their own interest  --  would be the first to protest against it . And if moral force were not sufficient to stop it , there is every likelihood that stronger measures would not be left untried . Yet , it is the same abuse of the power of combination which the miners in Pennsylvania are now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have adopted . The miners have a right to fix the minimum price which they will accept for their labor , and they have also the right . to combine in order to maintain that price , and to strike work when they can not get it . But there their rights cease . They have none whatever which entitle them to resort to violence , or to threaten others , or to prevent others from working - at a lower rate than themselves . As soon as they attempt to do this the law should be found . strong enough to deal-svith them as enemies of society , and to punish them summarily with all the rigor that such an offense demands . Demagogues and professional agitators have done much to place the workingmen m a false position on these questions . They have talked about them as a contest between capital and labor , when , primarily , they are nothing of the kind . If they have come to assume that form , it is the agitaters themselves who are responsible for it . If workingmen abuse their privileges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonder if employers also combine for their own protection . It is only then that the character of the contest becomes apparent . But even without any combination on the part of the capitalists , the evils that are wrought through the abuses we condemn are fully brought out . Workmen are too apt to calculate the cost of a strike on a basis of the money paid out of the union funds to maintain them in idleness . But this is only a fraction of the cost . The burden falls upon a much larger circle than is comprised by the limits of the union . It may extend over the trade of the entire country , and it would not be difficult to adduce instances where it has so extended . The loss affects the entire community more or less remotely . It may , too , affect the public revenues , and it often does so . The question then plainly is , whether such a system should in the interests of the public be tolerated , or whether it should not be severely repressed . The country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceedings as those which are now making life and property unsafe in Pennsylvania . Let us by all means avoid all interference with the unions so long as they keep within their legitimate duties , but the moment they exceed them , the law must step in and punish offenders unflinchingly . If the workmen around Hazleton do not want to work , let them stop . But directly they begin to prevent other men from working , and take up arms to destroy the privileges which belong rightfully to their employers , they should . be taken and punished . A salutary lesson in this direction is very much needed .                     