@@741877

txt The political situation in Michigan is not clear , but is clearing . The Republican organization in the State was never in better condition than now , so far , at least , as it is poaeible , to judge from external appearances . The hard and bitter contest over the Senatorial election of 1875 , which ended in the defeat of Mr. Chandler , with his powerful backing and his firm hold upon the regular machinery , Judge Chrietiancy being elected in his stead by a combination of the antiChandler Republicans with the solid strength of the Opposition , was not fol. lowed by any schism in the ranks of the dominant tarty . The anti-Chandler Republicans proved rational and modest in their victory , and the friends of the defeated candidate , after some brief irritation as the natural result of the exceeding soreness of their disappointment , accepted the situation philosophically , and made no attempt to perpetuate disorganizing differences . In the Legislature the anti-Chandler men , who hold some of the most important committee chairmanships , acted cordially with their associates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceptible of the struggle which made its first fortnight memorable in the political history of . Michigan . In the State at large the high order of Judge Christiancy 's ability , and his lifelong record as a stanch Republican , led to a prompt acquiescence in his election , which his own straight . forward course in identifying himself at Washington with the majority in the Senate first confirmed and then strengthened . As a result of these Judie ' . ens steps , the party in Michigan entered into a State election three months after this heated contest , and gained one of the most complete victories in its history , increasing upon a full vote Gov . Bagley 's majority of 2,032 in 1874 to 26,073 , one of the largest ever given in the State . No election has been hold here since this one in April last , and thus there has been no absolute nieasuro applied to the Republican strength , but careful and experienced observers agree that the general condition of the party in this State is more than usually healthful , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee , at a meeting held in this city early in this month , called the convention for the choice of delegates to Cincinnati to meet at Grand Rapids on the 10th of May . The natural result of this action has been a general canvassing of the Presidential question in the journals , among the politicians , in business circles , and throughout the masses of the voters . Of coarse , there has been neither time nor opportunity for public opinion to crystallize in this matter into any definite and organized form , but there is manifest already a decided " drift " to:what is at best thus far a desultory expression of independent views . The salient facts ot tho situation seem to be these : 1 . The " third term " spectre does not haunt Mich. igen Republicanism . No Republican papers , no " managers " of the least influence , no organizations of any kind are urging in this State . the second re-election of President Grant . Two of the Michigan Representatives  --  Messrs . Bradley and Hubbell  --  voted in the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentlemen have stated that they did so as a protest against Democratic dictation and against the lugging into the House of extraneous matter , and the course of each in going thus far even has been freely criticised by the home papers . It may be safely said that neither gentleman intended to commit himself to a third term , and no political tendency in that direction exists in this State . 2 . To-day the current of feeling here is strongly in favor of Mi . Blaine . He is well known in this region , and has many personal friends of influence iu the State . A majority of the Republican weeklies of the State have formally declared for him . The general tenor of journalistic comment points clearly in the same direction , and influential politicians in different localities are co-operating to give definite and effective form to the movement in his interest . But , be it borne in mind , this.is nota stream flowing in a well-worn channel , but a freshet of recent origin . The question is , will it resolve itself before May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in volume and force , and disappear I 3 . Mr. Bristow is not without a strong body of friends in Michigan . The record of his Cabinet administration has secured for him throughout the North-west a firm hold upon public confidence , a popularity of an enviable sort . His Western location is also an argument that helps his cause . To-day he is certainly " the second choice " of this State , and the interval between him and Mr. Blaine is not a long one , 4 . Postmaster General Jewell is one of the bestknown iu Michigan of the public men of other States . Ho has large mercantile interests in this city , and is a frequent visitor here . Should his name assume prominence in connection with the Presidential nomination , a strong influence in his favor from Michigan would be certain . 5 . Of the other candidates now prominent before the people , neither Senator Conkling , Senator Morton , nor Mr. Washburn() have any active strength here at present . Their names are but rarely mentioned in the State papers , nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their behalf . It is a matter ot current . rumor in well-Informed circles that Secretary Chandler , ( whose wishes are potent in shaping political action in this State , ) is hostile to Mr. Morton , and it is not generally believed that ho will be inclined to help Mr. Conkling . The prevailing impression is that the ex-Senator is enlisted in Mr. Blaine 's cause , the popular belief in this view being strengthened by the fact that Mr. Eugene Hale , Mr. Blaine'a fides Achates , is also Mr. Chandler 's son-in-law . There is a decided probability that the Michigan delegates at Cincinnati will present Senator Ferry 's name in connection with the Vice Presidency . The convention that will elect them meets in that portion of the State in which his friends are especially numerous and active , and the outside influences will , without doubt , be largely in his favor . This movement will , of course , be aided by the Senator 's marked success in tilling the Senate Presidency , and if the anti-contraction element of the West and South should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find a very fruitful source ot support in his well-known sympathy with its slows upon the currency question . Given an Eastern hard-money man as the Presidential candidate , and Mr. Ferry 's friends believe that his name can bo pressed for the second place upon the ticket with very decided prospects of a nomination .                     