@@781620

txt Fulda has some pretensions to be considered the Get man Canterbury . It contains the greateat of the abbeys founded by the Alaistle of Germany  --  Saint BoNIFAcE  --  and it contains tomb . Its Prince Bishops had 110 mean eminence in their day , and thronehout all the centuries that have witnessed the succession of its four great cathedrals , Fulda has been a centre , first of Christian influence and then of gradually hardening types of ecclesiasticism . The Roman Catholic Bishops of Prussia , who meet to-day in the little provincial capital of Hesse-Cassel to consult about the perils that environ themselves and their church , only follow the precedent that has been foilc.mcd throughout the recent exciting years of civil and religions unrest . It was a memorable meeting which the German Bishops held at Fulda in September , 1269 , previous to the assembling of the Vatican Council . The letters of " Janus " had by that time awakened all Germany to the dangers to be apprehended from the threatened elevation of Papal into a dogma , and from the restrictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom of discussion in the approaching council . To counteract the effect of these representations , the bishops in conference at Fulda issued pastorals assuring their flocks and the world generally that discussion would be entirely free in the council ; that the influence and designs of the Jesuits were equally misunderstood , and that there was an extreme improbability of the council making any addition to the dogmas of the Church . The result showed , however , that " Janus " was right and the Bishops wrong , and the very men who had been most zealous in opposition to the decrees of the council wore compelled in August , 1871 , to meet wrath . at Fulda , and to demand that all under their episcopal authority should " believe with a faith as firm as a rock the decrees of the council to be true . " . Since that time the episcopal deliberations at Fulda have , been frequent and anxious . VON ARNIM , the Prussian Embassador at the Papal Court , gave warning , during the sittings of the council , that to convert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriously disturb the good understanding hitherto maintained between Church and State in Germany , while the further addition to the absolute prerogatives of the Roman See involved in the dogma of infallibility would add to the difficulties of keeping religion and politics from coming into collision . The warning was unheeded , and the Prussian Government was very soon compelled to take up the gauntlet thrown down to it by the council . One of the Catholic instructors of the higher schools sustained by State aid was excommunicated for refusing to submit to the new dogma , and his removal was demanded by his ecclesiastical superior . The Prussian Government refused to admit that a denial of the Pope 's infallibility made a man any less a Catholic , and the legal validity of that decision has been sustained by all the courts . The Bishops assembled at Fulda made haste to protest ataiust " treating the Catholic Church as if it were beyond the protection of law , " and the Emperor replied that further legislation would be provided to meet the exigencies of the case . This proved to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again at Fulda in April , 1872 , to consult as to what they were going to do about it . That meeting was chiefly devoted to the discussion of the law removing the inspectorship of the public schools from religious control and intrusting it to appointees of the Government . The Bishops decided that since this law could not be evaded , the only course loft was submission , even though its operation would be a serious blow to the influence of the Church in Prussia . The law about the religious orders  --  directed specially against the Jesuits  --  furnished the occasion for another episcopal conference at Fulda in September , 1872 . The indignant tone which characterized the memorial adopted at this meeting , grew still more indignant at the conference which followed the promulgation of the Falk laws in May , 1873 . The Prussian bishops then declared that they " are unable to co-operate in carrying the laws of May into effect , because they violate the rights and liberties belonging to the church of God . " The first prelate to suffer for offenses against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gnesen , and , by a secret appointment from Rome , Primate of all Poland . By judicial seatonco he has recently been deprived of the right to exercise episcopal jurisdiction in Prussia , and the Cathedral Chapter of Posen has been requested to submit for the approval of the Government the name of a Vicar General to temporarily administer the affairs of the diocese . Obedience to Rome compels this body to deny the right of the civil power to regulate in any fashion whatever the status of a Bishop , and they have accordingly replied that they do not recognize the see as vacant . The Government is , of course , perfectly prepared for the action thus forced upon it , and is equally alive to the gravity of the results which will attend its next step . Au administrator of the Diocese of Posen and GlIetiell will be appointed without the consent of the chapter , and his authority will , of course , he first denied , and then resisted , by every priest who is not prepared for the major excommunication and for taking his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government will retain possession - of the churches of the province ; those who abide by Rome  --  and hi Posen they will certainly be the majority , both among priests and people  --  will become , in the eye of the law , a new and dangerous religious sect . In the face of this grave crisis , which may be expected to repeat itself all over Prussia , the Bishops have met again at Fulda . Their success in dealing with such emergencies in the past hardly warrants the conclusion that they will do more with this one than repeat the sullen and dogged non possumus , which is the highest expression of all recent Papal policy . The cable transmits the rumor that they are desirous of effecting a compromise with the Government , but short of their absolute submission to the laws of the realm , the Government is not at all likely to listen to any new proposals from that source .                     