@@742816

txt The Board of Education of the City have had their first annual meetings , and have set in motion the educational work for the Winter . Of all the branches of Municipal administration , this , though the most quiet and the least known , is by far the most important . It , more than any other , shapes the future of the City , and ou its wisdom and faithfulness will depend largely the character and intelligence of the masses who will govern this community in the next generation . Under the new method of appointment , the character and position of this board has greatly risen , and most of the members seem honestly to consult the public good under such light as they have . The officials of the board , especially the Superintendent and Assistant Superintendents , are men of wisdom and decided ability . Owing to the good sense of all these , we have escaped in New-York the unpleasant contests which have so disturbed public education in , for instance , the Connecticut schools , in regard to sectarian differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public schools or over the Trustees of Education than have Methodist ministers or Jewish rabbis . No teacher is appointed or dismissed on account of religious belief , and if , as is possible , in certain wards the teachers are Roman Catholic . nothing is known publicly of the matter . No attempt has been made , or could succeed , as was done , for instance , in Waterbury , to open school ercises with an Ave Maria , or to employ in one school only Catholic teachers . Both sides , though not fully approving , agree here to the compromise of opening school with the Bible reading , " without note or comment , " and the Lord 's Prayer . Indeed , the law of the State compels them to this . It is certainly to be hoped that less than this will not be permitted by public opinion . The most extreme German skeptic and pe ssimist must agree that in this " worst possible world , " the only good thing is morality , and that the best support of right living and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be truth or myth . And when they remember that to a large part of the masses , the only reminder in the twentyfour hours of things above the life around them are these simple religious exereise.i , they could not surely desire them utterly swept away . Everything is fairly prosperous in our school administration , except certain great mistakes , or errors , which belong to the whole system . As is well known , we have not school room enough in certain wards , and we provide too much for the well off and too little for the poor . The great problem of education for the ignorant and degraded is not at all solved in the City . The industrial schools and lodging-house schools reach , it is true , many thousands of the street-wandering and destitu , : e classes . Their work is indispensable to the welfare of the City . Bat they can not , in the nature of things , furnish accommodation for all this miserable and ignorant multitude . The public night schools do , indeed , reach a considerable number , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and are only open some four months . They ought to be increased , and afternoon sessions added , no as to reach such children as are employed a part of the day , and they should be fed through the Compulsory law . The board has had its Truant Officers out and has fore e d manytruant children to attend school under this law . But there can be no doubt that much more could be accomplished by the board under this act , if they were hearty in the effort . The great school for vagabonds and thieves is the street-life -- such es the little Italian boot-blacks , for instance , lead -- where there is an aatuarent street occupation , but real vs ? Taney , The streets are full of such children , and from them come most of our criminals . It would not be a great stretch of authority for the o neer ? of the board at least to frighten those young vagabonds into ; ; chool . The foreign class of ignorant people yield readily to law , or the appearance of law . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a general introduction of More inventive , and a doin4 away of the mechanical , methods of teaching . A teacher 's art ought to take on constantly now features , to avoid ruts , and seak fresh a ad ingenious methods and now paths . There are modes now practiced in teaching A , B , C , which are ingenious aid very successful ; the Kindergarten methods could some of them be adopted even in oar primaries ; the object system should be applied in the oh er schools in teaching natural science , a id ordinary English branohes can be made a new study under these fresh methods . A great deal could be learned . from Germ en systems of instruction , Eor these far surpa ss ours in Originality , and in the substituti of reasoning habits for memorizing . Lll this progress will depend very much on t co intelligence of the Assistant ** dent .                     