@@781619

txt Alas for the idyllic prose of How , the deep financial scheming of President STOCKWELL , and the princely free port conjured up by the imagination of Mr. S. L. M. BARLow ! The great Samana Bay Convention has , in the vernacular of the street , " busted . " The East India Company of the future has dissolved into thin air , and the balmy paradise of the West Indies is about to revert to the possession of the sable children of the soil . We fear that the people of the United States have never been properly impressed with the value of the prize which seems to have slipped from their grasp . The new Eldorado , with its unworked deposits of gold and copper , its uugarnered crop of precious stones , and all the vague possibilities of its commercial future , was , it is true , acquired simply for the purpose of making money by a somewhat adventurous , but highly respectable , body of financiers . But then , was it not , in a strategic sense , the key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an admirable coaling station for our fleet ; was it not destined to be the great sanitorium of the Union ; were we not , in short , to quote Mr. BA PLOW 'S eloquent words some fifteen months ago , to derive from this purchase all the advantages of the annexation scheme , without any of its costs and responsibilities ? There were , indeed , people who declined to believe that we wanted either a key , a coaling station , or a sanitoriem , and who scoffed at the idea of a tropical free port , with its own flag , its own fleet , and its own colored policemen . But it was not for such querulous patriots that Dr. Howu piped his oaten reed , and Mr. BAnt.ow blew a loud blast on the trumpet of fame . The " great heart of the nation " may be fairly supposed to have been greatly stirred by the cootemplation of the glorious future of Samaria Bay , mid will , of course , be correspondingly lacerated by the sudden eclipse of that vision of empire . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner , with a suitable force , is . already on his way to wrench the sceptre of American civilization from the hands of Dr. HowE , to send Capt . SA3ICELS adrift in a leaky boat , provisioned with moldy biscuit , maybap , and to hail the bold Gov . FABENS , should he show the slightest signs of resistance , away to a Haytien dungeon . For , be it noted , all the impending trouble is the result of the diabolical malevolence of Hayti , aided and abetted by a free expenditure of British gold . The Government with whom the treaty was made was equally distinguished for the sincerest friendship and the most remarkable evidences of refinement . President BAEz was pronounced to be " an intelligent and cultivated gentleman , " and his agents were as much noted for the suavity of their style of letter-writing gas for their " straightforward manner of conducting business . " Then there was that remarkable plebiscitum , which settled beyond all dispute the question of the burning eagerness of about 100,000 Spaniards , creoles , and negroes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the commercial Republic of Samana . A year ago , the idea that there could be any possible want of harmony between the twin republics of San Domingo was scouted as too ridiculous for discussion . And yet here is this provisional Government , which has risen like an exhalation from the salubrious marshes of the tropical paradise , and which is neither suave nor cultivated , but which exhibits a brutal straightforwardness in bidding the American adventurers " get out ! " We can imagine Dr. flown calmly facing the emissaries of this upstart power with the proud boast " Civie.Romanue sum , " while Capt . SAMUELS wraps himself up in the ample folds of the Stars and . Stripes , and . Gov . FABENS looks vainly around for the nucleus of his Police force . But while the pioneers of empire , the apostles of a new civilizing experiment , are being ejected . like any common tenant for being in arrears with their rent , what is President GRANT or Secretary FISH or both Houses of Congress going to do about it ? It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original agreement providing that any misunderstanding between the Dominican Government and the Samana Company shall be referred to an European Government for arbitration . This intrigue about union with Hayti , and looking toward the loan of a considerable sum of British gold , " pay-. able at convenience and without interest , " of course , result in the refusal to listen to any parley on the subject of arbitation . The present Government of San Domingo has this much in common with all its pre- . decessors  --  it is urgently in want of money . The Samana , Company seems to be in the not uncommon predicament of not having money enough with which to pay its way . But still American citizens who start commercial republics , and introduce a new flag into the bunting of all nations , have certain rights which even impecunious Governments may not disregard . We are not quite sure whether anybody is hurt yet , but it will probably be better to prepare for the worst . The Cuban contingent of the Herald , headed by its " intellectual staff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a pleasant and becoming thing to die for one 's country , and we know of no body of belligerents whom the country that shelters them could more readily spare . If a Treasury contractor or two , and . say one notorious member of " the origina Lone Star League , " could be thrown in , we should ' have the double satisfaction of a good . riddance and of having made some provision against a threatening emergency . We should like to suggest some way in which the injured stockholders could more effectually vindicate their rights , but we fear that is out of the question .                     