@@740805

txt Yesterday there occurred on the Oregon and California Railroad , between this city and Salem , one of the most thrilling railroad incidents we have ever heard of . which , while it demonstrates the foolhardiness or some people , also shows now near there came to being a terrible railroad accident . The following particulars . furnished to our reporter by an eye-witness , may be relied upon as true : When the down train came near one of the stations on the road it was running at full speed . in order to make up time , as it was a few minutes behind . The road at this point runs through a Out something more than a mile in length , and in entering it the road makes a curve , so that the engineer can not see entirely through it . He bad hardly gotten into the cut before he saw a woman riding leisurely through it , using the centre of the track . She was not more than half way through the cut , and barely a quarter of a mile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and then sounded the warning . The woman , hearing the peculiar death-whistle of the locomotive . looked over her snoulder and saw the trainrushing at her . She aid not shriek , nor faint , nor give up all hope , but , like a true Weofoot , her courage rose equal to the emergency , and , without a moment 's hesitation , she commenced swinging her riding-whip from one shoulder of her steed to the other , thereby urging him to exert his utmost speed . The shrieking of the locomotive 's whistle caused the passengers to loot out of the windows . and upon their discovering what was the matter the wildest excitement ensued . Several jumped forward atd seized the bell-rope , and commenced pulling on it as it they could stop the train by that means . The brakemen were exerting all their strength on the brakes , and the engineer had cut off the connection and was doing all that he knew to atop the train , while the woman was doing her level best to urge that bit of horse-flesh to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept gaining on the , horse and its rider , and there was hardly a person on the train who did not expect that both the woman and horse would be killed . There was , perhaps , thirty feet intervening between the cow-catcher and the horse 's heels when , fortunately for the woman , she observed a place which was a little wider than usual , and with a steady rein she guided the teeing horse from the track and endeavored to press him against the wall of the out , in order that the train might pass by without injury . In doing tins the woman was encouraged by SAM WLIANS , the connuctor , who had run forward and got on the locomotive . A few seconds only passed by when the fiery monster poked its nose past the rump of the horse . At this moment ND:ANS threw his whole force against the animal and held him until the train stopped , and then a rousing cheer of gratillmtion and joy at the escape of the woman from a terrible death was given . 