@@741283

txt The industrial exhibitions at New-York , Brooklyn , Cincinnati , Louisville , Chicago , &c.,; are not valuable solely for the light they throw upon the growing industries of their several neighborhoods ; they have a broader significance . In the West there never was so much local pride enlisted in their behalf , and never were they so worthy of it . The older portions of that section sometime since became tired of being exclusively agricultural communities , and the growth of manufactures there is only limited by scarcity of capital . A home market for the farmer is their most effectual remedy for transportation exactions . Let the bulk of the cereals grown be consumed upon the spot , cattle and sheep raised , and then the earth , that bank that only responds to the drafts upon her as long as the farmer keeps his account good by thorough culture , will always yield a bountiful harvest , since manure will be cheap and abundant , and the ground will not be exhausted .. Diversified industry , self-reliance , and an immense advance in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the present Western industrial exhibitions show a large and growing measure of success . The East will meet this rivalry in a generous spirit , and redouble her exertions to maintain the ground which she now holds , while our own City , the centre of distribution for both exports and imports , feels that anything which increases the wealth or improves the labor of any part of the country is to her advantage . A no less marked feature of these exhibitions is their culture of the arts . They are no longer dry , prosaic displays of industrial activity merely , but painting , sculpture , and music refine and idealize them . Their architectural arrangements are in as good taste as the supreme claims of business necessity will ' permit , symmetry and beauty being sought for in the interior decorations of the buildings . Good pictures are often procured from a long distance , and " native talent " is also encouraged . Whatever cultivates the sense of the beautiful in the workman usually makes him a better artisan . Trade furnishes an illustration of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American carpets over their English rivals , which they , in great measure , owe to the variety , beauty , and brilliance of their patterns and their constant novelty . Music ordinarily adds its enjoyment to these exhibitions , care being generally taken to secure the very best attainable . The growth of taste in this direction for the last few years is very marked ; in many quarters it is attributed to the influence of-the German population . Tim there are " object lessons " for the children in everything they see , and as in some of these exhibitions the process of manufacturing is constantly going on , they serve also as schools of technical instruction . But perhaps the most valuable lesson they teach , is the testimony they bear to the dignity and value of labor in their inexhaustibly varied contrivances to save it . Man is not a mere beast of burden , according to the American theory of labor , to be half-fed and miserably housed . We think such a system does not pay , and ' that capital will he better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , intelligent labor , of large physical capabilities , and able to direct and control the powers of nature . Europe goes upon the opposite hypothesis ; a crowded population , excess of labor supply , and cheap wages  --  these are assumed to be the conditions of success . It is said that the ordinary diet of a countryman in the South of Spain , with his miserable pittance of thirty cents a day , consists of a curious mess , to furnish which he boils in water one kilo of bread and one ounce of olive oil , and this serves for his entire subsistence for one day . Very few of the workmen , even of the superior class , partake of animal food , and . consequently they can not make any great physical exertions . At a blast fur nace near Malaga , ( says Mr. LOWTMAN BELL , President of the Iron and Steel Institute , England , ) making thirty-five tons of ' iron per week , four persons were constantly engaged at the hearth , whose united wages amounted to only Gs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an average of 1s. 8%d. each . As there was not the slightest stimulus given to labor , four men were also required to fill the furnace in question ; thus , as he adds , there were twice as many workmen engaged in turning out only the same quantity of iron in one week as some of the English furnaces , where men are better paid , can do in twelve hours . We manage things on a better system here .                     