@@741470

txt When the Democratic Party ceased to be a pro-slavery party , it ceased to have any common purpose by which it could be held together , and by which it could attract any considerable number of adherents from other organizations . AB a pro-slavery party it offered to its members several distinct sets of motives , all , however , impelling to . the same end . In the South it was distinctly pro-slavery , and Southern Democrats were mostly Unionists only when they thought the Union was the best defense for slavery . In the North it was more a Union partythan a pro-slavery party , and was the latter because before the war concessions to slavery seemed the only means of preserving the Union . In addition to these motives to unity , there were those which are common to all parties  --  the passions and prejudices of partisanship , and the interests of the office-holders and office-seekers  --  so that the Democracy was compact , united , and ? welldisciplined until 1860 . Since then it has been a wreck , and is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had gone with it for the preservation of the Union only to serve slavery taking the side of the South ; those who had gone with it in its concessions to slavery only in the hope of preserving the Union taking to the Republican ranks , and the partisans and office-seekers going , some in one direction , some in another , and some remaining under the old standard . The Democratic Party has never recovered from this disintegration . How could it ? The former aims of the party were either accomplished or forever abandoned . The Union , for which many of its members had a profound attachment , had been established by war , and without the aid of the Democrats as a party . Slavery , which to a large part . of its members had been the one supreme object of all political action , was dead . To all intents and purposes the Democratic Party has , for ten years , been a thing more of the past than of the present . Why , then , has it not disappeared . ? Why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it that leaves it , in its barren state , power to maintain an active organization and to win occasional local victories ? What is the source of the vitality which survives such au offense as sympathy with the rebellion , such exposed and baffled . trickery as the Greeley movement , and such wicked blunders as the movement for the repudiation of the bonds ? The answer to these questions is not simple . The causes that have contributed to the measure of endurance shown by the Democracy are many . The party was composed largely of ignorant persons who did not easily transfer their political allegiance , and who furnished the raw material for schemers like the Tammany leaders . It was the natural resting-place of many sincere men who clung to the theories of government familiar to the Domocracy of other days . It retained the affections of the Southern whites , and the possibility of again working together in its ranks was a source of hope and . energy to many , both North and South . It was the nucleus around which all practical opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it could not of itself gain control of the Government , no third party could win without its aid . Its co-operation , therefore , was the ultimate point to which all the disappointed and all the legitimately discontented of the Republican Party had to look forward . It is by virtue of these vary various circumstances , all acting , however , toward . the same end , that the Democratic Party , while it can not make any headway toward decisive victory , is able to refuse to disband . ' But this negative existence is not very satisfactory to those politicians who are confined to it . Even were it supported . by a lofty fanaticism , such a lot would be irksome , and there is not a particle of fanaticism , or of anything like it , in the Democratic party . It is essentially a cynical party . It sneers at " moral ideas . " It has no conception of high political ' aims . It is kept up by the power of association in'the past and of hopes , not very elevated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders should reach out in every direction for some really vital principles , not held by the Republicans , around which to rally their followers , to call in recruits , tot which ' to push on to the possession of the Government . The difficulties in the way of obtaining such principles are , however , very great : Free trade is not answering well , because Pennsylvania -- a State that furnishes more Democratic votes than any other , save two , in the Union -- is for Protection , and ' because there is nowhere more than a languid interest in the subject Hard money does not prove attractive any where outside of New-York , and is blunt1 ; , rejected by Ohio , which furnishes more Democratic votes than even Pennsylvania and by Indiana and Missouri , while i is indorsed in Illinois only by the rigor= application of the party machinery . " Hone Rule "  - -  a phrase borrowed from Ireland ts express some vague notion of local self government and the reserved rights of tin States  --  is some way bitterly suggestive o Tammany rule in this State , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when this brief catalogue is exhausted the statesmen of the Manhattan Club have nothing more to offer , and fall back help . lessly on party discipline and the tricks o : the hour . These will serve to keep tin party going in the old ruts . They make ii an antagonist not to be despised , and one that it is necessary to watch . But they do nothing more . Our readers know that w ( do not underestimate the strength of tin Democracy , but it can never prove formida ? his to the Republicans so long as they arc true to themselves and to the principles that have always united them .                     