@@741437

txt The frequency of accidents in getting on and off the front platforms of street-cars calls for notice . Some time since , in response to a suggestion of the Board of Health that the front platforms should be inclosed , the Presidents of the various City railroads met in solemn conclave and discussed the matter . Their conclusion was that the proposed alteration would not only involve some outlay , but , by lessening the number of passengers who could be packed into each car , would be otherwise unprofitable . And as , of course , dividends are of far greater importance than the comfort or safety of the public , the platforms remain uninclosed , and men , women , and children are daily sacrificed to the cupidity of a few rapacious corporations . Within a week , at least a dozen accidents of this description , some resulting fatally , have been recorded in the newspapers . Others have probably occurred which have not found their way into the public prints . Thus , on Thursday evening , a man fell in attempting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hill . The driver heard , as he says , a " crunching " sound , but thought it was due to a stone on the track . The " crunching " sound was caused by the wheel passing over the man 's skull . On Friday two children were killed in different parts of this City . On Saturday no less than three casualties of the kind are reported , in two of which the victims were obliged to have both legs amputated ; while the third accident may yet prove fatal . A majority of these distressing occurrences would probably have been prevented were the front platforms of the ears properly inclosed . A majority , not all . The Bergen Hill car , which crushed a man 's skull as though it were a walnut , was inclosed in front , and the death of the unfortunate man , who was probably intoxicated , appears to have been due to his own obstinacy in attempting to climb over the inclosure . Many children are also killed from their own temerity and negligence . Accidents of this kind will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But against these it ought not to be impossible to devise other safeguards . A shield , either stationary or so arranged , if necessary , as to let down at once iu front of the wheel at the turn of the brake , would probably prevent mite out of ten such falls from resulting seriously . The ingenuity of inventors should be equal to furnishing some such device ; and since it will not take up any of the packing room which the companies prize so highly , and may , indeed , save them some expense in the way of damages , they could perhaps be induced to give it a trial .                     