@@741106

txt It may be remembered that the World explained the extraordinary letter signed " MANTON MARBLE , " which appeared in its columns last September . and . which the TIMES reproduced a day or two since , by saying that it could be " easily credited to abundant beefsteaks . " It is to be feared that the editor of that fluttering journal has again been indulging to excess in his favorite stimulant . At any rate , there is no other way in which to account for the extraordinary leader . entitled " Let Us Turn Over a New Leaf , " which appeared in yesterday 's World , unless upon the theory that the cutting down , of its bill against the Corporation has affected what the editor , in moments of self-complacency , ? calls his " brains . " In this remarkable leader a large number of reforms in Federal , State , and Municipal matters are proposed . In this City , says the editor . we need " the clearing of the streets of projecting door-steps , signs , cellar-doors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That the writer  --  subsequent to indulgence in " abundant beefsteaks found that most things with which he came in contact were of an eminently slippery character , is extremely probable . Still , his recommendation that both " air " and . " water " should be removed from the streets will hardly meet with general approval . The writer doubtless sets little store by water ; but even he would find streets wholly devoid of air nearly as dangerous as streets covered with " slippery coal . " In his solicitude for the safety of oar citizens , he desires the punishment of murderers . and to that end demands " the gallows for murderers , if necessary by the abolition of jury trials for life and the abrogation of the pardoning power in these cases . " Precisely so . Of the excellent spirit of this recommendation , there can be no question ; but if it should not be carried into effect until its meaning has been deciphered , the murderers will have no reason to feel disquieted . In matters pertaining to the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We must have , in its opinion , " no more rotten-borough States , with the Senators of New-York State , and the population of a New-York City ward . " This proposition is incontestable , but the public has not hitherto been aware that Messrs . CONKLING and FENTON , in addition to representing the State of New-York in the Senate , are also the Senators of an anonymous " rottenborough " State . We must also have , continues the World . a repeal of all laws authorizing the " President or Congress to say one set of men are Governor , Judges , and Legislature of a State . " If the President or Congress ever evinces any intention to make such an ungrammatical statement , we shall favor immediate legislation to compel them to refrain frOM their fell design . With the World 's remarks upon the civil service reform it is difficult to altogether agree . It insists that if certain things are done . " the crucial point of turning men oat will then receive the safeguards now contemplated only for the minor and subsidiary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writer did not attach explanatory notes to his article . It is therefore necessary to wait for an explanation of what constitutes " the crucial point of turning men out , " before an opinion as to the truth of the remark is ventured . Altogether , this article furnishes a melancholy proof that " abundant beefsteaks , " when rashly indulged in by the editor of the World , do not conduce to lucidity either of thought or expression . It will be interesting to note the peculiarities of the leading article in the World of this morning . If the extraordinary sentences which we have quoted were written on the last day of December , when the average man is occupied in framing resolutions of self-restraint for the coming year . what sort of writing may we not expect after a day spent , as most men spent yesterday . in social calls . not wholly unconnected with social sherry ?                     