@@742335

txt There could be no sterner condemnation of the arrangement between the Treasury and the Syndicate than is conveyed by the remark that the gold price of the four-anda-half per cents . in this market awaited orders from the head of the Syndicate in London . The popular belief is that United States Government securities have so appreciated in the European markets as to leave no doubt respecting the ability of the Treasury to float all that remains of the refunding loan at or above the minimum rates fixed by law . That , however , implies a faith on the part of European investors in the soundness of the security , without reference to any adventitious strength derived from the operations of associated bankers and agents . If this estimate of the inherent attractiveness of our Government bonds is correct , it is to be hoped that after the expiration of the current contract with the Syndicate the Secretary of the Treasury will not renew an arrangement which in any manner enables the Messrs . IZoTuseffiLD or other foreign bankers to control the price of the bonds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market . At the inception of the rebinding process some agency of this sort may have been desirable . It win a too costly agency even in the first instance , but the attempt was experimental , and the justifying circumstances soon passed away . The present arrangement grew out of the undue eagerness of the Treasury to carry forward the refunding process regardless of cost or consequences . Tho members of the Syndicate are in no degree blamable . They are at liberty to do the best they can for themselves . But the use made of their power , as indicated by yesterday 's reports , is a cogent argument against the method of managing the loan which leaves it in a large degree at the mercy of the capitalists whose only interest ill its success is derived from their profit as negotiators . It ' the credit of this country is as good abroad as it is supposed to be , the Government should be in a position to sell all that will remain of the class of bonds now offered for sale , on satisfactory terms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been exaggeration , and the success reported from the other side of the Atlantic is attributable less to confidence in the good faith of the United States than to the influence of a great firm , the only work that will devolve upon the Treasury will be to await the progress of events , rather than to remain in a position of dependence upon foreign exertions and influence which this condition of affairs involves . The tone assumed by the London leaders of the Syndicate presupposes a settled purpose on the part of the Treasury to continue , the refunding plan on the basis which has hitherto been recognized . This plan invests the Syndicate with a double function . It provides fur the calling in of six per cents and the issue of four or four and a link per cents to take their place . We have no desire to underrate the iwportance of the operation . The true cause of complaint is the persistency with which it has been carried on , regardless of considerations of still greater urgency and importance . Tho unwise policy which drained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to boast of the rapidity with which au unmatured debt was being redeemed has laid its counterpart in the narrow vision of financial duty which made everything subordinate to the reduction of interest kFi the funded debt . These ideas , each in its turn , have been enforced in season and out of season . without refer- ence to the major task of preparing for the resumption of specie payment . The time has come when this systematic neglect of a clear national Quay should cease , and when the whole business of refunding should be made subordinate to the one great Oject of accumulating gold as a preliminary to the fulfillment of a solemn national promise . The mere business of refunding the debt may , meanwhile , be conveniently deferred . It is not well to attempt two distinct and inharmonious purposes at the same moment . The substitution of one bond for another , however excellent as a means of reducing the burden of interest , may now be advantageously deferred until the direct sales of bonds have yielded to the Treasury the supply of specie which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is too brief to admit of any further waste of opportunities . Tho exiration of the present Syndicate contract will leave the Secretary free to sell bonds  --  not to convert them  --  with a view to the acquisition of the gold which is obtainable in no other way .                     