@@781800

txt The issues of the State and ' local cammign all turn upon this single question , which of the two political parties can be nest safely trusted to carry out the work of administrative retorm which is conceded on ill sides to be urgently required 1 " Senator CONKLING 's speech at the Cooper Union sat night was mainly devoted to showing hat in the light of past experience it would be sheer folly to place any confidence a the sincerity of the Democratic professions rn the subject of reform . To make this chid of argument effective , tt is , of course , iscessary to show that the party which so measly plundered the City and State beAveen 1868 and 1871 is in all essential repoets identical with the party which is laiming the suffrages of the people now . deleted 2 lines racy went down a few years ago will be answered by pointing to " Reformed " ' Tammany in the City and the new era of TILDEN and Reform in State politics . If the whole complexion and character of the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heyday of its prosperity and its crimes , there must be some time at which , it could be said that " here corrupt influences were shaken off , and a period of honesty and purity began . " The leaders of the party seem to have agreed that the most convenient date from which to commence the history of the new and improved Democracy is October , 1871 , and that the place where it had its birth was the Rochester Convention . The selection , as Senator CONKLING shows , is decidedly unfortunate . It is perfectly well known that the Rochester Convention was " captured " by TWEED  --  a fact to which the streets of Rochester bore witness on the evening of Oct. 4 , 1871 . It is matter of record that among the most prominent names at that convention were those of men who have since been identified with canal frauds , and that the ticket nominated there comprieed the names of WILLERS , BRISTOL , CHAMPLAIN , RICHMOND , and CHAPMAN , whose votes in the Canal Board sustained some of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposing . More than this , the very man who is now using the exposure of the past mismanagement of the canals for the purpose of making political capital for himself , assisted at that same convention in drafting the following resolution : " Resolved , That the Democracy of the State , to sustain their confident claim on the suffrages of the people , point to the results of their administration during the brief term that power and responsibility of legislation have been in their hands . They have rescued the canals from the ruin to which a reckless and . improvident system of repair contracts had exposed them ; they have restored them to the highest efficiency , and at the same time reduced the expense and lowered the tolls , " &c.; SAMUEL J. TILDEN and FRANCIS KERNAN , the chief representatives at Rochester of the new era of Democratic reform , helped to prepare this resolution . Taken in connection with the fulsome laudation of JOHN T. HOFFMAN which followed it , the resolution embraced within its comprehensive scope an approval of every swindling tax levy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by which the State was robbed in the worst days of canal plunder . The sole contribution ' made by the Rochester Convention to the cause of reform was a mild censure of the men who stood openly convicted of robbing this City of millions of dollars , but lest that should prove too strong for the party digestion , it was accompanied by the charge that the Republican Party was responsible for the robberies of the Ring . No wonder that TWEED left the convention attended . by the general congratulations of his friends , and that Senator JA.RVIS Lola ) found much satisfaction in. proposing the final vote of thanks to the presiding officer of this remarkable gathering . - As the Fall election of 1871 , the voting masses of the Democratic Party followed the example set them by their leaders . They sustained the representatives of a regime of corruption and fraud , who had been renominated by the party managers , and they indorsed the unbroken continuity of party responsibility which had been affirtned at the convention . The 83,000 Democratic votes polled in this City in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. TILDEN and his party were perfectly at one in preferring dishonorable associations to the risk of defeat . In 1871 , Mr. TILDEN was found working side by side with canal thieves , whitewashing their frauds in laudatory resolutions , and bending all his efforts to secure the election of State officers notoriously in their interest . In 1875 , he is found posing before the people as the only man who can - be trusted to punish fraudulent contractors and their official abettors . Dir . TILDEN was either egregiously deceived in 1871 about the character of his associates or he was consciously working in the interests of corruption . On either theory , it is quite clear that his reforming zeal stands greatly in need of the stimulus and direction likely to be supplied by Republican associates . It would be decidedly unwise to rely exclusively on recent converts to the cause of reform in the battle which must be waged here as elsewhere in favor of purer and better methods of administration . What Gov . TILDEN has done we know , but it would . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleague on the Committee on Resolutions at Rochester , is certain to bring forth fruits meet for repentance . He has been a ? tolerably consistent Democrat during the ? last ten years , and was never known to object to a convention being compelled to do the bidding of TWEED . The head of the ticket on which Mr. ROBINSON stands nominated for Controller has been consistent in nothing , and , so far , has the advantage of some of his associates . But it would puzzle any man of character and intelligence to assign a single good reason for preferring Mr. BIGELOW to Mr. FREDERICK SEWARD . The latter has worthily borne a name which the people of New-York cherish with just pride , and he would carry into the position of Secretary of State the influence of a thorough training in the details of public business , as well as a reputation without flaw . In regard to a ticket like that headed by Mr. SEWARD , the practical counsel given by Senator CONKLING has a special appropriateness : " A man must be stone-blind who does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put some Republicans in the Canal Board now , and let them and the Democrats who will still be there , and the Governor , all watch each other . "                     