@@740893

txt The Times may fairly claim the credit of having attracted the attention of American young men to that admirable athletic sport , canoeing : This Spring has witnessed the organization of a Canoe Club in this City . and during the coming Summer its flag will be displayed in regattas and cruises . and its tiny yachts will be a frequent feature of our bays and rivers . The canoe invented by Mr. MACGREGOR , of the Rob Roy , and . greatly improved by subsequent enthusiasts , is a canoe only in name . The model adopted by the New-York Canoe Club has a square sternpost , a sail , and two masts . It is an answer to the problem how to construct a boat perfectly adapted to the purpose of cruising in inland waters , and a more thorough and perfect answer could not be desired . Tho man who wishes to explore rivers . large or small , and to pass , by means of sheltered creeks and . short portages , from the head-waters of one stream to those of another , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wind is favorable , in which he can sleep at night , and . which is sufficiently light to be carried or dragged overland by himself , unassisted . The ordinary row-boat will not answer . since it gives him no shelter at night ; is not adapted to carrying any appreciable amount of sail , and is too heavy to be taken out of the water and carried over even the shortest portage . The smallest sail-boat draws too much water for shallow streams ; is wholly dependent upon the wind , and needs a yoke of oxen to drag it ashore . The canoe , on the contrary , carries a large surface of sail , and can be paddled when the wind is foul with more ease than a Whitehall boat can be rowed . It carries its owner comfortably , with his baggage and stores , and affords him a dry and comfortable bed at night . It draws only two or three inches of water , and weighs but fiftyfour pounds . It therefore meets every requirement for cruising , since it is an easy task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can be sailed or paddled in the day-time and slept in when the day 's work is over . It should be added that its water-tight compartments render it impossible for it to sink , while the excellence of its model makes it a very fast sailer . A more pleasant way in which to spend a Summer vacation could hardly be desired , than for two or three young men to start on a canoe voyage up the Hudson , and through the canal and Lake Champlain , into the salmon and trout streams of Canada . The spare change of clothing ; the gun , fishingtackle and camp-furniture , are stowed safely below deck . The traveler sits facing the bow of his canoe , and enjoys the scenery of his route , while this absolute independence of hotel-keepers and railway companies enables him to loiter wherever he finds scenery to be sketched , fish to be caught , or wild . fowl to be shot . For the sportsman , the artist . or the man who enjoys simply the pleasure of a cruise . the canoe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary boating , and many of the pleasures of yachting , without the enormous expense which places the latter amusement out of the reach of all but men of wealth . That it is destined to great popularity in this country is evident , and . it is strange that its advantages have not been earlier perceived . by our athletic young men . The canoeist should , however . remember that his craft is designed . primarily for cruising purposes . Sailing or paddling regattas are feasible , and . may be made very pleasant affairs , but the canoe is not intended to rival either the shell , oar or the fast sail-boat , When used for the purpose for which it is intended , the canoe is without a rival , and there is little fear that it will disappoint the ardent expectations of the new convert to this phase of muscular Christianity . The coming together of the Club , which is understood to be fixed for an early day , will attract attention for its novelty . while the beauty of the miniature yachts will certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not precisely surpass the brilliant feats of the Sappho and the Dauntless , it should not be forgotten that they are designed for the lonely waters of unfrequented forests rather than for boating to windward . over the course el the New-York Yacht Club . At all events , the Canoe Club deserves a hearty welcome from all lovers of open-air sports , and we trust that by the boldness , energy and fairdealing of its members it will win a share of the popular favor now worthily given to our yacht clubs .                     