@@741540

txt The attractions of cold and snowy Northern Winter , with its sparkle of ice and tinkle of sleigh-bells , with its stimulating air and its myriad social enjoyments , are not strong enough to keep many thousands of people from migrating southward from the Eastern , Middle , and . North-western States as soon as there is a hint of cold in the wind . Our climate has a hundred fascinations in its capricious changes which are unknown to the inhabitants of more southern latitudes . But it is harsh , and its fierce Summer heat and . the sharp coldness of its Winter , so strongly and strangely contrasted , undermine and ruin many a stalwart constitution , whose owner finds himself prostrated just at the moment that he needs all his strength . New-England , New-York , Pennsylvania , and the West yearly report a fresh and extensive crop of invalids , who are annoyed . beyond measure at the sudden failure of their energies , and who turn to the balmy breezes and the equable temperature of the Southern States and . the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deadly east winds of Boston as from the approach of the plague , and crowd the tranquil sea-beaches and the odorous and rich forests , or thread the pretty bayous among the lowlands on the Gulf or the Southern Atlantic . They crowd the steamers for South Carolina and Florida ; they wander , guide-book in hand , through the streets of Richmond , as they once did through Cobleutz or Cologne . They skirt about the ruins of historic Sumter in a yacht that dances on the blue waters of Charleston Bay ; they promenade on the bluffs and levees of beautiful Savannah ; and they throng Jacksonville and Pilatka ; hunt in the forests around Enterprise ; or penetrate to the mystic recesses near Lake Okechobee . In their train they cause to spring up good hotels where poor ones stood before ; while smart villages , and laud improvement companies whose prospectuses are remarkable for everything save modesty , rise out of forests and swamps . New-Orleans finds its moldering yet pleasant chambers taken possession of . for a few mouths every year , by troops of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily as soon as they find repose from racking extremes of climate , and who scatter money profusely round about them . Matches are made and sealed , and sometimes the invalid who went South to die remains there to rear a numerous family , mid to learn how to lament the fate of those who remain behind in the uncertain climate of the North . Amicable interchange of opinion between political opponents , too , is fostered by the frequent journeys which exhausted politicians make to the South ; and the men and women who have managed to keep alive the bitternesses engendered by the war until now will soon see them fade away . Northerner and Southerner stray together over battlefields where , in the grim , terrible years which now seem a century past , they stood opposed as foes ; they discuss important political and social issues with courtesy , forbearance , and a common sympathy ; and . they gain additional confidence iu each other daily . The candid . and impartial testimony of the thousands of influential Northerners outside the sphere of politics who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ era of reconstruction began , has been of incalculable service in tending to solidify and unite the interests of the Northern and Southern States . The cordial and earnest advice of the generous LAMAR , " My countrymen , know each other , and you will learn to love one another , " is practiced daily . The migration this Winter , despite the pressing nature of the times , has already been very large . The principal resorts in Florida are crowded , and will probably . remain so until April . Despite the distracted condition of Louisiana , there are tourists in the Teche country and along the blooming shores bordering on the Mississippi ; and wherever roses blossom and the live oak or.the palmetto or the orange tree flourishes , refugees from Northern snows may be seen .                     