@@741548

txt It must be clear to every observant person who bas considered the subject that , whatever the view that constitutional lawyers might take of the action of Gov . KELLOGG and . Gen. DE TROBRIAND at NewOrleans , the strong feeling shown by a very considerable part of the community in regard to the affair was aroused , less by the Democratic invocation of the Federal military power , which in the end so disappointed . them , than by Gen. SHERIDAN 'S " banditti " dispatch and its counterpart , Secretary BELKNAP 'S " So say we'all of us , " or , in the slang of the day , words to that effect . If the gallant General finds himself called up for rebuke before the bar of public opinion , and if the Secretary hears words that cause him to think that his past services have been forgotten , they may both of them set down this little unpleasantness in a great measure to the credit of a violation of official reserve and decorum . Among official persons who have been trained to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with some experience , there is always a certain reticence , a cautiousness , " about telling that which need not be told , a careful moderation in the use of language , a regard for appearances , and a consideration of the claims of courtesy , which are not assumed in vain , or for mere effect upon the outside world . The official bearing , and even the etiquette which they have produced , have a positive value in the conduct of public affairs . And in no respect have they such value in a greater degree than in the proper protection of an Administration from the indiacretitat of its subordinates . We say the proper protection , for it should be observed that this official reserve can not , or if it possibly might , it should not , be used to withhold from the public any important official acts of a public officer . Nothing that is essential should be , or , in the end , can- be , covered up in this manner ; but indiScreet words , which frequently make more toonb/a than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all prudence should be kept within the knowledge of the officer or the department to whom they are addressed . Moreover , indiscreet words should not be sent officially from one officer of a Government to another . Official communications are not the proper vehicle for personal feeling , and very rarely so for personal views . The dryness and formality of official dispatches have been long a subject of remark , and even of caricature . But their character in these respects is not the result of accident or of affectation . Experience has proved that gush of any kind is not only needless in official communications , but very imprudent . Hence has arisen the received official style , which confines itself to an almost colorless report of facts which have occurred , or of obedience to orders . Even in diplomacy , where there are discusgen and negotiation , official communications confine themselves , according to the most authoritative practice , to a cold report of what was said or done on various occasions , or a very eeserved and . dignified expression of opinion upon points which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be carried to an extreme , it is true , as all things may be , good as well as bad ; but exaggeration implies a normal type , as the counterfeit implies the genuine ; and a proper degree of reserve in such matters has often prevented great catastrophes : Notably it did so at the time of the Trent affair . The British Foreign Office was so disturbed by that occurrence that the dispatch in regard to it was couched in such language that , right or wrong , we should probably have resented it at all hazards ; but toned down as it came to us , at the instance of the Queen herself , ( advised , it appears now , by Prince ALBERT ' ) it left the question where it could be settled in the light of cool reason . Here Prince ALBERT 'S well-known formality of habit and coldness of character were of positive and very great benefit to the whole world . And besides such benefit as this , which may accrue from official reserve and decorum , there is the preservation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the character of any Administration or of any Government . Where there must be command on one side and deference on the other , loss of dignity is loss of power . Men will not defer to , nor can they long respect , those who make a show of casting aside their own consciousness of responsible position , their own official self-respect . The course of the War Department in regard to Gen. SHERIDAN 'S dispatch has been in direct violation of all these dictates of prudence and of precedent . If Gen. SHERIDAN entertains the views set forth in that dispatch , it was proper for him to communicate them to the Secretary in a private letter , but Tory improper to send them its an official telegram . But be having sent them in the latter form , they should . have been carefully kept within the official privacy of the department , while be should have been counseled to be more prudent as to both words and acts in future . But on the contrary , the thing is flung right in the face of the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receives another in the " so say we all of us " dispatch . Now , if what the Secretary of War telegraphed was true , as to which there appears to he some doubt , he should not have announced it in that form in a dispatch allowed to go to the public . It was not becoming in the head of a department of the Government of a great nation . He might well have continued in the same vein , and added " for he 's a jolly good fellow , " which , although it may be true of Gen. SHERIDAN , has not exactly a place in an official communication . This matter of official decorum is one as to which we have been losing rather than gaining ground of late . Our official . dignity has not kept pace with the growth of our national importance . It were well if in this respect we learned something from our grandfathers.                     