@@741744

txt The fast postal trains which have recently been placed on two of the great trunk Lines connecting this City . with Chicago have thus far met with no accident . The success of the experiment has led people to isk why the New-York Central and the Pennsylvania liailroads did not try it long Igo . The answer is that until within a very recent period , American railways did not Furnish the conditions necessary for great speed . A locomotive capable of drawing a brain at the rate of Spay miles an hour must be large and heavy , and the , cars that can Withstand the strain of such rapid motion mist also have the weight inseparable from great solidity of-construction . ' Heavy locomotives and. ; , ears necessitate , heavy rails , . strong bridges , and a solid road-bed . These conditions did not eXist here ten years ago . THe invention of steel rails , iron truss bridges , and fish-bolts , necessarily preceded thaintieductiOn:Or heavy care and powerful locomotives , and it is in consequence of the adoption of these inventions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles an hour is the final limit of the speed of fast trains there is no reason to believe Railway speed need recognize no limit except the power of locomotives ) and . the latter can be increased very nearly in proportion as the strength of the rails and the road-bed is increased . Of course , as speed increases , friction is increased , and there is a point where friction would impose an impassable barrier to too rapid speed . That point , however , is a long way beyond the fastest speed which has yet been attained . The contest between the weight of locomotives and the strength of rails ' is analogous to that between the armor of iron-clads and . the calibre of guns . No matter how thick may be the armor placed about an iron-clad frigate , it is possible to make a gun which will carry a ball heavy enough to pierce it . In like manner , rails can be made which will be strong enough to stand the strain of the heaviest locomotive which our machinists can build . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artillery , and it would be equally rash to fix the limit of possible railway speed . It is quite clear , however , that when our express trains travel at the rate of a hundred miles an hour , they can not afford to stop for passengers except at stations very long distances apart . Already the postal trains pick up and throw out mail-bags at smaller stations without any pause in their rapid flight , and locomotives supply themselves with water by scooping it from a trough while the trains to which they are attached are in motion . There would probably be no impossibility in picking up passengers in the same way as mail-bags are now caught . Two bags filled with passengers  --  one bag , of course , being exclusively for ladies  --  might be hung at either end of a station platform , and caught by a projecting hook as the train shot by . This method , however , would have its obvious inconveniences , and no well-dressed lady would be willing to be shaken up in a bag with traveling apple-women , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And then , even if passengers were picked up in this way , they could not be comfortably tossed off at way stations in the same bags in which they were originally put on board . A mail-bag thus unceremoniously tossed out has a curious way of leaping up as soon as it strikes the ground , and of chasing the train in a series of leaps and bounds of great vivacity tThe spectacle of a bag full of elderly genlemen or ' stout ladies executing similar evolutions would be extremely amusing to the friends who might be waiting for them at the station , but it is doubtful if the occupants of the bag would be altogether satisfied . The mail-bag plan would clearly never become popular ; but it will not do to assume that the problem of taking on board passengers while a ' train is in motion is an impossible one . It may yet be solved in a safe and pleasant way , and passengers may step on board the fastest trains with the same ease with which Mr. PETER COOPER insists that they could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But we have not yet reached the time when trains can run at one hundred miles an hour , audit might perhaps , be as well to get our trains before deciding how to run them without stopping for passengers . Indeed , it is not yet absolutely certain that our railway tracks are yet fairly fit for trains running at fifty or sixty miles an hour . The fast postal trains must stand the test of Winter weather before we can call them completely successful . When the road-bed is frozen as hard as granite , the blows of a heavy train on the rails meet with no elasticity . We must wait till the Winter has come and gone before we decide that we have not already attempted a higher speed than the condition of our railways will justify .                     