@@741840

txt The first conflict between committees growing out of the change in the rules giving universal power to the Committee on Appropriations promises to arise when the Diplomatic Appropriation bill conies up for consideration . The Committee on An , propriations asked the Committee on Foreign Affairs to consider , jointly with it the proposed reductions of the Diplomatic bill . The latter committee have had consultations with the Secretary of State , and have been considering what advice to give the Committee on Appropriations , for even before the new rule - was adopted Mr. Randall and Mr. Holman decided to give the  --  Other committee no power except to make recommendations to them or assent to such as they had already made . Now the Diplomatic bill is ready to be reported to the House , and is delayed because the Committee on Foreign Affairs have desired a. little more time , which as a matter of courtesy is granted them . ? It is understood.that the latter committee is not in favor of the redactions proposed by Mr. Holman , but the Committee on Appropriations has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printed , so . that the labor given the subject by the Committee en Foreign Affairs is thrown away . To add insult to neglect , it is intimated by the men who have made the bill that Gov . Swann and his committee are not able to resist the Administration influences , and that the only strictly honest and irreproachable committee is that headed by Mr. Randall . Last evening Mr. Kelm , some time ago Special Consular Agent , was before the committee , and his advice was followed with respect to almost all the Consular service . That part of the bill was practically given him ? to revise , Mr. Holrian is said to be in favor of abolishing almost all our agencies of intercourse with foreign Powers , and the bill to be reported nearly accomplishes that purpose . Groat Britain pays its Minister here more than double the salary which the bill propos ! : s to allow our Minister to that Goveminent , and besides furnishes him an elegant house , while om . Minister must pay rent out of his small salary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have marked out a wide field for investigation . They have decided that their powers are not confined to an examination of contingent expenses , bUt extend to all disbursements made by mails , expense incureed for fast mails and the Special Agency service . For the present , investigations will not go further back than 1869 . The Special Agency service is now engaging the attention of the committee , and the Postmaster General has been requested to make a detailed report of the expenses of that service for 1875 . It is charged before the committee that the amount expended for this service last year has exceeded the appropriation , and that there is a discrepancy between the books of the department and those of the Sixth Auditor of $10,000 . It is curious to note of all investigations that a plan is always announced to have been marked out , ' but it is now nearly two months since Congress met , and not a witness has boon sworn in any investigation , and not oven the Pacific Mail cases , in which ' there is sufficient evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriously opened in committee . The House Committee on Pacific Railroads had a meeting this evening , and hoard Thomas Scott and C. P. Huntington give their views concerning the Texas Pacific bill . The hearing developed the fact that the controversy still exists between the Central and Texas lines . The former puts itself in the attitude of advocating the latter , but wants to control the road when it reaches California . MIS is an important element of opposition , and if no private arrangement is made , must of itself do much to defeat Scott 's subsidy . The committee will have another meeting to hear arguments next week . 