@@740904

txt We have already pointed out the improbability of the completion of . a Democratic Republican coalition , through the Cincinnati Convention next week . But even if the Democrats could be induced to accede to the plan , it is far from being sure of support from many Republicans who may now look toward Cincinnati with favor . We count without hesitation on the sober sense , the patriotism , and the fidelity of the Republican Party to its cherished ideas , to defeat it . It is certain that it can not be smuggled through . The time has gone by when a candidate for the Presidency could carry the day in this country by virtue of his insignificance , or by the labors of a party content to befog its professions . There was a period when the great facts in American politics were avoided by politicians . and when men like PoLii and TAYLOR could be sustained by great parties for the reason that they represented no dangerously pronounced views of the vital issues of the tunes . In those days DANIEL WEBSTER was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . argue in defense of the Fugitive Slave law . But that was relatively in the remote antiquity of American politics , and such things will never again be possible . The schemers who are engaged in the Cincinnati movement can never hope to carry their ticket by default . They must expect to subject it and all its pretensions to the most searching discussion by the ablest critics of the country , in the Press and from the platform . Under that discussion we have no fear that it can stand . Look for a moment at some few of the more prominent results that must flow from the success of sush a coalition in its influence on a single section of the country . Consider what would be its effect on the South . If the Democrats and Liberal Republicans could be successful in electing a President and Vice-President , they would , in all probability . carry the House of Representatives also , in which there is a Republican majority of only thirty-seven , part of whom are not to be relied upon now , and . more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The . country would then enjoy an aggravated form of the confusion experienced under ANDREW JOHNSON  --  the House of Representatives being in sympathy with the Executive , and the Senate being strongly opposed , the latter by a majority hardly capable of change during the entire Presidential term . An attempt would , of course , be made to inaugurate universal amnesty , and this might find enough friends in the Senate to secure its success . Now , amnesty from a party composed mainly of Democrats would , as we have shown before , and as every sensible man must see , have all the possible bad effects and very few of the good effects now anticipated from the measure . Instead of soothing it would inflame the Southern mind . It would some not as a generous offering of a confident national party , but as a concession wrung from the country by those who believe that there was nothing much to be pardoned in the rebellion , and nothing at all unpardonable . We have , in common with the President and . many leading Republicans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation so complete as to obliterate all traces of the past . But amnesty from a substantially Democratic Administration , instead of covering up forever the ashes of our terrible war , would stir the smoldering passions of the Southerners , and kindle anewthe pride of section , of party , and of opinion . What would . be obliterated would be the great steps that have been taken toward making our country one , by establishing all through the South the individual freedom and the general reign of law which are at once the condition and consequence of a real Republic . With the advent of the new Administration , there would expire by limitation some of the more stringent provisions of the law for the enforcement of the Myth Amendment , commonly known as the Kuklux law . What remained of the powers conferred by that act would be reposed in the hands of a President elected by the Kuklux . Every one of these conspirators who is of age , and . whom the recent prosecutions have left outside the penitentiary , is a voter , and every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Liberal coalition . The number of the Klan are considerable enough to determine the electoral vote of those Southern States set down in the Democratic tables as capable of being turned from Republicanism by the success of the Cincinnati scheme . Then the Kuklux , under the new Administration , would find . themselves restored to the utmost freedom that they could . desire . The Federal Government , anxious to retrace those steps which the Missouri Liberals declare are encroachments on the legitimate sphere of the States , would be compelled to leave in abeyance the powers of the Kuklux law , expressly denounced by its party as unconstitutional . The State Governments , to whom the conspirators would be teft , would certainly he no more inclined or able to suppress them than when , last Summer . Gen. GRAM found a large part of the Southern States under their control . And with all restraints removed , the lawless Democrats known as Kuklux would give a loose rein to their - vindictive hatred of the loyal men , white or black , to the passionate pride of race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but cruel , desire to reduce the freedmen to something like their former condition of servitude . These are considerations which claim the earnest attention of every man who loves his country too well to betray it from , hasty resentment for matters of minor consequence . Granting that the Administration is not all he would have ? it . can any Republican justify himself in helping to exchange it for one elected by a coalition that must.produce the results we have indicated ?                     