@@740979

txt The mass-meeting of Democrats held here today was act . ' dressed by Hon. Carl Schurz , who , being introduced , said he was an anti-slavery man  --  started out with the Republican Party , and bad always been devoted to carrying its ideas into practical effect , and was still true to its principles . Others had left him  --  not he them . He sketched the objects and purposes of the Republican Party , and sought to show that it bad now ' become false to both . After enfranchisement , be said , new duties arose , to which the Republican Party was not equal , it was not able to_the give freedom to whites who had fought against it . Then the true Republicans . Horace Greeley at the head , planted themselves On the platform of amnesty and suffrage for all . He declared that parties long in power abandon principles for power and plunder , which he illustrated in the case of the Democrats submitting to Tammany , which he called a neat of robbers . Because of this abandonment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old party . He instanced the Kuklux laws as an evidence of centralized tyranny ; but admitted that there was some excuse for it , and drew a vivid picture of those frightful disorders in the South which led to it . He went on to show that the Federal Government was intruding unwarrantably in the affairs of the States , saying there are now a large number of deputy marshal 's in North Carolina , armed with 1,400 or 1,500 Kuklux warrants to hold in terrorem . He said that the mails were no longer safe ; but only showed this by saying that packages containing Grant documents were put in mail-car and open , so that these documents could be scattered among the people . Carpet-bag governments were then denounced . The Republican Party is responsible for them , he said , as it countenanced carpet-baggers . The power of the Republican Party has been and Is yet used to foist these baggers upon the Southern people . He instanced the fruits of these carpet-baggers by citing the North Carohna.debt , which he said bad been increased sixteen millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he dud not say that nearly all of these thieves ? were Democrats , and he increased the debt just double the real amount , as ' eight millions only were stolen . He then gave an account of the Cincinnati movement , its platform and its candidates , claiming that these embodied all that was good in the Republican Party . Then he appealed to the Republicans of the South to go into the new movement . These States , he said , need immigration , and he indorsed what the Secretary of the Treasury said on this subject here , but domed that the Democrats were opposed to immigration or education , and said that the Score tarp was right when be said that immigrants would not come to a place of disorder , where there lives would not be safe .. He charged , however , that carpet-bag thieving was the real repellant of Immigration . He charged that Secretary Boutwell had protested against clasping hands across the bloody chasm ; against reconciliation , but not a word about filling up the chasm , and declared Bout-well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to be desirous to keep alive old animosities . These , be said , were necessary to keep the Republican Party in power . They have bought and published old Confederate records for the purpose of inflaming once more the old angry feeling . The party doing these things does not deserve to live . The South has given ample proof of sincerity in accepting the results of the war by rallying around Greeley , who lately was recognized as the bon , est , trusted chief of the Republican Party . He was a consistent abolitionist , ready to go to the last extreme to protect the negro . The speaker went on here to make an appeal to the Republicans of the South to support Greeley , which might have had some effect if the . Kuklux who are now supporting him had not lately been knocking at the doors of their brethren and dragging them out to midnight murder . He next addressed the colored men . a few of whom were present , seeking their sympathy by declaring himself an original abolitionist ; among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , they now have . Now they must show that they know what true freedom is . He referred to colored men who had been mobbed by his brethren in Raleigh , for taking part in a Greeley procession . If negroes , he said , do not show more respect for the opinions of others , they can not expect Democrats to have respect for them . He advised them to indulge in no delusion ; their situation would never be very comfortable until they establish mutual relations with their old masters , and advised them to vote with the whites , as the black man 's government would be resisted . He warned them , as Doolittle did , that they must vote with both parties , to make both interested in the protection and maintenance of their rights , as thus only could they escape dangers rising from race jealousies . Then addressing the whites he said , the Liberal movement bad already put a stop to the Kuklux outrages , and begged them not to allow a repetition of them , as he warned them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bo difficult to elect Greeley . He closed by reading Pleasonton 's letter , which sought to prove Gen. Grant guilty of falsehood ; and , remarking that this was a question of veracity between the President and Gen. Pleasoaton , sat down . Other speakers addressed the meeting , after which it adjourned . Schurz goes from here to Charlotte , where Gov . Harriman was mobbed in token of the sincerity of the South in accepting the results of the war . Wednesday a great Republican barbecue is to be held here , and Gov . Harriman will give the Greeleyites another chance to mob him . Advices from all parts of the . State.cOntinue highly favorable . Some estimates , carefully made from the latest news , seem too good to be true ; but they show the State certainly Republican . 