@@742837

txt In considering the relative probabilities as to party strength in the next House of Representatives , it is necessary to keep in view the tactics which the Democrats may be expected to employ to secure absolute control over the organization and to make up for losses that seem to endanger their ascendency . The power vested in the Clerk of the /louse in making up the rollcall is for immediate purposes more dangerous than the power wielded unscrupulously by an election committee and hints have conic from Washington which show that the Democratic managers are diligently studying the uses to which the Clerk may be put in the presence of not unanticipated contingencies . Tho all but inevitable loss of ground in Pennsylvania , the unfavorable odds in New-York , the anxieties that can not be suppressed oven in Louisiana , ? all contribute to the uneasiness of the Central Committee , and to the significance of discussions as to the procedure to be adopted should an emergency arise . What a Democratic majority will do when a contested seat raises an issue between duty and partisan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colorado Representativ a from the present House is an illustration of the infamy to that Democrats descend for the attainment of their ends . But there are steps which precede election committees , and these are to be provided for carefully in advance . And as the composition of the list on whose votes the organization depends is in Democratic hands , the initial proceedings are to be regulated according to the needs of the party . We may safely assume that the programme contemplating a second election of Congressmen in Iowa is not of local origin . It is one of the devices planned at Washington to counteract the consequences of defeat in States whose elections are yet to be held . The election in Iowa early this month was held in pursuance of State law , and embraced the Congressional representation . It is admitted that the provision of the amended local Constitution under which I he voting for State officers takes place in October does not explicitly cover the elections for Congress . The intention is clear enough , but its fulfillment is in doubt . To fortify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loading lawyers of both parties , and a decided preponderance ? irrespective of party  --  was favorable to the arrangement by which the voting for Congressmen and ' the voting for State officers occurred at the same time . The newspapers differed quite as much as the lawyers . The party committees , however ? Republican , Democratic , Greenback ? acquiesced in the Governor 's action ; and though in one district the Democratic candidate for Congress demurred , there really was no dispute as to its validity . The contest was carried on energetically and in good faith . Tho voters went to the polls without raising a question as to the decision on which the Governor had proceeded . And the combination effected by the Greenbackers and Democrats enabled them to wrest from the Republicans two of the seats they now hold in the House . Scarcely had the result boon formally announced when the local Democratic leaders , influenced by outside suggestions , conceived the idea of repudiating the election , so far as members of Congress are concerned , and holdnig another election under Federal law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonably certain that the party managers in Iowa would have allowed the matter to remain as it is . The more respectable members of the party shrink from a proceeding that would subject the people to the annoyance of another contest , to accomplish an object that has already been attained without unfairness to any party . This feeling is so strong in the First District that the call for a nominating convention has been abandoned ; and in other parts of the State there is a prudent unwillingness to venture upon an experiment which might cost the Democracy the two seats they have . On the other hand , all over the State the Democrats manifest a disposition to impugn the validity of the election already held . The differences that are apparent among them relate wholly to the expediency of the tactics proposed by the more violent men and to the alternative measures that will be open to the party should these tactics be abandoned . The aim of the extremists is to obtain a Democratic delegation , and inasmuch as the Republicans have decided that they will adhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voting at polls that may be opened next month , the success of the Democratic-Greenback candidates would be assured . If this scheme be carried out , two delegations will present themselves at Washington , and the Democratic House will decide between them . What its decision in such a ease will be , we are not at liberty to doubt . Although the ' more moderate of Iowa Democrats deprecate the scheme in this shape , they are not averse to measures that will call in question the title of the members elected this month , and will thus furnish a pretext for excluding seven Republican votes . A Keokuk Democratic journal , with studied ambiguity , offers a suspicious suggestion . " The better way to settle this matter , " it says , " would be fora respectable number of the voters to lay the case as it now stands before Congress , or the Clerk of the House , and have the question as to the legality of the election there decided . " We are thus brought back to the point at which the Cleric of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of difficulties by denying to the Iowa delegation the right to participate in the organization of that body . Various circumstances seem to indicate this as a not improbable method of reconciling the requirements of the Washington managers with the divided wishes of the Iowa Democracy . It is clear that in one way or another an attempt is to be made to nullify the Congressional result of the October election in that State as a means of strengthening the Democratic majority in the next House .                     