@@741897

txt diation would not be half as disgraceful " as the instances of official misconduct which have lately been discovered . Wo can not agree with this view of the case , because we do not think that the rascality of one Cabinet officer , plucked from an obscure Western city and set in his high place with entire indifference to the wishes even of the President 's party , much less of the whole country , is evidence of national turpitude , which repudiation would be . The President can not repudiate ; Congress alone can not repudiate ; only a majority of the voters , acting through their representatives , could bring the country to this depth of dishonor . But , though we can not think as lightly of possible repudiation as the advocates of inflation do  --  whose whole policy is iu effect one of repudiation-. ? *e cordially agree that the Enquirer is right in demanding a radical remedy . What surprises us is that that remedy should appear to any one to lie in the direction of financial absurdity . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the programme by which the Democrats are to purify the Government : 1 . Let the Democratic Party unite in the demand for the utter extermination of all banks of issue . 2 . Lot it insist that all paper designed to circulate as money be issued by the General Govern . ment , and made a ** in the payment of all debts , including Customs duties , and in sufficient volume to answer the dem:uule of trade . These two points embrace , first , an allpaper currency , for the requirement is for paper " in sufficient volume to answer the demands of trade . " Second , for a currency controlled entirely by Congress and the President , for they who. are to issue the paper must decide on what " volume " would " answer the demands of trade . " Third , for a legal-tender ? paper , which can only be had now in entire violation of the Constitution , which contains no authority for the issue of legal-tender notes in time of peace , even if it justifies them in time of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Customs in direct repudiation of the pledge contained in the law which pledges the Customs m gold to the payment of interest and principal of the public debt . Fifth , the " utter extermination " Of banks which furnish security of undoubted value and availability ; worth one-fourth more than the face of their notes , and the concentration of their powers of issue iu the hands of the Government . These propositions seem too wild to admit of discussion , yet we are much in doubt whether they would not find favor in the eyes of more than one-half of the Democratic members of the House , and of more than one-half the Democrats in the country . We should not be at all surMsed to see the substance of these views embodied in the platform of the party this Summer . They may be more ingeniously stated . They may not be so baldly or so boldly presented , but we.are much mistaken if they are not about all the suggestions the Democrats will have to make for the reform of the admistratiou of the Government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have had from the same source . The theory of a Government currency essentially contradicts all the avowed principles of the Democracy . It is as corrupt and corrupting as anything can be . It places enormous power in a few hands . I . invites to Washington contending interests of the most extensive . character to procure legislation on the currency . It would give new life to every plundering scheme , like the Southern Pacific Railroad and the breed of which that ill-omened project is the principal . To talk of purifying the Government by a paper currency is like ' making Christians by leading them into temptation . A PECULIAR P.ROGRil AIME . If there was ever such a thing as political monomania , the Democratic inflationists are the victims of it . Everything in public affairs connects itself , in their minds , with the condition of the currency . Their foolish views on finance are like green spectacles , and impart their own tinge to whatever conies before them . Who would suppose , for instance , that there was any relation of cause and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or that official corruption was the immediate prodnet of contraction ? Yet such is the way n which these facts strike the genuine advocate and lover of paper money . The Cincinnati Enquirer , which is the principal organ of the paper money men in the United States , declares , with a characteristic estimate of the RAN value of commercial honor . that " bankruptcy and repu- six hundred , with a membership of 55,000 and the control of millions of capital . When will New-York imitate this most important movement for the industrial classes ?                     