@@741903

txt Warned by the ignoble failure of Mr. CLYMER in the Marsh affair , three ablebodied Democratic members of the House Committee on Expenditures in the War De ? partment have been wrestling with a troublesome witness . The gentleman iu question is a newspaper correspondent , who had telegraphed to New-York that certain things could be proved as to the disposition of PENDLETON 'S railroad receipts . When brought/ before the committee , the witness asked for time before giving the authority from which he derived his information . The committeemen sternly denounced this as trifling with serious things . When be still declined to answer without consulting with a certain " prominent Republican lawyer , " the committeemen were astounded , and talked of the Bastille , as they were formerly iu the habit of calling any place of confinement . The witness promised not to run away , but to come before them next day and satisfy them . This was not sufficient . When these same statesmen had the principal witness in the Belknap case , Mr. MARSH , in their power , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with alacrity and promises of fees . And when they were asked in the House to produce him , they replied that any attempt to detain him would have been " an outrageous assault . " What new view of their duties and powers had they received when they mounted guard over the hapless correspondent and threatened him With all sorts of terrible things 7 The exact limits of the power of Congress over the person of a witness , whether contumacious or otherwise , . have never been defined . It is a delicate and ill-understood subject . But when the witness is not likely to run away , and only asks for one day 's time to answer , the course of a committee is clear enough . Messrs . CLYMER , ROBBINS , and BLACKBURN , however , were bound to show that they had a reinforcement of zeal , if not of knowledge , and so they made a great noise , and threatened to put a keeper in the bedroom of the correspondent , to make sure that he should not escape to Canada or San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Speaker 's subpoena , they let him go , on condition that a friendly comrade should watch him and agree that he should be forthcoming next day . Of course the man staid , and duly reappeared before the committee to give his testimony , which , after all , was of no particular account , as the person from whom he derived his information also came forward and told his story . ? It is unfortunate that such an important affair as the Belknap case has accidentally fallen into the hands of fourth-rate men like those who control the Committee on Expenditures in the War Department . There are eight of these small committees , and they are charged with a nominal ' oversight as to expenditures in various departments of the Government . As the departments are also under the more immediate charge of really important committees . those on expenditures are usually regarded as mere superfluities . Every member of the majority in the House must be on a committee of some sort , and these places are convenient for the disposition of members who can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . room in which to receive their friends and write letters . But the committees are not expected to report on anything , for the simple reason that they have nothing to consider . Au accident forced MARSH 'S evidence upon Mr. Cerneft 's attention , and , like the zealous partisan that he is , he made the most of it , and let the witness go . Any such thing as punishing the ex-Secretary or purifying the public service never once entered Mr. CLYMER 'S mind . To get the main facts together and publish them abroad , to the infinite damage of " the other side of the House , " was all that he wanted . This done , the Committee on Expenditures . in the War Department , according to CLYMER , would have proved their right to exist , and could rest on their laurels . Any criticism of their course in exposing the sin and letting the sinner escape could be charged to the account of partisan rage and malice . It is doubtful if Mr. CLYMER has talents as a detective . Certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts upon which he bas blundered that no honest Superintendent of Police would be willing to give him employment . Nevertheless , his success  --  or good luck ? in this particular line has stimulated his fellow-Democrats to pursue the detective business as a permanent vocation . Every Democrat is running anxiously about with his nose to the ground . Each seems to think that his only chance in political life depends on his bringing down some sort of game Few hope to be able to bag a Cabinet officer , though the new members enter'tam the wildest expectations . The man who goes hack to his Democratic constituents without at least one scalp at his belt will be looked upon as a most inefficient member . This being the state of things in the House , nobody need expect that any other branch of business can receive the least attention . Congress , so far as the House is concerned , : suspends the important functions with which the Constitution endows it , and sits in committee as a detective bureau . The finances , ways and means for carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which wait on legislation , must be laid aside until the Committee of the Whole on Smelling have nothing more to smell for . It is useless to say that corruption and intrigue shall be exposed and punished . The Democratic majority are intent only on exposure . It is political capital , not the good of the public service , about which they are anxious ; and when one of their own number seems to be making too much for himself , they turn on him . The village politicians who have accidentally got into Congress , and have accidentally been put in places where they have an opportunity to nose out suspected abuses , do not appear to advantage . They have , a truly rural appetite for gossip , and the business of the country waits while they run about in search of some new scandal .                     