@@740866

txt Mr. Greeley justifies his opposition to Geu . GratiT 's renomination on the ground that he has always been adverse to the reelection of an incumbent . If this was his sole or strongest reason , there could be no objection to his arguing the question within the Republican organization , in a spirit of candor and friendship , as a point entitled to the consideration of his friends . But as his hostility to GRANT partakes of a malevolent , factious , and sinister temper , his motives are open to suspicion , and may be challenged . Though GREELEY may have favored the oneterm principle , the Republican Party is not committed to it , and is not to be foreclosed in the exercise of a Bound discretion in the choice of a successor to Gen. GRANT by his preconceived opinions . The Republican Party abjured the one-term principle In the re-election of Mr. LINCOLN , and it violates no article of its faith by repeating the act . If GREELEY had not become a monomaniac on the subject of the Presidency , seeking a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ malcontents and guerrillas . not excluding the Democrats from a hand in the game , he might argue his case with a more becoming degree of diffidence ; and it would not prejudice his case in the least if he yielded a larger charter to the preferences of others , equally as well qualified , and having as much right to tender their counsel , as he claims for himself upon a question of equal interest to them . No doubt the condition of the country had something to do with the choice which fell upon Mr. LINCOLN in 1868 . Reasons quite as potent are influential now in dictating the renomination of Gen. GRANT , both as a measure of public policy and of national gratitude . If GREELEY opposed Luccomes nomination , he failed to convince the people then , as he probably will now , of the justice or expediency of his views . The people will insist upon their right to decide the question for themselves . They are tired of perpetual squabblings about the Presidency . They deprecate frequent changes in the Government , as likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business interests . They perceive the error in the constitutional provision fixing the Presidential term at four years . They feel like taking the remedy into their own hands , by re-electing a President who has faithfully discharged his duty , and whose previous success furnishes a sure guarantee for a still longer periodof stability and prosperity . They are sensible of the advantages to be secured by prolonging the existence of an Administration whose first term has been crowned with brilliant and solid triumphs . They take a pride in thus manifesting their appreciation of an upright and honorable management of public affairs . Deeply impressed with the conviction that Gen. GRANT has nobly fulfilled his great trust , has acquitted himself as ably in the Cabinet as he did in the field , they desire to commemorate those services by another expression of confidence . Knowing , too , that the grand results which have been realized from a single term may be extended and enlarged through another , they propose to consult the best interests of the country in the most practical and common-sense way that offers itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about short Presidential periods , will defeat the expression of their will in this respect .                     