@@743079

txt The bill for regulating the appointment , assignment , and duties of Chaplains , " and for other purposes , " which Mr. lieCooK has just introduced ? or , rather , reintroduced , for it appeared last year ? in the House , is worth examination . Its object seems to be to secure the appointment of a majority of Roman Catholics as Army Chaplains . There are now only four Regimental Chaplains , namely , those of the four cglorecl regiments ; the other thirty are all Post Chaplains , who have the rank of Captain and a pay of $1,500 a year , with the usual longevity addition of 10 , 20 , 30 , and 40 per cent . for five , ten , fifteen , and twenty years of service . The first step of Mr. McCooK is to provide for placing on the retired list those Post Chaplains who may fail to pass an examination as to their physical ability to perform their duties , the decision on this point being rendered by a majority of a board to be appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War is to notify department commanders and . commanders of detachments to report to him " the religious belief of each and every of the officers , including Chaplains , and of the enlisted men " of their commands , including the detachments at West Point , in the War Department , and all stations whatsoever . If any officer fails to report within a month , the Secretary is to ascertain the facts otherwise as nearly as he can . Lists are then to be made out , and Post Chaplains assigned , " one Chaplain of each religious denomination to every 800 officers and men of the same denomination . " But the Secretary " shall unite two or more Protestant ' denominations , each consisting of less than 800 officers and men , in any military department , for the purpose of making up the number requisite for the assignment of a Protestant Chaplain , " and in like manner , the " Protestants in adjoining departments " are to be united , if necessary , to make up 800 , and the Chaplain in either case will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denominations so united . ' In the same way , he will " unite the Roman Catholics of adjoining departments for the purpose of making up the number requisite for the assignment of a Roman Catholic Chaplain . " The existing Chaplains who find no place under this arrangement are to be put on the retired list , and in their stead " additional Chaplains , of ' the proper ' denominations , necessary to establish the proportion , " are to be appointed . It is well known that a great many of the officers and men of the Army are Roman Catholics , at least in general sympathy , hence this bill may be briefly described as a contrivance for working the greater number of the present Chaplains out of the Army , and working Roman Catholic priests into their places . While it is desirable that the services held by an Army Chaplain should not offend the religious feelings or convictions of his - hearers , Congress is now asked to take a step quite unlike any that it has before taken , and wholly foreign to the experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and , in effect , it is asked to have him balloted for by the enlisted men . Hitherto , the disturbing questions of politics and religion , which excite so much animosity out side the Army , have been little known inside . As a consequence , the action of the troops in all cases , whether , concerning religion or politics , is looked upon simply as the action of soldiers . Nobody can say how many Democrats and how many Republicans are in the Army ; but with this bill in operation , they could easily divide the Army into Protestant commands and Roman Catholic commands . This process of sectarian balloting is also to be repeated every year --  " Nyithin 60 days before the first day of January in each and every year after the passage of this act ; " and on or before the first day of March , every year , the Chaplains are to be shifted to correspond with the sectarian changes produced by the movement of troops or the fluctuations of religious opinion . It is true that no man is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , belief against his will ; but it is not difficult to imagine , zealous denominationalists or Churchmen in tho Armyelectioneering among that great body of their comrades who have no fixed denominational belies , and who will , perhaps , often turn the scale at an annual religious census . We should accordingly , no doubt , find such apparent " gains , " and " losses " made much of by the religious papers whose denominations they concerned , and great efforts might be put forth by both parties to secure the " floating vote , " and so to repeat or change the result at another election . It is even conceivable that recruiting officers , if they chanced to be zealous religionists , might remember the annual Chaplain census in their selection of recruits designed to be forwarded to their own departments . It seems to us that this bill is not the proper one to secure the perfectly legitimate end in question  --  the obtaining of more efficient and more suitable service from Chaplains . It must be admitted that ' the present system needs reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the distant frontier stations , where they are most needed , but are usually at posts there it would be easy to have visits from ministers and priests not belonging to the Army . The House bill  --  which , is an elaborate one of four and twenty sections  --  provides carefully for the selection of suitable and ' wellrecommended Chaplains , and for the strict performance of all their duties , including a semi-annual visit by each Chaplain to all posts in his department . Section 19 reads : " That no Chaplain shall be required or permitted to minister to any officer or enlisted man professing a different religious belief from his own , unless at the request of such officer or man . He shall be permitted to conduct all religious ceremonies according to the faith and discipline of the denomination of which be is a member , and shall not be required to perform any religious services contrary to the requirements of such faith and discipline . " But the good points of the bill can be carried into effect without recourse to the objectionable experiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be well to try the plan proposed by Gen. SHERMAN , abolishing Chaplains as Army officers , and substituting appropriations to a certain number of Army posts , designated as Chaplain Posts , with which appropriations the Post Council of Administration would select and employ a suitable Chaplain , at the rate of $100 a month . Such an arrangement would give regular services to fifty posts , instead of the present thirtyfour , while costing no more .                     