@@742022

txt It is reported that an endowment has just been founded by an aged and wealthy citizen of Baltimore , of a large pecuniary value , to furnish fresh-air treatment each Summer for the children of the poor . Near Philadelphia , at Atlantic City , has been in operation for some few years a sanitarium for destitute and sick children with their parents . This has been small , only reaching ? if we remember correctly  --  some thirty or forty inmates at a time . But it is the beginning of a most benevolent and useful work . Our readers should understand that under heat such as we have had , with great quantities of decaying vegetables and fruit in the streets , and much defective fruit eaten , infants are especially liable to that pestilence of the poor , cholera . infantam . Should any of our readers of the fortunate classess find their children attacked with this disease , or threatened by it , , their physician will no doubt tell them that the best possible preventive and cure is pure air . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the City to the Catskill Mountains . Any decided change of atmosphere will often apparently expel the poison from the veins of the child . Many parents who conid not remove from the City might undoubtedly save their infants ' lives by merely taking them a few trips in boats that run to salt-water bathing places . It is believed that at times lives of poor children have been saved simply by trips on ferry-boats . The oxygenated air or the ozone of the sea or the mountains acts in an extraordinary manner on this fearful malady  --  beyond anything which either food or medicine can accomplish . The question has come forward seriously this season before many of our sanitary authorities whether something could not be done in this City  --  like what has been attempted in Philadelphia , and has been proposed in Baltimore  --  to furnish fresh-air treatment on a large scale to the sick poor . A private organization  --  the Children 's Aid Society ? is already accomplishing untold good in sending down little colonies of children to the sea-side , and in furnishing medicine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tenement-houses . These benevolent enterprises ought to be , and no doubt , will he , supported by our citizens in a liberal manner . But what we have in view is somewhat different from all this . It is the foundation of an endowment which would supply on a large scale freshair treatment , or a sanitarium , to the sick poor of the tenement-houses . The plan which we would propose would be somewhat of the following nature : There are islands in the neighborhood of the City , fortunately placed for pure air and salt-water bathing , which could be hired or obtained for a moderate sum of money . Here we would put up hospital tents and erect cheap one-story wooden " pavilion hospitals , " with rooms open to every draft of air , and ench as could be taken to pieces and burned up at short intervals . These should be furnished cheaply and suitably for the purpose intended . Then the medical visitors of the Board of Health , the dispensary physicians , the visitors of the Children 's Aid Society , City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permits , under certain conditions , to such poor mothers in the tenement-houses as had children already attacked or threatened with cholera infantum or other diseases of the hot weather . Efficient assistants , male and female , should be employed to conduct these people , under prescribed rules , to a boat which would transfer them to this airy and healthful sanitarium . Here these families should remain a few days , until the children were sufficiently recovered , and . then brought back , to give place to others who are in like condition . Thus one considerable detachment after another of the lowest poor with children on the verge of death might be sent to this island , the children recovered , and then all returned to the City . The obvious objection to the plan is its expense ; live hundred children and parents taken down each week , would cost probably , for all expenses , some fifteen hundred dollars , and six thousand children treated in this way during the Summer mouths , would probably cost some eighteen thousand dollars . This is certainly a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertaking , but such a plan would , in all probability , save several thousand lives each Summer , and would scatter wide-spread happiness and benefit among the poor . If a , citizen of Baltimore could give two or three hundred thousand dollars for the foundation of a similar sanitarium , it seems not too much to expect that one of our millionaires might bo willing thus to hand down his name to future generations and to scatter happiness among the un - fortuu ate long after he was gone . We can not believe that New-York will , be behind any city in founding institutions of benevolence which experience shall justify . Another objection may be , that a brief period of enjoyment and healthful air , such as is proposed , would only make the remaining time spent iu the tenement-houses more intolerable . But this is an objection from those who have not studied human nature or the nature of the poor . A short period of pleasure , with all classes , sometimes brightens the whole year , and a week of fresh air may change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gases and live in crowded rooms the rest of the time . Who of our merchant princes will found the sanitarium for the City of New-York                     