@@743168

txt The closing hours of the bitterly-contested campaign in this State have developed a surprising degree of activity and ability in the Greenback and Democratic combination . With half a dozen uncertain elements , all distrustful of each other , it would seem impossible to form a coalition that could be relied upon for a united and energetic political effort , especially when assailed so vigorously as they have been in this State during this contest . In the Democratic Party there are three different elements , and in the Greenback organization one , all sinking their differ-1 ences and prejudices and working together in a desperate effort to defeat the Republican Party . It is surprising , and beyond explanation , that they command and maintain the strength they are exhibiting . Where they get the resources to keep things together is a mystery . To-night , on the eve of the election , they have plenty of money , and are in the market for the purchase of voters at from $2 to $5 a head . It is said that on Saturday night a heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the bulk of it came from Mr. Tilden 's " bar'l " in New-York , which , it is claimed , has been freely opened for the use of the combination during the campaign . This accounts for the declarations made at several of the Democratic meetings that Mr. Tilden was entitled to , and should receive , the Presidential nomination in 1880 . It has been ascertained that for the past two weeks small amounts , to aid the combination canvass here , have been collected from Greenback clubs in several other States , and the proceeds of these collections are probably in the hands of the managers for use to-morrow . So far as the expenditure of money is concerned , the Greenbackers appear to have the advantage over the Republicans , and they are certainly using more with those voters who can be influenced by money . In this manipulation of the floating element the leading Democratic managers are coming to the front , and seem to have supreme control and direction of the combination . The Greenbackers are adding to the bitterness of the campaign by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element . Thoy have made arrangements for political harangues at the polls to-morrow wherever they can find a speaker to talk ; and they are supplementing this unusual effort by circulating documents calculated to influence the laboring classes . A. fair sample of this trash is found in a circular scattered about in this city , a portion of which reads as follows : " Working men of Portland : Come to the rescue . Now is the time to crush the party that is robbing you of your hard earnings and turning your homes over to the money lords . You know their policy is not the policy for you . To-day you have the ballot to right your grievous wrongs . You may not have it long , Use it as becomes freemen . " This is about all that has been heard from Greenback orators during th e canvass . The most singular feature of this latest effort is that it has been encouraged by a class of prominent citizens throughout the State who have no sympathy or respect for such sentiments , but who are lending themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican Party . Such appeals have held the Greenback organization together , and brought it to the polls in such strength as it ' will show to-morrow . The money which is here for use to-morrow to defeat the Republicans in the close legislative districts does not , however , seem materially to alter the situation . The strength which the Republican organization depends upon for its success is , in a great measure , they claim , beyond the reach of purchase . The result of to-morrow 's contest , both as to the Governor and Legislature , depends very largely upon the " stay-at-home " vote of last year , which was very large . The Republicans claim that a large majority of that vote belongs to them , while the coalition claim that an equal if not a greater share of it will support their ticket this year if it is thrown . The Greenback claim as to this , as well as to their strength generally , is , however , to a very great degree speculative . The canvass of the State , which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Greenback vote , for a very large number are classed as doubtful . The Republican canvass has been the more thorough and systematic of the two . The State Committee today went over the books , and are able to-night to tell the political complexion of ? every voter in the State , whether he be Republican , Democrat , Greenbacker , or doubtful . They can also tell how each man voted last year , and how he is likely to vote this year . Relying upon the trustworthiness of this count , it seems reasonable to suppose that their claim of success is well founded . Some of the Republican leaders claim that Davis will be elected by the people , and that both branches of the Legislature will be Republican ; but others are not so sanguine , and say they will elect their Governor and at least the lower branch of the Legislature , while the Senate may be considered doubtful , with the chances in favor of the Republicans getting it by a slender majority . From the general aspect of affairs , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went home last night after his meeting at Hallowell in the best of spirits , although he refused to express any opinion as to the result to-morrow , except that he feels confident . One of the surprising features of the campaign is the number of strong men who have been nominated for the Legislature by the Republicans . No man , whatever his position , has thought it too exalted for him to refuse a nomination . Eugene Hale , who is making a desperate fight for the United States Senatorship next year , was unanimously nominated last night for the Legislature at his home in Ellsworth , with a view of gaining the district for the Republicans . It is now represented by a Greenbacker named Murch. a relative of the Congressman who defeated Mr. Hale last year .                     