@@743207

txt The West does not receive with unqualified confidence the sudden change in the attitude of the Presidents of . the New-York Central , thePennsylvania , the Erie , and the Baltimore and Ohio with regard to railroad legislation . It can not be denied that the change itself , and the circumstances under which it occurs , are not calculated to stifle suspicion . Until now , the trunk lines , and the railroads generally , have been actively hostile to national legislation , and to local legislation of the nature called air by the public . Their present professions of a desire for Congressional action are interpreted as a token of faith in their ability to manipulate the law-makers at Washington , and so to obtain a settlement of controverted questions in a manner most agreeable to themselves . Such a construction of motive is not unnatural . In every ease the declaration of a willingness to encourage Congressional interference is coupled with conditions which go far toward neutralizing apprehended effects . The arrangement vaguely suggested by our Chamber of Commerce and readily accepted , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a compromise with the advantages all on one side . We pointed out at the time the opposition that would be offered by the West to a mode of settlement in which Western interests receive no adequate protection , and which is otherwise unsatisfactory . Mr. THOMAS A. SCOTT 'S letter , since published , confirms the distrust awakened by the whole affair . He , too , is anxious for a settlement , but it must be a settlement controlled by the corporations whose operations have contribitted greatly to the prevailing dissatisfaction . Already they have in their service three arbitrators  --  DAVID A. WELLS , C. P. ADAMS , Jr. , and J. A. WEBB  --  and the proposal is that " the merits of the matter " shall be left for treatment by a joint board , to be composed of these gentlemen , as the nominees of the roads , mid a commission of three to be appointed by the Government . The Western opinion seems to be that under this arrangement the joint commission , or a majority of its members , would be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control as are the three arbitrators to whom they now pay liberal salaries . Of course , the plea of - the companies is that the conduct of their business is a mat-. ter for experts oulv , and that only experts should be intrusted with its regulation . Within certain limits , the plea is tenable . The railroad business in all its branches requires special training , and as a rule the men who rise to high positions in connection with the business owe their promotion to their aptitude and experience . It must be conceded that the rule has boon rudely shaken by the testimony extorted from some of these exports when under examination before the Assembly Committee in this State . Their inability to furnish information which a capable manager or head in any department would have at his fingers ' ends shows that absolute dependence on persons of this class , for guidance on occasions of difficulty , would be folly . This fact does not constitute a reason for rushing recklessly into the legislative regulation of railroads , or for intrusting the subsequent work of supervision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The problem to be solved is complicated , and the actual business of regulation , as applied to inter-State commerce , will require special knowledge in addition to energy and integrity . But these considerations are not an argument in favor of leaving agents of the companies to shape and execute a law which , if it fulfill the purposes of the business community in general , and particularly the great food-producing region , will impose conditions not palatable to Mr. VANDERBILT or Mr. SCOTT . As representatives of the interest to be regulated , they should not ask to be allowed to name the regulators or to prescribe their duties and power . Merely to suggest their wish for this sort of control is to discredit the professions they have iecently sent forth . A much better course for them to pursue would be one bringing them into amicable relations with the element in Congress which revealed its strength by carrying the Reagan bill through the House . Had they evinced an inclination to amend that measure , instead of a determination to kill it , their position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is . The new-born wish for Congressional legislation  --  if only the companies be permitted to define its nature and fix its boundaries  --  still further excites distrust because of the evident ? intention to make it a - substitute for action by the State Legislatures . Mr. VANDERBILT 'S uneasiness on this point took the form of a suggestion that the States Should keep their hands off until Congress disposed of the inter-State part of the business . Mr. SCOTT goes further : he declares it to be " essential that any legislation had in Congress , to be entirely effective , should have the concurrent action of the Legislatures of the several States . " " Concurrent action " moans too much to be probable . It means the acceptance by the States of whatever machinery the companies may indueo Congress to provide , and the application to local affairs of the general rules laid down for guidance in the larger affairs which are subject to Congress . There are , however , essential differences between the principle applicable to inter-State traffic and the principle that should govern the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important . But the sphere of the State is the more important , so far as the interests of the great body of its people are involved . Hence the undesirableness as well as the improbability of the concurrent action contemplated by Mr. SCOTT . Congress may legislate soon or it may not . Corporate influence is sufficiently strong in the . Senate to interpose delays , and . to insist on conditions which nothing less than the persistent pressure of public opinion will overcome . Meanwhile many of the States are impelled by a souse of local injuries and wrongs to act in behalf of their own citizens without waiting for the totally different action of Congress . New-York affords a good illustration , both of the force of the demand for local legislation and the grievances that form its justification . The hardships imposed on local traffic are too flagrant , and too diversified , to be borne indefinitely ; while the manner in which the companies conduct their affairs , as explained by experts and their own agents , is too shameful to last . Local legislation there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not ; and the circumstances which make it necessary here are equally plentiful in other States .                     