@@741195

txt Mr. Secretary RICHARDSON has recen ! ly allowed himself to be quoted as opposed to some of the most important features of the civil service rules , and as desiring their material modification in such manner as to restore the potent influence of Congressmen in making appointments . We trust this representation of the Secretary 's position is a mistaken one . Yet some of his recent expressions with reference to the rules look very unfriendly to them , Mr. RICHARDSON 'S account , for instance . of the difficulties with which he met in selecting clerks for his department from the recent examinations , betrays a radical and amusing ignorance of the essential features of the system . So far from being called upon to make his selections from the whole list of 476 persons , his simple duty under the rules was to choose one from the three names presented by the board for each place . He has evidently forgotten that the power of arbitrary selection no longer remains in the hands of the appointing power , but that its choice is limited to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The localization of the appointments , of which be complains , is an admitted evil . but it is one for the cure of which the rules already provide . The explicit language of the rules is : " Examinations to fill vacancies in any of the executive departments in Washington shall be held not only at the City of Washington , but also , when directed by the head of the department in which the vacancy may exist , in the several States , either at the capital or other convenient place . " The power to correct this evil , of which so great a stumbling-block has been made , rests , therefore , in the Secretary 's own hands . So soon as the organization of the local boards now being constituted is completed , any inequality in the representation of different localities may be corrected by ordering examinations in States having less than their proportion . It is manifestly absurd , however , to attempt to distribute the ammutnieuts from a single examination held in . Washington , so as to meet the claims of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. RICHARDSON has at- tempted , and . for his inability to do which he has felt himself called upon to remodel the whole civil service scheme . We are sorry to say that the Secretary seems to have fallen into the common and , we bad hoped , exploded error that the examinations are a test of merely scholastic or literary proficiency , and not of practical business capacity . A very cursory examination of the tables printed in the appendix of the report of the Board of Examiners for his department would have saved him from so gross a mistake . Those tables show that of sixty-ono persons appointed , forty-two wore professed clerks , seven were engaged in mercantile pursuits , and two were bookkeepers , while but seven were teachers , and only two out of the whole number students  - -  81 very conclusive proof of the practical character of the examinations . Moreover , of these sixty-one appointees forty-six had been previously employed in the civil service of the United . States , it being evident that their trained experience in the Government service stood them in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportion of appointees to candidates of each profession give still stronger evidence of the advantage which men of practical business experience possess over mere sohoolmen . It would have been judicious for Mr. RICHARDSON to have bestowed a little time upon a perusal of the civil service regulations and of the official account of their operation in his own department before he tried his hand at tinkering them . We have occupied so much space in refuting Mr. RICHARDSON 'S crude assumptions , not on account of any intrinsic importance which they possess , but because we feel that they are part of a concerted scheme ; to which he has been made , we trust , an ' innocent party , to break down the whole scheme of civil service reform , under the specious pretense of modifying the rules so that they may prove less " embarrassing " to the appointing power . " Modification " of the rules has been the guise which every attempt to destroy them has assumed . The truth is , that the rules have worked admirably wherever they have been honestly enforced . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has so alarmed the camp-followers . Even in points where it is alleged ? that they have proved wanting , such as the proper apportionment of appointments , they provide their own remedy . They may require amendment in matters of detail , but in their essential features they need no modification .                     