@@743271

txt In the Senate last Week , Mr. Eaton introduced a bill which is of considerable importance to all interested in the transportation of passengers , freight , or mails by railroad or steam-boat . It is entitled " A bill to protect life and property and to prevent accidents and delaying of mails on railroads and steam-boats operated by steam power within the jurisdiction of the United States of America . " The first section provides that it shall be the duty of all railroad and steam-boat companies in the United States operating engines , cars , boats , or ships by steam power within or between any of the several States , and carrying mails , war material , or other property of the United States , or Passengers , or freight , from one State to another within United States jurisdiction , to adopt and put into actual and continued use on their cars or boats suck inventions and improvements as , upon practical and thorough trial tests , actually contribute to the comfort , security , and safety of passengers , and more perfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delays in their transmission . In order that this section may be carried into full force and operation , section second provides that there shall be appointed a board of five Commissioners , competent to inquire into and determine such matters as , under the first section . shall be referred to them by the Postmaster-General , the Secretary of the Interior , the Secretary of War , or by 10 or more citizens of the United States , who shall make application to them , or any one of them , in writing . The President is to appoint , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate , three of these Commissioners , one of whom he shall designate as President of the commission , and the remaining two are to be appointed by the several railroad and steam-boat companies throughout the United States , if these companies desire to be represented on the board . The manner in which these two Commissioners shall be chosen is specified in section fourth , which provides that the Superintendents of the companies shall , in convention , select the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Commissioners , tand that from these he shall select two persons , whom he shall nominate to the Senate to be confirmed . Section second further provides that the commission shall choose the place or places for its sessions ; shall establish rules for its own government ; and shall have full power to determine and authorize , upon evidence produced before it , the use of any invention that will , in its opinion , after a thorough examination thereof , contribute to the carrying into effect of the several matters contemplated in section first . Any three shall be a quorum . The commission shall have power , also , upon evidence produced i ; before it , to fix the rate of compensation or royalty to be paid to the owner or owners for the use of such inventions as it may determine to adopt and nave used upon any one or more of such railroads or steamboats , The salary-of each Commissioner shall be $10,000 , to be paid by the Treasurer of the United States out of any money not otherwise appropriated . The Commissioners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shall continue in office during good behavior , or during their competency to serve . In case of resignation , disqualification , or removal , the President shall forthwith fill any vacancy , and submit his action to the Senate at the next session for approval or disapproval . Section third is interesting to inventors and patentees . It provides that any railroad or steam-boat company using any invention or letters-patent , determined upon and required to bo used by the commission , and paying the liconse fees or royalties determined upon by tho commission , shall not be liable in suit in any court of the United States for such use . The patentee orowner of any invention and lettersPatent that shall be required by , and authorized to be used by , the written order of the commission on any railroad or steam-boat , shall accept the royalty so determined upon , and if such royalties shall not be accepted , the owner or owners shall forever bo debarred from bringing a suit for infringement in any of the United States courts . But if any company shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after they become due , and after payment has been demanded in writing , then the owner or owners may bring a suit for infringement in the Circuit Court , under the Patent laws existing when the patent was granted , to recover damages or profits , or both . The commission shall make an annual report to the President on or before the second Monday in October , and he shall submit the same to Congress , with such recommendations as he may be pleased to make . The bill was referred to the Committee on Post Offices and Post Roads .                     