@@742881

txt Any doubt Mr. BLAINE may have entertained as to the appositeness of the inquiry he proposes has probably been removed by the criticism which the announcement of his resolution has called forth . It is not often that so much stir is made by the intimation that on a certain day a speech will be delivered and a proposition submitted to the judgment of the Senate . Ordinarily critics wait until a speech is before them . Their praise or censure rests upon knowledge . In the present instance this rule is departed from . Republicans who would have the Maine Senator stultify himself by divesting his proposition of all significance suggest what should be said . and what topics should be avoided . If they had their way , they would render the speech as harmless as the President 's Message . Democrats , on the other hand , are not quite agreed as to the course which they should pursue on the occasion . At first , they seemed disposed to treat the speech with silent disdain , and to evince their indifference to inquiry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made ttiat , after all , it may not be possible to restrain the impetuous Southern nature under the goadings with which such a speech as Mr. BLAINE can:make would abound . Senator HILL is spoken of as waiting impatiently for some one to give him a chance . The latest rumor is , that the Democrats will not affect an indifference they can not feel , and will therefore follow Mr. BLAINE in the usual style . All this , of course , is flattering to Mr. BLAINE . It shows that ho has hit the right nail on the head . The resolution is not only eminently proper , but comes so naturally in the progress of events that the excitement it produces is inexplicable . The sincerity of the Republican Party might well be questioned if it allowed its accusations against the South to end with the elections . Judging of others by their own standard , the Democrats assume that the current statements with reference to the canvass and the vot ? ing in South Carolina and Louisiana , and in some districts in other Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whether true or false , from this point of view they would be immaterial . The Republican method is essentially different . The campaign at the North had bean planned with the financial question in the foreground and the Southern question almost out of sight . There was a consciousness of the fact that the South was on its trial , and that whether the Southern question should in some form be reopened or not depended on the South itself . But , Pending the trial , sectional issues were discouraged . Gradually they made themselves heard . The tidings from South Carolina and Louisiana revealed a condition of affairs which Northern Republicans could not overlook . They saw that in these States the canvass was not free . They saw that intimidation and violence were the agencies relied upon to secure Democratie success . The subsequent frauds at the Polls , especially in South Carolina , realized their worst expectations . As a general result , they found that States known to have large Republican majorities had been captured by the Democracy , and to this extent they consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the great body of Republicans have arrived , it is evident that the present session could not be allowed to pass without an attempt to verify them in a manner calculated to convince the country of their truth . Mr. BLAINE 'S resolution defines the scope of the inquiry and provides the machinery for its prosecution . The terms he employ 's are temperate . and the range is so wide that partisan unfairness will be impossible . If the Republicans who " cry peace when there is no peace " object that the inquiry will necessarily irritate the South and retard the conciliatory process of which blind optimism dreams , the obvious answer is that the South is responsible for the irritation , 1 and that even sectional agitation is preferable to quiet submission to wrong . The Democrats , again , if their assertions are not intentionally false , should welcome inquiry as the best means of correcting misapprehensions . So far , at the North , Democrats have avoided the subject : Not one of them has had manliness enough to denounce the perpetration of crimes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has protested against the virtual disfranchisement of the colored citizens which ? is the foundation *of many of their party 's Southern victories . We can hardly expect that the Senators and members who represent them in Congress will be more straightforward there . Southern Democrats , however , have talked of exaggeration and misrepresentation . They protest their innocence . Mr. BLAINE 'S resolution gives them a chance of showing that they are not hypocrites . Its hypotheses open wide the door for truth . If the Southerners who boast and bluster have any faith in the rectitude of their cause , they will not quarrel with Mr. BLAINE for discharging the duty which some Republican Senator must have assumed . They can not assail his resolution without strengthening a presumption at variance with their honesty . Mr. BLAINE 'S second proposition follows naturally the first . The primary purpose is to ascertain the truth respecting recent elections in the South . Were they free or fraudulent ' ? Were Democratic majorities legitimately obtained , or were they the result of violence and intimidation ? If a thorough investigation shows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , franchised , and that wholesale frauds wore practiced to make success certain , the feasibility and propriety of further Federal legislation " for the more perfect security of the right of suffrage " will be fit subjects for the consideration of the Judiciary Committee . The South professes to accept in good faith the constitutional amendments . What value will attach to its professions if it lose its temper when legislation giving effect to these amendments is vaguely suggested                     