@@741081

txt deleted 15 lines - columns merged counsel as interference , has not a little to do with the lack of harmony , which sometimes approaches even an antagonistic attitude , between the mistress and these members of her household . When , therefore , one of them , speaking for herself and for her fellow-workers , asks counsel , the skies are plainly brightening in the kitchen . For although Bridget , sly girl , with the craft of her sex , asks that the advice shall be given to the mistresses , it is safe to assume that she means to profit by it herself , and hopes to learn bow to get on more comfortably with her mistress , quite as much as to have her mistress better satisfied with her . And , indeed , it is quite impossible to treat this question as other than a simple and single one , the discussion of which from any point of view affects equally all the parties concerned . There is no relation , except that of husband and . wife . or parent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discomfort , are more absolutely mutual than this one of housekeeper and domestic servant . Three or four women can not live together , day after day ? the year through , in one house , without each being able to do much to affect the comfort , and even the real happiness , of the other . The fact that one of these is in a responsible position , and gives orders and pays wages , rather increases than diminishes their mutual dependence . We can not advise her mistress without , at the same time , advising Bridget . For example , one of the first points upon which Bridget would surely like us to counsel the mistresses is one of which we have already made passing mention , the thoroughly respectable position of the domestic servant . A moment 's reflection will show any sensible woman that there is hardly any position that is , or at least that ought to be , more respectable than that of a person who is taken into a household , and who becomes necessarily more or less a part of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other members of the family , not only in actual but in moral dishabille ; not in the dresses and with the faces and the manners with which they go out into the world , but in their moments of trouble , of irritation , and sometimes , perhaps , of recrimination . It is only the most intimate secrets of a family that can be preserved from its servants . Every servant must be more or less trusted in this way , besides that trust which the discharge of her duties necessarily lays upon her , which in itself is no small matter . And , on the other band , the position is respectable because of its stability , the regularity and decency of life that it requires , the protection that it insures against temptations to frivolity and . profligacy . Without drawing any comparison between actual morals and manners , we have no hesitation in saying that the position of A domestic servant is in itself more respectable , more completely surrounded with good influences , and with the safeguards of a pure and honest life than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold themselves above domestic service . But if the mistresses should remember this , surely the Bridgets should not forget it , and should strive to live up to the requirements ? of a position of which they necessarily receive part of the privileges , and show a strong determination to exact them all . We can assure Bridget that if she and her fellow-workers will conduct themselves in such a manner as to deserve the respect of their employers . they will receive it . There may be exceptions to this general truth ; there always must be such exceptions ; but . on the whole , it - will hold good . One difficulty at the bottom of much household trouble is a disposition to regard domestic service as a mere giving of so much for so much . This will do in trade , but not in household affairs . And even in those relations which depend upon trade its operation is not satisfactory . A clerk or a salesman who feels and shows no interest in the prosperity and credit of his employers , will never profit much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expect that he will retain his position a day longer than suite their convenience or their caprice . And on the other band , the selfishly indifferent employer can not expect hearty and . efficient service . Now , it is unfortunately true that servants seem generally to care only to get as much as they can get in wages , in comfortable living , in privileges , and ( we must add ) in pickings and stealing 's , and to do as little in return as they can do and retain their places . This grasping disposition has , of course , been met , in a measure . by a corresponding feeling on the part of housekeepets , who say within themselves , " Let me get my work done as well as I may , and . with as little trouble to myself as I may , and I will pay what I can aftord to pay , and concern myself no further about my servants . " To this condition of things there are , we know . many exceptions on both sides , and . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bridget " is one of them ; but we also know that the exceptions are much more numerous on the side of the mistresses than of the servants . Indeed . we . are very sure that the eases in which a servant who has conducted herself with any tolerable degree of faithfulness , docility. and good nature , and who in sickness or in trouble of any sort does not receive kindness and consideration from her mistress , are very rare . And more , a thoughtful care for the comforts and the pleasures of servants , in so far as they are not inconsistent with that proper discipline of a household which deleted 15 lines - columns merged                     