@@742707

txt The Republicans of Michigan have dared to be outspoken on the great issue of the day , and whether they win or lose the battle they have set an example that should bring the blush of shame to representatives of the party in other States . Nearly all there is of danger in the so-called Greenbacks movement is the product of the cowardice of influential members of the two old parties . In most of the Western and Central States , and in some of the Eastern , they have been managed on the theory that the supreme end of party is to catch votes , and that anything is lawful which strengthens the chances of success . The result , so fax as it applies to finance , has been a tortuous , indecisive course which has demoralized the parties themselves and . given sub . stantial encouragement to the new movement . No intelligent Democrat can doubt that Senator BAYARD is a truer exponent of the Democratic faith in regard to the currency than are his party associates who accept the repudiator , VOORHEgS , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican be troubled to decide as to the relative party fidelity of the Senators and Representatives who resist , and those who aid , the attacks upon resumption and the public credit . Let the question be reduced to one of principle , and the attitude in regard to it of the Republican and Democratic parties , as tested by their pledges and their history , and the overwhelming testimony of both would be against the agitation to which too many of their managers pay obsequious tribute . That devotion to expediency which perpetually results in compromises that do not stand and bargains that are broken almost as soon as they are made , is at the bottom of the trouble . The call for unlimited greenbacks is undoubtedly of Democratic origin , and the Pendletons who started it in Ohio , and gave it its first great impetus throughout the West , aimed principally at the holders of the nation 's bonds . The hard times revived it in a somewhat different shape , and . divested it of the partisan aspect which until then it had borne . Periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the operations of demagogues . In this instance they used their opportunity with unwonted effect . All disasters they traced to contraction . Resumption they compared to robbery . Bondholders they held up to odium as a privileged class . Creditors generally they depicted as oppressors , and national banks as devices constructed in their interest . To bring about better times all that is necessary , according to these agitators , is an indefinite multiplication of greenbacks , the suppression of national banks as banks of issue , and . the abrogation of so much of the contract with the national creditor as the debtor class may condemn . Now , nothing can be more certain than the untenableness of every one of these propositions . They are a mixture of fallacies and frauds . So far as they refer to contraetion.as the cause of the panic , they proceed on a perversion of fasts . So far as they relate to inflation as a measure of relief , they proceed upon hypotheses that will not endure discussion . And in their bearing upon the public credit , and upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviously dishonest , and their tendency is so injurious , that a reasonably enlightened self-interest needs only to be appealed to to insure their rejection . Had the leaders of the streat partieS done their duty Nv len first these notions yore promulgated as the bases of campaign organizations , the controversy which now plays a prominent part in politics would not have attained its present proportions . The dividing line between intelligence and ignorance , between principle and demagogism , was so plain that men fit to guide the counsels of the old parties could not have hesitated as to the course to be pursued . They would have discussed the subject before the people , exploding the fallacies that were scattered broadcast , and exposing the frauds that were suggested . Bubbles should have been pricked as fast as they were blown . That the effect would have been decisive , is rendered evide:at by the success which attended the struggle with the Pendleton Democracy , in . Ohio , before the Republicans of that State lost the courage of their convictions . The American people may safely be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? between the knavery which advocates a disregard of contract obligations and the integrity which seeks the maintenance unsullied . of the public faith . But the process consumes time , and in the interim an election might be lost . Democratic virtue could not withstand the test . In one State after another the Democratic managers came to terms with the Groenbackers and Inflationists . Platforms were constructed to suit the emergency , and the demagogues who set out to organize a new party found much of their thunder stolen by the Democrats . Then Republicans followed . the bad example , trifling with what should have been denounced , and indirectly helping what should have seen unconditionally opposed . The result is seen at this moment in Congress and in several of the States . Republicans and Democrats are divided on the subject . Both parties have contributed to recent mischievous legislation , and both are about equally responsible for the growth of the sentiment which throughout the West threatens to control or defeat them . The Greenback movement is the unmeasured force in the coming canvass , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic managers have shrunk from the performance of an obvious duty . They have sacrificed principle to a short-sighted . expediency , and must now face the danger which but for their recreancy could not have reached its present proportions . Under these circumstances the wise and bold declarations of the Michigan Republicans are peculiarly welcome . There should not be more occasion for thanking a Republican convention for taking the right ground on the financial question than for making creditable nominations . One is as much a matter of duty as the other . But in these days of temporizing , when a New York Senator is not above taking Off his hat before the Greenback movement because it is powerful , and when a Secretary of the Treasury goes out of his way to conciliate opponents of resumption , the blunt honesty of the Michigan platform is peculiarly welcome . It shows that the party as a whole is not prepared to bow to the greenback Baal , or to surrender its convictions to make peace with those who would renew the evils of inflation and make the return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that have yet spoken in the name of the Republican Party , Michigan alone has the distinction of having honestly confronted the Greenback issue .                     