@@741342

txt The services of MATTHEW T. BRENNAN to criminals who have robbed - the City Treasury of New-York are too well known to need recapitulation . His arrests were conducted with a tender consideration for the feelings of the indicted plunderers which was , perhaps , no more than might naturally be expected from a sympathizing friend and fellow-worker . Such of these persons as have come into his custody in the character of convicted criminals have had equal reason to felicitate themselves that the Sheriff is a man who can appreciate the peculiarly distressing case of a public officer who not only steals , but is found- out . It is apparently an article of faith with Sheriff BRENNAN that out of the State and . County prisons will come the future rulers of New York , and he has accordingly shown a good deal more anxiety to ingratiate himself with the misunderstood men who are being driven into temporary retirement than to perform his duty to the public , whose servant he has solemnly pledged himself to be . The Sheriff 's terra is drawing to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have struck him that he must do something to make the memory of his administration still more fragrant than a long series of extortionate charges , arbitrary executions , and complaisance to rogues of his own political stripe could make it . On that day , H. W. GENET was delivered into the Sheriff 's custody , accompanied by an order of the court to hand him over for safe keeping to the Warden of the Tombs until sentence should be passed upon him for a felonious ofibnee of which a jury had found him guilty . It was no part of the duty of the Sheriff to take the slightest cognizance of the position occupied by this person before conviction . lie was simply a prisoner awaiting sentence , and as the order of the court was worded precisely as if be had been a professional burglar or sneak-thief , instead of an Ex-Tammany magnate , Ex-Senator , and Assemblyman elect , he ought to have been treated precisely on a level with the meanest criminal whom the City contains . But BRENNAN having recently claimed and exercised with impunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders of the court were to be carried out , determined to stretch the prerogative of his office even further than before to favor a man whom he probably considered not to be , in any proper sense , a criminal at all . Accordingly , the man who , in the eye of the law , is simply a convicted Won , was allowed , under practically nominal surveillance , to go quietly home and " arrange his affairs , " i. c. , tie up the property chiefly acquired by acts of official rascality beyond the reach of a poss=ible attempt on the part of the City to recover its own . After being produced in court on Saturday , and sentence being deferred till Monday , GENET was again allowed , in a very liberal sense , the " liberties of the jail . " He - was permitted on Saturday to consult with sundry lawyers , apparently about business to his own profit and the detriment of his chief creditor  --  the public . The suggestion that an attempt was to be made to procure the escape of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very excellent joke , but he obligingly handed . over to the felon in his custody the confidential communication from the District Attorney 's office in regard to the probability of such an attempt . GENET went about the City with this letter in his pocket , and also exhibited it as quite an amusing production . On Sunday GENET found it necessary take a good deal of out-door exercise , and a still larger amount of alcoholic refreshment . His obliging attendant , Deputy Sheriff SurEuss , was not the man to offer any objections to either requirement , particularly the latter . No exact record has been obtained of the non2ber of bars visited between Harlem and the Astor House , but it was evidently large enough to deprive Mr. SHIELDS of any slight perception which he ever had of the demands of duty . Either that or some more potent influence , or buth , induced him to allow GENET , early on Mons day morning , to get out of his sight , and . thus afford the prisoner the opportunity of escaping from custody . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is clear that the requirements of law and public interest imperatively demand that an exemplary punishment should be inflicted on BRENNAN himself . His long and impudent defiance of public opinion in the exercise of his office , and the dull , malignant hatred with which he has dogged the steps of reform in local administration , neutralize any possible claim for a lenient treatment of Lie , present offense . He is , in the first place , chargeable with criminal contempt of court in " the willful disobedience of an order lawfully issued by it . " If found guilty of that offense , he ought and doubtless will get the benefit of the full penalty , viz. , thirty days in jail and a fine of $250 . Further , this contempt makes him liable to indictment for a misdemeanor , and subjects him to the very excellent chance of an entire term of imprisonment of one year , and a further fine of $250 . It is likewise a misdemeanor for the Sheriff to allow a prisoner committed to jail to he at large without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the escape of a prisoner , is not only punishable as a misdemeanor , but operates as aperpetuald is qualification from holding office . BRENNAN can apparently be indicted either for disregarding one order of the court , for taking action which was illegal without another order , or for criminal participation in a prisoner 's escape . Were it possible that all three phases of his probable offense can be punished as separate offenses , the public will certainly not be disposed to complain .                     