@@781663

txt We believe it to be perfectly practicable for the Republicans to carry twenty out of the thirty-two Senate districts of the State . They may do better than this , but they certainly ought to be content with - no less . Ten districts are their undisputed possession already . These are the Fifteenth , Sixteenth , Seventeenth , Twenty-first , Twenty-second , Twenty-fourth , Twenty-fifth , Twenty-ninth , Thirtieth , and Thirty-second . All the new nominations which have been made in these districts are exceptionally strong , and . the candidates who have been renominated are certain to poll a larger vote than they did two years ago . Nothing has been done , in short , likely to endanger the Republican supremacy in these districts , and there are no influences at present discernible likely to change their political complexion . A very active canvass has been opened iu the First District , and the Republicans have done their best to insure success by nominating Mr. L. BRADFORD PRINCE as the candidate for Senator . He has been elected five times  --  twice without a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unblemished record in the House ought to be Mr. PRINCE 'S best recommendation for admission to the Senate . His services in procuring the passage and adoption of the constitutional amendments , and in devising legislation to make a practical application of the changes in the fundamental law , entitle him to public gratitude , and ought to recommend him to all reformers without distinction of party , as one eminently fitted to do good service in the upper house of the Legislature . It would be nothing short of a disgrace to the constituency of the First District should it send a political nobody to the Senate , , in preference to a gentleman possessing the high character and attainments of Mr. PRINCE . In the Fifth ( City ) District there ought to be no doubt about the re-election of Senator BOOTH . No man has laid the tax-payers of New-York under a deeper obligation than Mr. BooTH , and at a time when there is an imperative demand that a check should be placed upon the power of the local authorities to contract debt , no Senator would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , d by him last year:and killed at the dictation of JOHN KELLY , would have saved the tax-payers from all the wasteful extravagance which characterizes the administration of the Department of Public Works , and which it has been the steadfast endeavor of the Democratic majority in the Board of Aldermen to aid and encourage . Whether Mr. Boom be indorsed by the anti-Tammany Democrats of his district , or whether they run a candidate of their own , his chances of re-election are equally good . In the Tenth District , at present reprerented by Senator MADDEN , the Republicans have been wise enough to bring forward a new man , in the person of Mr. SHIIIT . Twenty-four years of honorable service in the Orange County Board of Supervisors have given Mr. SHUIT a pretty thorough training in the details of public business , besides commending him to his fellow-citizens as a man whose purity of intention and rigid integrity are equally undisputed . In the Fourteenth District , Senator CONNELLY has been renominated . The two parties in this district may be said to be in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ b3 a majority of a few hundreds , but it only needs the full party vote to be brought out to secure a much larger majority this year . The 1,300 Republicans who staid at home in the Assembly District contest of last year can not safely repeat that experiment . In the Nineteenth District Mr. SAYRE 's election is pretty generally conceded . He is a candidate who will do credit to his party , and in whose hands , as a Senator , the interests of the public will be safe . In the Twentieth District , a very excellent candidate has been found in Mr. GEORGE Y. GILBERT . He is a man of unquestioned ability , of irreproachable personal . character , and is said to be very popular in the district . The even balance of parties in the Twentieth District should incite the Republicans to throw all their energy into the canvass . With union and hard work they can , and almost certainly will , elect Mr. GILBERT by a handsome majority . In the Twentythird District , at present represented by Senator THOMPSON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination is said to be a strong one , and likely to bring out " the full Republican strength . That we take to be about 14,000 votes , and even should the party vote lack 500 of this , Mr. ENGLE will certainly be elected . The slender majority of one vote by which Senator THOMPSON carried the district iu 1873 shows the necessity of very earnest work by the Republicans of Chenango , Delaware , and Schoharie . The foregoing seven districts are at present represented by Republicans , and in spite of adverse majorities in the Assembly districts of last year , must still be claimed for the party . Of the prospects in the Ninth District , at present represented by Senator ROBERTSON , it is premature to speak till the party has decided upon its Senatorial candidate . Should the Democrats make the disgraceful nomination which they propose to do , of JOHN B. HASKIN , there ought to be but little difficulty in carrying the Ninth District for the Republican Party as heretofore . Leaving out of sight the probability of carrying the Eighth ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ districts  --  the Twelfth , Twenty-sixth , and Thirty-first  --  at present represented by Democrats , which are exceedingly likely to change hands this year . Mr. COLEMAN 'S candidature in ' the Twelfth District will , it is to be hoped , revive the party enthusiasm which carried the district for Senator BAKER in 1871 by a majority of about 4,500 votes . The very slender majority by which the Democrats elected Senator PA.RMENTER two years ago ought certainly to ' yield to an active and well-directed canvass . The nomination of so unexceptionable a candidate as Mr. EDWIN Iliciis in the Twenty-sixth District should make its recovery sure . Senator JOHNSON 'S majority two years ago was only 174 , and before so well-known and thoroughly respected a candidate as the twice re-elected District Attorney of Ontario , that majority will very rapidly disappear . The Thirty-first District is ' considered as good as carried for the Republicans already , and the Democrats have very little expectation of being able to beat Mr. ROGMIL We - have taken no account of the Eighteenth District , in which Mr. HARDER is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not likely to be split as it has been of late years . Nor have we claimed the Monroe District , where Mr. EMERSON 'S election ought to be secured in virtue a the demoralized condition in which the ruin of the Lord influence has left the Democratic organization . In addition to the ten districts specifically enumerated , there are thus the Eighth ; the Ninth , the Eighteenth , and the Twenty-eighth , which might be claimed with some degree of confidence for the Republicans . With ten district 's safely in hand , and fourteen where their chances of success simply depend upon united effort , it will be hardly creditable to the party if they fail to secure a clear working majority in the next Senate .                     