@@781667

txt Never perhaps since the orjgin of the Government has there been such a striking contrast between rival candidates for the Presidency as between HAYES and TILDEN . They represent two opposite types of political training . Each is the impersonation of the distinct methods or forces employed or at work in American politics since parties bean to exist . HAYES is all candor and openness ; TILDEN is all cunning and concealment . The former does directly and in the light of day what conscience commands ; the latter , by indirection and stealth , what interest prompts . TILDEN 'S methods of secrecy and deception never permit him to make known his real thoughts ; HAYES ' frankness never suffers him to make known anything else . The one utters aloud and in the presence of others his opinions on all proper subjects of discussion ; the other confidentially , in whispers , and with many an aside , evasively insinuates what may be interpreted to suit the exigencies of the times . The one aims to be what he seems ; the other strives to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the two men are as opposite as their principles . HAYES believes that a sense of right and a love of justice sways the majority of mankind , and hence that to control them we must con ? wince their reason . TILDEN assumes that interest and passion move the majority , that money is the great motor , trickery the engine , deception the tender , and hatred and malice the fuel that propel the popular engine . Hence the unprecedented expenditure of money by a Presidential candidate , the evasiveness of his public utterances , the cipher dispatches , the secret agents traveling under assumed names , the attempts at bribery , and the tanning the fast dying out fires of civil strife . The electioneering methods of TILDEN receive further illustration from the ballot-box frauds of 1863 , for which ho was hold personally responsible by men of character and standing . HAYES ' method of electioneering is to live an upright private and public life , to think and act up to the best thought and light of to-day , to build up the best character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeds plead his cause . This method of honor and truth renders unnecessary cipher telegrams , secret circulars or conferences , many-named agents , money in barrels or on draft or appeals to the lingering disloyalty of the land . In the course of these two candidates we have had a fair test of the comparative worth of honesty and craft in a contest for the Presidency . Craft will gain points at the outset ; honesty will gain honors and rewards at the end . Craft may be so cunning as to deceive for a time the very elect. ; honesty can not ho so guileless as to Give the victor 's crown to any but the veritably elected . Craft crops out too much and too soon to mislead the wary . Honesty bears fruit in time to make known to the wisp the quality of the tree . Craft seldom wins success in the present and never in the future . Uprightness generally attains the highest success , and what is better , always deserves it . The machinations of TILDEN , the politician , have not proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the unselfish soldier and upright citizen . Lot aspiring men learn this easy , though paradoxical lesson ? that the way to reach the Presidency is never to seek it , and the way to lose it is to scheme and plot for it , after the manner of the trading politicians .                     