@@740791

txt Among the nominations for the Assembly made by Tammany Hall , , we notice the names of WurrAm HITCHMAN and Jo J. BLAIR . The former is President of the Board of Fire Commissioners of this City , the latter a member of the Board . Each hopes to be elected , and . each proposes . of course , to abandon , for four months from January next , the important duties of Fire Commissioners ; at a period of the year when fires are most numerous , and when their services , for which they are liberally paid , are Most likely to be required . The devastating fire at Chicago admonishes the people of New-York to look well to their Fire Department . There is danger in its organization and management when two If its five members turn their backs upon it as an institution of too little importance to require their personal presence and attention . At the present moment , above all others ; it is important to speak plainly of those to whom the safety of the City against fire is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every class , ought to know that these men propose to run away from their posts that they may reap " the unclean drippings of public plunder " at Albany . Were it not for the executive ability of Gen. SEALER there would scarcely be any confidence - left in the efficiency of the Department . The political Commissioners are merely placemen . They , have their election to look after . The decadence " of Tammany imperils their safety . In the fierce onslaught that has been made against the " Ring , " the commerce of New York and the numberless industries that go to make up the Municipal - wealth , as they may be affected by fire , have not received the attention to which their magnitude entitles them . It is time the public eye should be turned fall upon them . How stands the Department ? Is it in a condition - to permit half of the Commissioners to ignore its existence from January to Mayl The question concerns every owner of real and personal property in the City . Millions of dollars depend upon it . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - to the extent of over twenty millions in Chicago ; has now not a single representative in the Board with whom it can have free and intelligent communication . Underwriters are made to feel - that the Commission is a political machine rather than a ninnicipal department ; that the great interests they represent are of no account ; that the householder , the merchant , the artisan , must take their chances in a fight against fire , despite Chicago , in order that President HITCH-AN and Commissioner BLAIR may struggle in Albany to prop the waning fortunes of Tammany.                     