@@741541

txt We believe that no journal has kept the subject of compulsory education so constantly before the people , or has explained the features of the new law so fully , as our own . Yet large numbers of our most intelligent people , as well as of the officials who ought to be familiar with it , are entirely ignorant of its requirements . This is peculiarly true of our rural districts . The School Trustees of one district on the Hudson are reported already as having declined to do anything toward executing the law , because no means were provided to meet the expenses of its execution . Such Trustees ought to be suitably admonished by the State Superintendent of Public Instruction . There is no real difficulty on the question of expense . The Supervisors of each village ought to include in their taxes for the coming year a moderate item for the expenses of the compulsory law . There should be five or six hundred dollars allotted for the keeping of a night school , and a small sum for the cost of detaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a much more economical measure than laying out money afterward on the punishment of these unschooled children , and far cheaper than bringing up a gang of young thieves and burglars to prey upon the property of the community . It is an interesting commentary on the old system that , in any school district where the Trustees have been so saving of the public moneys , youthful burglars have already destroyed or stolen property of probably half the moneycost of a night school . Our readers will not soon forget the case of the child MARGARET , detailed by Dr. HARRIS , and soon to be presented with all particulars in the report of the Prison-Asso -- . ciation to the Legislature , where the neglect of one ignorant girl by the village authorities-cost'tlie county hundreds of thousand of dollars , and entailed a progeny of some three hundred criminals and paupers on this State . Nothing is so economical as ed-. ucation , and of all savings which only bring waste is the saving of outlay on schools for ' ; the ignorant . We regret that we do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this law in the country towns and villages . It is a mistake to suppose that truant and vagrant children are peculiar to New-York . City . They are to be found in every school district of the State . Oar river towns and the villages of Staten Island and Long Island are infested with gangs of young vagabonds , who are growing up to be thieves and vagrants . This law is designed . to root out the very germs of youthful crime and vagabondism ; and those village School Trustees or Supervisors commit a great fault who neglect or decline to take measures for the vigorous execution of the act . This City has done well in appropriating $50,000 for the expenses of the enforcement of the law . All the measures of the Board of Education have- been thus far prudent and discreet . They have carefully avoided opening for themselves  --  though the law permitted it ? any punitive institution for children disobeying the requirements of the act . They will use the authorities which exist for this purpose . ? Their rules and regulations in regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Supreme Court ? and we presume they will be ' submitted to Judge BRADY  --  will have the force of laws , and must be enforced by the Police . Great care will be taken in the beginning not to make the law odious from bearing too severely on poor and honest people . We regret that we hear nothing as yet of " certificates " of schooling , or some other means required from the street children to show that they have complied with the law . This , as the experience in Boston shows , is indispensable to a humane and thorough execution of the act . If the Board of Education will add to their " rules and regulations " already passed , one exacting of every boy or girl engaged in a street occupation , whether real or ostensible , a certificate from a teacher showing that the child is taught during the period required , this will at once break up vagrancy , and most of those apparent occupations , such as the " blackheaded pin " peddling and the like , which are only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since the child , even if supporting a destitute family , can meet the demands of the law by attending a night school , or afternoon school , during twentyeight weeks . Any Judge would sustain it , and the numerous population of street-peddlers , crossing-sweepers , boot-blacks , and the like would be forced , for a part of the day at least , into school . A regular school soon breaks up vagrant habits . We do not hear , however , of any new accommodations being provided by the board for this expected inflow of vagrant children . This necessity demands their immediL ate attention . It may be a question whether they can not use the machinery already existing for this class , such as the " Corporate Schools , " which already come under the supervision of the board , and thus save much expense .                     