@@741411

txt The close of the last legislative session left 352 bills in the hands of the Governor ; the close of this one leaves about the same number . The Governor has already signed 307 bills ; of those awaiting his signature , probably not over 250 bills will be approved , so that it is safe to assume that the session laws for the year will be considerably under 000 . This is a vast improvement upon last session , assuming , as we may safely do , that the volume of legislation is in inverse ratio to its purity . The total number of bills which passed both houses last year was 1,021 , and , after deducting those vetoed , the session laws numbered 874 . A clue to the salutary reduction in numbers effected this year may be found in such action as the following : Of all the bills which came before the Senate , about two-thirds were considered in two committees  --  that on Judiciary and . that on Affairs of Cities . The former committee alone  --  of which Judge ROBERTSON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and BRADLEY , are members  --  considered between 400 and 500 bills , and . reported adversely on 187 . These adverse reports were , without exception , sustained by the Senate . Foremost among the subjects to which the Legislature addressed itself were the constitutional amendments . These were taken up at an early period of the session , fully discussed , and , in the main , adopted as they came from the preceding body . Some changes iu the text were required to correct mistakes occurring iu the previous year , and these were made , we think , without invalidating the amendments . At any rate , the Legislature did the best it could under the eirciunstances , and proved the sincerity of its devotion to constitutional reform . We presume the bill providing for the submission of the amendments to the people at the next general election was riot lost in the hurry and confusion of the last hours , for it was a mere formality of the law , and could have been passed at any moment by unanimous consent . This having been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these amendments in November , and the State will enter upon a new era of substantial reform . The changes in article 3 are certain to lead to great improvement . Our legislators , under these alterations , will be released to a great extent from the temptations of the lobby by being paid a decent salary . Very much of the special legislation which has occupied so much of the time , and has caused so much corruption , is prohibited . Various safeguards are placed around legislation which experience has shown to be greatly needed , and there is no doubt that under the ' operation of the new article , there will be far less chance of shameful proceedings in the future ; The adoption of this article alone is sufficient to entitle the Legislature to public respect . But there were also salutary amendments to other articles , and especially to that relating to the canals , for which the Legislature deserves credit . While the action which was taken upon the canals was not in all respects such as we desired , it was liberal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State . The funding amendment was lost , and its failure is ascribed in some quarters to corrupt considerations ; but there is no evidence . of this . We can readily see that the Legislature feared that the measure would prevent improvement of the canals , and . thus result in public injury . The only effect of the amendment would . have been to secure low tolls as the fixed and irrevocable policy of the State , and . this is likely to be obtained by the force of public opinion . We regret the defeat of this measure , but we do not think that is , upon the whole , a very serious disaster , nor that its action in the matter is a very great reproach to the Legislature . The appropriations for the canals were liberal , and if the executive officers do their duty , the efficiency of our water-channels will soon be largely increased , to the great benefit of the most material interests of the City and State . In its general legislation the session has been in most respects creditable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These might have been passed at au early stage of the session . but it is more to the credit of the members that , being passed as they were during the last hours , these bills were kept surprisingly free of jobs . Liberal provision was made for the various public buildings now in process of construction , and although the compromise concerning the commissions which was reached is not altogether desirable , the measure adopted is quite certain to result in very great reforms . It was in dealing with these financial affairs of the State that the wisdom and honesty of the Legislature were most conspicuous ; and we notice that ; the organs Which attack it have nothing to say upon thiS point . We are not surprised ; at this ; . : for the record Of the body is far better than that of any of its recent- " predecessors . And so it is in nearly every particular . Very few bad laws were passed , and many good . ones were placed upon the statute-book : . The final conclusion as to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is no discredit to the Legislature that it left matters as it found them . The members are naturally conservative in dealing with these affairs , and the proposal to vest supreme control in the Board of Regents was a startling innovation upon long-established methods . We believe that the division of authority should be ended in some way , but there was no occasion for a hasty conclusion , and the matter is still open for future discussion and decision .                     