@@741881

txt We are so accustomed to hear that since the panic American securities have been in bad odor abroad , that we overlook the . qualifying circumstances which are essential to a correct statement of the case . We protest against unreasoning distrust iu the face of evidence which shows the exercise of a not unintelligent discrimination . Certainly . there is no longer any cause for complaining of lack of faithin the stocks of the United States . The-revulsion of 1873 has nowhere ' checked the appreciation of our national credit , which has been going on steadily since the close of the war . Even English investors , with all their prejudices , have drawn a marked distinction between corporate ? securities and those ' of the American Government . The latter have , during the last two years , been as steady as consols , . fluctuating , like them , only under the influence of circumstances which have affected all alike . Their variations in value have been slight , and what they lost they quickly regained . ' the success . of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proof of the advance that has been effected . Since 1873 no special efforts have been made to float it ; no complicated or costly machinery has been employed to render successful . It has been quietly absorbed as an investment , and the process stopped only when the supply came to au end . From this Tact it might be rash to infer that the next portion of the loan , bearing a lower rate of interest , will at once pass into favor in the same markets . That a proposition , relating to the four-and-a-half percents. , was some time ago received from parties concerned in the negotiation now all but closed , is as certain as that the terms offered were not acceptable to the Treasury . But the pro- posal itself , though at the moment amounting to nothing , is a sign of the growing preference for United States stocks on the other side of the Atlantic , on which the Secretary may properly rely for the furtherance of his plans . Nor can it be truly said that American railroad securities of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British ? estimation . The various issues of the Baltimore and Ohio Company , fox example , have been as steady as Massachusetts bonds , and that is saying a good deal , seeing that until lately the latter stood relatively higher than those of the United States . The Illinois Central has held its ground quite as well in Cornhill as in Wall street ; the New-York Central mortgage fluctuates little and has gone up , instead of down . In Loudon , as here , securities of this class have varied little , and are held with a confidence scarcely inferior to that with which our national stocks are regarded . The companies issuing them would probably not be able to negotiate on favorable terms bonds bearing a rate of interest below the six or seven per cent . they now pay , and to this extent they are at a disadvantage as compared with the Government . But they have no reason to complain of the prices at which their bonds are quoted on the Loudon Stock Exchange , or of the development of any unfriendly feeling on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , recent experience warrants the opinion that in London , as in New-York , the demand for really good railroad bonds has kept pace with the accumulation of unemployed capital , and is to-day better than before the panic occurred . The change that has manifested itself is in the prudence exercised rather  - -  than in any general aggravation of distrust . More care is employed iu estimating values . The disposition that once prevailed to accept anything bearing a corporate seal and purporting to be a railroad mortgage no longer exists . Unfinished roads bee ? in vain for money . 1 ? rojects that have shaky foundations receive no encouragement . Even the securities of promising enterprises , with much capital actually sunk , and a fair likelihood that they will some day yield dividends , are at a stand-still as borrowers of money . To them the panic has indeed brought disaster. , Their foreign holders , smarting under serious loss , have driven them out of their markets . Iu not a few instances , perhaps , injustice has been done . There are bankrupt projects which were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should not be *stigmatized as knaves . They must share the consequences of a reaction from which there is meanwhile no appeal . It is enough that they are iu default . The category they belong to brought loss , in many instances ruin , to over-confiding investors , and their securities will not soon be heard of again in the markets of the world . The Englishman or the German will now look at nothing that , financially speaking , is not bombproof . It must have passed unscathed through the ordeal of 1873-4 to receive friendly treatment at his hands . In taking this position , however , the foreign investor does neither more nor less than Lao been done by the great body of American investors . His caution and distrust are not greater than theirs . If at times he seem more suspicious , it is because he has suffered more severely than they , and because his opportunities of learning the inner financial history of American railroads are inforior.ta theirs . He traces his misfortunes to a credulity which , although born of ignorance , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is well understood that the obligations of defaulting companies were scattered in undue proportion all over Europe when the . crash occurred . We have railroads that rarely or never need to go abroad for money ; their resources and management are understood , and they get all the capital they want at home . Equally certain is it that many of the concerns whose collapse entailed distress upon foreign holders of their bonds were concerns which had no chance of reccIgnition ' among the capitalists of this country . England , Holland , and Germany were induced to put money into railroads which utterly failed in their efforts to obtain American capital . Some of them had scarcely been heard of here ; others had been advertised , and puffed , and canvassed for with very inadequate results , and were sent to Europe as a last resort . The means commonly employed to float them there were not creditable to the parties connected with them . But the disgrace is not exclusively American . . London , Frankfort , and Amsterdam furnished financiers with consciences as elastic as those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much for the average investor . He believed what they told him , and put his money into their bottomless bags . When the bitter lesson of events undeceived him , his resentment was excusable . On the Continent it is still too sweeping . In London it has given place to discrimination against new schemes , and to a determination hereafter to sift matters more thoroughly before parting with money . Against this resolve the professional " promoter " struggles ineffectually . The only securities that find favor are of the kind that have been uniformly marketable in this City , and these hold their ground quite as well in Loudon as here .                     