@@781920

txt No question of world-wide interest assumes so many aspects as the so-called Eastern question . It is capable of au infinite variety of changes , and it continually curprises one by its novelties and startling phases . Two or three weeks ago , the conference adjourned without accomplishing anything . The Turkish Government was left master of the field . Reforms urged upon the Sublime Porte were contemptuously thrown aside , and guarantees demanded were refused with scant courtesy . It must be confessed that the sympathy of the impartial on-looker was with Turkey . Turkey is not threatened by any powers except by those which mutually agree to keep the peace among themselves , and to let Turkey alone , until all agree to fall upon her and dismember her with exact and equal deference to each other 's claims . Keeping in mind the fact that Turkey is maintained in Europe by the allied powers simply because those powers could never agree as to the manner in which the territory of the Turk should be divided , Goat-:CIIAKOFF 'S note is a model of insolence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have consumed a year or more , goes on to say that the Cabinets of the guaranteeing powers find themselves precisely where they began . The Turkish Government pays no attention whatever to the wishes of the great powers , but keeps on its course as though the remonstrances of the high and mighty potentates represented at the conference were , in their solemn declarations , as idle as the wind . GORTSCHAKOFF complains that Turkey is intractable , indifferent , willful . But , after all , why should Turkey  --  an independent State  --  be under the tutelage of the combined powers of Europe I Evidently this is ' the question which the party of Young Turkey is asking itself . But assuming that the European theory concerning the dependent condition of Turkey is to be maintained , the Russian note is not only strictly in keeping with all that has gone before , but it is unexpectedly ingenious . It should be borne in mind that Russia has from the first been bent on war . War she is bound to have , sooner or later . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , no attentive observer could fail to see that a Russian hand was busy in fomenting the disturbances which have been laid to the charge of the so-called Christians-of the northern provinces of the Ottoman Empire . That there have been atrocities committed and oppressions sanctioned by the Turkish authorities in the so-called Christian provinces is most true . But Russian influences have been at work to make the worst of these , and to sow dissensions in the regions from which we have heard the most inflammatory accounts . All this resulted at last in the conference at Constantinople  --  a conference in which Turkey was treated like a ward of feeble mind  --  too dangerous to be at large without guardianship . The encroachments of the powers had been gradual ; but at last the irresponsible ward turned indignantly and refused to be driven into a corner . When it came to abdicating the sovereignty of the Sublime Porte in Bulgaria , a Turkish province , the blood of the race of OTIIMAN was up , and there was a rebellion against further pressure . The unthinking may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too early to arrive at any such conclusion . Now , Russia appeals to Christian Europe , and , reciting the fruitless demands made on the Turk , asks , What are you going to do about it ? Russia declines to go any further until she learns what the other powers " intend to do in reply to this refusal , and for insuring the execution of their wishes . " This is not Russia 's , but Europe 's quarrel . The Muscovite is not yet ready for a fight . Meantime , he will contrive to secure the moral support of every European Cabinet , if possible . Russia does not rush blindly upon a war with Turkey . She exhausts , or appears to exhaust , diplomacy and entreaty . Meantime , she is busy with preparation . Every month of delay is a gain to the great northern power . But Turkey is as ready now for the last struggle as she will ever be . Russia continually refers the ultimate decision to the other powers . But when Russia is ready for the fight , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estopped from protest . It is impossible to say exactly what the real intentions of Turkey may be . Generally speaking , however , Turkey has everything to gain by inflexibly defending its own sovereignty . When a surrender of one iota of that sovereignty is made , the doom of Islam is sealed . It is positive that Russia will , sooner or later , strike for a passage from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean . But , meantime , ' furkey must , perforce , stubbornly contest every inch of ground . It is not likely that the disgrace and banishment of MIDTTAT PASHA . have any connection with the European relations of Turkey . The chances are that he has been engaged in intrigues which are only a little short of conspiracy . In the good old times of the Achmets and the Selims , ho would haw been bow-strung and thrown into the Bosphorus . In these more civilized days , he is given a few thousand dollars and sent to Brindisi , an exile in disgrace . DAUM PAS ! A is uncompromising iu his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statesman who cares a fig for the independence and dignity of the Empire . On the one hand , Russia is determined on war . On the other , Turkey is equally determined upon maintaining its sovereignty unimpaired . Russia may appear to relax , but it is only in appearance . Turkey can not surrender in tha least without a complete surrender .                     