@@742460

txt Whether the votes of the anti-resumptionists in the House be a few more or less than the number indicated by Wednesday 's division , ? is for the moment an immaterial question . So long as the President adhere firmly to the principle upon which he was elected , and to the maintenance of which the administration of the Treasury has of late been directed , there can be no danger of a direct abrogation of the resumption policy . No probable change in votes can destroy the efficacy of his veto . To the general acceptance of this feet must be ascribed the absence of all visible effect of a proceeding which in other circumstances might have been expected to produce immediate financial and business disturbance . And yet it is impossible to look at the record without discovering manifold causes of uneasiness and even of fear . The two most notable indications are , ( 1 ) the immense preponderance of the anti-resumption element in the Democratic Party , and ( 2 ) the all but complete unity of the South in support of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It Is sufficiently ominous that of the 13S members who practically declared themselves against resumption , 107 were Democrats , but the significance of the incident becomes greater when it is remembered that the old slave-holding States yielded 7C votes against the fulfillment of the nation 's pledge , and only 13 in its favor . The ordinary conception of the case has represented the West as peculiarly the home of tho inflationists . We now find that the West is nearly evenly divided , its vote on the side of inflation being 40 , while on the side of honesty it contributes 43 . In the latter number four votes from California and Oregon are included . The " solid South , " then , must be put down as not only Democratic , but as inflationist ; and as its controlling power in the Democratic organization has been made apparent , we can not too distinctly recognize the danger which the fact implies . The South is virtually  --  with Mr. RANDALL 's help  --  master of the business of the House , and there is little consolation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to sound finance . Let it be granted that by adroit and persistent maneuvering , decisive action on the Ewing bill may be postponed , and that in any event its enactment may be considered impossible . To accomplish the former object the House must be tho scene of a perpetual struggle , in which an accident may at any moment determine the result . Other business will he obstructed , because the inflationists , while unable to suspend the rules for the purpose of consummating their scheme , will be abundantly able to retaliate upon their opponents and to frustrate propositions called for in the public interest . For this reason , no lasting comfort can be derived from the parliamentary tactics which were successfully employed yesterday . They can not be repeated perpetually without producing quite as much harm as good . On some grounds , indeed , it is not undesirable to have an early settlement of the specific issue , raised by Mr. EWING 'S measure . Very little is at any time gained by evasion or ' cowardice . If the opponents of resumption are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later pass their bill . We shall then know what reliance , if any , is to be placed on the Conservative force in the Senate ; and , if disappointed there , we shall have the satisfaction of seeing the President put upon his mettle on a question that can not be trifled with save at the cost of honor . His prompt and decisive action will remove one cause of anxiety , and will teach the Ewing Democracy that an insuperable obstacle stands between them and the execution of their purpose . Who supposes , however , that their capacity for mischief ends there I Failing in their efforts to prevent resumption by direct action , they will unquestionably turn their attention to schemes for indirectly breaking down the methods which alone can make resumption possible . Ono thing is now plain : there can be no expectation of help from Congress to facilitate the working of the plans already employed by the Treasury . The Secretary must finish his the law as it stands Or not at all  --  thankful if only the law be left to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats will not submit quietly to any rebuff they experience . All the testimony from Washington agrees in stating that the only energetic party in Congress  --  the only party that exhibits the courage and pertinacity of conviction ? is composed of the various factions which are opposed to resumption , and are favorable to tampering with the currency , either on a greenback or a silver basis . Differing as to details , they may nevertheless bo united for the furtherance of a common object , and that object would be injurious to the public credit , and fatal to the only feasible method of hastening resumption . We may therefore make up our minds to encounter a period of excitement in the House on questions relating to finance and the currency , with the ruling power in the hands of politicians who sneer at the conservatism of the East , and are indifferent to considerations closely affecting the welfare of business , and the re-establishment of financial confidence . How much positive danger there is in all this , we do not pretend to know . The moral principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are a bulwark whose sufficiency wo are unwilling in the meantime to doubt . But his interposition , howover potent as a means of preventing the particular evil with which the country is threatened , can not wholly prevent the injury that must come from the presence in Congress of a disturbing element , sufficiently powerful to jeopardize the smooth working of affairs , and sufficiently reckless to disregard restraints which men actuated by more worthy motives would studiously respect . For this state of things , the Dtmocracy in general , and the South in particular , must be hold responsible . Any fresh unsettlement and distrust that may arise as consequences of Congressional action , will be ( pargeable to the Democratic Party , which , so far as legislation is concerned , is now controlled by the worst elements .                     