@@742579

txt TWo more bills have just been introduced into Congress which are so planned as to remove important barriers between Southern claimants for war losses and the Treasury . One of them , presented by Shelley of Alabama , abolishes the Southern Claims Commission , and transfers all business , now pending before it , to the Court of Claims . It also gives the latter tribunal jurisdiction to hear ' and determine all money claims ' or demands against the Government of any class or description , cognizable by the head of any ' executive deparment or bureau , or any Auditor , Controller , Commissioner , or other officer , which accrued since the 15th day of April , 1861 , excepting claims growing out of the Internal Revenue , Customs , and Pension laws . Further than this , it rescinds all previous limitations as to the time in which this class of claims may be filed , and opens the doors to them for a further period of two years after its passage . Again , it revives the thousands of claims disallowed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made within one year for a rehearing in all these cases before the Court of Claims . The significance of much of this is apparent upon a glance at the present condition of the law in regard to these matters . Congress in 1872 authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to settle with loyal Southern claimants for the value of the cotton seized after June 30 , 1805 , all claims to be filed In six months . But the executive departments of the Government have never been allowed to adjust or pay any war claims from States that were in rebellion . In 1871 the Southern Claims Commission was . created , and ordered to examine and report to Congress upon all claims for stores , supplies , and vessels taken by the Army during the war and , filed before it within two years by persons who during the war were loyal adherents to the cause and Government of the United ; States : The statement covers , with one single exception , to be hereafter noted , all general legislation of Congress thus far had on this matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plain effect of the Shelley bill will be to give a footing in court to a vast mass of war claims for which the Gov ; ernment has never yet acknowledged itself to be liable in law , and to repeal the statutes of limitation upon admitted classes of claims as established in former laws , certainly . ' not on unreasonable terms . But the most important end aimed at in it does not appear on the surface . In all the above-noted legislation , and in all its private relief bills for Southern claimants , Congress has required the loyalty of such claimants to be affirmatively and conclusively established , and it has thus far made this the crucial test in the matter . But the Supreme Court decided , in what is known as the Klein case , and some other cases , that persons who have complied with the conditions of the acts of Congress and the prOclamations of the President offering amnesty and pardon  --  and these proclamations were of the most sweeping character  --  to those engaged in rebellion , are restored to their rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyalty . Heretofore that court has had but a very narrow jurisdiction over war claims , as it only considers those based upon specific contracts , or those applying for the proceeds of the sales of captured and abandoned property , and the Supreme Court 's decision has not had much practical effect . But the Shelley bill would bring every pending war claim under the terms of that decision , and would thus , in effect , exempt every Southern claimant from any necessity of proving his loyalty , and would put loyal and disloyal men on a practical equality . No road could lead more directly to the goal making the nation pay the South for damage inflicted ? upon it in subjugation its treason . One section of this same bill and the bill introduced in the Senate by Garland , of Arkansas , are identical in terms , and relate to the exception above noted . By the act of 1864 all owners of captured and abandoned property which was sold and the proceeds of the sale paid into the Treasury , were allowed to recover the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within two years after the closing of the rebellion . Shelley and Garland now propose to permit such claims to be filed during one year more , and that the meaning of this proposition is to unlock the doors which stood open for two years , and have now been closed for 10 , will appear from a. few figures . The total amount of money realized for the Treasury from the sale of seized property was about $27,000,000 . The claims filed within two years far exceeded that amount , and after the two years expired additional claims were irregularly filed to the amount to $32,000,000 . This statement alone shows the fraud concealed in this latest legislation attempted by " our reconciled friends in the South . "                     