@@781818

txt The Tenth Congressional District of Massachusetts is largely made up of agricultural , and small manufacturing localities . Amherst College lends it a certain literary character , but the general flavor of the district is bucolic . The voters of the region are men who think for themselves , are impatient of dictation , and abhorrent of corruption in political affairs . They belong to the sturdy class so well represented by the original settlers of Massachusetts  --  the men who refused to be called Brownies , but were willing to bear the reproach of the name ' of Puritan . If they do sometimes lack the breadth of cosmopolites and-the catholicity of metropolitans , they have their share of that rugged honesty and independence in thought and opinion which have made New-England a power in the Republic . Here and there , on occasions requiring all of the best fibre of the country , may be seen the typical New-England woman in public . Whether a sewing society is to be established , a pastor chosen , or a regiment to be sped off to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gaunt of limb , fearless of speech , and of awful frout , takes her place at the polls , the vestry , or the village rendezvous . Impeccable , gently-stern , and baptized with supernatural fire , she impersonates by turns the fateful sisters and the Roman matron . Whether as Atropos or Cornelia she is alike a powerful ally and a foe to be greatly feared . Still she is but one element in the Tenth Congressional District . Honesty , orthodoxy , patriotism , and a calm faith in the undying energy of the right are among other mental and moral attributes of the people .. We never knew how it happened , but the Tenth Congressional District of Massachusetts fell into the power of a Ring . Perhaps it was the office-holders ; perhaps it was the office-seekers ; politics in that locality was the exclusive business of a Ring . When the late disastrous canvass came on , the Democrats nominated Mr. II . C. HILL for Congress ; the Republicans put up Mr. CHARLES A. STEVENS . Both of these nominations offended the voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Roman matrons were also disturbed . They put on their sun-bonnets and hesitated not to declare the truth from house to house . This contempt of the politicians for the conscience and intelligence of the people of the Tenth District was too great to be endured . Through all the grain-fields , shady lanes , apple-orchards , and little factories the spirit of discontent stalked glowering . The rural indignation took shape , and , very much as the embattled farmers of an earlier generation once stood together to resist the invader , the men of the Tenth left pruning-hook and turning-lathe and took counsel together . They resolved to stay the tyranny of party managers ; and , casting about for a fitting representative to personify their protest against political chicane and petty trickery , they selected Mr. Julius A. SEELYE , a professor in Amherst College , as their candidate for Congressman . Prof. SEELYE is a gentleman of high Christian character , great learning , fine culture , and intellectual power . He has the respect and confidence of all who know him , and of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District . These indignant protestants against Ring rule in politics nominated Prof. SEELYE , but they gave him no official notice of their action . For the time being , he was only an idea ; but it was an idea of the free people of the Tenth District . The Democratic candidate , seeing in the air certain signs of fonl weather , discreetly withdrew from the canvass . The bucolic voters of the Tenth secured a working committee . The expenses of the rural campaign were $500 03 . The greater part of this cost was for printing tickets and bringing reluctant or injured voters to the polls . This was defrayed by the Campaign Committee , who volunteered just as they would have passed buckets in a line or carried out the crockery , if Amherst College had bee ; on fire . The odd three cents were paid out by the candidate for one postage atamu  --  his sole investment in the canvass . The yeomanry and . scholarship of Western Massachusetts rallied to the support of Prof. SEELYE , and he was elected over the regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleasant to dwell on this charming picture of liberty and virtue triumphant . The little drama , moving amid the brown meadows and under the crimson maples of Hampshire , should be celebrated in some new eclogue . It is classic in its simplicity and Arcadian in its severe artlessness . The pretty sight of the newly-elected Congressman receiving at the same time the notification of his nomination and the news of his election has a suggestion of WArrEN about it . And , as we hear the gratefullysurprised Professor thanking his fellow villagers , we turn with something like a shudder to the dense Metropolitan district in which Mr. Terence O'Rafferty has juit beaten Hon. Elijah Pograin clean out of sight . Why can not all our Congressmen  --  and , for that matter , all our officers  --  rhe elected in the pastoral manner ? Why can not the peaceable inhabitants of Cow Bay come together and agree upon a spotless candidate , and , being agreed , elect him ? The practical reader , familiar with primaries and back-room caucuses , will say that we can not until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligent and conscientious as those of the Tenth Massachusetts . In the popular uprising that elected Prof. SEELYE , however , the hopeful student of political history may see the popular election of the future . This charming idyll may yet be an accepted custom in all the States of the Union . Just now we are in a state of nature , too wicked for any such . goodness as that which shines forth in the political pastoral of the Tenth Massachuchusetts Congressional District . When we who live in cities are made better  --  when the lion lies down with the lamb and we shall beat our spears into pruning-hooks , and Reddy the Blacksmith shall stuff ballot-boxes no more  --  we shall elect in the pastoral manner . In spite of some discouraging reminiscences of other New-England professors in Congress , we shall expect a pure and useful record for the new Congressman from the Tenth Massachusetts . He owes allegiance to no party , though a Republican by instinct and . association . He represents the independent , no-party idea in Massachusetts . For ourselves , denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we must get on as well as we eat with parties and party committees to call conventions , nominate candidates , ran the machinery of elections , and pay the expenses .                     