@@741521

txt Congress , during the session which opens to-day , does not promise to furnish a topic for very lively discussion . Although it might do much , it is not generally expected to do anything beyond the ordinary routine business . If it passes the Appropriation bills , gets through its half-score of Saturday talks , and . provides a Government for the District of Columbia , it will do pretty nearly all that the public expect of it . There are several reasons why expectation goes no further than this very modest programme . The session is to be a short one at best . Commencing on the 7th of December , it ends the 3d of March , a period of eighty-seven days . Of this period twelve days are Sabbaths ; ten , at least , will be Saturdays , devoted to what is termed " general debate , " but which is really a species of Congressional soliloquy , in which no one is interested but the speaker ; nine or ten days will be occupied with the holiday vacation , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind . Of these the Appropriation bills will occupy from one-half to two-thirds , and in the fragment left , it will be next to impossible to mature any important measure . Doubtless a number of such measures will be proposed , and some of them will receive considerable attention and pointed debate . It is a moral certainty that the financial question will be brought up and discussed . The discussion itself must necessarily be of value , because , however plain may be the path of duty and prosperity to those who have studied it , the mind of a representative body in a free government can not be brought to definite action on any great subject without a good deal of time spent in talking the matter over . And this process , tedious though it may seem , removes prejudice , enlightens the uninformed , corrects errors , and helps immensely to establish that general consent of the people to the measure finally enacted which every measure must have to be efficient and safe . But beyond the advantages secured by : discussion , we presume this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We do not see how any one , in view of - what - was done last session , and of what has occurred since , can reasonably expect anything more . Last session Congress was restrained *Om positive  --  inflation of the currency , once by the President 's veto , and afterward by the , knowledge that the veto would be again used , if it became necessary , for ' a similar purpose . Finally a bill was passed which was made up of to - classes of provisions , one class tending directly to a large increase of the currency available for circula- tion , the other class establishing a method . of redeeming national bank , notes , of which no one can say that it has yet produced the slightest effect upon the volume of the currency . Since Congress adjourned we have had the general elections , and though one State  --  Illinois  --  was carried on a hard-money platform , where the issue was pretty distinctly made up , other States in which the financial issue was defined have gone heavily against specie payments . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the near future , there may grow a sharp struggle over the financial question , in which , taking the whole country together , the friends of specie payments may carry the day . But , so far as the present Congress is concerned , we do not think the effect of the recent elections will be found ta have disposed that body toward sound financial legislation . We are none the less convinced , however , that if Congress had the wisdom and courage to do so , it might , by taking a decisive step toward specie payments , do the country an enormous service , and place the Republican Party on the right side of the question which is more likely than any other to be the controlling one in 1876 . Whatever else we may get from Washington , we are likely to have abundance of personal controversies . BEN BUTLER will naturally desire to explain the causes of his defeat , and in doing that a good many heads are likely to be broken , and much hard language used . When this statesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complain of dullness in the House of Representatives . Exercises of this kind will doubtless largely enter into the work of the session between this and Christmas , and then there will be the recent Republican reverses to account for , a task which may reasonably be expected to occupy some time . If it were likely to be of any use , we should ' urge Congressmen who feel inclined toward it to resist the inclination , and keep as quiet as possible . The Republican reverses are something to which the old adage forcibly applies , " the least said the sooner mended . " The fraction of the party which , by absten tion or bolting , has thrown the House of Representatives into the hands of the Democrats , will not rejoili the party for anything that may be told them about the past . They will only do so if they can be convinced that in the future the party will do better by the country than it has done lately . Considering this fact , and considering , also , that . the Democratic Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given it without serious dissensions  --  can not move a step without exposing itself flank and rear ? it is evident that the proper policy of the Republicans is one of " armed observation . " That is the only policy of which the opposition can make nothing during the session , and which , under existing circumstances , can be followed without producing any weakness in its own.ranks . Looking to the future , and asking only what would be the strongest and highest position for the party to take , we could easily urge it to restore to the country a sound currency , and secure , as it would earn , the renewed and increased confidence of the people . Failing that , the Republicans can not do better than to transact the pressing business of the session with diligence and moderation  --  aud nothing more .                     