@@742623

txt As if they intend to hold the House forever , the Democrats are offering great inducements to future contestants for seats . The present House , in disposing of all contested cases , has adopted the good old rule , " the simple plan , that they should take who have the power , and they should keep who can . " Thus far , of course , it is the Democrats who have the power to take . The Republicans have no rights which a Democrat is bound to respect . Democrats who are in will stay in , Republicans who are out will stay out . We can imagine a statesman being collodion to vote upon the question , Shall this man be admitted 9 and saying , in reply to arguments , " Oh , bother the facts ! Is this man a Democrat That 's all I want to know . " This is no burlesque of what actually happens . By this rule every case of contest in the House has been adjusted . When the present Congress opened there were seventeen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general suspicion that the Democracy would not be able to organize the House if the members whose seats were in question , but who held the certificate of the Governors of their respective States were seated , proposed to " take the responsibility " in true Jacksonian style . It was his theory that he was temporarily the House of Representatives consolidated and personified . He scanned the list of contested seats , and made up his mind to swear in the Democratic contestants on what he called " a prima facie case , " until he had got in enough to assure a Democratic , majority . Then the House could be happily organized , ho would be re-elected Clerk , and all would be well . This was the programme , and it would have been carried out , notwithstanding the indignant protests of all decent men , But it happened that the Democrats were able to squeeze through by a bare majority , and having organized , they proceeded to put out the Republicans and put in their own men , at their leisure . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats as many additional votes . It is natural to suppose that the remaining thirteen contests will be settled in the same way . Now that the Democrats have an assured working majority , they might afford to be magnanimous enough to defer a little to principle . But party prejudices are too strong for the majority , and the leaders Will compel an observance of the established rule . Three of the four contested cases already decided were curiously violative of justice and equity . The first of these was that of WIGGINTON against PACHECO , of the Fourth California District . The contestant was a Democrat , but a Democratic Governor and a Democratic State Supreme Court had already decided in favor of the sitting member , a Republican . The House Committee decided to go behind the returns so far as WIGGINTON was concerned , and in that way they found alleged irregularities sufficient to give him a majority of the votes returned . With rare audacity , the Election Committee refused to reopen the count in localities where WIGGINTON 'S vote was larger than PACHECO 'S . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic contestant . In like manner , PATTERSON , who applied for the gat of BELFORD , the Colorado Representative , was given it , although he was not even a candidate at the time of election . It was set up that BELFORD , who had defeated the regular Democratic candidate , had been voted for . ' tin a day not legally fixed upon for the election , and the cunning PATTERSON , running all alone and by himself , on another day , claimed that the handful of votes which he , procured to be cast , elected him . It was ' a ease , " and that was all the party majority in the House wanted . DEAN got his seat so lately , by ousting FIELD , from one of the Massachusetts districts , that no comment on that outrageous case is needed . Speaker RANDALL illustrated his unscrupulousness on that occasion by . throwing a decisive vote in favor of the Democratic pontestant , thus making an unnecessary and unprecedented exhibition of partisan zeal in the Speaker 's chair . Mr. RANDALL was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a personal grudge by voting with the riff-raff of the House . The fourth example was that of ACKLEN , but as his contest was made up on the vexed question of Louisiana election returns , we can only infer that , on general principles , he would be sure of his seat , right or wrong . From Alabama , a Republican contests the seat of a Democrat who has the legal certificate ; the sitting member will not be disturbed . But in Florida the case is reversed , and the Democrat who contests will , of course , oust the Republican . Two Louisiana Republicans contest the seats of two Democrats in possession . But in South Carolina , the case is again reversed and three Democrats are claimants for three seats now held by Republicans , two of whom are colored men . The statement of these five cases ? indicates exactly how they will be settled . Missouri , Oregon , and Virginia each send a Democrat to contest the seats of Republicans . And Mississippi ; Pennsylvania , and Arizona each furnish one Republican contestant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegate has no vote , the Democrats will gain seven votes from the decisions yet to be made , which , added to the four already secured by vote A the House , will be an increase of eleven votes . The Republicans will not be allowed to disturb any one of the Democrats whose seats are disputed . " The past , at least , is secure . " Mr. CLARKSON N. POTTER commenting on the general course of the House in regard to the disposal of election contests , said that his blood had often boiled in his veins as he had noted the gross injustice committed by the Republicans when they were in power . Ho voted against the monstrous perversion of law and justice by which DEAN was given FIELD 'S seat , the other day . But if he goes to Congress again , ho will have more pressing occasion for letting his blood boil than he has yet had . The established practice of this House is a direct encouragement for Democratic contestants . Vile decision in the Colorado case shows that it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate . And any maai , with a few affidavits and manufactured election returns , can get a seat by asking for it . The Democratic majority will not bo particular . A few odds and ends will make a case . If the Democrats should happen to have a small majority in the House , at any time , they have only to advertise for contestants , and straightway a generous proportion of the inconveniently full minority will bo " decided " out of their seats by a partisan Elections Committee . It should be borne in mind , too , that a contestant secures money as well as a vote . The Democrats are astonishingly greedy for money . And when the necessity for securing more votes has passed away , it will still be party policy to give the seats to Democrats , who are more hungry for cash ' than for distinction .                     