@@742682

txt The debate in the House on the Army Appropriation bill last Tuesday was the occasion for the display of a great deal of massive Western intellect . Mr. SPARKS , of Illinois , wanted the Army to be reduced so that it could not be used to oppress the noble working man . ' He said that " money monopoly could oppress labor , and could bring about a state of things which it was manhood to resist , " and he was determined that if ho could prevent it , " manhood , " in this holy act of resistance , should not be thwarted by Federal bayonets . Mr. BAN- , : ulcer , of Ohio , insisted that to use the Army to interfere with people engaged in burning cities and sacking shops would be " converting what is a Government of the people into a Government of force . " He pictured the capitalists of the country as those " who , sitting in comfortable armchairs , steal railroads "  --  and then want " an army to enable them to keep their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also denounced the use of the Army in suppressing riots , and Mr. BUTLER , of Massachusetts  --  who , though an Eastern man by the accident of birth , is conspicuously Western in his financial views and in his methods of statesmanship  --  took the occasion to earn the approbation of the Communists by attacking capital and corporations . Incidentally , Mr. BUTLER remarked that his " heart flowed over with sympathy " for working men . Since Mr. HAYES ' heart bled for the poor negro at the time when he believed that Mr. TILDEN was elected , and before he had an opportunity to adopt his subsequent Southern policy , no more sincere and touching exhibition of feeling on the part of any public man has been made . There can be no doubt that all these eminent statesmen are right in demanding the reduction of the Army . If Mr. TILDEN is to be made President by revolution , or if eminent statesmen desire to secure communistic votes , they act wisely in abolishing the Army . Of course , it is inconceivably wicked for capitalists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government of force by using soldiers to suppress riots and insurrections . But we , of the East , have no right to content ourselves with admiring the intelligent and noble course of SPARKS , BANNING , and other Western Democratic statesmen . We have our duty to do , and we ought td be ashamed that we have neglected it so lone .. Unfortunately , men are prone to overlook the duty that is near at hand . We , can easily perceive through Western spectacles the wickedness of permitting Federal soldiers to shoot down citizens whose manhood impels them to kill , burn , and plunder , and we can heartily acknowledge that it is a duty to abolish the Army and thus prevent any repetition of the massacres of last Summer . At the same time , we fail to perceive that in this very City there is kept in service a body of policemen who are constantly engaged in thwarting the manhood that steals and murders , and are thus converting a government of the people into a government of force . By all means let the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but let us also abolish our Municipal Police force . If it is a crime for Federal soldiers to suppress an armed mob of thieves and murderers , it is no less a crime for municipal policemen to suppress single thieves and individual murderers . No one will deny that our city is full of the capitalists and corporations so eloquently denounced by SPARKS , BANNING , and BUTLER . Bad as the private capitalist is , it is just possible that in sonic instances he may have certain rights . It is even conceivable that two capitalists may conduct ' business together without deserving the gallows ? at least not without a previous investigation of their conduct . But when three or more men form a corporation , they instantly and inevitably become unredeemed scoundrels , for whom no punishment is sufficiently heavy . Why the mere fact of their associating themselves together in a corporation converts men into the basest of wretches is not clear even to our profoundest Western thinkers , but that such is the case is notorious . Of course , these men desire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gains , and they rely upon the Police to help them . Had we no Police , we should have no corporations . The offices where at present these execrable corporations have their head-quarters would be sacked and their business ruined . The people whom they have oppressed until their manhood urges them to resistance are now kept down by the Police ; but let the Police be abolished , and we should soon see a very different state of things . Duty , like charity , begins at home . We can trust Mr. BANNING and his associates to protect the people from Federal bayonets , but we ourselves must protect our citizens from the Police . We call ourselves a free people , and yet if a man happens to snatch a capitalist 's purse , or to burn the propperty of a corporation , ho is forcibly taken to jail by a brutal policeman hired to protect the moneyed classes from righteous retribution . If the blood of the slaughtered citizens whom the military shot down at Pittsburg merely because they were rioting calls for vengeance , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police also want their share of vengeance . If we are to be really a free people we must have neither soldiers nor police , and to strain at the former and swallow the latter is both inconsistent and wicked .                     