@@781594

txt The conduct of the thoughtless persons who drop apple-parings and banana-skills on the sidewalks , and thereby cause the wayfaring man to sit down with au unexpected violence that too frequently shakes improper language out of him , has often been denounced by the public press . A somewhat similar evil has latterly been forcibly brought to the attention of persons crossing the Atlantic , flint it deserves to be even more sternly reprobated . Reference , of course , is made to the reprehensible habit of strewing the ocean with abandoned vessels . if it is wrong to leave apple-parings on the sidewalk , and so endanger the legs of our fellow-men , it is far worse to leave waterlogged steamers on the Atlantic , and thus imperil the lives of whole ships ' companies . Of course , there are circumstances in which it becomes necessary to hastily abandon an apparently sinking ship , without waiting to see if she really goes to the bottom . It is , however , only reasonable to ask that ship 's captains should exercise sonic little judgment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Vanguard was run down in a chaimel crowded by shipping , and thus became as dangerous as a suddenly upheaved volcanic rock . if those concerned in sinking her had only waited until they reached a nice out-of-theway spot , and then sunk her where she would not have been a source of danger to other vessels , they would have shown a courteous and thoughtful regard for the interests of others . So , too , if the officers of the French steamer Anierique , who thoughtlessly pumped her full of water , instead of pumping water out of her , had first taken the ship into port , and selected an unt'requented corner in which to deposit her in : the mud , they would not have put two English vessels to the trouble of towing the water-logged steamer out of the road . Only the other day the officers of the Iron Duke , the vessel which sank the Vanguard , proceeded to sink her in the British Channel , by leaving her main sluice open . At the last moment it : teems to have occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her in so publie a place , and this thoughtful person closed the sluice and so prevented the ship from sinking . Now , it is idle to pretend there was any necessity for throwing away the Min Duke in that precise locality . She might easily have been taken into the nearest naval dock , and sunk where she would have been entirely out of the way . Probably her officers were thoughtless rather than malicious , and merely undertook to toss away a ship which they no longer wanted , without relleseting that some worthy Captain might , run his vessel into her halfsunken Wreck , and severely injure his own ship . What is needed is the selection of a marine dumping ground , where officers like those ; in command of the Vanguard and the Iron Duke can sink their ships without risk to other vessels . They should be made to understand that it is the height of rudeness to strew abandoned steamers directly in the path of commerce . Not one of these officers would , when on shore , sit at the window of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet such au act would be no ruder than it is to throw away iron-clads and passenger steamers where it is certain that unconscious vessels will stumble over them . If this sort of thing goes on , the Atlantic will become as dangerous as a New-York sidewalk , and an enormous force of marine police will be needed to scour the seas , and to tow abandoned vessels out of the way .                     