@@743184

txt The prevalent idea is that the group of questions connected with the Colored Exodus is found in full force only in the Southwest , and particularly in those of the Southwestern States which have acquired an odious distinction by their treatment of the ' colored vote . In Louisiana and Mississippi the desire to escape from the harsh administration of unjust laws , and the yet harsher conduct of lawless whites has seemed to be natural , perhaps inevitable . The Liberian movement in South Carolina has been similarly regarded as the result of a condition of things not likely to exist save where cruel oppression has manifested itself as a means of producing certain political results . States not made infamous by partisan methods have been supposed to be exempt from the operation of causes which , if not confined withiki narrow limits or checked by the early efforts of remedial agencies , obviously tend to disorganize staple industries of the South , and to increase the bitterness felt at the North with regard to the general course of Southern affairs . We now print a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts recited on apparently trustworthy authority from North Carolina raise the presumption that , apart from familiar political considerations , the treatment of the freedmen by Democratic authorities , and by planters , farmers , and other employers of labor , is neither just nor humane . Certainly the condition of the small colored farmers , and of the colored laborers , as described by intelligent representatives of the race , differs fron  --  the old bondage in little beyond the name . The aim of the makers and administrators of law , and of the great body of white land-owners , appears to " be to reconcile the nearest possible approach to slavery with the nominal continuance of freedom . It must be confessed that the North Carolinians are very near the consummation of this purpose . . Two of the laws referred to in the statement exemplify a certain class of the hardships that are complained of . One is known as the " Common Road law , " and is so ingeniously s contrived that the white Supervisors of a county may fasten upon black citizens the bulk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the Landlord and Tenant act , " is several degrees more iniquitous than laws of akindred character which in other days attracted attention to the crimes of English rule in Ireland . Under the first of these acts the industrious black men who have tried to acquire farms , or who have rented farms which require all the time and labor they can command , are at the mercy of Democratic officers . Under the second act , the tenants are exposed to the worst phases Of Old-World landlordism : they may toil , but they have no assurance of reward ; they may starve , but the landlord will have all ; eviction may follow robbery , and they have no redress . Add to these evils the abuses of the credit system , and the absolute power of the creditor-trader over the farmer who needs current supplies , and it is not difficult to understand the loss of heart and hope which impels a deserving 1 class of a =ride above the laborer to Plan removal to localities where these grounds of discouragement do not exist . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tenants of small farms , the state of the farm laborers may be imagined . The object of the white farmers seems to have boon to discover the point at which the laborer may be kept face to face with starvation , with a constant reminder of the fate that awaits him if he try to better his position . They have succeeded . The food-allowance is wretched , and the miserable pittance paid in the form of wages is still further cut down by a system which robs the laborer of nearly half of the sum he nominally receives . The farmer grinds and cheats him , and in both operations is helped by the neighboring storekeeper . The negro is helpless as against the employer and the trader . If he complains he is turned adrift , and as the employers make common cause he can not obtain other work . Then the terrors of a vagrancy act come into play . Under its provisions a negro out of work may be arrested and consigned to " the vagrant gang . " Even his poor semblance of freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect of this treatment keeps laborers who have families in abject subjection to their masters . " The oldest negro in North Carolina , " we are told , " fails to remember a time when the slavery was more complete or the hardship 's greater . " All this , it will be seen , is wholly irrespective of polities . That the negroes are to a large extent practically disfranchised , we may infer from the general condition of poverty and helplessness to which they have been reduced . Men who are kept all the time at starvation point , and who dare not murmur or move lest they be thrust into the vagrant gang , may be controlled , politically , without the intervention of the Mississippi plan . If they vote , their ballots are not counted . And to this assured ascendency of the Democratic Party the possibility of treatment so cruel and unjust may be traced . But for Democratic laws , administered by Democrats , the outrages described would be impossible . From this point of view , the North Carolina case is political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , mainly industrial . The great body of the negroes , whether working land as nominally its owners , or working on land as the laborers of the old slave-owning class , have abundant reasons for the discontent that prevails among them . They would be fit only for bondage if they could submit contentedly to the hopeless wretchedness which is now their portion . The misfortune is , that they are unable to move . Such poverty as they endure precludes migration . A fortunate few may escape ; the many must remain to suffer . In other Southern States the natural forces at work to continue the Exodus are identical in their general nature with those reported from North Carolina . Enough has appeared in the more independent of the New-Orleans journals to prove the presence in Louisiana of solid causes of discontent ; and the unfulfilled promises of the Vicksburg convention are negative testimony to the strength and reasonableness of the feeling that pervades the colored farm laborers and tenants of Arkansas and Mississippi . We have uniformly depreeated attempts to use the Exodus for partisan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of encouraging indiscriminate migration to parts of the West where the market for hired labor is necessarily limited . Evidently , however , the condition of colored labor at the South gives rise to problems that will not always remain unsolved . The South can not with impunity rob and oppress the race on whose toil it is dependent for prosperity .                     