@@742275

txt One of the groat tasks which will devolve upon the new Administration , and the successful execution of which willgive it a name in history , will be the final and wise settlement of the " . Indian Question . " We have just across our border the same race of Anglo-Americans , managing and governing similar wild tribes , without ever a war , and with seldom oven a disturbance . The question our Government has to ask itself is , Why should the British Administration bo able to accomplish , what we never have succeeded in doing I If Secretary Scauaz is able to answer this correctly , and so begin a new and successful system of management with these barbarous tribes , it will win him a name in the science of administration such as few Americans have ever gained . But the triumph will not be an easy one . It will not do to begin the struggle with too confident expectations , or too much contempt for what has been attempted before . In this matter no injustice should be done Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some critics of the late Government to represent Gen. GRANT as handing over the management of Indian affairs to missionaries , clergymen , and other weak and sentimental individuals , who make matters worse than before . But the fact was that Gen. GRANT was prevented by act of Congress , after 1669 , from placing an Army officer in a civil position , and he attempted , what had been so successful , during the war , with the Sanitary Association , the mingling the best private and individual influence with official supervision in the management of the Indians . As so much of the care of these tribes wits to be in reforming and . teaching them industry and good habits on reservations , he made an effort to secure the best agents through the highest and purest moral organizations of the country . It was an enlightened experiment on his part , and there is no evidence that it was a failure . Many of the reservations have boon exceedingly success . fid in their civilizing efforts . The war which burst out had nothing to do with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greed of our people in invading the Black Hills and by our violation of our own treaty engagements . We do not exaggerate when we say that , even with all the defects mid misdeeds of high officials under Gen. GRANT , his general management of the difficult Indian trust was purer and better than under President LINCOLN ' , or any President for many years . Many of our readers will see one of the raciest books of the season  --  Col. DODGE 'S work on Tine flunling Grounds of the Plains . They will perceive how very difficult , even in the mind of a soldier who has spent his life among the Indians , the final settlement of this question is . There can be no doubt , we think , of certain points to which Secretary SIIURZ should at . once direct Ins attention in his efforts for a successful treatment of the matter . An act of Congress should be obtained , recalling all previous treaties with the Indian tribes , and placing them henceforth under the same laws as other citizens of the Territories . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be tried , sentenced , hanged , or imprisoned , precisely like any white man . He should feel that lie is under absolute and equitable law . These barbarians should no longer be twitted as if they were sovereign powers , but simply as wild , . ungovernable , savage men , who Must be brought under law and civilization . When the Sioux and Dakotas and Comanches. are finally conquered , they should not be negotiated with as nations , but taken in hand as wild citizens , placed on certain reservations , and forced to submit to certain well-defined laws . Whatever land is given to a community should bo kept . sacredly theirs by all the power of the Government and the Army . Oar great sin toward the Indians in the past has boon the breaking of engagements We should establish a new character . Then Secretary Scut= should soo to it that there is a stricter . police over the Indian Territory . Col. DODGE 'S narrative shows that there is really no " reign of law " over the Indians in their relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of liquors or arms to the Indians . around many of the agencies . The frightful scandal of the past continues . Whites furnish the savages with the very arms with which they murder the women and children of our pioneers . This , however , is all a matter of police , and can be prevented by strict administration . It will bo worth while also to inquire whether the evils bred . by the white ruffians and . rogues who have become nominal members of Indian tribes can not be done away with . But one of the worst of the evils of the present administration of Indian affairs has been occasioned , we are confident , by the mode in which Government assistance has been distributed among the savages . It is a pauperizing plan . It makes the red men idle , dependent , and discontented . It debauches many of those whose business it is to give the alms , and is the source of much of the corruption and abuses of the Indian Ring in the past . We can ' faintly imagine what the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ignorant men and women conceived . they had a vested right in tho distribution of a lioeral amount of alms , and certain officials , far from supervision , had the charge of the allotment . We doubt if any assistance should be given by the Government , except on reservations , and then under distinct conditions of labor and settlement , each agency being made a kind of industrial mission to teach the Indians agriculture , manufacture , the care of cattle , and the first rudiments of civilization . By these methods , gradually , through faithful , honorable dealings and . the strict execution of law , combined with the highest spirit of humanity , the worst blot on American history may bo partially wiped away , and a new era begin in the government of the Indians .                     