@@742191

txt We publish in another column a brief statement of Ito prospects of the leading candidates for the Speakership of the next Assembly . It will be observed that Mr. HusTED 's prospects are considered to be the most promising , and that the contest really lies between him and Mr. SLOAN . As the latter has done absolutely nothing to push his own claims for the position , and as the former has done everything which a long experience in political chicanery can suggest to secure an election , the result indicated by our correspondent is a perfectly natural one . Accepting the probability of Mr. RUSTED 'S election , we would like to have his supporters clearly understand the significance of such a choice . The Republican Party of this State must accept as a representative of its character and methods the man who is placed in the Speaker 's chair of a Legislature which it controls in both branches . The choice between Mr. HUSTED and Mr. SLOAN is not a question of high or low tolls , of who will find a place on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal consideration whatever . It is a question of whether the representatives of the Republican Party in this State understand its new obligations and . sympathise with its new impulses . Between an adroit political trickster and time-server on one side , and a man of sterling worth and ability on the other , there can be little question as to the choice which would be made by the thinking mass of the Republican Party . If its representatives at Albany persist in seeking personal ends first , and leaving the credit of the party to take care of itself , that will only furnish another example of how inadequately Republican politicians represent the intelligence and the rectitude of the constituency in whose name they speak . We beg that our country contemporaries will disabuse themselves of the idea that TILE TIMES has any personal quarrel with Mr. HusiEn . We regard him simply as a representative of principles , or rather want of principles , which the party has condemned , and of practices which it can no longer afford to tolerate . On several occasions during last session he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of the Democrats as effectively as if he had been their declared ally . On no occasion that we know of has Mr. IlusrEn ever displayed a conception of public duty higher than that of the mere trading politician . It is quite possible that such reasons may not prevent his associates in the Assembly from conferring on him the highest distinction in their power . In such a case , we should simply be driven to the conclusion that the Republican Party has not yet succeeded in sending to the lower house of the Legislature men who ? are worthy of its confidence , and we should be obliged to confess that " reform within the party , " so far as New-York State is concornea , is likely to prove a rather more arduous business than we had imagined .                     