@@741060

txt Public attention having lately been called , in a very public manner , to the subject of the right kind of treatment for the quadrupeds that draw the street-cars , a few words will not be out of place in regard to the usage of the bipeds that ride in them . Cruelty to dumb beasts is a very bad thing . Apart from the suffering inflicted on the brutes themselves , the habit is one which is exceedingly apt to be carried out in reference to the human race . This is one of the points most strongly urged by those who are active in the prevention of cruelty to animals , and is unquestionably an ex- , ceedingly important consideration . But we marvel that they have so much overlooked the practical illustration of this particular point afforded by many of our street-cars . The similarity between the case of overworked horses on their last trip for the day , and that of weary men and women , who , having just finished a day of toil , are returning home , partly standing on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ br being tightly wedged in among the other passengers . and partly hanging by a strap from the roof , is so obvious and . striking that we should have imagined it would at once have attracted the notice of any one whose attention had in the slightest degree been given to the subject . Nothing could more vividly show the manner in which inhumanity to the lower animals hardens the heart in reference to the sufferings of our own species than the spectacle , so often and so forcibly , in the latter part of the afternoon , brought to our notice , of two tired and melancholy-looking four-legged creatures trotting sadly along in front of a conveyance , inside of which , in addition to the number the vehicle was built to accommodate , are twenty or thirty human beings tumble to obtain a seat , and repeating the experiment , which previous trials ought to have convinced them must necessarily be unsuccessful , of endeavoring to get a little rest by standing first on one foot , then on the other , and , finding that neither did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strap overhead , to see whether that afforded , any relief . To those of our readers whose business is ? not such as to involve any great amount of physical exertion , it may seem a mere trifle to be obliged to stand up in a car for half or three quarters of-an hour . But to a laboring man , who , except from 12 to 1 o'clock . has been hard at work since early in the morn-ing , or to a clerk in a store , who , all but a few minutes spent in stuffing down the meal which constituted his substitute for a dinner , has been on his , feet from the time the store was opened  --  the difference between sitting and standing for the thirty or forty-five minutes in which ho is riding toward home is a thing of no inconsiderable moment . If he had to stand in the car only once a month or once a week , it would not be so bad . But when it comes to doing it on an average at least every alternate afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing in going to ' his work in the morning , the addition to his daily labor thus occasioned is-no trifle . And it should also be recollected that there are a great many such men who are in poor health , and . whose regular work is itself more than they can perform without a good deal of discomfort , or perhaps even severe pain . There are numbers of persons , for instance , afflicted with rheumatism , or neuralgia , or with weak lungs , who are obliged to earn their own living , and to whom the necessity for standing half an hour or more , at the close of their daily toil , in a crowded vehicle is productive of no slight degree of suffering . We are entirely unable to see why those lines which are so packed going down in the morning and up in the evening , can not make arrangements to have an extra number of cars running at the time when travel is greatest . The interest on the cost of the additional ears could not be a veryAerious ' considerati'on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtained Without difficulty to serve as conductors and drivers a couple of hours at each end . of the day . At any rate , it would seem to be within the range of human ingenuity to contrive , for the alleviation of so much discomfort , and not unfrequently decided suffering as is occasioned by the crowded condition of the cam on many lines at certain hours , some remedy which would not inordinately tax the resources of the companies .                     