@@740864

txt The impudent and numerous Erie lobbyists at Albany are showing a confidence in their ability to oontrol " legislative interference " with the Erie Ring , which should incite the Committees having the matter in zharge to immediate action . Every day 's delay in the presence of these suborners brings the Legislature into disrepute . Even though their talk is mere " bluff , " as we hope it is , the case is such a plain one , and the interest of the Ring in legislation is so enormous , that it is almost as fatal to the good name of the Legislature for the Ring to seem to be powerful as for it actually to possess power . One part of the Ring 's game is to throw the repeal of the Classification bill as a sop to public sentiment . The public need . not be surprised to see this done any day . We shall certainly rejoice when it is done . and we urge the Committee of the Senate before which the repeal bill has been pending now three months , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We know the Ring would not concede it , if the awakened indignation of the people had not compelled such a course . The repeal , under whatever circumstances , is a gain ? it is the very first step toward the destruction of the Ring . Let it be taken at once . But that is by no means all that justice and sound policy demand . That , of itself , might be rendered substantially inoperative . It must be reinforced by other and more comprehensive legislation . The repeal of the Classification bill will secure an election . It still remains to provide that stockholders can vote at that election on their own stock , for directors of their own choice . with the certainty that their votes will be counted , and that the officers whom they elect can gain possession of the property . Not one of these things would be secured by the simple repeal of the Classification bill . That bill was a trick to keep the Erie Ring in possession of their plunder for five years from the date it went into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and could , if necessary , retain it indefinitely by the same means , unless overtaken by the law . Those means were double . First , they issued vast amounts  --  some fifty millions out of seventy ? of fraudulent stock , which fell into the hands of their friends and accomplices ; and , in the next place , when any of the stock passed out of their own hands or the hands of those they could control , they refused to recognize the transfer on the books of the Company , and the parties in whose names the stock originally stood continued to vote on it . and of course voted as the Ring wished . This was a clear violation of law , a fraud on the actual stockholders , and a scandalous denial of justice amounting to nothing less than robbery . Unfortunately , and to the deep disgrace of the community , the Ring directors could not only perpetrate this villainy , but could do so with impunity , sheltering themselves from the vengeance of outraged law by means of the complaisance of distinguished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not only has the Ring been able to do this in the past , but it can still do it , since the Judges who threw their ermine over this wickedness still sit upon the Bench , and , what is worse , the laws which protected the conspirators from pursuit by their victims still remain on the sta " ... ite book . If the Classification bill were repealed today ( and today would not be a moment too soon ) the Eire Ring could still maintain itself by votes fraudulently withheld from stock : holders , while even honest Courts could not . under the law , prevent a tedious delay , secured by the Ring with the share-owners ' own money , if any of them should seek legal redress . It can be seen , therefore , that to break down the rule of JAY GOULD , it will not do to stop at the repeal of the Classification act . Let that be repealed instantly . It is an essential step . But the Ring could affora to lose that vantage ground , if by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stock of the real owners , and . its ability to fight the stockholders in the Courts protected from suspension or immediate removal by the law of 1870 . To the repeal of the Classification act must be added the passage of the Attorney-General 's bill , as it is called , or its equivalent . Every day that this action is delayed gives the Erie lobby a chance to insinuate that they can prevent " hostile legislation . " and every such insinuation helps to sap the confidence of the people in the legislators connected with these bills . The removal of the corrupt Judges is also an indispensable stop , and it ought to be taken at the earliest possible moment .                     