@@742395

txt What Senator CONKLING said to his neighbors last evening , regarding their personal relations and ins love for the busy little town which he has made his home , was very pleasantly and properly said . But what he said to them regarding public questions might , with all propriety toward the occasion , and with great advantage to Mr. CONKLING 'S reputation as a statesman , have been left unsaid . There was nothing in Mr. KERNAN 'S graceful but colorless , and not too laudatory address of welcome that required his friend to expand himself quite so freely on subjects with which his acquaintance ought to be large , but with which it is evidently very small . We confess that it is a disappointment to us to see a man of Mr. CONK LING 'S station and supposed calibre , full into the commonplace mistake , at a time like the present , of singing indiscriminate praises of everything American and comparing our condition with that of foreign nations , to the constant disadvantage of the latter . We Americans hardly need to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our worse fault , the present is not exactly the time a prudent public - man would select to try to stimulate our self-esteem . Mr. CONKLING tells us that he wishes that all working men who are dissatisfied with their wages could " go to France and England , and see how the work . men and women do there , and hear of the wages they receive . " Perhaps ho is not aware that a good many working men who came from those benighted lands , and who know verywell the work and the wages which prevail there and here , are going back . They have learned , what Mr. CONKLING may possibly have overlooked , that it is not the amount of wages , but what wages will buy , which affords the best test of the relative prosperity of working classes in different countries . As between England and the United States , there is , unfortunately , much to be said just now for the former country , which , if it feels the general commercial depression of the world , does not weigh clown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and general taxation , and leaves them cheaper houses to live in , cheaper food to eat , and cheaper clothes to wear . It is true that the land tenure of England is by no means an ideal one , and that there are some enormous properties inland there ; but we doubt if the actual inconvenience from these properties is as great as that which has flowed from the management of some of the railroad land grants in the West . If Mr. CONKLING desires only to make our working people contented , that is an amiable purpose , but it is not necessarily a wise one . It is an open question whether they ought to be contented . We do not ourselves think that they ought . We have no suggestion to make to those who express their discontent in oppressing their fellows or in riot and arson . The bullet and the prison are the only remedies for their disease . But we are convinced that men who are willing and able to work in this country , and who respect the rights of others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States , and we should much prefer to see a man of Mr. CON1CLING 'S pre ? tensions devoting serious attention to this problem to seeing him make such curiouslymistaken statements as he made last night regarding foreign countries . Mr. CONKLING seems to have been particularly disgruntled with England . He found something in Paris to praise  --  the spectacle of working men sitting on the curb-stone all night fo get a chance to invest fifty francs in a government bond bearing 4 per cent . That was an impressive lesson for the Senator , though it does not seem to have let any light in on his mind as to the relative value of wages in Prance and in our own country . But England appears to him a peculiarly afflicted land . He referred with especial emphasis to the concentrated power of " the governing few , " to the small number of voters , the hereditary seats in the House of Lords , and to " taxation to maintain a standing Army , in which commissions are sold for money or given to sons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase and sale of commissions in the English Army has been abolished , and that so recently , and after so earnest and prolonged a discussion , that it is little less than ridiculous for a man as high in public life as Mr. CONKLING is to be ignorant regarding it . But , as a matter of theory and sentiment , Mr. CONKLING 'S aversion for the concentration of power and for " patronage " is something of quite recent origin . We shall not be sorry if the corruptions of the aristocracy of England and the disorders of English politics have opened his eyes to the inherent evils of a system which he has done so much to establish and promote in his own country . Wo do not believe that ho could find anywhere a regime more arbitrary , oppressive , mischievous , and intolerable than that of his own office-holding subordinates in possession of the Republican machine in New-York State . The charms , as well as the faults of a " governing few " ought to be plain to a man who , from his seat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lines within which the Republican Party of an entire State should move . We can overlook his curious blunders a3 to fact if he has experienced any change of heart on this important point . But if he thinks that an office-holders ' oligarchy is to be excused because our unfortunate English brethren have not attained to the blessings of universal suffrage , he is in error  --  as wide of the mark indeed , as when lie described Albany , his " birth-place spot , as standing at the mouth of the Mohawk and the head of the Hudson , " when it stands neither iu one place nor the other .                     